2 abl 0 e deve 1 lopm 1 ent report in Susta Present across Europe HELSINKI STOCKHOLM NORDIC COUNTRIES 10 shopping centres 356,400 m² GLA 53 million visits per year NETHERLANDS -5% CO2/visit in 2011* COPENHAGEN 5 shopping centres 285,400 m² GLA 35 million visits per year** -15% CO2/visit in 2011* AMSTERDAM THE HAGUE LILLE WARSAW CENTRAL EUROPE 8 shopping centres PARIS 338,400 m² GLA FRANCE PRAGUE 99 million visits per year 33 shopping centres -43% CO2/visit in 2011* 1,197,100 m² GLA 353 million visits per year VIENNA BRATISLAVA -18% CO2/visit in 2011* BORDEAUX LYON AUSTRIA 3 shopping centres 299,100 m² GLA 51 million visits per year NICE -7% CO2/visit in 2011* BARCELONA MADRID VALENCIA Contents 01 Message from the CEO and 2011 highlights SEVILLE 02 A comprehensive strategy 04 Environmental management systems 06 Environmentally-sustainable development projects 08 Cooperation on environmental issues 10 Climate, emissions and energy SPAIN 14 An efﬁcient, responsible approach to risks and resources 15 shopping centres 18 Encouraging dialogue and strengthening relationships 549,200 m² GLA 22 Corporate citizenship 127 million visits per year 24 Policy and Indicators -17% CO2/visit in 2011* 50 GRI and EPRA content index * Veriﬁed by Ernst & Young. See assurance report on pages 56-57. 52 2011 Achievements and 2012 Objectives ** Figures for 5 shopping centres only 56 Independant Assurance Statement Message from the CEO 1 Guillaume Poitrinal, CEO & Chairman of the Management Board The Group continued to play an Environmental and social sustainability active role in the drive towards greater are challenges that must be met over transparency and consistency in the long-term. Since 2006, energy environmental and social reporting consumption in the Group’s managed across the real estate sector. shopping centres has been cut by 18%, Unibail-Rodamco has cemented its The data published in this report while CO2 emissions per visit have been position amongst the most sustainable is externally audited by an independent reduced by 52%2. Unibail-Rodamco companies in the real estate sector. third party, and fully aligned with is now setting its sights even higher, The Group’s 2011 results and ambitious the EPRA1 Best Practice with a goal to extend its environmental 2012 targets show that environmental Recommendations (BPR). In 2011, certification policy to the existing responsibility is well coupled with The Group has also adopted the portfolio by obtaining BREEAM In-Use efficient business performance. Global Reporting Initiative reporting certification for all of its managed standard (GRI CRESS). shopping centres by 2014. In 2011, the maturity and success of its strategy was again demonstrated To ensure better treatment and Unibail-Rodamco believes that a through the solidity and transparency communication around sustainability strong corporate sustainability strategy of the Group’s sustainability results. Hence, issues, a Corporate Sustainability is the best route to improving financial Unibail-Rodamco improved its position in Committee (CSC) was implemented performance, strengthening stakeholder the FTSE4Good, Dow Jones Sustainability in 2007 to determine the Group’s relationships, enhancing risk management, (World and Europe) and ASPI (Europe) sustainability strategy, set ambitious optimising business opportunities, and indexes. The Group also entered the social and environmental targets, creating value across the board. Every year STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index with and monitor results. The 6 member the Group reaffirms it’s commitment to industry-leading scores, and was granted CSC is chaired by Catherine Pourre, sustainable development, as we believe a a Green Star in the Global Real Estate who is a member of the Group’s long lasting business model needs to be Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB). management board. a value driven one. 2011 highlights L ENTA E NVIR O N M S OCIA L G OVE R N A NCE -30% CO /visit (-52% since 2006)2 1,464 employees2 100% of Supervisory Board members (49.2% women and 50.8% men) are independent Sustainability criteria integrated into variable compensation 18% of Supervisory Board members of Regional Managing Directors are women 37 recruitments welcomed 6 nationalities represented on in the European Graduate Programme the Supervisory Board 4 BREEAM In-Use certificates obtained €2,5 million saved on operating costs in managed shopping centres through energy reduction As a signatory of the UN “Global Compact”, Above 1,000,000 m² GLA Unibail-Rodamco has undertaken to promote the under BREEAM certification 3 veriﬁed KPIs2 application of fundamental values with respect to human rights, labour, the environment and corruption. 1 European Public Real Estate Association (www.epra.com) 2 Veriﬁed by Ernst & Young. See assurance report on pages 56-57. 2 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT A comprehensive strategy PROGRESS TOWARDS In keeping with its responsibilities as a leading player on the commercial 2011 TARGETS* real estate market, Unibail-Rodamco implements a comprehensive, coherent sustainable development strategy. The needs and interests of all of Unibail-Rodamco’s stakeholders are taken into account in the definition and execution of this strategy, which covers all of the environmental, social and governance issues which have been identified as being relevant to the Group’s activities. For example, the strategy improves the quality of the Group’s performance and leverages opportunities to create long-term value by: • Delivering the next generation of sustainable buildings Achieved 73% • Reducing capital expenditure and operating costs Partially achieved 17% Not achieved 10% • Providing an environment that is attractive to top-quality retail and office tenants • Providing a safe environment for employees, customers and tenants The Group’s environmental and social targets are realistic but • Reinforcing cooperation with communities and local authorities ambitious. Unibail-Rodamco • Managing and mitigating legal, operational and reputational risks chooses to set the bar high to • Maintaining a competitive advantage on the market challenge its teams to outperform and innovate, even though To ensure that its activities remain relevant and informed by developments this comes at the expense of a perfect score sheet. The on the market and the regulatory landscape, Unibail-Rodamco conducts considerable performance regular reviews and updates of its sustainability strategy. For example, the improvements made since 2006 certification processes that have been introduced in recent years for new demonstrate the relevance of this approach. developments and existing assets has provided an objective, external viewpoint for evaluating the quality of the Group’s in-house development AMBITIOUS and operational guidelines. Third-party audits of its environmental and LONG-TERM TARGETS social data, which were first conducted in 2009, have also contributed -50% CO2/visit 2006-2016 to the quality and rigour of the Group’s processes. -30% kWh/visit 2006-2016 -20% litre/visit 2006-2012 Finally, a series of demanding internal environmental and social targets ensures that the Group continues to progress in the right direction, towards a more sustainable future. Unibail-Rodamco sets ambitious targets by committing all of its departments to a robust reporting system, enabling the Group to effectively track performance. Challenging its teams to outperform and innovate contributes to considerable performance improvements, which the Group’s results have continued to demonstrate. * Full details of the Group’s performance relative to its 2011 achievements and its targets for 2012 and beyond are provided on pages 54-57. 3 SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES FULLY INTEGRATED INTO GROUP’S CORE PROCESSES AND DAILY CONCERNS Investment • Assess climate change vulnerability Development • Deliver ﬂexible & sustainable buildings • Obtain high level of environmental certiﬁcation Leasing • Sign green leases and develop tenant’s awareness Operating • Reduce cost and carbon footprint of existing assets • Integrate stakeholders Marketing • Develop visitor’s awareness ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE OF MANAGED SHOPPING CENTRES 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 -10 -14% -20 -18%* -30 -40 -50 -52%* -60 Carbon Intensity (CO2/visit)* Energy Efﬁciency (kWh/visit)* Water Intensity (litres/visit) * Veriﬁed by Ernst & Young. See assurance report on pages 56-57. 4 New Projects Standing assets Construction Letting Review Track (Green (Green lease & (Environmental performance charter) commissioning) review) (Quarterly report) Project review Sourcing Policy Action plan (Detailed design (Investment sustain& Targets (Environmental guidelines) able check-list) action plan) Sustainable ‘Design’ Attitude Sustainable ‘Management’ Attitude BREEAM In-Use Rating1 Asset m² GLA Asset Management Status 1st shopping centre certiﬁed Very Good in France Docks 76 37,700 ÌÌÌÌÌÌ ÌÌÌÌÌÌ for Management (November 2011) 1st shopping centre certiﬁed Very Good in Europe Carré Sénart 95,900 ÌÌÌÌÌÌ ÌÌÌÌÌÌ for Asset and Management (December 2011) 1st shopping centre certiﬁed Good in Sweden Nacka Forum 53,900 ÌÌÌÌÌÌ ÌÌÌÌÌÌ for Asset and Management (December 2011) 1st shopping centre certiﬁed Good in Spain La Vaguada 85,500 ÌÌÌÌÌÌ ÌÌÌÌÌÌ for Asset and Management (December 2011) 1 ÌAcceptable ÌÌPass ÌÌÌGood ÌÌÌÌVery Good ÌÌÌÌÌExcellent ÌÌÌÌÌÌOutstanding. 5 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT Environmental management systems Unibail-Rodamco’s environmental achievements are founded on two complementary Environmental Management Systems (EMS) which are in place across the whole portfolio. The ‘Sustainable Design Attitude’ for new development projects and the ‘Sustainable Management Attitude’ for existing managed assets balance the needs of tenants and customers with the demands of environmental performance. The ‘Sustainable Design Attitude’ ensures that all new developments are designed and constructed in line with the most demanding standards from the outset. Comprehensive internal guidelines are in place for everything from energy efficiency, acoustics, lighting and biodiversity to flexibility, adaptability, intensity of use and building management systems. These guidelines are regularly reviewed and updated. The letting phase marks the transition between the ‘Sustainable Design Attitude’ and the ‘Sustainable Management Attitude’. When the asset is handed over, the commissioning process enables both parties to check that the building performs as expected and that the building’s management systems are optimised in terms of operational efficiency and user comfort. The quality of the commissioning process is a key factor in the Group’s ability to obtain high levels of BREEAM2 certification for new assets. Once the asset has been delivered and commissioned, the ‘Sustainable Management Attitude’ is applied to ensure that all of its systems operate efﬁciently on a daily basis. The rigorous management standards that this EMS impose has enabled the Group to achieve significant reductions in its environmental footprint since 2006. For example, energy intensity (kWh/visit) was reduced by -6% year-on-year in 2011 and has been cut by a cumulated total of -18% in the last five years. It is also enabling Unibail-Rodamco to obtain high scores in the new BREEAM In-Use certification programme for operational assets. 2 The Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) is the world’s most widely used sustainable construction certiﬁcation. 6 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT Environmentally-sustainable development projects In-house development teams have acquired signiﬁcant experience in environmental design and management following the Group’s decision to apply for third-party certiﬁcation of all new assets of more than 10,000 m². Thanks to the ‘Sustainable Design Attitude’ and a clear focus on excellence, Unibail-Rodamco has reinforced its position as a market leader in sustainable construction and is driving the industry to propose innovative technologies and a better, more relevant sustainability framework to deliver a new generation of buildings. In 2011, Unibail-Rodamco teams worked hard to ensure that all new development projects achieve the best possible results in terms of performance, comfort and efficiency. Notable achievements included Majunga’s designation as the first high-rise building to obtain the French HQE1 passport with an ‘Excellent’ rating, and the validation of geothermal energy for the Aéroville project, paving the way for an ‘Excellent’ rating with the BREEAM certification. 1 HQE (Haute Qualité Environnementale/High Environmental Quality) is the French standard certiﬁcation scheme for sustainable construction. CARBON FOOTPRINT OF MAJUNGA COMPARED TO LOW RISE BUILDINGS Construction Energy use Transportation Photovoltaic production 1,500 (kgCO2 eq/occupent/year) 1,300 MAJUNGA TOWER EMBRACES ENVIRONMENTAL EXCELLENCE • State of the art in energy efﬁciency: the ﬁrst ofﬁce tower Labelled BBC* 1,000 in France, Majunga consumes 4 times less energy compared to towers from the 90’s and earlier. • The unbeatable connectivity to 600 public transport (metro, bus, train, tram...) 550 and local services (CNIT, 4 Temps shopping 500 100 centre...) signiﬁcantly reduces the 250 1,000 carbon footprint of the tower. 200 100 100 • Innovative design combines environmental performance (the ﬁrst high rise achieving 250 250 250 BREEAM Excellent rating in Europe), density and user comfort (convivial, opening -3 -50 windows in the façade at all ﬂoors, exceptional indoor air quality...). Tour Majunga Ofﬁces BBC* Campus BBC* Defense district near suburbs intermediate suburbs (14 m²/occupant) (16 m²/occupant) (17 m²/occupant) * BBC : Low Energy Building. Source: Carbone 4 7 MAJUNGA Paris-La-Défense, France 63,000 m², 44 ﬂoors, 195 metres high Due to be delivered early 2014 (construction in progress) • 1st high-rise building in Europe to obtain ‘Excellent’ BREEAM Design Stage certification • 1st high-rise building in France to be labelled BBC (‘Low-Energy Building’, awarded to buildings with energy consumption levels 50% below regulatory requirements) • Certified HQE with a ‘High Performance’ score in 11 out of 14 criteria Environmental highlights: • The first skyscraper at La Défense with opening windows for natural ventilation and greater comfort. • The first skyscraper at La Défense with high-rise outside garden spaces that are accessible to employees. • A highly energy-efficient envelope, with triple glazing or a double-facade depending on the orientation. • A very low-energy lighting system, with extensive use of light sensors, natural daylight and low-energy bulbs. • A low-impact construction which reduces noise, dust and nuisance by strictly respecting BREEAM standards. AÉROVILLE Roissy, France 82,000 m² GLA Due to be delivered in late 2013 (construction in progress) Environmental highlights: • The first shopping centres in France to use geothermal energy for heating and cooling: an annual saving of 307 tonnes of CO2. • Water-saving and recycling measures that reduce the consumption of drinking-quality water by 40%. • A full thermal dynamic study of the building was carried-out resulting in a total energy consumption 55% under the required national standards, notably through the use of natural lighting, great insulation and smart ventilation strategy in the mall and the car parks. • 25 parking and recharging spaces for electric vehicles. • Low-impact materials, notably in terms of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) and formaldehydes. 8 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT Cooperation on environmental issues Cooperation with key environmental partners gathered pace in 2011. A growing percentage of shopping centre services are purchased from responsible suppliers. Tenant committees and customer communications are helping to spread the message that everyone has a role to play in the environmental performance of an asset. The ‘green leases’ introduced by Unibail-Rodamco late 2009 are now an integral part of the Group’s sustainability strategy. Their implementation clearly identifies the Group as a leader in environmentally sustainable operations and demonstrates its commitment to involving key stakeholders in this process. ‘Green lease’ clauses, which have been implemented for LED reﬁtting of parking lights, all new leases and renewals since 2009, are now included in more than efﬁcient building management 32% of the Group’s active leases. with technical partners and active cooperation with tenants Sustainability committees at individual assets are used to define shared to optimise in-store lighting helped Albacenter (Spain) action plans, encourage dialogue, and inform tenants about the Group’s reduce its annual energy initiatives, the performance of the asset, and the contribution expected consumption by 30% in 2011. from retailers. In 2011, sustainability committees were held at 43% of managed shopping centres. Key priorities highlighted by tenants during committee meetings include the development of sustainable transport and ‘green’ communications for visitors, the improvement of waste management as efficiently as possible. Tenant/landlord workshops will be held on these issues in 2012. Since 2009, the Group’s purchasing teams across Europe have ensured that new contracts and renewals include ‘green clauses’, covering everything from the use of chemical cleaners, waste disposal to energy savings behaviour. These encourage suppliers to adopt environmentally-sustainable habits. In 2011, suppliers’ compliance with these clauses was assessed in all regions: 191 key maintenance, cleaning and security suppliers were assessed in 67 shopping centres and conventions and exhibitions venues. The results are shared and discussed with the supplier in order to improve service quality, management, pro-reactivity and sustainable behaviour. 9 1,434 191 green leases signed * * suppliers assessed 43% of energetic shopping centres hold an annual tenant-landlord sustainability committee * Veriﬁed by Ernst & Young. See assurance report on pages 56-57. 10 2011/2010 ENERGY REDUCTION ( LIKE FOR LIKE ) BREAKDOWN OF RETAIL MANAGED PORTFOLIO. In 2011 49% of managed shopping centres have reduced their consumption by more than 10%. Over -15% 14 centres -6% to -15% 18 centres 0% to -5% 15 centres 1% to 5% 13 centres Above 6% 5 centres REDUCING CO2/VISITS AT MANAGED SHOPPING CENTRES Year-on-year reduction Accumulated reduction 0% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 In 2011, the Group reduces the carbon intensity of its -10% shopping centres by 30%: -20% -20% from green electricity purchases -30% -5% of energy consumption reduction -40% -5% of CO2 emission factor changes -50% -60% CO2/visit provides a transparent, quantitative gauge of the carbon impact of a real estate asset. It measures three key elements that contribute to an asset’s carbon footprint: energy mix (CO2/kWh), energy efﬁciency (kWh/m2) and intensity of use (m2/visit). In the future, it will also take account of emissions from customer transport (kgCO2/visit). 11 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT Climate, emissions and energy Unibail-Rodamco is tackling the related challenges of climate change, CO2 emissions and energy efﬁciency in a number of ways, but measures its progress with one key indicator: CO2/visit. In 2011, Ernst & Young certiﬁed that the Group had met its primary long term target by reducing CO2/visit by 52% and KWh/visit by 18% at managed assets since 2006*. This remarkable achievement is a clear demonstration of the Group’s commitment to the environmental sustainability of its portfolio. To reduce its CO2 emissions and mitigate its impact on climate change, the Group works to reduce its energy consumption and cut the carbon content of the energy that is consumed. Energy consumption in the Group’s INTEGRATING CLIMATE CHANGE managed assets has been declining steadily since the Sustainable CRITERIA INTO INVESTMENT DECISIONS Management Attitude was introduced in 2008. In 2011, this in-house In 2011, the Group decided to EMS helped the Group to reduce the annual consumption of its shopping integrate climate change risk centres by 6%, equivalent to 26.5 GWh. In addition to the environmental criteria into its investment benefits, this represents an annual saving (total site) of €2.5 million for process. As with other aspects of the due diligence process, this will operating costs. minimise risks by assessing the vulnerability of potential In 2011, Unibail-Rodamco chose to expand its green electricity purchasing investments to: policy to three large assets in Central Europe (Centrum Chodov, Centrum • ﬂooding, Cerný Most and Galeria Mokotów). This had an immediate and significant • extreme weather effects (e.g. drought, heavy rainfall, impact on CO2 emissions (equivalent to -19,336 tonnes in 2011). snow, strong winds), The main aim, however, is to encourage energy providers to invest • technological risks related in these technologies by increasing market demand for low-carbon and to neighbourhood, • regulatory risks. renewable energies. * Veriﬁed by Ernst & Young. See assurance report on pages 56-57. 12 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT An increasing proportion of the Group’s energy is being generated on-site. For example, a highly-efficient tri-generation unit which produces electricity, heat and cooling from gas was installed at Los Arcos (Seville) in 2010. In 2011, the second tri-generation unit was operated at Parquesur (Madrid). Based on the experience of the Aéroville project (see page 7), the Group is studying the technical and financial feasibility of using geothermal energy at other sites. As well as optimising the environmental performance of its assets through challenging energy and CO2 reduction measures, Unibail-Rodamco has developed a long-term roadmap to address and adapt to climate change. In particular, the Group aims to understand the scale of risks Spain: 38 free recharge points for electric vehicles were installed to asset value and operations and ensure compliance with existing at 14 Spanish shopping centres in and future legislation. The roadmap provides a methodology to address 2011; 41 shopping centres across issues such as flooding and extreme weather events on the portfolio. Europe are now equipped. The roadmap is reviewed and updated regularly and adaptation strategies are developed when relevant. Every square metre that is built has an environmental impact during construction, during operations and at the end of its life. This is taken into account through the ‘intensity of use’ (visitors/m2) component of the CO2/visit indicator. To improve its performance, Unibail-Rodamco ensures that development projects are appropriately sized and also works to attract increasing numbers of customers to its assets. Buildings which are accessible only by car have a far higher indirect carbon footprint than those with good public transport connections. Most of UnibailRodamco’s assets have central locations in major European cities and are easily accessed by sustainable modes of transport. Almost 56% of customers walk, cycle or use public transport to visit the Group’s shopping centres. The office portfolio is also extremely well-connected to major transport hubs. Austria: An additional free bus link between Shopping City Süd and Vienna city centre has been implemented in August. The two bus lines have been used by 309,422 passengers in 2011. 13 MODES OF TRANSPORT USED BY VISITORS TO THE GROUP’S SHOPPING CENTRES ENERGY MIX BY REGION (INDIRECT ENERGY), INCLUDING CARBON WEIGHT PER KWH (ALL ASSETS) Fossil fuel Nuclear Renewable Shopping centres* 33% 33% 34% 162 gCO2/kWh Austria* Central Europe* 18% 63% 1% 82% 111 gCO2/kWh 36% 368 gCO2/kWh 56% France* 12% 76% 12% 67 gCO2/kWh 35% + 21% Netherlands* 17% 83% 138 gCO2/kWh Nordics* 29% 17% 53% 64 gCO2/kWh Spain* 57% 16% 27% 284 gCO2/kWh Public transport 35% Car/taxi 42% Ofﬁces 29% 62% 9% 97 gCO2/kWh Foot/bicycle 21% Convention & Exhibition* 22% 69% 9% 99 gCO2/kWh Other 2% * Veriﬁed by Ernst & Young. See assurance report on pages 56-57. 14 WATER CONSUMPTION AT MANAGED SHOPPING CENTRES Common part share Tenant share 2011 38% 62% Total 2011: 2,866,890 m3 / 4.4 litres/visit 15 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT An efficient, responsible approach to risks and resources Unibail-Rodamco’s approach to managing natural resources, promoting biodiversity and ensuring health and safety combines targeted action on issues that it controls and close cooperation with external stakeholders on other, wider issues. A successful waste management policy must be based on active cooperation with tenants and suppliers, who are the source of almost all of the waste in a typical shopping centre. Tenants are regularly informed about on-site waste management systems and waste segregation facilities. Both supplier purchasing contracts and tenants green leases establish the minimum requirements for waste sorting and recycling that must be respected. In 2010, the Group decided that, by 2016, at least 50% of waste collected from managed shopping centres should be recycled, and the proportion of waste diverted from landfill should have risen by 50% relative to 2009. In 2011 35% of waste was recycled and the proportion of waste sent to landfill reduced by 35% since 2009. For new development projects Unibail-Rodamco ‘considerate construction charter’ sets out the Group’s requirements and recommendations for optimising the environmental quality of its construction sites with a view to creating a positive experience for the workforce, local communities, and the environment. It includes all applicable local regulations and sets waste optimisation targets for its contractors. In 2011 9,173 tonnes of waste was generated during the demolition of the “Mondiale” office building. Initially, the contractor was obliged to achieve a optimum disposal rate of 80%, but managed to reach 8,740 tonnes, equivalent to a valorisation rate of 95% by weight. 16 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT The Group continues to pay close attention to health and safety and environmental risk management issues across its portfolio. An extensive, comprehensive in-house policy is used to mitigate and manage risks. The main subjects covered are air quality, water quality, asbestos, ground and air pollution, legionella, electromagnetic radiation, and technical equipment such as lifts and escalators. 2011 saw the completion of the asbestos mapping process in the region’s 26 concerned assets that were built before this material was banned by local regulations. This information will be used to schedule and prioritise asbestos removal works. In parallel, a standardised Methodological Risk Analysis (MRA) was rolled out at 11 assets which have cooling towers under the Group's direct management. By identifying risk A new collaborative initiative factors and establishing Group-wide standards for monitoring, maintenance introduced at Centrum Chodov and documentation, this MRA increases operational efficiency and reduces (Prague): Each tenant’s waste is weighed and checked in the the risk of legionella proliferation in concerned sites. presence of the tenant before being sorted into 17 categories In 2011, an independent health and safety inspector was appointed in for recycling and disposal. By each country where the Group operates. In 2012, annual health and safety charging tenants according to risk management assessments will be carried out at all managed assets in their volume of waste, quantity of waste collected was cut by 26% all regions. and revenues from recycling This annual assessment will be used to set up and prioritise action plan increased by 16%. to improve continuously the quality of the risk of managed assets across the Group. 17 WASTE BY DISPOSAL ROUTE IN 2011 WASTE RECYCLING AT MANAGED SHOPPING CENTRES Non recycled Recycled 2009 33% 49,165 tonnes 2010 36% 58,634 tonnes 2011 35% 55,042 tonnes Recycling/Reuse/Composting 35% Incineration 13% Incineration with energy recovery 11% COMPOSITION OF WASTE RECYCLED IN 2011 Landﬁll 17% Cardboard 81% Paper 1% Plastics 4% Glass 2% Landﬁll with methanisation 14% Wood 3% Metals 1% Other 8% Managed by local authority 10% 18 26,638 customers and tenants participated in satisfaction surveys 19 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT Encouraging dialogue and strengthening relationships At every stage in the business cycle, Unibail-Rodamco aims to create value for its stakeholders and minimise its impact on the environment. Skilled, dedicated employees and strong relationships with external stakeholders underpin the Group’s results and enable it to improve, adapt and thrive over time. Shopping centres provide entertainment, services and social opportunities to people of all ages and serve as a focus for whole communities. To ensure that its activities benefit the local area, the Group works to build and maintain strong relationships with residents and public authorities. Public consultations for development and extension projects provide an opportunity to explain the proposed project in detail, listen to the public’s concerns and respond appropriately, whether by providing clearer information, conducting additional studies or adjusting aspects of the proposal. Both new investments and existing activities generate economic growth through employees’ salaries, payments to suppliers and infrastructure Unibail-Rodamco is listed on several prestigious SRI indexes, investments, and create direct and indirect employment. For example, including the FTSE4Good, the it has been estimated that the convention and exhibition activity in Paris, Dow Jones Sustainability Index where the Group is a major actor, contributes around €4.5 billion (World and Europe), and the ASPI Index (Europe). In 2011, to the local economy. it entered the STOXX ESG Leaders Index with high scores in each The Group conducts regular surveys to learn more about the needs of the three sub-indices. and expectations of two key stakeholders: customers and tenants. The availability of reliable quantitative data of this type enables Unibail-Rodamco to continuously improve the quality of the shopping experience it provides, which in turn has a positive impact on the financial performance of the portfolio. The quality of service provided to customers with disabilities was a major focus in 2010. In 2011, the Group continued to strengthen its partnership with the UNAPEI, a charitable association that works on behalf of people with mental disabilities. 8 centres will shortly complete the ‘S3A’1 certification S3A Label process as a permanent sign of their commitment to welcoming people who are affected by mental disability and their families. 1 ’S3A’ is a French standard for public spaces that have demonstrated their commitment to being welcoming, supportive and accessible to people with mental disabilities. 20 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT Major investors are integrating increasingly stringent environmental criteria into their investment decision-making processes. The Group organised four dedicated sustainability sessions for around 91% of the top 50 investors by value in Paris, Amsterdam and London in 2011 and met a further 10 investors during one-to-one meetings. Their feedback on the Group’s sustainable development approach and communications was generally favourable, as was feedback from external analysts and researchers. For example, in September 2011, the GRESB report, supported by APG and PGGM, ranked Unibail-Rodamco 4th out of 32 listed companies in the EPRA peer group for its environmental policy management, implementation and measurement. Promoting equality and diversity UniNews, the Group's internal During 2011, all Unibail-Rodamco employees completed an e-learning newsletter, plays an important role programme about the Code of Ethics. This short, succinct course focuses in informing employees on real-life situations where ethical dilemmas can arise, which encouraged on sustainability issues. employees to think about the practical application of the code. Ethical business behaviour was also covered during the week-long European Graduate Programme induction seminar and in training courses across Europe and at the Unibail-Rodamco Academy. The Group maintained its commitment to ensuring that men and women doing jobs with similar levels of responsibility receive equal pay. It also took steps to increase transparency in the remuneration process by launching a tailored assessment framework for leasing managers. Clear, objective criteria are used to measure success and minimise the differences in results that can arise between regions and assets. Similar programmes will be introduced for other core functions in 2012. A major new programme in leadership and management skills was added to the Unibail-Rodamco Academy curriculum in 2011 (see page 48). In total, 26,083 hours of training were provided to employees during 2011, across all regions. 36% of management positions were held by women in 2011.* 41% of all cadres** and engineers in France are women. Employee communications about sustainable development policies and activities were maintained and expanded in 2011. The internal newsletter, which is distributed to all employees, continued to highlight a different environmental issue every month. In May, the Management Convention brought together 160 senior managers in Vienna for two days of networking, team-building and learning. Unibail-Rodamco’s sustainability policies, achievements and objectives were presented. Simon Orchard, the regional managing director for Spain, received the first annual ‘Unibail-Rodamco Sustainability Award’ in recognition of the Spanish team’s commitment to sustainable development and their ability to propose and implement innovative environmental and social solutions, year after year. Further information on the Group's HR activities and programs can be found on pages 45-49. * Veriﬁed by Ernst & Young. See assurance report on pages 56-57. ** Junior, middle and senior management positions. 21 EMPLOYMENT BY COUNTRY* EMPLOYMENT BY ACTIVITY EMPLOYEES BY AGE EMPLOYEES BY GENDER Austria 67 Ofﬁces 16 < 30 years old 24.2% Women 49.2% Czech Republic 35 Shopping Centres 550 30 50 years old 60% Men 50.8% Denmark 10 Convention & Exhibition 399 > 50 years old 15.8% France 1,015 Development 85 Netherlands 61 Shared Services 230 Poland 41 Headquarters 184 * Veriﬁed by Ernst & Young. See assurance report on pages 56-57. Spain 135 Sweden 100 22 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT Corporate citizenship The Group maintained its commitment to supporting good causes in 2011. A total of €3, 070, 373 in cash and in kind was donated to educational, cultural, entrepreneurial and social initiatives. More than 330 local charity fundraising and awareness events were held in the Group’s shopping centres. Space is provided for free to small local charities as well as to large international organisations like UNICEF and the Red Cross. Unibail-Rodamco devotes considerable energy to attracting top-flight tenants and helping them to expand and develop their commercial activities. This commitment to supporting business extends to entrepreneurs and start-ups: by nurturing new concepts, the Group is able to provide Always keen to support greater variety for customers and contribute to the development of the education, The Group has premium brands of the future. Through the Grand Prize for Young Retail partnered with the associations Ecoles du Monde and Enfants Entrepreneurs, in the retail sector, and Expocréa, in the convention and de Majunga to completely exhibition sector, Unibail-Rodamco provides financial and logistical support fund a school in Majunga, that helps creative, imaginative business people to get their venture off Madagascar. The construction of the Majunga Tower, which is to a good start in the best conditions. due to be completed in 2013 and is situated in the heart of Expocréa, which is organised by VIPARIS, encourages innovation by helping the Gallieni area in La Défense, promising new convention and exhibition events to prepare their second presented a perfect opportunity show. In 2011, the main prize winner was “The Funerary Fair”, an unusual for the Group to support this initiative. The tower is named in event which provided visitors with information and insights into the honour of Joseph Simon Gallieni psychological, philosophical, spiritual and practical aspects of death and who was Governor General dying. Paris Games Week, the 2010 winner, enjoyed a hugely successful of Madagascar from 1896-1905 and was responsible for the second edition with visitor numbers up 40%. administrative region of Majunga. On the 15th of December 2011 A new partnership was signed with the ‘Enfants de Majunga’ and ‘Enfants an event was organised in the du Monde’. These associations are working to support local populations Group’s Paris headquarters so in the Majunga region of Madagascar, which shares a name with the that employees could contribute to the school’s funding. next-generation high-rise tower that Unibail-Rodamco is currently building at Paris-La Défense. The funds contributed by the Group and its French employees in 2011 will be used to construct a new school for the children of Majunga. SCHOOL OF THE SECOND CHANCE (E2C) In France, the Group reaffirmed its support for the School of the Second Chance (E2C). This long-standing partnership provides the E2C Foundation with a reliable source of funding as it works to give 18to 25-year olds with few or no qualiﬁcations with the training and support they require to access further education or employment. It also opens numerous opportunities for students to obtain work or work experience in the Group’s assets. In 2011 for example, 191 students obtained work in this way. 23 GRAND PRIZE FOR YOUNG RETAIL ENTREPRENEURS The Grand Prize provides tomorrow’s retail stars with the financial and logistical support they need to start their business today. It is by far the largest single endowment supporting the creation of new businesses in France, distributing prizes with a value of €1.35 million to the three winners. UnibailRodamco provides them with retail space in one of its shopping centres, waiving both key money and the ﬁrst six months’ rent to relieve the new entrepreneurs of some of the stress that is involved in launching a commercial venture. In addition, all six ﬁnalists receive marketing,legal,business and management guidance to help them to ﬁne-tune their business plan.The ﬁfth edition of the Grand Prize forYoung Retail Entrepreneurs was won by Sports d’Epoque, which sells replicas of the kit worn by legendary sporting teams. The runners-up were Mi-Mai, with designer shoes at accessible prices, and La Chambre aux Conﬁtures, which sells high-quality jams and preserves. 24 POLICY AND INDICATORS I. STRATEGY AND ORGANISATION 25 II. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ETHICAL CONDUCT AND RISK MANAGEMENT 27 III. ENVIRONMENT 28 IV. STAKEHOLDERS 42 V. CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY 44 VI. HUMAN RESOURCES 45 VII. GRI AND EPRA CONTENT INDEX 50 VIII. 2011 ACHIEVEMENTS AND 2012 OBJECTIVES 52 IX. INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 56 Unibail-Rodamco / 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 25 POLICY AND INDICATORS Unibail-Rodamco has integrated its social and environmental responsibilities into its business model. Since 2007, the Group has published an annual corporate sustainability report which aims to provide a clear, objective picture of its goals and results. Since the 2010 reporting period, the corporate sustainability report has been integrated into the annual report to reﬂect the fact that sustainable practices are now fully integrated into the Group’s everyday operations. I. STRATEGY AND ORGANISATION ■ the due diligence process for acquisitions and investments includes a complete audit of technical, regulatory, At Unibail-Rodamco, environmental best practice, social environmental, and health and safety procedures; including fairness and responsible governance have a central role risks such as soil pollution. A climate change risk assessment to play in the construction and consolidation of long-term was added in 2011, economic success. ■ development projects are regularly reviewed through the Design Guidelines to deliver the most demanding standards, Strategy ■ each managed asset has a customised Environmental Action An effective sustainability strategy gives rise to a number of Plan and performance targets, which are challenged at least business beneﬁts, including: on an annual basis, ■ cost efﬁciencies derived from more active monitoring and ■ the 4person Internal Audit Department conducts regular management of operational expenditures (e.g. for energy), assessments of the management and compliance processes ■ a modern asset portfolio which reflects growing market in place at all of the Group’s business units. Final audit demand for efﬁcient, environmentally-sound buildings, reports are addressed to the Management Board and to the ■ reduced exposure to operational, legislative, compliance departments involved in the audit. and reputational risks due to more rigorous monitoring and When responsibility for obtaining results is shared with other reporting, partners, the Group seeks to cooperate with those partners in ■ an improved competitive position, thanks to an “early adopter” order to identify and work towards common goals. In situations advantage in everything from certiﬁcation programmes to the where results depend on factors that cannot be controlled, changing regulatory landscape, such as weather conditions, the Group works both to leverage ■ effective dialogue with stakeholders, which ensures that opportunities and to identify and mitigate risks. operations, business processes and products are aligned with their expectations, Organisation and target-setting ■ teams which are skilled, motivated and able to implement the The management structure for sustainability issues is designed Group’s strategy effectively. to drive performance improvements from the top down and the The Group’s sustainability strategy is consistent with its desire bottom up and ensure that the Group’s strategy is informed by to be a responsible corporate citizen, which communicates the needs and expectations of stakeholders. transparently on its activities to all of its stakeholders. As a ■ The Corporate Sustainability Committee (CSC) develops signatory of the UN Global Compact, Unibail-Rodamco is the Group’s sustainability strategy, sets ambitious social and committed to promote the application of fundamental values environmental targets, and monitors results. The 6-member with respect to human rights, labour, the environment and CSC meets at least three times a year and reports on corruption. progress and objectives to the Management Board and the Supervisory Board on a quarterly basis. The committee is Implementation chaired by Catherine Pourre, the member of the Management Unibail-Rodamco’s sustainability strategy is designed to return Board responsible for Unibail-Rodamco’s environmental and reliable, quantiﬁable improvements in social, environmental social sustainability strategy and activities, all but one of the and economic performance over the long term. Matters which members of the CSC report directly to the CEO. are the sole responsibility of the Group are managed through ■ The Environmental Performance Committee (EPC) implements a system of in-house processes, targets and key performance the Group’s sustainability strategy, motivates regional teams, indicators that are fully integrated into existing management identiﬁes and shares best practices and tracks environmental processes. Their implementation is veriﬁed with external audits performance to report results and achievements on a quarterly and certiﬁcation programmes. basis.The committee is chaired by François Cantin, the Group Relevant management processes are in place at all stages in Director of Property Maintenance, Purchasing & Sustainability. the Group’s business cycle. For example: The committee brings together the Group’s environmental sustainability team and the regional environmental managers 26 every six weeks by conference call to share best practices and Research and development monitor progress. Sustainability seminars gathering all EPC The Group conducts sustainability research on a case-by-case, members are held twice a year. project-by-project basis. Research projects generally focus on Economic, environmental and social targets are identiﬁed and environmentally-sound, energy-efﬁcient construction methods implemented in close cooperation with the ﬁnance, leasing, and operating practices for new ofﬁce and shopping centre operating, marketing and human resources departments. developments. The Group’s efforts to apply next-generation Environmental targets are monitored and managed by a solutions offers a number of beneﬁts, including lower operating four member team dedicated to corporate environmental costs throughout the life-cycle of the building, ‘future-prooﬁng’ sustainability. of the portfolio relative to an increasingly tough regulatory Overall responsibility for achieving sustainability targets is environment, and the commercial edge offered by recognised assigned to the relevant member of the Management Board, third-party certiﬁcations. and delegated to the managing director of each region, who Studies are also commissioned on topics of particular ensures that the necessary actions and processes are integrated relevance to the Group’s operations. Recent examples include into their teams’ operating practices. The Group has introduced a detailed analysis of the biodiversity status and potential of ﬁnancial incentives for sustainability performance: from 2011, part the Group’s shopping centre assets, and a study into the use of the variable remuneration of the Regional Managing Director is of natural and artiﬁcial lighting in retail assets, with particular based on sustainability achievements. In 2012 this compensation reference to the sometimes conﬂicting demands of marketing policy will be extended to the Group’s entire Management Team. and environmental performance. The shopping centre management team and asset managers at each site play a particularly important role in the Group’s Participation in external organisations sustainability strategy. They are responsible for developing As Europe’s leading listed commercial real estate company, constructive relationships with tenants and local communities Unibail-Rodamco has an opportunity and a responsibility to and cooperating with suppliers to ensure that day-to-day encourage the industry as a whole to adopt more sustainable operations are as efﬁcient and sustainable as possible. operating practices. Organisation and target-setting The Group became a founding member of the International Sustainability Alliance (ISA) in 2009. ISA is a global network of leading real estate organisations dedicated to achieving a Corporate more sustainable built environment by evaluating and improving Sustainability Vision Supervisory the performance and environmental impact of commercial Committee Board buildings. Within the European Public Real Estate Association Catherine Pourre Policy (EPRA), Unibail-Rodamco has made a signiﬁcant contribution to Member of the Management Management the deﬁnition of consistent, shared key performance indicators Board Board Target for the industry. 6 members The indicators reported in the 2011 Annual and Sustainable Development Report complies with the draft Best Practice Environmental Recommendations that were issued by EPRA in late 2010 and Performance adopted in 2011 (see pages 50-51). The Group is active in the Implement Committee EU Public Affairs Committee (EPAC) of the International Council of Shopping Centres (ICSC) and the sustainability committees François Cantin Stimulate & Share Regions Group Director of the French Council of Shopping Centres (CNCC) and the of Sustainability French Property Real Estate Association (FSIF). Report 8 members In France, Unibail-Rodamco played an active role in the government’s “Grenelle 2” consultation process to develop a set of national environmental regulations. Employment Stakeholders Environmental & & Awards and recognition Responsibility Diversity Shareholders Unibail-Rodamco is listed on a number of prestigious SRI (Socially Responsible Investment) indexes in 2011: Training ■ FTSE4Good (since 2005): made up of companies that meet To ensure that the Group’s sustainability strategy and processes are globally recognised corporate responsibility standards. properly implemented, training sessions are regularly organised ■ Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (World since 2008; for relevant employees and managers. Details of sustainability Europe since 2010): global indexes tracking the financial training programmes are provided alongside Group-wide training performance of the leading sustainability-driven companies information and data in section VI, Human Resources. worldwide. Unibail-Rodamco has improved its score in each annual assessment and scored 75 in 2011. Unibail-Rodamco / 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 27 ■ ASPI Eurozone (since 2010): tracks the ﬁnancial performance ■ the composition and independence of the Supervisory Board of companies in the Eurozone that are leaders in sustainability. and its committees; ■ Ethibel Excellence (since 2011): include companies ■ the composition of the Management Board; that show a better than average performance in terms of ■ the qualifications and professional experience of the corporate sustainability and responsibility in their sector. members of the Management and Supervisory Boards; “Unibail-Rodamco has been selected for inclusion in the ■ the remuneration policy for members of the Management Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register since 13/23/2011 and Supervisory Boards; and is being monitored regarding its CSR proﬁle since then.” ■ the remuneration and fees paid to the members of the ■ Global ESG Leaders Index (since 2011): composed of the Management and Supervisory Boards in 2011. leading global companies in terms of environmental, social The Legal Information Chapter also contains information about and governance (ESG) criteria. Unibail-Rodamco is a member the Group’s Articles of Association, corporate governance of all three sub-indexes. structure, general meetings of shareholders, share capital and voting rights. The Group has also been recognised through diverse ESG awards and rankings, including: Ethical conduct ■ Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World. The Unibail-Rodamco Code of Ethics describes the values and Unibail-Rodamco ranked 47th in the 2011 list, produced by principles that every employee, manager and director of the Corporate Knights. Group must respect and comply with at all times. In particular, ■ GRESB (Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark). it covers: Unibail-Rodamco was named a GRESB “Green Star” in 2011 ■ respect for dignity and for employees’ work, notably the and ranked 4th out of 32 companies in the EPRA peer group. Group’s refusal to tolerate discrimination, harassment or Research is conducted by the University of Maastricht. intimidation in any form; ■ World’s Most Ethical Companies 2011. Unibail-Rodamco was ■ loyalty, integrity and conﬂicts of interest; one of only two French companies out of the 110 companies that ■ respect for applicable laws and regulations, respect for featured in the 2011 ranking, which is produced by Ethisphere. delegations of authority and signatures, the treatment of ■ Proxinvest survey of the governance of CAC40 companies. conﬁdential and proprietary information, the use of UnibailUnibail-Rodamco ranked 2nd in both France and Europe. Rodamco’s assets and services, and the incident handling ■ Novethic Barometer. The Group ranked 2 nd in the 2011 procedure; assessment of the environmental performance of buildings ■ operations on Unibail-Rodamco securities; owned and managed by French real estate companies. ■ ethical ways of doing business, notably with respect to the ■ JP Morgan Cazenove study of the sustainability performance purchase of goods and services, the rejection of corruption of 44 European real estate companies. Unibail-Rodamco and bribery, and environmental preservation. ranked in 1st position. The Code of Ethics is published on the corporate internet ■ Challenges’“Best Employer for Women” ranking.This leading and intranet sites and is distributed to all employees, who are French business magazine placed UnibailRodamco 4 th asked to conﬁrm their acceptance of its terms. It applies to all amongst French CAC 40 companies. employees and subsidiaries, and is available in English, French, ■ Universum. Young graduates from leading business and German, Polish, Czech and Swedish. The Group’s performance engineering schools, ranked Unibail-Rodamco number 1 in appraisal system includes an assessment of each employee’s France for the “High level of responsibility offered to recentlyrespect for compliance procedures and codes of conduct. This hired young graduates”. information is taken into account by the Group’s remuneration committees. Training is provided to employees on compliance II. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, ETHICAL and ethical business behaviour. An e-learning course on the CONDUCT AND RISK MANAGEMENT contents of the Code of Ethics has been developed and is being rolled out to ensure that all employees in all regions Unibail-Rodamco’s corporate governance, ethical conduct and understand how the Code should be applied during day-torisk management policies provide the stability and reliability day business operations. that are necessary for sustainable growth and performance. The Unibail-Rodamco Compliance Book for Governance, Corporate governance Organisation and Corporate Rules sets out the Group’s Unibail-Rodamco has a two-tier governance structure with operating and management rules. It systematically deﬁnes a Management Board and a Supervisory Board. The Group the responsibilities, accountabilities and reporting lines that adheres and applies the best practice recommendations of are in place in all of the Group’s divisions and regions, as well the French Afep-Medef Corporate Governance Code. as for all core operational processes. The Compliance Book is published on the corporate intranet site, and the Group Internal Please see the Legal chapter (pages 212-251 in the Annual Audit team conducts regular assessments of the compliance and Sustainable Development Report 2011) for detailed and management standards in place across all business units. information regarding: 28 Employees and suppliers with concerns about compliance or the impact of its assets at every stage in their lifecycle, from ethics are invited to contact the Group Compliance Ofﬁcer, initial design through to daily operation. Unibail-Rodamco’s who reports directly to the Chairmen of the Management EMS for sustainable design and construction is called the and Supervisory Boards. The Code of Ethics guarantees ‘Sustainable Design Attitude’ (SDA), while its EMS for sustainable the confidentiality of employees and suppliers reporting management and operations is known as the ‘Sustainable possible compliance breaches. The Group respects national Management Attitude’ (SMA). and European regulations on the reporting of compliance breaches to ﬁnancial authorities. Any breaches of the Group’s Sustainable Design Attitude (SDA): compliance and ethical standards are met with appropriate an EMS for development projects disciplinary or legal action. The SDA ensures that all development projects, whatever their Any material compliance breaches are reported to the French size or type, are designed in the most efﬁcient way for longStock Market Authorities, Autorité des Marchés Financiers term success, in order to minimise environmental impacts and (AMF), which would then make this information public via its ensure that each new project over 10,000 m² obtains at least internet site. The Group did not report any material breaches a BREEAM rating of ‘Very Good’ or better. in 2011. For each pipeline project, the ‘Sustainable Design Attitude’ In 2011, a clause on ethical business behaviour was added covers all four stages in the development process: sourcing; to contracts signed with the Group’s suppliers. As well as design and planning; construction; and letting. explaining that suppliers are expected to uphold the standards ■ Sourcing: sustainability and climate change risks are analysed described in the Group Code of Ethics, the clause describes and evaluated during the Group’s due diligence process. the steps they should take to report breaches, or possible ■ Project reviews: at the design stage, each project is assessed breaches, of the code. using the Group’s in-house ‘Design Guidelines’ to ensure that the building will be as sustainable as possible and in Risk and crisis management preparation for its BREEAM assessment. Please see the chapter Report of the Chairman of the ■ Construction: the contractor agrees to abide by the UnibailSupervisory Board (pages 252-263 in the Annual and Sustainable Rodamco Considerate Construction Charter, which is Development Report 2011) contains detailed information on designed to reduce the social and environmental effects of Unibail-Rodamco’s Internal Control System and its management the construction process. ■ Letting: a commissioning process is applied to ensure of key business risks. Relevant risks are identiﬁed through a risk mapping process which focuses on key risks and assesses that operational needs are met, building systems perform them on the basis of probability and magnitude. These risks efﬁciently and that maintenance suppliers and shopping are monitored through the Group’s Internal Control System, centre management staff are properly trained. which covers all activities of the Group in all regions. The Internal Since 2009 the Group’s ‘Design Guidelines’ are applied to Control System is in line with the general principles of the internal all new development, renovations and extension projects. control system reference framework drafted by the AMF Working The ‘Design Guidelines’ aligned with BREEAM requirements Group. The Group’s risk assessment framework takes account ensure that the Group’s projects, whatever their size or scope, of environmental, social and governance risks, such as climate will be designed to ensure attractiveness, ﬂexibility and the most sustainable buildings with the lowest possible energy change, public health and safety, and bribery and corruption. consumption and GHG emissions levels. Best practices from Please see page 32 for information on climate change risks and the ‘Design Guidelines’ are also leveraged to improve the page 42 for information on health and safety risks. energy efﬁciency of existing assets during major renovation and extension projects. Example of ‘Design Guidelines’ requirements for new III. ENVIRONMENT developments include: ■ close attention to structural elements that can affect UnibailRodamco’s environmental strategy is designed energy requirements (e.g. orientation, prevailing winds, shell to reduce the environmental impact of each of the composition), Group’s managed assets and deliver a new generation of ■ an architectural design that maximises natural lighting while ecologically-sound properties, while maintaining the Group’s minimising solar heat gains, reputation for providing high-quality features and services ■ the use of natural ventilation, along with a high-performance that reﬂect market demand. building envelope to reduce the loss of heated and cooled air, ■ integrated systems to produce renewable energy when appropriate (e.g. wind turbines to ensure freecooling, 1. Environmental Management Systems geothermal energy to cool and heat large shopping centres), The Group’s environmental strategy is based on two environmental management systems (EMS) which reduce Unibail-Rodamco / 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 29 ■ energy efﬁcient equipment, coupled with an effective Building These complementary EMS help the Group to: Management System (BMS) that optimises operating hours ■ deliver the most sustainable and ﬂexible projects with the and conditions of each piece of technical equipment. highest BREEAM scores; In 2011 the ‘Design Guidelines’ were updated on the basis ■ ensure that managed assets are operated efﬁciently from a of new assumptions, technologies and operational feedback sustainable development and economical point of view; from across the Group. New studies have been conducted ■ develop awareness and create a positive trend amongst to enrich the Retail Guidelines with innovative solutions such Unibail-Rodamco’s staff involved in the design, development, as geothermal systems, lighting, materials and a revolutionary management and redevelopment of the Group’s assets. approach regarding sound design. Two combined Environmental Management Systems The SDA EMS ensures that the Group’s new retail and ofﬁce to ensure the highest performance and certiﬁcations assets achieve respectively the highest possible BREEAM ratings and HQE certification. The SDA is central to the work carried out by a number of departments, including New Projects Standing assets Development; PMPS (Property Maintenance, Purchasing and Construction Letting Review Track Sustainability); Operating; Leasing; and shopping centre (Green charter) (Green lease & commissioning) (Environmental review) performance (Quarterly report) management. Sustainable Management Attitude (SMA): an EMS for existing assets The SMA is the in-house environmental management system (EMS) implemented across the whole of the managed portfolio Project review (Detailed design Sourcing (Investment sustainPolicy & Targets Action plan (Environmental guidelines) able check-list) action plan) in Europe. This pragmatic and dynamic EMS ensures that the Group is able to meet its annual and long term targets and Sustainable ‘Design’ Attitude Sustainable ‘Management’ Attitude supports Unibail-Rodamco’s policy of continuous improvement for each area covered by the Group’s policy, including climate change, resource use and stakeholders. Best practices from the Sustainable Design Attitude are The ‘Sustainable Management Attitude’ covers four stages leveraged to improve the Sustainable Management Attitude in the management process: target setting; action plan and vice versa. implementation; performance measurement; and performance review. Environmental certiﬁcations ■ Group policy and targets: targets are set each year for each Development managed asset in line with the Group’s long term targets and Committed and with each of the sites individual speciﬁcations. controlled BREEAM new built ■ Environmental action plan: an environmental action plan 2009 2010 2011(2) pipeline (Ofﬁce & Retail) (31st of December covering key topics such as energy, CO2, water, waste, transport 2011)* and stakeholders is implemented and challenged for each Average score 47.26% 60.34% 63.19% managed site. Associated Good Very Very ≥Very Good ■ Quarterly and yearly report: performance is tracked and average rating Good Good analysed on a quarterly basis at site level, regional level and Surface certiﬁed 37,691 246,136 63,035 Group level. A corrective action plan is implemented in case per year (m² GLA) of deviation. Cumulated surface 37,691 283,827 346,863 1,097,416 certiﬁed (m² GLA) ■ Sustainability review: the corporate sustainability team holds sustainability reviews at least once a year for each managed HQE new built 2009 2010 2011 asset to check the status and progress and to prepare the (ofﬁce only) environmental action plan for the year to come. Cumulated surface 158,195 158,195 320,049 95,776 certiﬁed (m² GLA) The SMA EMS ensures that the Group’s retail assets achieve * Figures subject to change according to the maturity of projects the highest possible ratings under the BREEAM In-Use scheme which has been chosen in 2011 for the main assets in Standing assets BREEAM In Use order to promote the environmental performance of the 2009 2010 2011 Target 2012 (Retail) Group’s running building policy towards visitors, tenants and Surface certiﬁed / / 273,000 1,154,954 local communities. The SMA is fully integrated into the daily (m² GLA) operations of teams such as Operating; Leasing; Marketing; PMPS (Property Maintenance, Purchasing and Sustainability); and shopping centre management. (2) Indicators for which a limited assurance has been delivered by Ernst &Young. The statutory auditor’s report is available on pages 56-57 and on the Group’s website: www.unibail-rodamco.com 30 2. Reporting methodology Reporting scope for environmental data The Group reports on the environmental performance of assets that are under its operational management, where data on The Group uses a variety of tools, processes and indicators energy efﬁciency and resource use can be measured and to monitor the performance of the assets that it owns and veriﬁed. In 2011, Unibail-Rodamco reported energy data for manages. They serve to structure the Group’s environmental 100% of its managed assets (all sectors combined), water management approach, track results, and inform third-parties data for 100% of its shopping centres and of its 93% ofﬁces, about performance. and waste data for 97% of its shopping centres. Unibail-Rodamco continuously improves its environmental In 2011 Unibail-Rodamco enlarged the reporting scope of intensity reporting tools and processes in order to ﬁne-tune the quality indicators to Ofﬁces, and Convention & Exhibitions spaces. and accuracy of its consolidated data. This enables the Group to manage its data collection processes more efﬁciently, track Environmental KPIs are reported using two scopes: and analyse performance at all levels (site, region, Group) on a ■ ‘All assets’, used to report the value of an indicator for the year in regular basis, assess results against objectives, and implement question. This scope includes all assets that were managed by suitable corrective measures. the Group for the whole of the year in question.Assets which enter the managed portfolio during a given year through acquisition, Description of environmental key construction or the delivery of a management mandate are performance indicators (KPIs) included in the scope the following year on a full-year basis. Environmental Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) covering ■ ‘Like-for-like’, used to show the change in an indicator over time climate change and resource use are tracked for all of the at a constant portfolio scope (notably in terms of the assets Group’s managed assets. Deﬁnitions of each KPI are provided which are monitored). This scope includes assets that were alongside the relevant data tables on the following pages. managed by Unibail-Rodamco over the whole of the two-year The Group introduced several new indicators in 2011 to ensure comparison period.Assets that underwent major refurbishment compliance with 2011 EPRA Best Practice Recommendations and/or extension during that two-year period are temporarily (BPR) and with the Global Reporting Initiative Construction & Real excluded. To assess the positive impact of its management Estate Sector Supplement reporting framework (GRI3.1 CRESS policy at the earliest opportunity, Unibail-Rodamco ensures that published in 2011). A GRI and EPRA content index is published the like-for-like scope for year (Y+1) includes any site acquired on pages 50-51 of this report. in year Y and/or managed as from year (Y), if and only if a complete set of data is available for the full year (Y). Reporting values Data is reported using absolute values (energy and water Changes in reporting scope consumptions, CO 2 emissions, quantities of waste) or Changes in reporting scope may occur as a result of the start or normalised values (to show efﬁciency). end of a management mandate; acquisitions or disposals of assets; In addition to the standard intensity that gives the ratio between developments of new assets or major renovations and extensions. environmental information and the corresponding ﬂoor space The following rules are applied to reﬂect these situations: (energy, CO2 emissions, water/square metre), Unibail-Rodamco ■ for property management mandates starting or ending, and promotes indicators that reﬂect the intensity of use related to for acquisitions or disposals occurring during the rolling year (Y), the building’s speciﬁc activity. all corresponding data for the rolling year (Y) are excluded. For standard intensity indicators, denominators (square If Unibail-Rodamco acquires an asset or starts a property metres) are deﬁned as: management mandate during the rolling year (Y), and all ■ for shopping centres, areas of mall and common parts corresponding data for the full rolling year (Y) are available, accessible to public, and total GLA to which common utilities the asset is included in the ‘all assets’ scope for year and ‘like(energy, water) are provided, for-like’ scope for year (Y+1); ■ for ofﬁces, total ﬂoor area. ■ property developments in progress are not included in the ‘all assets’ reporting scope until the building goes into operation For intensity of use indicators, denominators are adapted to and this will take effect from the next full rolling year; the asset each business unit: will be included in the ‘like-for-like’ scope as from the second ■ for shopping centres, the annual number of visitors which full rolling year; is monitored by a footfall counting system (i.e. energy, CO2 ■ assets refurbished during the rolling year remain in the emissions, water/visitor), reporting scope for year (Y); ■ for offices, the number of working stations of the building ■ assets whose common floor space is being extended by (i.e. energy, CO2 emissions, water/occupant), more than 5% during the rolling year (Y) remain in “all assets” ■ for convention & exhibitions, the annual sum of square meters scope, and are excluded from the ‘like-for-like’ scope until the occupied during days when the venues are opened to public full rolling year (Y+2), following completion of the works. Where (i.e. energy, CO2 emissions/square meter DOP). it is possible to exclude data relating to the extension, the asset will remain in the ‘like-for-like’ scope. Unibail-Rodamco / 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 31 ASSETS INCLUDED IN 2011 REPORTING SCOPE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL KPIS Number Gross Lettable Assets Intensity of use 2011 of assets Area (GLA)** Austria 2 Donau Zentrum, Shopping City Süd 311,600 m2 39.6 million visits Central Europe 5 Centrum Cerný Most, Centrum Chodov, Galeria Mokotów, 326,600 m2 75.6 million visits Arkadia*, Wilenska* France 31 BAB 2, Bay 2*, Carré Sénart, Carrousel du Louvre, Cité Europe, 1,629,300 m2 331.8 million visits Côté Seine, Cour Oxygène*, Docks 76, Docks Vauban, Euralille, Gaîté Montparnasse, La Part-Dieu, Labège 2, Le Forum des Halles, Les Quatre Temps, L’Usine Côte d’Opale, L’Usine Roubaix, Centre Meriadeck, Passages Meriadeck, Nice Étoile, Parly 2, Place d’Arc, Rennes Alma, Rivétoile, Rosny 2, Saint-Sever, Toison d’Or, Ulis 2, Vélizy 2, Vélizy Usines Center, Villeneuve 2 Netherlands 5 Vier Meren, Leidsenhage, Citymall Almere, Stadshart Amstelveen, 388,000 m2 40.6 million visits Stadshart Zoetermeer Nordic 9 Arninge Centrum, Eurostop Arlandastad, Eurostop Halmstad, 340,300 m2 43.2 million visits Countries Eurostop Örebro, Fisketorvet, Nacka Forum, Nova Lund, Solna Centrum, Täby Centrum Spain 14 Albacenter, Los Arcos, Bahía Sur, Barnasud, Bonaire, Equinoccio, 837,800 m2 119.4 million visits Garbera, Glòries, Habaneras, La Maquinista, Parquesur, Sevilla Factory, La Vaguada, Vallsur Ofﬁces 14 40 ter Suffren, 7 Adenauer, 2-8 Ancelle, 70-80 Wilson, Capital 8, 291,266 m2 21,973 occupants Espace 21, Issy Guynemer, Tour Ariane, Sextant Convention 10 Cnit, Espace Champerret, Espace Grande Arche, Carrousel du 638,900 m2 31.852 million m2 & Exhibition Louvre, Palais des Congrès de Paris, Palais des Congrès de occupied per days Versailles, Palais des Congrès d’Issy*, Paris Nord Villepinte, Paris opened to the public Nord Le Bourget, Porte de Versailles (m2DOP) * Added to the scope in 2011. ** GLA of the whole complex. Reporting system Reporting period Each region is responsible for collecting, checking and In preparation for the extra-ﬁnancial reporting obligations consolidating the data for its managed assets. At the corporate which are due to be introduced under the Grenelle II laws level, data is consolidated, analysed, validated and reported: in France (Article 225), the Group decided to integrate the ■ quarterly for the consumption of each energy source used, corporate sustainability report into the annual report in 2010. and the CO2 emissions. Regular, detailed monitoring of these As a result of this early publication, the Group adapted its indicators ensures that performance issues are identiﬁed and reporting methodology to report its environmental data for a corrected swiftly at asset level. Energy data are made available 12-month rolling period (Q4 previous year plus Q1, Q2 and Q3 monthly as a minimum requirement and are also sometimes for the reporting year) rather than for the ﬁnancial year, as was measured on a real-time basis.The quarterly frequency provides the case in the years prior to 2010. a regular assessment of the sites’ performance in relation to the targets that have been set. It promotes the sharing of good Continuous improvement of deﬁnitions practices between the various sites and enables corrective and data quality action plans to be implemented swiftly; UnibailRodamco continues to improve the quality and ■ annually for water, waste and transport and for supplementary comparability of its environmental data, to develop internal data that is necessary for some calculations (e.g. conversion benchmarks, introduce sub-metering to collect information for factors for CO2 emissions; number of visits to shopping centres; data which is currently estimated, and perfect accuracy of m2 per days of opening of convention & exhibitions venues to data and perimeters reported. Some adjustments may occur the public). on data from the previous year where relevant. The Group’s Annual and sustainable development report In 2011 particularly, Unibail-Rodamco achieved signiﬁcant discloses all KPIs together with their annual and cumulative improvements on its environmental reporting: changes by business segment (shopping centres, office ■ refine its Environmental Reporting Guidelines, the Group buildings and convention & exhibition venues), and by region. reference document that deﬁnes raw data collected, scopes This system has been applied across the whole of the reporting rules, and KPI calculations in order to secure the reporting scope. system and the homogeneity of disclosed results; 32 ■ update of Asset Booklets, reference documents for each asset As well as preparing its assets to face the potential effects describing technical characteristics and functioning, areas, of climate change, Unibail-Rodamco is working to limit the and perimeters of collected data.This update has been used impact of its activities on the climate. The Group’s CO2to correct some historical data; reduction strategy is based on energy-efﬁcient behaviours and ■ implementation of an on site internal control of environmental equipment and, when possible, the use of low-carbon and reporting. A sample of assets is audited each year by the renewable energies. corporate sustainability team to check the accuracy and The Group complies with regulatory requirements in each compliancy of their reporting with the Group’s Reporting region with regard to flooding risks, water management, Guidelines. and drainage systems for exceptionally heavy rainfall. In France and the Nordic countries, for example, regulations Third-party independent veriﬁcation regarding drainage systems for exceptionally intense rainfall In 2011, Ernst & Young performed a detailed review of 8 are particularly stringent. Almost all assets offer opportunities informations and 10 key performance indicators, including the for incorporating new facilities, such as green roofs or walls, carbon intensity KPI, which was also veriﬁed in 2009 and 2010 heat reducing systems, or wind protecting equipment. When (see assurance statement page 56-57). This veriﬁcation included possible and relevant, upgrades of this type are implemented a detailed review of some of the Group’s largest assets. during renovation/extension projects. For 2012 the Group will comply with the Global Reporting Initiative Construction & Real Estate Sector Supplement CO2 emissions reporting standard (GRI3.1 CRESS published in 2011) to increase The Group reporting covers greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) its transparency on social and environmental disclosures. The related to buildings energy consumption, converted into a CO2 Group plans to obtain a B+ level by 2012, which demands that equivalent unit (CO2e). In 2011, on a year to year and a likeall management information and 20 performance indicators for-like basis, the Group reduced the carbon intensity (CO2e/ are disclosed. The “+” shows that the level declared has been visit) of its shopping centres portfolio activities by -30% due to: veriﬁed by a third party. i) increased energy efﬁciency (i.e. less consumption) reduced CO2 emissions by 5% (4,877 tonnes), 3. Climate change ii) changes in carbon conversion rates resulting from changes in the primary energy mix of suppliers led to a 5% reduction in The effects on Unibail-Rodamco’s portfolio of climatic changes carbon intensity (5,112 tonnes), that could occur in the coming years will vary by region and by iii) the purchase of ‘green’ electricity in Central Europe asset. The scale and severity of any changes will determine the (Centrum Chodov, Centrum Cerný Most and Galeria Mokotów) extent of the impact, as will factors such as the age, location, with an impact of -20% (19,336 tonnes). construction method and operational efﬁciency of the asset, and the quality and capacity of local infrastructure. Visitor footfall was almost stable and did not have a noticeable impact. Risks to the Group’s activities are likely to include: higher insurance premiums; higher operating costs for energy, water This encouraging CO2 performance is still anchored by the and maintenance; a higher chance of ﬂooding; and a higher ambitious energy-savings programmes that operate across all risk of disruption to commercial activity from extreme weather the Group’s assets. However, in 2011, this strong reduction in events, including problems affecting local infrastructure that are carbon intensity has beneﬁted from cyclical factors unsecured outside the Group’s control. There is, however, a low likelihood in the long term, as favourable climate conditions and the of signiﬁcant changes to the Group’s activities due to tidal extension of green electricity purchase for the most carbonﬂooding, extreme temperature variations, aridity, demographic intensive shopping centres. shifts, etc., thanks to Unibail-Rodamco’s strategic focus on More than quick carbon savings, the primary purpose of major cities in continental Europe. signing certiﬁed ‘green’ electricity contracts for the Group is to Unibail-Rodamco’s due diligence process for acquisitions and encourage suppliers to invest in low-carbon and renewable new development projects covers a wide range of ﬁnancial energy technologies, by increasing market demand for these and operational issues and takes many of these risks and ‘clean’ energies. opportunities into account. For example, the due diligence This result leads to a cumulative impact of -52% for the carbon process includes a complete audit of technical, regulatory, intensity indicator between 2006 and 2011, exceeding the environmental, and health and safety performance. The primary target of -40% between 2006 and 2016. potential financial impact of identified risks is taken into This CO2 reduction performance has to be considered in account during negotiations and investments. Issues covered the long term, taking into account the possible cyclical include asbestos, legionella, electromagnetic radiation and soil and external factors, such as tough climate conditions or pollution. Since 2011, the climate change risk criteria framework uncontrolled changes in the suppliers’ energy mix. This is why has been integrated into the due diligence process in order the Group decided to maintain the new reduction target at to identify and minimise risks by assessing the vulnerability of 50% for its cumulated carbon intensity in 2016 compared to potential investments. the 2006 baseline. Unibail-Rodamco / 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 33 KPI: CO2 EMISSIONS (kgCO2e) [GRI EN16] CO2 emissions related to energy consumption are considered in absolute Energy Consumption KPI. The CO2 ﬁgures are calculated with local emission factors for each source of energy consumption. These factors depend on the source of energy (electricity, gas, etc.), the country and the energy supplier. Since 2011, the KPI highlights the split between direct CO2 emissions (scope 1: gas and fuel oil) and indirect CO2 emissions (scope 2: electricity, district heating network and district cooling network). Convention Shopping centres Ofﬁces & Exhibition Central NetherScope All assets Austria France Nordics Spain Scope All assets Scope All assets Europe lands 2009 72/75 100,717,141 11,254,212 47,788,390 12,154,807 2,610,260 5,055,125 22,433,082 19/19 6,614,597 9/9 15,783,889 2010 77/77 118,635,150 7,319,097 71,911,428 12,154,807 3,235,663 5,051,927 18,962,226 17/17 5,852,888 10/10 17,171,712 2011 66/66 67,149,171 5,987,035 29,506,324 10,080,213 1,939,521 3,886,885 15,749,193 14/14 3,621,496 10/10 18,151,423 of which 10,924,314 3,624,950 0 4,699,640 1,479,028 0 1,120,697 308,681 7,195,816 direct emissions of which 56,224,857 2,362,085 29,506,324 5,380,573 460,494 3,886,885 14,628,497 3,312,815 10,955,606 indirect emissions 2011/2006 -51% -40% -53% -31% -79% -23% -45% -29% 7% Like-for-like 2011/2010 65/66 -30% -7% -43% -17% -15% -8% -17% 14/14 -28% 10/10 6% Like-for-like KPI: CARBON INTENSITY OF USE (gCO2e/visit/year for shopping centres, kgCO2e/occupant/year for ofﬁces, gCO2e/m2DOP/year for convention & exhibition) [GRI CRE3] Numerator: CO2 Emissions KPI. Denominator: usage indicator per business activity (see Reporting Methodology part Reporting values page 30). Convention Shopping centres(2) Ofﬁces & Exhibition(2) Central Scope All assets Austria France Netherlands Nordics Spain Scope All assets Scope All assets Europe 2009 72/75 154 244 870 36 55 79 185 18/19 254 9/9 1,196 2010 76/77 166 173 750 36 68 76 158 16/17 233 10/10 2,555 2011 65/66 103 151 390 30 48 90 132 13/14 163 10/10 2,827 2011/2006 -36% -1% -64% -29% -77% 44% -42% -21% / absolute 2011/2006 -52% -34% -57% -33% -82% -23% -44% -29% / Like-for-like 2011/2010 65/66 -30% -7% -43% -18% -15% -5% -17% 12/14 -28% 10/10 -3% Like-for-like KPI: CARBON INTENSITY PER SQUARE METRE (kgCO2e/m²/year) [GRI CRE3] Numerator: CO2 emissions related to energy consumption considered in absolute Energy Consumption KPI. Denominator: square metres (see Reporting Methodology part Reporting values page 30). Shopping centres(2) Ofﬁces Central Scope All assets Austria France Netherlands Nordics Spain Scope All assets Europe 2009 72/75 38 38 174 10 19 12 51 18/19 20 2010 77/77 42 25 181 10 25 12 43 16/17 18 2011 66/66 26 22 93 9 18 13 36 13/14 13 2011/2006 -51% -40% -53% -31% -79% -23% -45% -29% Like-for-like 2011/2010 65/66 -30% -7% -43% -17% -15% -8% -17% 13/14 -28% Like-for-like (2) Indicators for which a limited assurance has been delivered by Ernst &Young. The statutory auditor’s report is available on pages 56-57 and on the Group’s website: www.unibail-rodamco.com 34 Energy consumption The Group systematically installs Building Management In 2011, absolute energy consumption in shopping centres Systems (BMS) in its assets so onsite teams can easily decreased on both an ‘all assets’ and a like-for-like basis, monitor and manage performance through a single interface. thanks to continuous effort and commitment of operational Energy efﬁciency is also a determining factor in the choice teams and also to favourable climatic conditions. The Group’s of low consumption technical equipment, notably for regular energy efﬁciency for retail (kWh/visit) was reduced by -6% in maintenance works related to lighting, heating, cooling and 2011 compared to 2010 (on a like-for-like basis) and by -18% ventilation. Main improvements in intrinsic building efﬁciency since 2006 close to the primary long-term target of 20% set for are synchronized with major developments and extension/ the 2006-2012 period. The Group has decided to set a new renovation projects. target with a goal to cut cumulated energy intensity by 30% An energy efﬁciency attitude is well embedded in all existing by 2016, compared to a 2006 baseline for managed shopping processes related to technical management of each asset by centres. ensuring gradually: 42% of the Group’s managed shopping centres have reduced ■ optimization of the daily technical core function, their energy consumption by more than 20% since 2006. ■ technical improvement through annual non recurrent maintenance works, In order to get the best return on its investments in energy ■ intrinsic building changes through the Group’s value creation efﬁciency solutions, the Group has clearly set the daily energy policy. optimization as its priority (see graph below). Increased energy efﬁciency limits Unibail-Rodamco’s exposure Energy efﬁciency measures are applied across every asset to rising, increasingly volatile energy prices and cushions it that the Group manages. Standard practices include: the against possible supply shocks in the future. This is particularly identification of factors that affect energy consumption; important in France, where energy prices are currently below systematic optimisation of the running hours of each piece of European market rates. equipment; seasonal action plans to adjust temperatures in line with outside conditions; regular monitoring of each asset’s energy consumption; a strong focus on behavioural changes (e.g. turning out lights, using ‘free cooling’); and regular checks to ensure that technical equipment is functioning correctly. A gradual and pragmatic approach to energy savings Energy savings (%) 40 Building efficiency 30 Low energy intensive 20 equipment 10 Optimized 0 running x 10 k€ x 100 k€ x 1 M€ Costs/ Investments • Running hours • LED • Building insulation • Free cooling • Optimized HVAC • Facade • Natural ventilation • Building Management System • New glazing • Natural day light • Cooling towers replacement • New HVAC systems • Sub metering • Vertical transportation • Renewable energies Unibail-Rodamco / 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 35 KPI: ENERGY CONSUMPTION (kWh) [GRI EN3, EN4] Energy consumption includes both direct and indirect energy. Direct energy refers to primary source energy which is purchased and consumed on site (e.g. gas and fuel oil). Indirect energy refers to energy produced by and purchased from a third party in the converted form of electricity or ﬂuid (e.g. electricity, heating/cooling network or steam). For shopping centres, ofﬁces and convention & exhibition centres, ﬁnal energy purchased for use in common areas including car parks and by common equipment (heating & cooling, distribution power, ventilation, vertical transportation, and lighting) and energy provided to tenants for heating and/or cooling. Electricity purchased by tenants is not included. Convention Shopping centres Ofﬁces & Exhibition Central NetherScope All assets Austria France Nordics Spain Scope All assets Scope All assets Europe lands 2009 72/75 460,220,677 61,278,672 78,732,860 155,667,401 23,216,465 80,616,248 60,709,031 19/19 60,341,104 9/9 164,765,607 2010 77/77 504,653,487 59,687,648 112,898,220 163,065,501 23,455,737 83,578,468 61,967,914 17/17 53,386,362 10/10 167,911,989 2011 66/66 414,456,206 53,975,551 80,120,017 150,320,259 14,049,709 60,554,565 55,436,105 14/14 37,197,653 10/10 183,783,511 of which 51,085,313 18,175,641 0 20,083,931 7,250,135 0 5,575,606 1,319,149 30,751,352 direct energy of which 363,370,893 35,799,910 80,120,017 130,236,328 6,799,574 60,554,565 49,860,499 35,878,504 153,032,159 indirect energy 2011/2006 -17% 1% -14% -20% -11% -8% -29% -26% -5% Like-for-like 2011/2010 65/66 -6% -5% -2% -8% -8% -1% -11% 14/14 -18% 10/10 9% Like-for-like KPI: FINANCIAL SAVINGS RESULTING FROM REDUCED ENERGY CONSUMPTION (€) [GRI EN5] Total amount of cost saved thanks to the reduction of energy consumptions of the Energy Consumption indicator, estimated with an average energy cost per supplier. Deﬁnition: – The difference in energy consumption year-on-year, “like–for–like perimeter”. – The energy consumption difference multiplied by energy cost, per supplier, per asset and consolidated per region. Shopping centres Central Scope All assets Austria France Netherlands Nordics Spain Europe Energy consumptions evolutions 65/66 -26,505,479 -2,743,536 -2,053,024 -13,068,546 -1,294,658 -813,906 -6,531,809 2011/2010 (kWh) Cost savings 2011/2010 (€) 65/66 -2,542,299 -143,271 -137,130 -1,225,305 -235,333 -156,684 -644,575 KPI: ENERGY EFFICIENCY PER BUILDING USAGE: (kWh/visit/year for shopping centres, kWh/occupant/year for ofﬁces, kWh/m² DOP/year for convention & exhibition) [GRI CRE1] Numerator: Energy Consumption KPI. Denominator: usage indicator per business activity (see Reporting Methodology part Reporting values page 30). Convention Shopping centres(2) Ofﬁces & Exhibition(2) Central NetherScope All assets Austria France Nordics Spain Scope All assets Scope All assets Europe lands 2009 72/75 0.70 1.33 1.43 0.48 0.49 1.26 0.50 18/19 2,323 9/9 11.9 2010 76/77 0.71 1.41 1.18 0.48 0.49 1.26 0.52 16/17 2,131 10/10 16.6 2011 65/66 0.63 1.36 1.06 0.44 0.35 1.40 0.46 13/14 1,686 10/10 18.1 2011/2006 -9% 38% -35% -19% -24% 12% -26% -15% / absolute 2011/2006 -18% 10% -22% -22% -22% -1% -27% -22% / Like-for-like 2011/2010 65/66 -6% -5% -3% -9% -8% 2% -10% 12/14 -18% 10/10 0% Like-for-like (2) Indicators for which a limited assurance has been delivered by Ernst &Young. The statutory auditor’s report is available on pages 56-57 and on the Group’s website: www.unibail-rodamco.com 36 KPI: ENERGY EFFICIENCY PER SQUARE METRE (kWh/m²/year) [GRI CRE1] Numerator: Energy Consumption KPI. Denominator: square metres (see Reporting Methodology part Reporting values page 30). Shopping centres(2) Ofﬁces Central Scope All assets Austria France Netherlands Nordics Spain Scope All assets Europe 2009 72/75 172 206 287 140 166 193 138 18/19 179 2010 77/77 177 201 284 139 184 200 141 16/17 166 2011 66/66 160 199 251 131 127 196 126 13/14 130 2011/2006 -17% 1% -14% -20% -11% -8% -29% -26% Like-for-like 2011/2010 65/66 -6% -5% -2% -8% -8% -1% -11% 13/14 -18% Like-for-like Energy mix low-carbon and renewable energies. In 2011, Unibail-Rodamco Unibail-Rodamco works to reduce the environmental impact of expanded its ‘green’ electricity purchasing policy to cover three the energy it consumes by purchasing low-carbon/renewable large shopping centres in Central Europe (Centrum Chodov, energy from suppliers and generating low-carbon/renewable Centrum Cerný Most and Galeria Mokotów). energy on-site. The energy mix is a key focus in regions which Some assets are equipped with systems to generate lowhave a carbon-intensive national energy infrastructure, such carbon or renewable energy. In Spain, for example, 20,300 m2 as Central Europe. of solar panels installed at nine assets produced renewable The Group’s policy of purchasing low-carbon energy from energy for re-sale to the national grid, and two shopping suppliers offers two key beneﬁts. Firstly, it reduces the carbon centres also have tri-generation systems. In France, there is intensity of the Group’s operations. Secondly, it encourages ongoing research into the use of geothermal energy for several suppliers to invest in ‘green’ power-generation technologies by new developments. contributing to the strong and growing market demand for KPI: CARBON WEIGHT OF ENERGY MIX (gCO2e/kWh) [GRI EN16] Numerator: CO2 Emissions KPI. Denominator: Energy Consumption KPI. Convention Shopping centres Ofﬁces & Exhibition Central Scope All assets Austria France Netherlands Nordics Spain Scope All assets Scope All assets Europe 2009 72/75 219 184 607 74 112 63 370 19/19 110 9/9 96 2010 77/77 235 123 637 75 138 60 306 17/17 110 10/10 102 2011 66/66 162 111 368 67 138 64 284 14/14 97 10/10 99 2011/2006 -41% -41% -45% -14% -76% -17% -23% -4% 12% Like-for-like 2011/2010 65/66 -26% -3% -42% -10% -7% -6% -7% 14/14 -12% 10/10 -3% Like-for-like (2) Indicators for which a limited assurance has been delivered by Ernst &Young. The statutory auditor’s report is available on pages 56-57 and on the Group’s website: www.unibail-rodamco.com Unibail-Rodamco / 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 37 KPI: DIRECT AND INDIRECT FINAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY PRIMARY ENERGY SOURCE (%) [GRI EN3, EN4] Direct energy refers to the primary source of energy which is purchased and consumed on site (e.g. gas). Indirect energy refers to energy which was generated by and purchased from a third-party in the form of electricity, heat or steam. Convention Shopping centres(2) Ofﬁces & Exhibition Central Nether2011 All assets Austria France Nordics Spain All assets All assets Europe lands Direct natural gas 12% 34% 0% 13% 52% 0% 10% 4% 17% Indirect natural gas 8% 12% 1% 5% 8% 0% 28% 17% 13% Fuel oil 2% 0% 0% 2% 0% 4% 3% 7% 3% Coal 15% 0% 58% 3% 0% 1% 20% 3% 2% Other fossil fuels 4% 0% 3% 0% 0% 24% 1% 0% 0% Nuclear 29% 0% 1% 66% 0% 17% 15% 60% 58% Sub-total: non-renewable 271,966,515 9,718,002 51,183,842 132,551,006 2,426,810 28,178,406 40,715,877 33,754,398 167,007,183 Hydo power 16% 48% 15% 6% 40% 8% 17% 6% 6% Wind power 1% 1% 6% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Biomass based interme6% 5% 13% 1% 0% 14% 0% 1% 0% diate energy Other renewable sources 7% 0% 2% 2% 0% 31% 7% 2% 2% Sub-total: renewable 142,489,691 44,257,549 28,936,175 17,769,253 11,622,899 32,376,159 14,720,228 3,443,255 16,776,328 Total ﬁnal energy 414,456,206 53,975,551 80,120,017 150,320,259 14,049,709 60,554,565 55,436,105 37,197,653 183,783,511 of which direct energy 51,085,313 18,175,641 0 20,083,931 7,250,135 0 5,575,606 1,319,149 30,751,352 of which indirect energy 363,370,893 35,799,910 80,120,017 130,236,328 6,799,574 60,554,565 49,860,499 35,878,504 153,032,159 Scope: 66 shopping centres out of 66; 14 ofﬁces out of 14; 10 Convention & Exhibition centres out of 10. KPI: RENEWABLE ENERGY PRODUCED AND CO2 EMISSIONS SAVED [GRI EN3, EN4] Energy output of 20,300 m2 of solar panels installed at 9 assets in Spain 2009 2010 2011 Renewable energy produced on site (kWh) 1,202,384 1,354,068 1,278,943 CO2 emissions saved (kgCO2e) 359,513 404,866 382,404 Transport assets are connected to public transport. Internal surveys show that almost 56% of customers walked, cycled or used public CO2 emissions from visitor transport significantly outweigh transport to visit the Group’s shopping centres in 2011. 51% the CO2 emissions generated by energy consumed by the of all of the Group’s shopping centres are linked to a bicycle asset itself. Buildings which are accessible mainly by car have lane. The ofﬁce portfolio is also particularly well-connected to a far higher indirect carbon footprint than those which are major transport hubs. well connected to public transport networks. Furthermore, the relative impact of visitor transport on overall CO2 emissions will The Group is promoting the use of electric vehicles by installing continue to rise as buildings become more energy efﬁcient. charging points in its shopping centres across Europe. In 2011 Unibail-Rodamco aims to limit transport-related CO2 emissions free recharging points for electrical vehicles were installed at associated with its activities. The Group focuses on assets that 14 Spanish shopping centres. 41 shopping centres across have central locations in major European cities and are easily Europe have now been equipped. accessed by sustainable modes of transport. All of the Group’s (2) Indicators for which a limited assurance has been delivered by Ernst &Young. The statutory auditor’s report is available on pages 56-57 and on the Group’s website: www.unibail-rodamco.com 38 KPI: SPLIT OF SHOPPING CENTRES’ VISITS BY MODE OF TRANSPORT (%) [GRI EN17] Visits split by mode of transport expressed in percentages. The split of transport modes is based on data collected for 2011. Shopping centres 2011 All assets Austria Central Europe France Netherlands Nordics Spain Public transport 35% 31% 44% 45% 17% 26% 17% Car/taxi 42% 60% 35% 33% 42% 48% 62% Foot/bicycle 21% 7% 20% 21% 38% 25% 18% Other (motorbike, etc.) 2% 2% 1% 2% 3% 1% 3% Scope: 60 shopping centres out of 66 Figures may not add up due to rounding. KPI: ACCESS TO PUBLIC TRANSPORT (%) [GRI EN29] Percentage of assets with excellent connection to public transport. Deﬁnition: – Assets located less than 200 metres from a public transport connection. – Assets that are served at least every 15 minutes during weekday ofﬁce hours. Convention Shopping centres Ofﬁces & Exhibition All Central All All 2011 Scope Austria France Netherlands Nordics Spain Scope Scope assets Europe assets assets Percentage of 65/66 94% 100% 100% 93% 80% 100% 93% 14/14 86% 10/10 90% assets located less than 200 metres from a public transport connection Percentage of 65/66 78% 100% 100% 77% 100% 33% 93% 14/14 100% 10/10 100% assets served at least every 15 minutes during weekday ofﬁce hours In 2011, Unibail-Rodamco collected CO2 emissions data relating to employees’ business trips made by air and by train in all regions. The Group has introduced an employee travel policy designed to reduce transport-related CO2 emissions. Employees are asked to travel by train whenever possible and to question whether a physical meeting is necessary. A Group compliance policy states that video and tele-conferences should be used whenever possible. Unibail-Rodamco has not introduced a target on travel-related emissions, as corporate travel is heavily inﬂuenced by business activities and can vary signiﬁcantly from year to year (acquisitions, divestments, meetings with international retailers, etc.). KPI: CO2 EMISSIONS FROM EMPLOYEES’ BUSINESS TRAVEL BY TRAIN AND PLANE (tonnes CO2e) [GRI EN29] The indicator is given both as an absolute value and as the ratio between CO2 emissions from business travel and the average number of employees in 2011. Data and methodology provided by referenced travel agencies. Headquarters Central 2011 Total Austria Netherlands Nordics Spain & France Europe Total emissions (tCO2e) 1,296 725 39 141 68 130 193 Ratio (kg CO2e/employee) 885 714 589 1,859 1,110 1,182 1,426 4. Resource use Materials Unibail-Rodamco’s resource use policy covers materials, water, An in-house materials policy ensures that materials are ﬁt for waste and biodiversity. In-house Environmental Management purpose, that opportunities to reuse existing materials and Systems for new developments and existing assets provide structures are systematically reviewed, and that materials with a clear, comprehensive guidelines on the use of resources. Thirdlow environmental impact and recycled products and materials party certiﬁcation systems and audits are used to validate are preferred. Materials must not exceed the European Union’s these guidelines and ensure that the standards they impose Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) thresholds. are respected. Unibail-Rodamco / 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 39 Maintainability exper ts check each of the Group’s maintain water quality. In particular, efforts are made to install development projects at the end of each design phase water-efﬁcient equipment, optimise operating practices, and (schematic design and detailed design) to ensure that ensure that leaks are detected and repaired rapidly. Run-off they achieve the highest levels of durability, maintainability, water collected from car parks is treated before being disposed accessibility and security. of through municipal networks. Closed-circuit systems are In line with BREEAM certification requirements, the Group’s being introduced to re-use water during the testing of sprinkler materials policy speciﬁes that 80% of wood used in development, equipment. Climate change impact assessments are helping extension and renovation projects must be responsibly sourced the Group to identify regions and assets that are particularly (i.e. from certiﬁed, managed forests with FSC or PEFC labels) and susceptible to water shortages in order to ﬁnd appropriate that 100% must be legally sourced. This policy is systematically solutions. speciﬁed in tender documents for construction projects and At existing assets, the Group relies on close cooperation with all contractors are asked to abide by its terms. The Group works tenants and customers to reduce water consumption. Green with large, reputable construction companies. leases, tenant sustainability committees, and dedicated water In-house project managers are asked to pay close attention surveys are all used to help raise awareness and assist with to this contractual requirement. Nevertheless, given the low water management. volumes involved and the nature of the products purchased, At new developments and during renovations and upgrades, it is not possible to monitor the weight, nor the origins of the efﬁciency is a determining factor in the choice of technical wood used in all projects. The Group aims to obtain postequipment (toilets, urinals, taps, sprinkler systems, cooling construction BREEAM certiﬁcation for projects assessed using systems, etc.). The Design Guidelines for new development, the BREEAM referential; certiﬁcation is in progress for a number renovation and extension projects provide clear steps on how of projects. As part of this certiﬁcation process, the sourcing of to achieve water efﬁciency. wood used during construction is veriﬁed and validated. Water savings in 2011 corresponds to 282,856 m3, water efﬁciency at managed shopping centres has been improved Water by 14% since 2006 on a like-for-like basis. In line with environmental best practice, the Group is taking active steps to cut water consumption, reduce wastage and KPI: WATER CONSUMPTION (m3) [GRI EN8] Water purchased for common and private use (restrooms, cleaning, heating & cooling systems, sprinkler systems, watering of green spaces, etc.). Water consumption in tenants’ premises is indicated in percentage when consumption can be estimated. Shopping centres Ofﬁces Central NetherScope All assets Austria France Nordics Spain Scope All assets Europe lands 2009 72/75 2,776,428 251,789 281,080 1,190,856 36,014 465,681 551,011 17/19 154,719 2010 76/77 3,150,838 244,567 548,643 1,177,730 30,930 462,822 686,149 16/17 209,859 2011 66/66 2,867,982 230,142 395,568 1,205,048 31,976 281,389 723,862 13/14 132,425 Of which 62% 71% 60% 58% 68% 65% estimated tenants’ consumption 2011/2006 -13% 4% -13% -13% -20% -27% -9% -17% Like-for-like 2011/2010 64/66 -1% -1% 1% 4% 3% -20% 4% 13/14 -30% Like-for-like KPI: TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE (%) [GRI EN8] In 2011, the shopping centres Vélizy 2 (France) and Donau Split by source of total water purchased and consumed in shopping Zentrum (Austria), respectively, collected on site 13,300 m3 of centres from the indicator Water consumption during the reporting year. rainwater and ground water reused for cleaning and green Shopping spaces watering. In 2011, 22 shopping centres across the 2011 Ofﬁces centres Group reused the water from the periodic regulatory sprinkler Municipal water supplies & other 99.5% 100% tests. utilities Rainwater collected 0.01% 0% Reused water (grey water, black 0% 0% water, treated waste water…) Others sources (surface water, 0.5% 0% ground water…) 40 KPI: WATER INTENSITY OF USE (litre/visit/year for shopping centres, m3/occupant/year for ofﬁces) [GRI CRE2] Numerator: Water Consumption KPI. Denominator: usage indicator per business activity (see Reporting Methodology part Reporting values page 30). Shopping centres Ofﬁces Central Scope All assets Austria France Netherlands Nordics Spain Scope All assets Europe 2009 71/75 4.29 5.47 5.12 3.77 0.79 7.25 7.25 17/19 6.01 2010 75/77 4.45 5.77 5.72 3.51 0.65 7.00 5.73 16/17 8.41 2011 65/66 4.40 5.81 5.23 3.62 0.79 6.51 6.51 13/14 6.03 2011/2006 -14% 15% -21% -15% -29% -21% -6% -17% Like-for-like 2011/2010 64/66 -1% -1% 1% 3% 4% -17% 4% 13/14 -30% Like-for-like KPI: WATER CONSUMPTION PER SQUARE METRE (litre/m2/year) [GRI CRE3] Numerator: Water Consumption KPI. Denominator: square metres (see Reporting Methodology part Reporting values page 30). Shopping centres Ofﬁces Central Scope All assets Austria Europe France Netherlands Nordics Spain Scope All assets 2010 63/77 1,080 859 1,199 985 856 1,138 1,308 16/17 739 2011 65/66 1,070 848 1,204 996 887 911 1,380 13/14 466 2011/2010 64/66 -1% -1% 1% 4% 4% -20% 4% 13/14 -30% Like-for-like Waste Unibail-Rodamco’s waste management responsibilities and UnibailRodamco’s waste management approach is reporting scopes may vary by region. In some assets, local designed to maximise recycling and minimise disposal to authorities are responsible for managing waste. The Group landﬁll. Tenants are regularly informed about on-site waste does not control the ﬁnal destination of waste produced at management local policy and process. Both supplier these assets. purchasing contracts and tenant green leases establish the The Group’s development projects are built in line with inminimum requirements for waste sorting and recycling that house Design Guidelines and BREEAM certiﬁcation, both of must be respected. Suitable waste segregation facilities are which require waste management plans and project-speciﬁc in place in all assets. reduction/reuse/recycling targets as standard practice. The The total volume of waste generated in a building, whatever UnibailRodamco Considerate Construction Charter sets its usage mainly relies on the level of activity of the tenants out the Group’s requirements and recommendations for i.e. sales for shopping centres and occupancy for offices optimising the environmental quality of its construction sites buildings. This means that the Group has a limited impact on with a view to creating a positive experience for the workforce, the total volume of waste generated on site. On the other hand, local communities, and the environment. It includes all the Group is committed on waste management efﬁciency applicable local regulations, sets waste valorisation targets measured through long-term objectives set for recycling and and is aligned with BREEAM requirements. Signature of the disposal route: Charter is a pre-requisite for companies signing construction ■ reduce the proportion of waste sent to landﬁll by 50% in 2016 contracts. It should be noted that Unibail-Rodamco works relative to 2009, with large, reputable construction ﬁ rms which also apply ■ obtain a waste recycling rate of at least 50% by 2016, their own certiﬁed waste management schemes. Demolition projects are relatively rare and are managed on a case-byIn 2011, 35% of waste was recycled and 17% was sent to landﬁll. case basis. Unibail-Rodamco / 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 41 KPI: TOTAL WASTE (tonnes) [GRI EN22] Total waste collected on site Shopping centres Central Scope All assets Austria France Netherlands Nordics Spain Europe 2009 66/75 49,165 4,594 4,744 21,877 1,327 5,773 10,849 2010 72/77 58,634 4,575 7,571 25,336 1,622 5,835 13,694 2011 64/66 55,042 3,904 5,685 25,750 777 3,984 14,943 KPI: PERCENTAGE OF WASTE RECYCLED (%) [GRI EN22] Tonnes of waste recycled divided by tonnes of waste collected Shopping centres Central Scope All assets Austria France Netherlands Nordics Spain Europe 2009 66/75 33% 53% 31% 25% 44% 61% 23% 2010 72/77 36% 53% 36% 30% 41% 50% 34% 2011 64/66 35% 58% 37% 25% 41% 58% 39% KPI: SPLIT OF NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE BY DISPOSAL ROUTE (tonnes) [GRI EN22] Tonnes of waste by disposal method Shopping centres Central 2011 All assets Austria France Netherlands Nordics Spain Europe Total non-hazardous waste (tonnes) 54,948 3,904 5,666 25,750 729 3,984 14,916 Recycling/Reuse/Composting 35% 58% 37% 25% 41% 60% 40% Incineration (including energy recovery) 24% 42% 0% 35% 61% 39% 5% Landﬁll (including methanisation) 30% 0% 62% 40% 0% 1% 19% Managed by local authority* 10% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 36% Other 0% 0% 1% 0% 0% 0% 0% Scope: 64 shopping centres out of 66. Figures may not add up due to rounding. * Information on how local authorities manage the waste they collect is not available. The ﬁnal disposal route of this waste can not be monitored and reported. KPI: SPLIT OF RECYCLED WASTE BY TYPE OF WASTE (tonnes) [GRI EN22] Shopping centres Central 2011 All assets Austria France Netherlands Nordics Spain Europe Cardboard 15,210 1,620 2,043 6,055 273 1,616 3,602 Paper 162 0 0 2 42 109 9 Plastics 800 154 26 73 2 21 524 Glass 447 219 2 36 2 53 136 Wood 532 59 0 53 0 0 420 Metals 196 86 0 12 0 85 13 Other recycled waste 1,423 124 4 227 0 391 677 Total recycled waste 18,770 2,263 2,076 6,457 319 2,275 5,380 Scope: 60 shopping centres out of 66. Figures may not add up due to rounding. 42 Biodiversity France, each asset undergoes an annual health and safety UnibailRodamco has developed a clear strategy and risk assessment process in order to secure compliancy with methodology for integrating biodiversity and ecology into all of applicable regulation and Group’s policy: corrective action its activities. The Group worked closely with a biodiversity expert plans are undertaken and tracked in case of discrepancy. to deﬁne and implement its approach to these important This assessment process will be extended to all other regions issues. during 2012. The Group Director of Property Maintenance, Purchasing & Sustainability, is responsible for overseeing its For all development projects involved in a BREEAM certiﬁcation implementation. process (i.e. projects over 10,000 m²), an ecologist forms part of the design team. The ecologist advises the architects and designers on the most appropriate species to choose for the KPI: FINES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL BREACHES [GRI EN28] development, taking into account their relevance to local Annual monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number habitats and their potential to create a positive ecological of non monetary sanctions for non compliance with impact by enhancing and/or conserving local fauna and environmental laws and regulations. ﬂora. For all other development projects, the site is analysed to estimate its potential and ensure that all opportunities to 2010 2011 foster biodiversity are exploited. An impact assessment, which Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes (€) 0 0 includes an environmental/biodiversity component, is a preTotal number of non monetary sanctions 0 0 requisite for obtaining a building permit and commercial planning permission in France. A public consultation is also carried out as part of this process. An equally pragmatic approach is taken to biodiversity and IV. STAKEHOLDERS ecology at existing assets, even though the very dense urban The Group’s economic success is founded on the strength locations of most assets severely limit the potential to enhance of its relationships with stakeholders: tenants, customers, biodiversity. As a result, Unibail-Rodamco’s main focus is on investors, local communities, suppliers and contractors, creating ‘green’ spaces, such as green roofs and green walls, and employees. The need to develop and operate assets and carefully selecting the plant species used. The Group that meet stakeholders’ expectations in terms of shopping undertakes a biodiversity study prior to major renovations or experience, ﬁnancial return and environmental performance investments. Gap analysis methodology is used to measure the is central to the Group’s strategy. These areas are embedded site’s ecological potential against its initial status. in the Group’s operating structure and product development process, are regularly discussed at Supervisory Board and Health & safety and environmental risks Management Board level, and are subject to careful analysis Unibail-Rodamco takes the health and safety of its employees, and monitoring. Relevant tools have been developed to customers, tenants, suppliers, contractors and local communities identify and respond to the expectations of each stakeholder very seriously. The Group complies with all applicable health community and communicate this information to top and safety legislation as a matter of course and often exceeds managers and on-site operational teams. minimum requirements to ensure a higher standard of service and safety in its assets. On-site teams are trained in ﬁrst aid techniques and maintain close relationships with local 1. Customers emergency services (ﬁre brigade, paramedics and police). The quality of the customer experience is central to the Deﬁbrillators have been made available for security staff and economic sustainability of Unibail-Rodamco’s business as have been installed in all shopping centres across Europe. it attracts visitors and encourages loyalty. It is the result of The Group has drawn-up an extensive, comprehensive in-house intensive work in subjects as diverse as leasing, maintenance, risk management policy to ensure that risks are mitigated and health and safety, marketing and customer research. The Group managed. The main subjects covered by this risk management continuously improves the Welcome Attitude, its customer process are air quality, water quality, asbestos, ground and air service strategy for retail assets. Facebook sites and websites for pollution, legionella, electromagnetic radiation, and technical individual shopping centres contribute to the Group’s ongoing equipment such as lifts and escalators. The risk management dialogue and loyalty with its customers. process also provides a framework for responding to Customer satisfaction surveys were conducted in 53 assets in exceptional risks and crises. Unibail-Rodamco’s due diligence 2011. The average score across the Group was 7.7/10. As a process for acquisition includes a complete audit of technical, new survey methodology was used by the Group’s marketing regulatory, environmental, and health and safety procedures teams in 2011, the scores obtained in 2010 and 2011 are not and risks, including soil pollution and climate change. comparable. Internal quality audits were used to assess 240 In 2011, an independent, third-party health and safety inspector services and comfort criteria. These audits help to ensure that was appointed in each country where the Group operates. In the Group’s assets maintain their prime position on the market. Unibail-Rodamco / 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 43 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011(2) Average score in internal 86% 82% Number of ‘green’ leases 42 1,180 1,434 quality audit signed Number of ‘green’ leases 2% 79% 85.3% as a percentage of all new The score decrease represents a change in the methodology ofﬁce/retail leases (including realised to increase the comprehensiveness of the answers renewals) and improve the quality of the audit. Many of the Group’s shopping centres organise events and 3. Suppliers and contractors communication campaigns to promote environmentallyresponsible behaviour among their customers and highlight Unibail-Rodamco works with a large network of third-party the asset’s environmental performance and objectives. suppliers and contractors. They provide the Group with different services such as legal advice, architectural design and operational services related to site’s exploitation. At 2. Tenants present, suppliers are mainly selected according to technical and ﬁnancial criteria, but the Group is working to incorporate Strong, mutually beneficial relationships with tenants structural sustainability criteria into its selection process. are fundamental to the Group’s longterm success and The Group’s social and economic relationships with its suppliers sustainability. Unibail-Rodamco devotes considerable energy are governed by internal rules and compliance regulations to attracting top-ﬂight retailers and supporting their national as well as by strict local and national laws and regulations. and international expansion via its extensive network of Internal compliance rules state that the suppliers of all goods well-located, prime shopping centres. Annual “retailer open and services must be selected equitably on the basis of house” events are held in all regions to present the Group’s objective, comparable criteria and, when relevant, according portfolio of existing assets and new developments to current to procedures applying to invitations to tender. and potential tenants. The Group is also committed to leasing To encourage existing suppliers and contractors to adopt space and providing support to entrepreneurs and smaller sustainable operating practices and use environmentally national and local retailers. The Group regularly conducts sustainable materials, Unibail-Rodamco is communicating with tenant satisfaction surveys, holds one-on-one meetings with key suppliers about its environmental and social objectives tenants, and participates in retail industry round tables and and asking them to share their sustainability policies and conferences. The annual UnibailRodamco management practices. Service providers in existing assets, primarily cleaning, convention features a keynote address by a major retail facilities management and security agencies, are also being partner. asked to sign a contract addendum. The addendum covers Tenants are the Group’s most important partner when it comes a range of issues, including energy efﬁciency, waste, the use to reducing the global environmental footprint of its assets. of environmentally-sound products and materials, and social A proactive green lease policy, launched in late 2009 and and ethical behaviour (notably an engagement to comply founded on dialogue, information and the sharing of best with International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions and practices, is encouraging tenants to play an active role in on-site local labour laws and regulations). In 2011 a yearly assessment environmental management. As well as contributing to lower has been performed for 191 key maintenance, cleaning and common and private service charges, these efforts are helping security suppliers in 67 shopping centres and convention all parties to prepare for a tougher regulatory environment in & exhibition to assess their compliance with environmental the future. In addition to the tenants’ associations which are clauses, management and service quality. active in most assets, tenant-landlord sustainability committees The Group is present in European Union countries where social have now been set up in 43% of managed shopping centres and labour standards are clearly regulated. It checks that in 2011. its suppliers provide all documentation required by law. The corporate audit team regularly performs audits of purchasing All of the new leases and renewals signed with retail and contracts to ensure that suppliers respect their contractual ofﬁce tenants contain environmental clauses. These ‘green’ obligations. During calls to tender, companies are asked to leases cover the issues that are most relevant to improving provide a detailed description of their social policy. environmental awareness and performance among tenants, such as the sharing of energy consumption data, speciﬁcations for fitout projects, and measures for saving energy and 4. Investors and shareholders water and sorting waste. 1,434 of these ‘green’ leases, which regardless of the size of surface leased, were signed in 2011. Unibail-Rodamco is listed on a number of prestigious SRI indexes In two years 32% of Group’s active leases include ‘green lease’ (see pages 26-27 for details). The Group shares its sustainability clauses. strategy and achievements with investors at dedicated sessions. (2) Indicators for which a limited assurance has been delivered by Ernst &Young. The statutory auditor’s report is available on pages 56-57 and on the Group’s website: www.unibail-rodamco.com 44 In 2011, sustainability sessions were held with 91% of the top contributed €1,170,523, corporate donations totalled €549,850 50% of investors by value, in Paris, Amsterdam and London. and the Grand Prix des Jeunes Créateurs, to which the Group These meetings also enable Unibail-Rodamco to learn more donated €1,350,000. about its investors’ vision of sustainability in the real estate The principal evolution between 2010 and 2011, is the end sector and to improve its yearly notations in the different SRI of artist Alexander Calder’s tour across the Group’s shopping indexes. centres and the Centre Pompidou modern art museum in Paris. Unibail-Rodamco participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project This unique, one-off event contributed to an exceptional year and is a signatory of the UN Global Compact. in 2010, raising €3.75m in cash and kind. In 2011, more than 330 local charity fundraising and awareness events were held in the Group’s shopping centres. The Group 5. Communities and local authorities collaborated with a wide spectrum of partners for these UnibailRodamco plays an important social role in the charitable events, including UNICEF, La Croix Rouge and les community. The Group’s activities generate economic Restos du Coeur. growth through employees’ salaries, payments to suppliers and infrastructure investments, and contribute directly and Entrepreneurship indirectly to job creation and urban renewal. To ensure that The Grand Prize for Young Retail Entrepreneurs is an action its investments, developments and operations benefit the that aims to harness the creativity of tomorrow’s retail stars by communities where it is present and reﬂect their needs and providing them with the ﬁnancial and logistical support they expectations, the Group works to build and maintain strong need to start their business. It is the most signiﬁcant action relationships with local residents and public authorities. supporting the creation of new business in France, distributing Extensive public consultations are held for all development prizes of a value of €1.35 million to the three winners. Unibailand extension projects. Rodamco provides the winners with the retail space in one of The Group’s shopping centres provide opportunities to socialise, the its shopping centres, as well as the ﬁrst 6 months of rent to relax and be entertained as well as an extensive, high-quality relieve the entrepreneurs of some of the stress that is involved retail offering. In addition to commercial leisure offerings which in starting a new commercial venture. range from pony clubs to cinemas, all assets regularly organise VIPARIS, the Group’s convention and exhibition division, free events, such as fashion shows and concerts. Shopping encourages entrepreneurship and innovative thinking in its centre managers are committed to develop many local sector by organising Expocréa. In 2011, the main prize winner was initiatives with associations involved in cultural, charitable and ‘The Funerary Fair’, an unusual event which provided visitors with environmental domains. information and insights into the psychological, philosophical, Unibail-Rodamco works hard to ensure its assets are welcoming spiritual and practical aspects of death and dying. Paris Games and accessible to all members of the community. Special Week, the 2010 winner, enjoyed a hugely successful second provisions are made for customers with reduced mobility and edition where visitor numbers increased by 40%. physical and sensory disabilities, as well as for elderly customers and the parents of small children. In France, for example, the Educational Group is building a close partnership with the UNAPEI, a charitable Inspired by the construction of the Majunga tower in La association that works on behalf of people with mental disabilities. Défense, which is due to be completed in 2012, The Group During 2012, shopping centre staff who work with the public (retail further reafﬁrmed its support for education, by partnering with employees, security staff, cleaning contractors, etc.) will receive the associations Ecoles du Monde and Enfants de Majunga, training in welcoming customers with mental disabilities and to completely fund a school in Majunga, Madagascar. A accommodating their needs. These centres will then display fundraising event was organised in the Group’s headquarter, the ‘S3A’ label as a permanent sign of their commitment to the where employees contributed to the school’s funding. 700,000 people in France who are affected by mental disability and their families. Each centre will also hold a public event every Social year to raise awareness of mental disability. The Group continued to support its partnership with Ecole de la Deuxième Chance (E2C, School of the Second Chance), which provides 18-25 year olds, who have little or no qualiﬁcations, V. CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY with the training and support they require to access further education or employment. In 2011, 191 students found work Unibail-Rodamco continued to pledge its support to good in this way. causes in 2011. A total of €3,070,373, in cash and in kind, In this respect, new projects, involving UR employees were was donated to support various educational, cultural, launched, in particular with Les Enfants de Majunga. Unibailentrepreneurial and social initiatives. The donations originate Rodamco aims to contribute to the ﬁnancing of associations from three sources; shopping centres and regional initiatives and activities that maintain a strong bond with its own real estate development projects. Unibail-Rodamco / 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 45 VI. HUMAN RESOURCES In 2011, a “women’s network” was created to deﬁne actions for gender Diversity and Equality. Unibail-Rodamco aims to offer a working environment that In France, Unibail-Rodamco is a signatory of the Diversity and promotes equality and diversity, and provide its employees with Disability Workplace Charters. The Group aims to ensure that the skills and opportunities they require to build exciting and the standards set out in these charters are respected across rewarding careers. Recruitment and human resources policies all its regions and create a workplace which is free from are designed to attract and retain the best talents on the market. discrimination on any basis whether it is age, gender, disability or ethnic origin; and promotes diversity and equality. 1. Reporting methodology KPI: Employment by country: sum of the headcount on the last day of each month in the year in each region divided by 12 Throughout the year, Unibail-Rodamco uses a set of Key Performance Indicators (KPI’s) to track and analyse key data Average headcount % in the Company to support the implementation of the Group’s Austria 67 5 Human Resources policies. Czech Republic 35 2 Denmark 10 1 Description of Human Resources Key Performance France* 1,015 69 Indicators Netherlands 61 4 Human Resources KPI’s are based on precise common Poland 41 3 referentials for all regions which were set up and implemented Spain 135 9 at the Group level in 2011. Many of these Human Resources Sweden 100 7 indicators are outlined in the different tables below and Total 1,464(2) 100 preceded by a short deﬁnition. * This ﬁgure includes 100% of VIPARIS employees (399). Reporting scope Unibail-Rodamco’s social reporting is based on data from all KPI: Employment by activity: sum of the headcount on the last day of each month in the year in each activity divided by 12 the regions where the Group operates and across its three types of assets; Shopping Centers, Ofﬁces and Convention/ Average headcount Exhibitions (excluding Comexposium) at December 31, 2011. Ofﬁces 16 Shopping Centres 550 Reporting period Convention & Exhibition* 399 Each region controls, collects and consolidates quarterly Development** 85 data related to their area as part of a common database Shared Services 230 accessible by the Corporate Human Resources teams. In 2011, Headquarters 184 a Human Resources IT data reporting program, was enhanced Total 1,464 to ensure even greater accuracy of data and operations. In * These ﬁgures include 100% of VIPARIS employees. 2012, a new system will be gradually introduced in other key ** Ofﬁces and Shopping centre development. regions to further improve the automation and production of Human Resources data at the Group level. KPI: Employment by age: workforce at 31st December 2010 2011 2. Employment and diversity < 30 years old 21.7% 24.2% 30 50 years old 62.1% 60.0% In 2011, average headcount for the Group was 1,464 employees. > 50 years old 16.2% 15.8% The Group has a positive track record for gender and age diversity: the workforce is split almost equally between men and women and the age pyramid is well balanced. Job candidates KPI: Employment by gender: workforce at 31st December are asked to submit anonymous CVs to ensure that academic 2010 2011 proﬁle and proven achievements are the sole criteria for selection. Women 49.1% 49.2% The Group participates in the voluntary, non-proﬁt BoardWomen Men 50.9% 50.8% Partners programme, which aims to improve the corporate governance of European listed companies by increasing the number of women present on their supervisory boards. 3. Career management According to an October 2011 survey carried out by Challenges A job grading system, deployed in 2010, provides a common, (a leading French business magazine), Unibail-Rodamco consistent and transparent language, and visibility, for careers ranked 4th among the CAC 40 companies as “Best Employer for and mobility across the Group. Employees receive regular support Women”, with 36% of management positions held by women(2). and advice on career development. Employees meet with their 41% of all cadres* and engineers in France are women. * Junior, middle and senior management positions. (2) Indicators for which a limited assurance has been delivered by Ernst &Young. The statutory auditor’s report is available on pages 56-57 and on the Group’s website: www.unibail-rodamco.com 46 manager at least once a year to discuss their performance KPI: Training: sum of all the hours of training attended by Employees with permanent and ﬁxed term contracts objectives and career progression, to review their achievements and identify possible training needs. A 360° feedback review 2010 2011(2) process, which is hierarchical, peer-to-peer and upward, is held Total number of hours provided 30,332 26,083 annually to provide employees with comprehensive feedback on Average number of hours per employee* 20.3 18.0 their strengths and scope for development. 100% of employees * Based on effective headcount at the end of the year. are reviewed in the Group’s Talent Committees each year. In 2011, for the ﬁrst time the entire Talent Review process was conducted via an IT Portal for all Regions. 5. Employee movements Internal mobility between core disciplines is strongly The Group recruits ‘the bestinclass’ talent from leading promoted. This approach provides employees with an inbusiness and engineering schools across Europe. In 2011, depth understanding of the technical processes and business the Group recruited 37 young graduates into the European priorities at different stages in the lifecycle of the Group’s assets, Graduate Programme (EGP) across all it’s Regions. A total of and also helps to build networks and share best practices 55 people – from 14 different nationalities – participated in the between the different regions. In 2011, 26 people worked program during this year. In 2011, Unibail-Rodamco was named abroad on an international mobility assignment. During the the n°1 company in France for the “High level of responsibility year, 148 employees made a lateral geographical career shift offered to recently-hired young graduates” by Universum, one within the Group and 155 employees were promoted. of the largest surveyors of young graduates. An internal survey was also conducted for the EGP’s second year running and yielded very positive results. 4. Training An exit interview is systematically conducted when there is a Unibail-Rodamco’s training and mobility policies are designed to departure. Employee turnover, as measured by the number ensure that employees have the skills and conﬁdence required of resignations, dismissals, mutual agreements, retirements to make sound decisions in complex situations that involve and departures during probationary periods over effective large assets and important sums of money. Targeted training is headcount at the end of 2011, stood at 18.6% in 2011 (versus backed by on-the-job experience and mentoring to accelerate 18.2% in 2010 on the same basis). skills acquisition for new recruits, enable career progression and KPI: Recruitment: all new comers (excluding internships) who support transitions to new positions, functions and/or countries. joined Unibail-Rodamco in 2011 General business and management skills are taught via a 2010 2011* combination of internal and external experts, and is delivered Permanent contracts 163 244 through the Unibail-Rodamco Academy. In 2011, a speciﬁc Fixed-term contracts 58 70 focus was put on Leadership and Management training for the Apprenticeships* 7 6 110 Top Managers across the Group. This training focused on Total 228 320 the Group’s management principles and on practical training * Excluding internships (35 in 2011). in the areas of performance management and feedback, team development and speed of execution. KPI: Departures: all departures (excluding internships) who left The main actions were the 4 Star policy trainings across the Unibail-Rodamco in 2011 Group and, in France, sessions on the prevention of psychoReasons for departures in 2011 Departures % social risks and legal training for experts and operational Resignation 144 39.3% people. The contents of this extensive professional training Dismissal 33 9% syllabus are regularly reviewed and updated. Mutual Agreement 82 22.4% Representatives from all regions participated in a sustainability Retirement 6 1.7% seminar and training course in Paris. Training sessions were held Departure during probationary 23 6.3% period in the Group’s Paris headquarters on environmental design Expiry of temporary contract 59 16.1% guidelines, BREEAM assessment and ethical business behaviour Outsourcing 19 5.2% for corporate development. Additional sessions on sustainability Death 0 0% awareness policy were proposed for local teams in all regions, Total 366 100% excluding France. An e-learning course on the Code of Ethics was delivered to more than 900 employees across the Group to ensure that employees in all regions understand how the Code 6. Employee Well-being should be applied during day-to-day business operations. In 2011, a Group-wide employee Health and Safety policy was developed to promote a safe working environment and reinforce the fact that the excellence in the management of health and safety in the workplace is an essential element of Unibail-Rodamco’s overall business strategy. (2) Indicators for which a limited assurance has been delivered by Ernst &Young. The statutory auditor’s report is available on pages 56-57 and on the Group’s website: www.unibail-rodamco.com Unibail-Rodamco / 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 47 In order to support this policy, Unibail-Rodamco is committed to: KPI: Absenteeism 1. Reporting all injuries and work-related illnesses N° of incidents Ratio Injuries 25 1.7% 2. Identifying and preventing of hazards in the workplace Work-related fatalities 0 0% 3. Preventing the recurrence of all major incidents N° of days Ratio 4. Providing information and training to avoid hazards Lost days for injuries 1,018 0.3% 5. Ensuring excellence in employee health and well-being Lost days for sick leave 10,677 2.8% Other paid absence days 903 0.2% 6. Promoting effective Management Practices (excluding vacation) The Group also develops regular efforts to foster employee Other unpaid absence days 4,025 1.1% health and well-being such as, for instance, Christmas parties, Total 16,623 4.4% an annual football tournament, total or partial reimbursement for health club memberships for employees in most countries, In 2011, maternity/paternity leaves represented 7,938 working fresh fruit distribution free of charge to all employees, and days (2.1% of total working days). ergonomic assessments by a trained consultant for several Employees by contract type 2010 2011 countries. Permanent contract 96.8% 97.1% Unibail-Rodamco entities have undertaken various initiatives Fixed-term contract 3.2% 2.9% to organise statutory working time. These measures take into account the speciﬁc operating requirements of each Employees by contracted hours 2010 2011 site and business line within the Group. The most common Full-time contract 94.7% 95.3% arrangements adopted are as follows: Part-time contract* 5.3% 4.7% ■ a ﬁxed annual number of working days for executives, * Corresponding to between 40% and 90% of a full-time activity rate. ■ a shorter working week and extra leave days in other cases, ■ an annual number of working hours and yearly adjustment for certain employee categories (mainly VIPARIS). 7. Remuneration In addition, a certain number of employees work part-time or fewer ﬁxed days per year, corresponding to a range between Unibail-Rodamco works to ensure that there is no difference 40% and 90% of a full-time activity rate. between the remuneration of men and women who do the same job and have similar responsibilities. All young graduates In 2011, sickness absences totalled 10,677 working days in a given country are recruited at the same base salary, (2.8% of total working days) and lost days for injuries and regardless of gender or age. Remuneration policy is designed occupational diseases represented 903 days (0.2%). to encourage individual achievement and support the long■ Absenteeism and departures are closely tracked in each term growth of the Group. On a like-for-like headcount basis, region and data is regularly reported back to management. total salaries increased by an average of 3.9% in 2011. ■ The causes of work-related injuries are studied, and measures are taken to reduce the likelihood that they will reoccur. Comparison of remuneration (in euros) for Women Men similar positions across the Group in 2011* % per Average gross % per Average gross category monthly salary** category monthly salary** Accountants 77% 2,972 23% 3,157 Analysts*** 47% 3,484 53% 3,556 Assistants 95% 2,836 5% 2,662 Controllers 33% 5,692 67% 5,080 Development/Investment 35% 5,582 65% 5,558 IT managers & project heads 25% 5,495 75% 5,761 Leasing 63% 5,157 37% 5,689 Legal managers 81% 4,588 19% 4,709 Marketing managers (shopping centres) 89% 3,546 11% 3,840 Operating managers 44% 5,875 56% 5,638 Property Maintenance & Purchasing (PMP) 13% 3,514 87% 3,886 Shopping centre managers 40% 5,710 60% 5,409 * Positions composed of more than 12 staff in the Group, excluding VIPARIS. ** Average gross monthly salary equals annual ﬁxed salary plus individual bonus divided by twelve. *** “Analyst” category encompasses all employees graded “Analyst” in the job grading system. 48 8. Employee relations Total remuneration* 2009 2010 2011 Annual increase in average 2.5% 4.1% 3.9% Unibail-Rodamco works closely with employee representative salary, including bonus bodies in compliance with the local labour laws of the various European countries where the Group is present. The Group * Based on like-for-like headcount. chose to become a European Company in April 2009. As part of this transformation, a European Employees’ Committee Variable remuneration 2009 2010 2011 (EEC) was created. Each European country within the Group Received an individual 65.0% 64.1% 65.7% is entitled to have at least one representative on the EEC. merit-based bonus In addition, the Group conducted social relations meetings Received stock options 18.0% 18.6% 19.8% in the regions with representative employee Committees and Unions on various subjects (almost 150 meetings in 2011 In 2011, 779,950 options were granted to 19.8% of total across the Group). employees and MB members at no discount to the share price at the time of allocation. On December 31, 2011, 90% of employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. These options were all subject to conditions based on UnibailRodamco’s share price performance compared with that of Labour relations 2010 2011 the EPRA Euro zone index, which is a benchmark for the sector’s Employees covered by collective 90% 90% performance. bargaining agreements In 2011, the Group supported the voluntary saving contribution Finally, Unibail-Rodamco abides by the labor standards as of its staff by making a total employer contribution of 331k€. outlined by the International Labour Organisation. On Decembre 31st, 2011, more than 76% of eligible employees (excluding Viparis) were shareholders of Unibail-Rodamco through the Group’s Saving Plan. In France, employees this year received an exceptional bonus which reached up to €600 per employee as part of the French law on the distribution of dividends. The approach taken was to award the highest bonuses to people with lower salaries. The Group further introduced in 2011 a new KPI based compensation system to its leasing managers. In 2011, the variable compensation scheme of the Group’s Regional Managing Directors encompasses achievements in the area of sustainability. Unibail-Rodamco / 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 49 9. Organisational structure Guillaume Poitrinal Chairman of the Management Board Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Christophe Cuvillier Michel Dessolain Catherine Pourre Peter van Rossum Jaap Tonckens Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Management Board Management Board Management Board Management Board Management Board Chief Operating Ofﬁcer Chief Strategy Ofﬁcer Chief Resources Ofﬁcer(1) Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Chief Investment Ofﬁcer(2) Olivier Bossard Andrew Farnsworth Fabrice Mouchel David Zeitoun Group Managing Group Director of Human Deputy Chief Financial Group Director Director of Resources Ofﬁcer of Legal Development Olivier Coutin Jean-Jacques Lefebvre Arnaud Burlin Managing Director Managing Director Major Managing Director Nordic Construction Projects Central Europe Countries Renaud Hamaide Jean-Marc Jestin Managing Director Managing Director Convention & Ofﬁces France Exhibition France Simon Orchard Markus Pichler Managing Director Managing Director Spain Austria ■ Members of the Management Board ■ Members of the Management Team Jean-Marie Tritant John van Haaren Managing Director Retail Managing Director France The Netherlands (1) In charge of Human Resources, Information Technology, Organisation and Sustainability. (2) In charge of Legal and Investment Functions. Elizabeth Mathieu Managing Director New Markets 50 VII. GRI & EPRA CONTENT INDEX 1. Economic 1.1. Economic performance GRI G3.1 CRESS UNIBAIL-RODAMCO Page Performance indicators Key performance indicators number EC1: Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating Narrative on Corporate philanthropy 44, 46, costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained KPI: Recruitment 47-48 earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. KPI: Remuneration Revenues and Employee remuneration and beneﬁts in 206-209* Consolidated Financial Statements section IN RADD 2011 EC2: Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s Narrative on Climate change 32 activities due to climate change and other sustainability a risks. 2. Environment 2.1. Energy GRI G3.1 CRESS EPRA UNIBAIL-RODAMCO Page Performance indicators Sustainability Performance Key performance indicators number Measures EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy Total energy consumption from KPI: Energy consumption (kWh) 35, 37 source. fuels (kWh) KPI: Direct and indirect ﬁnal energy consumption by EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Total energy consumption from primary energy source (%) electricity (kWh) KPI: Renewable energy produced and CO2 emissions Total energy consumption from saved district heating and cooling (kWh) CRE1 Building energy intensity. Building energy intensity per KPI: Energy efﬁciency (kWh/visit/year for shopping 35-36 person (kWh/person/year) centres, kWh/occupant/year for ofﬁces, kWh/m2DOP/ Building energy intensity per m2 year for convention & exhibitions) (kWh/m2/year) KPI: Energy consumption per square metre (kWh/m²/ year) EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efﬁciency Year-on-year Like-for-like KPI: Energy consumption (kWh) 35 improvements. comparison KPI: Financial savings resulting from reduced energy consumption (€) EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efﬁcient or renewable Narrative information 34 energy based products and services, and reductions in / energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Narrative on Energy consumption 34-35 / reductions achieved. KPI: Energy consumption (kWh) 2.2. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Total water withdrawal by KPI: Water consumption (m3) 39 source (m3) KPI: Total water withdrawal by source (%) EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and Narrative on Water 39 reused. CRE2 Building water intensity. Building water intensity KPI: Water intensity (litre/visit/year for shopping centres, 40 (litres/person/day) m3/occupant/year for ofﬁces) Building water intensity KPI: Water consumption per m2 (litre/m2/year) (m3/m2/year) 2.3. Biodiversity EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Narrative on Biodiversity 42 / managing impacts on biodiversity. 2.4. GHG emissions, efﬂuents & waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Total direct greenhouse gas KPI: CO2 emissions (kgCO2e) 33, 36 by weight. (GHG) emissions (tonnes CO2e) KPI: Carbon weight of energy mix (gCO2e/kWh) Total indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (tonnes CO2e) EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions KPI: Split of shopping centres’ visits by mode of transport 38 / by weight. (%) CRE3 Greenhouse gas intensity from buildings. Greenhouse gas intensity from KPI: Carbon intensity (gCO2e/visit/year for shopping 33 building energy (kgCO2e/ centres, kgCO2e/occupant/year for ofﬁces, gCO2e/ person/year) m2DOP/year for convention & exhibitions) Greenhouse gas intensity from KPI: Carbon intensity per square metre building energy (kgCO2e/m2/ (kgCO2e/m²/year) year) EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Narrative on CO2 emissions 32-33 / reductions achieved. KPI: CO2 emissions (kgCO2e) * Refer to these pages in the 2011 Annual and Sustainable Development Report. Unibail-Rodamco / 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 51 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Total weight of waste by KPI: Total waste (tonnes) 41 disposal route (tonnes) KPI: Percentage of waste recycled (%) Proportion of waste by KPI: Split of non-hazardous waste by disposal route disposal route (%) (tonnes) KPI: Split of recycled waste by type of waste (tonnes) 2.5. Products and services EN26 Initiatives to enhance efﬁciency and mitigate Narrative information 28-29, environmental impacts of products and services, and / 32, 34, extent of impact mitigation. 42 2.6. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number KPI: Fines for environmental breaches 42 of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with / environmental laws and regulations. 2.7. Transport EN29 Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting KPI: Access to public transport (%). 37-38 products and other goods and materials used for the KPI: CO2 emissions from employees’ business travel by train / organization’s operations, and transporting members of the and plane (tonnes CO2e) workforce. 3. Labor practices and decent work 3.1. Employment GRI G3.1 CRESS UNIBAIL-RODAMCO Page Performance indicators Key performance indicators number LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, KPI: Recruitment 46 gender, and region. Employee turnover LA3 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or partNarrative on Remuneration 47-48 time employees, by major operations. 3.2. Occupational health and safety LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of KPI: Absenteeism 47 work-related fatalities by region and by gender. CRE6 Percentage of the organisation operating in veriﬁed compliance with an Narrative on Health & Safety 42 internationally recognised health and safety management system. 3.3. Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. KPI: Training 46 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development Narrative on Career Management 45-46 reviews, by gender. 3.4. Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee KPI: Employment by country 45 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other KPI: Employment by activity indicators of diversity. KPI: Employment by age KPI: Employment by gender % of women in management position Composition of the Management Board in Legal 226-229* information section IN RADD 2011 LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by KPI: Comparison of remuneration between women and 47 signiﬁcant locations of operation. men for similar positions across the Group in 2011 4. Society 4.1 Society SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact Narrative on Communities and local authorities 44 assessments, and development programs. 4.2. Corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. Narrative on Ethical conduct 27 5. Product responsibility 5.1. Products and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of Narrative on Materials 38-39 signiﬁcant products and services subject to such information requirements. CRE8 Type and number of sustainability certiﬁcation, rating and labelling schemes for new Environmental certiﬁcation achievements 29 construction, management, occupation and redevelopment. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring Narrative on Customer satisfaction 42-43 customer satisfaction. 52 VIII. 2011 ACHIEVEMENTS & 2012 OBJECTIVES 2011 ACHIEVEMENTS Status / Scope(1) target Comment date Environmental Management Systems Existing assets Obtain an external assessment of the UnibailR/O/C ; External assessments of the Group’s EMS have been Rodamco ‘Sustainable Attitude’ environmental performed by third-party for Czech Republic, Austria management system in each region(3) and Sweden regions, in addition to France. New Achieve a BREEAM rating of ‘Very Good’ for all new R/O Ongoing 100% of major projects that were in progress in 2011 developments developments of more than 10,000 m² (3) target underwent BREEAM assessment. Conduct training sessions for the development teams R/O ● Dedicated training sessions have been held for in each region on the use of the updated Design regional development team in all regions. Guidelines Formalise the terms of the Group’s ‘Considerate R ● The terms of the ‘Group’s considerate construction Construction Charter’ to reduce the social and charter’ has been formalised. The master charter will environmental impacts of construction (e.g. noise, be implemented in each region in 2012. dust, trafﬁc) for all new development projects Stakeholder involvement Tenants Increase the response rate of the tenant satisfaction R k Tenant satisfaction survey response rate increased survey to 50% from 14% in 2010 to 37% in 2011. Ensure that at least 85% of new retail and ofﬁce R/O ● In 2011 1,434 green leases were signed across the tenants sign a green lease (3) Group which represent 32% of total active leases Set up sustainability committees in each ‘jumbo’ R ; Sustainability committees are in place at 43% of shopping centre managed Energetic shopping centres. Suppliers and Assess suppliers’ compliance with environmental R ● In 2011, 191 assessments of key maintenance contractors clauses at each ‘jumbo’ shopping centre (target cleaning and security suppliers were performed in relates to security, cleaning and maintenance 67 shopping centres and convention & exhibition. contracts)(3) Customers Develop a communication strategy to highlight assetR ● Corporate framework has been developed to speciﬁc sustainability or disability initiatives at 10 highlight social and environmental initiatives for each ‘jumbo’ shopping centres managed shopping centre. Increase the average score in the internal quality R Target: Quality audit score evolved from 86 in 2010 to 82 in audit by 25% between 2009 and 2012 2012 2011. The score decrease represents a change in the methodology realised to increase the exhaustivity of the answers and straighten the quality of the audit. Increase the average score in the customer R ; Customer satisfaction score increased from 7.5 in 2010 satisfaction survey from 7.5/10 in 2010 to 8/10 in 2011 to 7.7 in 2011, but stayed below annual target. Shareholders Combine the CSR and the Annual Report to provide G ● 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report has been and investors a coherent overview of the Group’s ﬁnancial, social combined in 2010 Annual Report. and environmental performance for the investment community and other stakeholders Organise meetings on corporate governance with 5 G ● Meetings on corporate governance organised with of the Group’s top 10 investors APG, Amundi Asset Management, BNP Paribas IPN, ING Clarion RE securities and PGGM in Paris, London and Amsterdam. Cover at least 90% of the top 50% of investors by G ● Meetings held with 91% of the top 50% investors by value in meetings with management value. Communities Cooperate with local authorities to launch speciﬁc R ● Sustainability initiatives organised in cooperation with and local sustainability initiatives for at least 10 ‘jumbo’ local authorities at Carré Sénart, Docks 76, Vélizy 2, authorities shopping centres, including at least 1 asset per SCS, Chodov, Solna, Garbera, Parquesur, Arkadia and region Almere. Obtain S3A label for at least 10 French shopping R k 8 shopping centres have rolled-out the labelization centres to show their commitment to welcoming and process in cooperation with local associations. S3A supporting people with mental disabilities label will be delivered during Q1 2012. Environmental responsibility Climate change Introduce climate change risk criteria into investment R/O/C ● Climate change criteria introduced in the Group’s adaptation and activity (acquisition process)(3) technical due dilligence process. mitigation Reduce CO2 emissions per visit at managed R ● In 2011 the carbon intensity reduced by 30%.The shopping centres by at least 40% in 2016 relative to Group had met its primary long-term target by 2006(3) reducing CO2/visit by 52% since 2006. Increase energy efﬁciency at major managed R Target: In 2011 the energy efﬁciency reduced by 6%.The shopping centres by 20% in 2012 relative to 2006(3) 2012 Group had met its primary long-term target by reducing kWh/visit by 18% since 2006. A new target has been set (see page 55). Extend the monitoring of CO2 emissions arising from G k Business travel data collected in each region to monitor employees’ business travel and deﬁne targets for CO2 emissions due to business train + plane. No target 2012 set for 2012 as it has been considered non relevant. Install additional charging points for electric vehicles R/O/C ● Additional charging points for electrical vehicles installed at 15 managed assets in 17 other shopping centres (Spain = 14; France = 2; Netherlands = 1). 41 shopping centres are now equiped. (1) Target are established for speciﬁc scopes : R = Retail, O =Ofﬁces, C = Convention & Exhibition, G = Group. (3) Informations for which a limited assurance has been delivered by Ernst &Young. The statutory auditor’s report is available on pages 56-57 and on the Group’s website: www.unibail-rodamco.com Unibail-Rodamco / 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 53 2011 ACHIEVEMENTS Status / Scope(1) target Comment date Monitor and improve the implementation and uptake G ● VIPARIS CO2 calculator has been used for 10 events. of the VIPARIS CO2 calculator Resource use Increase water efﬁciency (litres/visit) in managed R Target: On track to achieve target in 2016. Water efﬁciency shopping centres by 20% in 2016 relative to 2006 2016 reduced by 14% since 2006. Reduce the proportion of waste sent to landﬁll by R Target: On track to achieve target in 2016. The proportion of 50% in 2016 relative to 2009 (target relates to waste 2016 waste sent to landﬁll reduced by 26% since 2009. managed by Unibail-Rodamco) Obtain a waste recycling rate of at least 50% at R Target: On track to achieve target in 2016. In 2011, 35% of managed shopping centres by 2016 (target relates 2016 waste were recycled. to waste managed by Unibail-Rodamco) Employment and diversity Diversity Increase employees’ awareness of diversity, nonG ● In 2011 an e-learning session was followed by 918 and ethical discrimination and the Code of Ethics via e-learning employees through out the Group. behaviour courses and regional training programmes Continue to implement the terms of the 3-year Senior G ● All the objectives deﬁned in the agreement were met Employees Agreement in France or exceeded in 2011. Roll out training programme on psycho-social risks in G ● 83 managers were trained in 2 separate programs the workplace to managers in France (Directors and Employees) for a total of 197 hours of training provided. Environmental Continue to increase awareness of sustainable G ; Awareness meetings were proposed in all Regions for responsibility behaviour by providing a yearly training session for each employee excluding France. all employees in each region(3) Training Develop management and leadership across the G ● In 2011, a speciﬁc focus was put on Leadership and Group by delivering speciﬁc training courses for Management training for the 110 Top Managers managers with a level of Principal and above in the across the Group. This training was focused on the job grading framework Group’s management principles and on practical training in the areas of performance management and feedback, team development and speed of execution. Mobility and Maintain the number of employees working for the G ● 26 international mobilities in 2011 recruitment Group outside their home region (25 in 2010). Organise a 10-day induction programme for all new G ● 28 participants from 8 nationalities have participated recruits to the European Graduate Programme to the Group’s 10-day induction programme. Performance Introduce a Group-wide performance measurement G ; In 2011, a deals bonus system for leasing managers management system for leasing managers was introduced for the ﬁrst time within the Group (excluding France and Spain) in order to complete the overall managerial assessment with measurable KPI performance. Develop and launch a Group-wide employee G ● In 2011, a Group-wide employee Health and health and safety policy to promote a safe working Safety policy was developed to promote a safe environment working environment and reinforce the fact that the excellence in the management of health and safety in the workplace is an essential element of UnibailRodamco’s overall business strategy. Social reporting Launch an electronic suggestion box to collect G ● A suggestion box was launched in June 2011. In employees’ ideas and proposals on efﬁciency and overall, 18 ideas were analyzed by the evaluation other topics committee and some of them are already in place. Launch a pilot employee survey in the Group G ● A managers survey was conducted in 2011 at Group level, focused on the Group Leadership and Management behaviours: Direction and Leadership, Empowerment, Business Knowledge, Performance and Team spirit. (1) Target are established for speciﬁc scopes : R = Retail, O =Ofﬁces, C = Convention & Exhibition, G = Group. (3) Informations for which a limited assurance has been delivered by Ernst &Young. The statutory auditor’s report is available on pages 56-57 and on the Group’s website: www.unibail-rodamco.com ● Achieved = Target 100% complete ; Partly achieved = 26-99% complete k Not achieved = 0-25% complete PROGRESS TOWARDS 2011 TARGETS Achieved: 23 Partially achieved: 4 Not achieved: 3 54 OBJECTIVES FOR 2012 AND BEYOND Scope(1) Target date Environmental Management Systems Existing assets Obtain in the regions (Spain, Nederland and Poland) an external assessR/O/C 2012 ment of the ‘Sustainable Management Attitude,’ the Group’s environmental management system Obtain a BREEAM In Use certiﬁcation for all ‘energetic’ shopping centres R 2014 (assets with an annual energy consumption above 5 GWh /year) Obtain HQE and/or BREEAM certiﬁcation for at least 50% of the managed O 2016 ofﬁce portfolio by 2016 (by area) New developments Achieve a BREEAM rating of ‘Very Good’ or better for all new developments R/O Ongoing of more than 10,000 m² Formalise the terms of the Group’s ‘Considerate Construction Charter’ in R/O 2012 each region to reduce the social and environmental impacts of construction (e.g. noise, dust, trafﬁc) for all new development projects ESG reporting Comply with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standard and obtain G 2012 level ‘B+’ for ESG reporting Extend the scope of environmental and social information that is veriﬁed G 2012 by a third party (3 business units) Innovation Launch the “Ofﬁce & Retail 2020” Project (e-novative building dealing with G 2012 low-carbon, comfort & well-being, environment) Stakeholder involvement Tenants Increase the response rate of the tenant satisfaction survey to 50% R 2012 Ensure that at least 90% of new and renewals retail and ofﬁce tenants sign R/O 2012 a green lease Maintain sustainability committees with tenants in each ‘energetic’ shopR 2012 ping centre (assets with an annual energy consumption above 5 GWh/ year) Suppliers and Assess suppliers’ compliance with environmental clauses at each shopR 2012 contractors ping centre (target relates to security, cleaning and maintenance OPEX contracts) Launch speciﬁc training in ‘customer-oriented attitude’ skills for the service R 2012 staff of security and cleaning suppliers in ‘4 Star’ labelled shopping centres Customers Increase the average score in the internal quality audit by 25% between R 2012 2009 and 2012 Increase the Customer Satisfaction Survey score at 8.0 /10 R 2012 Obtain the ‘4 Star’ label (the Unibail-Rodamco service quality standard) for R 2012 15 managed shopping centres Conduct an annual third-party audit of health and safety risk R/O/C 2012 management in each managed asset Shareholders and Organise meetings on corporate governance with ﬁve of the Group’s top G 2012 investors 10 investors Participate in an investor conference, or organise investor meetings, on G 2012 sustainable development with at least 10 investors Cover at least 90% of the top 50% of investors by value in meetings with G 2012 management Communities and local Cooperate with local authorities to launch speciﬁc sustainability initiatives R 2012 authorities for at least 15 shopping centres Obtain the S3A label for at least 12 French shopping centres, to show their R 2012 commitment to welcoming and supporting people with mental disabilities (1) Target are established for speciﬁc scopes : R = Retail, O =Ofﬁces, C = Convention & Exhibition, G = Group. Unibail-Rodamco / 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 55 OBJECTIVES FOR 2012 AND BEYOND Scope(1) Target date Environmental responsibility Climate change Apply the new climate change risk criteria during the technical due diliR/O/C 2012 adaptation and gence process for acquisitions mitigation Reduce carbon intensity (CO2 emissions per visit) at managed shopping R 2016 centres by at least 50% in 2016 relative to 2006 Increase energy efﬁciency at managed shopping centres by 30% in 2016 R 2016 relative to 2006 Resource use Increase water efﬁciency (litres/visit) in managed shopping centres by R 2012 20% in 2012 relative to 2006 Reduce the proportion of waste sent to landﬁll by 50% in 2016 relative to R 2016 2009 (target relates to waste managed by Unibail-Rodamco) Obtain a waste recycling rate of at least 50% at managed shopping R 2016 centres by 2016 (target relates to waste managed by Unibail-Rodamco) Employment and diversity Diversity and ethical Deploy standard charters on disability and diversity across the Group G 2012 behaviour Maintain the training action plan for new arrivals with a focus on diversity, G 2012 non-discrimination and the Code of Ethics via e-learning courses and regional training programmes, and reinforce the local induction programme in each region Compensation Apply a metrics-based compensation framework to shopping centre G 2012 managers Extend the integration of sustainability criteria into the variable G 2012 compensation framework for the whole Group Management Team Environmental Hold an annual training session in sustainable behaviour for employees in G 2012 responsibility each region Occupational health Set up a Group-wide health and safety training program and deploy G 2012 and safety associated initiatives to ensure a safe and healthy workplace Extend psycho-social risk training in the workplace for all managers across G 2012 the Group (outside France) Ensure all new young graduates have an in-house mentor during their ﬁrst G 2012 year with the Group Social reporting Extend the 2011 pilot employee survey to other topics G 2012 Citizenship Corporate philanthropy Maintain the Group’s commitments in supporting its main philanthropic G 2012 causes towards entrepreneurship, social and young talents (1) Target are established for speciﬁc scopes : R = Retail, O = Ofﬁces, C = Convention & Exhibition, G = Group. Disclaimer 2009, 2010 and 2011 was collected using internal management Certain statements contained in this document are tools on a quarterly and/or annual basis. The accuracy of this statements of future expectations and other forwarddata may be affected by a number of variables, including looking statements. These expectations are based on the but not limited to the heterogeneity of the assets in Unibailmanagement’s current views and assumptions and involve Rodamco’s portfolio, the speciﬁc characteristics of certain known risks and uncertainties that could cause actual assets, and the differences in data collection systems and results and/or data to differ materially from those expressed perimeters at different assets. or implied in these statements. Statements are based on the current property portfolio and disregard the potential Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking effects of external factors including, but not limited to, statements. Unibail-Rodamco assumes no obligation to update climate change, local energy policy or regulatory or legal any forward-looking information contained in this document developments. subject to legal requirement. Data is subject to change without The 2006-2008 data that is provided in this report was collected notice. and consolidated for the ﬁrst time in 2008. The data provided for 56 LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT ON SELECTED ENVIRONMENTAL AND HUMAN RESOURCES INFORMATION AND INDICATORS FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011 This is a free translation into English of the original report issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English– speaking users. Further to your request, we have performed a review of seven analytical procedures and verified, on a test basis, the environmental and three human resource indicators(1) (the calculations as well as the consolidation of the Indicators. “Indicators”) identiﬁed with the footnote “(2)” on pages 29, ■ Taking into account the site’s activity and location, we 33, 35, 36, 37, 43, 45-46 of the Sustainable development report, selected a sample of four operational entities(2) on the basis as well as the procedures agreed with you on eight selected of their size and contribution to the group’s consolidated data sustainability pieces of information (the “Information”) identiﬁed as well as of the results of the risk review performed previously. with the footnote “(3)” on pages 52-53 of the Sustainable The selected operational entities represent an average of 23% development report, all published in the group’s 2011 annual of the total value of the environmental indicators and 59% of report. These Indicators and Information were prepared under the total value of the human resource indicators(3).At this level, the responsibility of the management of Unibail-Rodamco, in we have veriﬁed the understanding and application of the accordance with the reporting criteria applicable in 2011 (the Reporting Criteria, and veriﬁed, on a test basis, calculations “Reporting Criteria”), a summary of which is provided on pages and reconciliation with supporting documents. 30-32 of the Sustainable development report, and with general ■ We have also reviewed the presentation of the Indicators in principles of reliability, neutrality, understandability and relevance the annual report. as defined by the Global Reporting Initiative International Regarding the eight selected pieces of Information standards. It is also the responsibility of Unibail-Rodamco to update and internally distribute these Reporting Criteria. On the selected Information, we have conducted interviews with the sustainability and human resources persons in It is our responsibility to express a conclusion on these Indicators charge of the rolling-out of the sustainability program in order and Information on the basis of our review. Our review was to gather underlying evidence of the progress made in the conducted in compliance with the international standard implementation of the sustainability program and review the ISAE 3000 (International Standard on Assurance Engagements, presentation of the Information in the annual report. December 2003) of IFAC. Our independence is deﬁned by legal and regulatory texts as well as by our professional code Comments about the Procedures of ethics. The conclusions and ﬁndings expressed below relate solely to the Indicators and Information reviewed and not to the With respect to the Criteria, we wish to make the following entire sustainability information published in the 2011 annual comments: report. A higher level of assurance would have required more Relevance: extensive work. ■ The energy efﬁciency indicators reported reﬂect the sectoral recommendations provided by the European Public Real Nature and scope of work Estate Association (EPRA). Regarding the ten selected Indicators ■ In case where a «green» energy contract exists with an For selected Indicators, we performed the following review: energy provider, the group applies a zero emission factor for renewable energy consumed. Green electricity purchases ■ We have assessed the Reporting Criteria with respect to their signiﬁcantly inﬂuence the reduction in emissions reported by reliability, understandability, neutrality, completeness and the group. relevance. At group level, we have conducted interviews with the persons responsible for consolidating the Indicators. Completeness: We have assessed the risk of misstatement, implemented ■ The environmental indicators cover shopping centers for 2011, convention-exhibition venues and ofﬁces managed by (1) Environmental indicators: For shopping centers, energy efﬁciency per visit and for convention-exhibition venues per m2 days opened to public (DOP); energy consumption of shopping centers per m2; carbon intensity for shopping centers by (2) France: convention-exhibition venue Porte de Versailles, shopping center Rosny visit and for convention-exhibition venues per m2 DOP; carbon intensity for shop2; Czech Republic: shopping center Centrum Chodov; Austria: shopping center ping centers per m2; energy mix for shopping centers; number, surface area and DonauZentrum. certiﬁcation level for BREEAM certiﬁed projects; number of new green leases for (3)14% for energy consumption and energy mix, 14% for CO2 emissions, 6% for the shopping centers and ofﬁces. number of visits, 45% for m² DOP, 9% for measured areas, 52% for green leases, 76% Human Resource indicators: headcount; gender management; and training hours. for headcount, 42% for training hours. Unibail-Rodamco / 2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 57 Unibail-Rodamco that represent 84% of the total gross market Reliability: value of the assets portfolio aggregated as at December 31, ■ The information sources and control procedures to be used 2011. for the calculation of surface areas, along with the details of ■ Rules regarding the “like for like” scope, as defined in the how historical data should be updated, should be detailed in Reporting Criteria for the energy efficiency and carbon the Reporting Criteria. intensity indicators, lead to the exclusion of the assets that ■ Regarding social data, the Reporting Criteria should be have been refurbished, extended, sold, or that entered the completed to include all published information. managed portfolio through acquisition or construction. This fact generates uncertainties when assessing the assets Conclusion portfolio performance evolution. Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that ■ The calculation methodology for the Indicators evolution, causes us not to believe that: based on the aggregation of the annual percentage, leads • the Indicators were established, in all material respects, in to the addition of the annual uncertainties, which might accordance with the Reporting Criteria; generate a high level of uncertainty in the long term. • the Information was established, in all material respects, in accordance with general principles of reliability, neutrality, understandability, and relevance. Paris-La Défense, March 16, 2012 ERNST & YOUNG et Associés Climate Change and Sustainability Department French original signed by Eric Duvaud NOTES NOTES NOTES Creation and production: This document is printed on FSC-certified coated paper composed of preand post-consumer waste (60%) and FSC wood pulp (40%). The paper was manufactured in factories that have ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certification for their environmental management systems. Printed by HANDIPRINT, a disability-friendly employer. Photo credits Untitled images: Tour Ariane/Fabrice Rambert (cover); Splau (p. 3); Rivétoile Strasbourg/Frank Barylko (pp. 4-5, 9); Panneaux solaires (p. 10); Lyon Confluence/Agence Jean-Paul Viguier & Associés (p. 11); Cnit/Paris-La Défense (P. 13); Docks Vauban Le Havre/Frank Barylko (pp. 14-15); Carré Sénart/Frank Barylko (p. 17); Académie/Michel Labelle (p. 21). Images: Tour Majunga & Aéroville/Agence Jean-Paul Viguier & Associés (p. 7); Albecenter – Spain (p. 8); Shopping city süd, Austria (p. 12); Centrum Chodov-Prague (p. 16); Enfants de Majunga/Association Écoles du Monde (pp. 22-23); and images from the Unibail-Rodamco image bank. MCO auer I L-R ODA celier Aden 16 A x UNIB du Chan ris Cede Pa ce 7, Pla 22 75772 1 6 CS 3 7 e 3 74 3 Franc (0) 1 53 4 3 74 38 33 4 Tel: + 3 (0) 1 53 om : + 3 d a mco.c Fax il ro niba www.u
