CSR 2011 At SE, CSR is about taking responsibility – both for the immediate locality and for the broader global situation in the fields of energy, climate and digitisation. SE WILL SUPPORT THE COMMUNITY AROUND US Wh this t is CONTENTS About this report 06 Welcome 10 About SE 14 Legitimate and responsible business practice 20 Improving customers’ sustainability and digitisation 24 As a role model we want to inspire 28 Cooperation with others 32 The strongest team 36 Involvement in the community 40 Auditor’s statement 46 Reporting practice 48 Key figures and ratios 49 GRI overview 50 06 – 07 ABOUT THIS REPORT BLUE IS THE NEW GREEN CSR report 2011 ABOUT THIS REPORT This is SE’s first CSR report. The purpose of the report is to provide a balanced picture of basic CSR-related attitudes, objectives, topics, activities and results in the SE Group. Scope practice we lead from the front as a role model, The report relates to Syd Energi a.m.b.a. and its subsidiaries, hereafter how we interact with our cooperation partners, referred to in the report as “SE”. Associated companies and independent how we relate to internal working conditions and companies, including Enervision A/S, Syd Net A/S and Karlsgårde Vandwe finish by describing our involvement in the kraft A/S, are not included in the report. The report covers the year 2011. community. Reporting principles The descriptions in this report are relatively genThe report has been prepared on the basis of the reporting principles at eral in nature and it is not the intention to include C+ level set out in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines from Global detailed information which is mainly significant Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the associated sectoral supplement for utility to individual places of work, processes, activities companies. As the sectoral supplement for telecommunications is still at and products. These can be found in SE’s annual the draft stage, this will not be used. An overview of relevant GRI indicareport for 2011 or at www.se.dk. tors with references can be found on page 50. The topics covered in this report have been selected on the basis of a comprehensive stakeholder and materiality assessment carried out in conjunction with the development of SE’s CSR strategy for 2011 (see page 14). On Introduction the basis of these assessments, the main target groups for this report are therefore SE’s major customers, the Board of Representatives, employees, cooperation partners, suppliers, the press and NGOs. The report has been reviewed by an independent third party and the statement from this party Legitimate and responsible business practice appears on page 49. Guide for the reader Improving customers’ sustainability and digitisation The introduction to this report contains a description of SE and its basic beliefs. If the reader is familiar with SE’s Annual Report (only in Danish), this section can be skipped – but if the report is the reader’s first encounter As a The strongest Community with SE, the section will clarify who we are and where are visions originate. role model Cooperation team involvement We will then report on our approaches to CSR – and relate these to current practice. The following section of the report is based on the six building blocks of the CSR vision (see above) and will start with an insight into our Conclusion business practices. The chapter after this deals with sustainability, energy solutions and digitisation. The following chapters describe in detail how in CSR at SE is not a solo 100 m dash but a relay with many runners RATIOS CSR report 2011 Se’s RATIOS SE Denmark’s third-largest energy company We are a modern cooperative society based in our supply area in South Jutland. For more background information on SE, please read SE employs 720 people at its headquarters in Esbjerg and in offices across Denthe chapter entitled “About SE” and SE’s Annual Remark in Aabenraa, Aarhus, Agerskov, Billund, Haderslev, Kolding, Copenhagen, port 2011, or visit our website at www.se.dk. Odense, Skærbæk, Sønderborg and Ølgod. Address Our overriding objective is to create the best overall customer experience in the SYD ENERGI a.m.b.a., Ravnevej 12, 6705 Esbjerg Ø, energy, climate and communication fields and at the same time be the most proDenmark, Telephone +45 7011 5000, fitable player in the Danish energy sector. Fax +45 7011 5001, E-mail se@se.dk Equity Last 3 years in DKK billions EBITDA Last 3 years in DKK millions Employees Last 3 years 10 350 1.000 9 315 900 9,17 9,02 9,03 316,4 8 280 800 7 245 700 250,6 6 210 600 720 5 175 500 592 592 4 140 400 3 105 300 2 70 200 1 35 100 19 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Cooperative owners Last 3 years Broadband customers Last 3 years Distributed kWh Last 3 years in billions 275.000 50.000 5,0 247.500 45.000 4,5 257.552 259.104 260.658 45.247 220.000 40.000 4,0 192.500 35.000 3,5 165.000 30.000 3,0 3,3 3,4 3,3 30.917 137.500 25.000 2,5 110.000 20.000 2,0 21.004 82.500 15.000 1,5 55.000 10.000 1,0 27.500 5.000 0,5 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 10 – 11 WELCOME Niels Duedahl, CEO CSR report 2011 CSR IS A NATURAL PART OF THE JOURNEY The overriding purpose behind SE’s CSR-vision is to contribute to the development of a more sustainable community by stimulating energy and climate efficiency, supporting conversion to greener energy systems and by aggressively rolling out a digital infrastructure. We believe that a high level of digital availability should be a universal right! At SE, CSR is high on the agenda as it is a natural integrated part of the way we do business. For us, sustainability and profitability are not mutually exclusive. They are factors which support one another. At the same time, CSR naturally forms part of the DNA of an energy company, and particularly a cooperative society, in that community interests are looked after and there is no great divergence between cooperative owners, customers and cooperation partners. In 2010, a new vision for SE was formulated and in 2011, this vision was converted into a specific business plan, the aim of which was to implement the first element of the vision, i.e. to create the best overall customer experience and make SE the most profitable player in the Danish energy sector. The second element explains SE’s value base, whilst the third and final element expresses our intention to actively future-proof our communities, thereby placing social responsibility on the agenda. By doing this, we have formulated a vision and strategy for SE’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). You therefore now have before you SE’s first CSR report. >> >> 12 – 13 WELCOME We want to halve our CO2 emissions by 2020 aware that we still have a lot to learn and that we can To make this a reality we want firstly, on the basis of legitimate and responsible improve in many areas. business practices, to become prominent role models and enhance our own sustainability and digitisation by promising to halve our own CO2 emissions by 2020 We have therefore implemented several initiatives and, at the latest, by making our future premises sustainable and using a greener vehias the report shows, SE also has several quantitative cle fleet. goals which we intend to achieve in the next 5 to 10 years. We understand that in some areas we can still Secondly, we want to continue to enter into cooperation agreements and partnerdo much more and that we have a lot to learn. Our ships which support the community and develop business. We are achieving this CSR work is based on the values of proximity, openby committing to projects such as Project Zero, Lean Energy Cluster and Viva ness, courage and sustainability, which means that VARDE. CSR takes the form of a welcoming and inclusive dialogue with our stakeholders. We view CSR as a dyThirdly, we want to set the strongest corporate team which will be an expression namic process where initiatives develop or are creatof our determination to allow skills to flourish and ensure that diversity and job ed. We look forward to demonstrating the nature of satisfaction create space for new opportunities. our CSR vision and how this process involves constantly setting new objectives. Last but not least, we want to future-proof the communities of which we are a part by strengthening competitiveness, creating jobs, developing skills and supWelcome to SE’s first CSR report in which we will exporting social cohesion. Our fibre broadband is a good example of this, as is our amine both internal and external CSR initiatives in business park Next Step City, an SE initiative where SE is the driving force. depth. The report is a natural and meaningful tool for us. This is partly because CSR reflects the philosophy One of the characteristics of SE is that we do what we say. When we say that we on which we base our corporate operations and partly want to reduce climate impact and be an active traveller on the journey to susbecause we want to be open about our choices, inititainability which the entire world is embarking on, we naturally want to make a difatives and activities. ference using the strengths of our business. We do not simply want to run with the herd, we want to behave in a way which is an inspiration to others. We therefore want to be part of the UN Global Compact initiative which obliges companies We hope you will enjoy reading the report! to work actively for human rights, labour rights, the environment and the fight against corruption. We believe that strong companies have a duty to take responJens Bahne Jørgensen sibility and we therefore want to endorse the initiative at our Board of RepresentaChairman of the Board tives meeting on 26 April 2012. Niels Duedahl At SE, we see CSR as a journey rather than a final goal or destination. We are CEO We take responsibility for the climate while improving the bottom line We do not simply want to run with the herd, we want be role models and behave in a way which is an inspiration to others Welcome to SE SE HAS A CLEAR VISION FOR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SE wants to create more sustainable communities by supporting converebitda 2011: sion to a greener energy system and by aggressively rolling out digital DKK 316 infrastructure. MILLION As a modern cooperative society, SE wants to deliver this through business-driven CSR based on legitimate and responsible business practices which will enable us to: Electricity grid ....................... 78,0% Communications ................... 18,0% stand out as a role model by strengthening our own sustainability Energy sales ......................... 2,0% and digitisation . Big Blue .............................. 2,0% Green Energy production ........ 0,0% support our social responsibility through cooperation and by entering into partnerships with relevant players. set the strongest corporate team by letting the appropriate skills flourish in the appropriate place and allowing diversity to create ebitda 2015: space for new opportunities and encouraging good experiences DKK 670 MILLION. through job satisfaction. future-proof the communities of which we are a part by strengthening competitiveness, creating jobs, developing skills and supporting social cohesion. Electricity grid ..................... 50,0% Communications ................... 23,8% Our CSR work is based on the values of proximity, openness, courage and Green Energy production ........ 14,0% Big Blue ............................... 4,0% sustainability. This means that CSR takes the form of a welcoming and Energy sales ......................... 1,0% inclusive dialogue with our stakeholders. 14 – 15 ABOUT SE ABOUT SE SE is Denmark’s third-largest energy company. We buy and sell electricity, gas and energy solutions for private and business customers and distribute over 3.3 billion kWh to over 260,000 households and companies via our fine-mesh electricity grid in South Jutland. We also advise on the reduction of companies’ energy consumption and climate impact, and invest in renewable energy sources. Another important part of our modern energy system is our digital solutions in the form of fibre-based communications networks which allow almost 50,000 customers to enjoy stable, superfast broadband connections for Internet, TV and telephony services. Focus on the customer change is our own behaviour, by always assigning the In 2009, SE embarked on a cultural journey based on four central core values strongest team to the tasks at hand and, at the same which have nothing to do with megawatts, gigabits, pounds, shillings or pence. time, by keeping a weather eye on talent developThe four values are: ment. • Proximity By placing the customer, business development and • Openness the future-proofing of our communities in the centre of • Courage our activities, we aim to meet our obligations as a co• Sustainability operative society. The values reflect not only the culture with which we surround ourselves at SE, The majority of our customers are our co-owners but also place the emphasis on maintaining a close and respectful relationship which means, that rather than just focussing on prowith our customers. SE focuses on being attentive in everyday work situations fits and revenues, we can concentrate on creating a with colleagues, something which also applies to our contact with customers. healthy business which benefits our co-owners across the region We believe that an open and active dialogue creates the necessary confidence and credibility which is vital to the communities of which our customers and From vision to reality therefore our owners are part. At the same time, SE is not a company which is At SE, our visions, objectives and values are dynamic used to follow the herd, to be all talk and no action. guidelines which means, that only a few months elapsed between the creation of the vision in 2010 We must all have the courage to fail and admit our failures, and management and its definition by the Executive Board in 2011. must, and does, have an in-depth knowledge of the business’ engine room. For example, our website contains the direct telephone numbers of our senior manThe result was SE’s business plan “20in15” which agement who are available to answer any questions from our customers and coaims to make SE a central player at national level in operative owners. They currently each take on average ten general customer calls the business fields of Energy & Climate and Commuper week – both large and small. At SE, we take responsibility for the entire Group nications and to make SE the most profitable player in of companies, we say things clearly and unambiguously and we inspire and motithe Danish energy sector – without compromising the vate each other. We do this by recognising that the starting point of every single customer experience. 16 – 17 about se SE’s five business fields must generate 20% by 2015 interesting and manageable – which should motivate In 2015, SE’s five business units must be generating an annual operating profit, and empower us. Our CSR work must be based on EBITDA, of DKK 670 million. This involves an EBITDA margin of over 20%, which our values and generate a welcoming and inclusive diexplains why the business plan is called “20in15”. Specifically, this mean that SE alogue with our stakeholders. As a modern cooperaElnet, which controls and develops our electricity supply services, must provide tive society, CSR helps us to better focus on develop50% of our operating profit, as against the 78% which it is responsible for at the ing community-based initiatives for the benefit of all moment. In the future, the other business fields must therefore be responsible for our customers and owners. a larger part of the operating profit and ensure greater robustness and balance in the SE Group. SE’s five business units are: SE’s strengths and areas for improvement in the field of CSR • S  E Kommunikation (SE Communications) which rolls out, operates and sells SE currently already has a good basis for carrying out fibre broadband and content operations in the fields of climate, digitisation, job • SE Grøn Energiproduktion (SE Green Energy Production) whose business satisfaction and community involvement. Our focus focusses first and foremost on renewable energy products, e.g. windmills on making a difference and “walk the talk” places the • SE Big Blue, which optimises and makes more efficient the energy consumption customer at the centre and breaks down silos. SE of major companies and public organisations and reduces their CO2 emissions therefore has a strong impetus for integrating CSR in • SE Energisalg (SE Energy Sales), which sells energy and sustainable energy all business operations. We must also recognise that products to both business and private customers there is room for improvement in many areas. This • SE Elnet (SE Electricity Grid) which operates and develops over 20,000 km of means that SE wants to focus on stakeholders’ awarelarge, fine-mesh electricity networks, supplying over 260,000 households and ness of our expertise in the field of climate affairs. companies with electricity We also want to further concentrate our efforts on strengthening our overview of CSR relationships and SE’s CSR vision risks to suppliers, to motivate ourselves to increase diSE’s overriding vision for CSR is to create more sustainable communities by supversity and not least to reduce or own climate impact. porting conversion to a green energy system and by aggressively rolling out digital infrastructure. CSR in multiple dimensions At SE, we are responsible for our own CSR, and at the CSR must be business-driven, as nothing grows in barren soil. It must practical in same time we provide CSR products to large Danish that we must be able to integrate initiatives into our everyday life which are useful, companies, municipalities and public organisations. CSR Report 2011 This represents two natural CSR dimensions, one focussing on delivery and sale modate all needs and initiatives. To ensure integration of CSR-based initiatives to our many customers. Whereas this dimension finds a in both senior management and the line organisation, natural home in SE Big Blue, the second dimension is linked to Group communieveryday CSR management devolves to the Group cations where its role is to ensure the SE Group’s own CSR initiatives and close CEO Ole Fruekilde Madsen, a CSR network of ambascooperation with our other stakeholders. In many areas the initiatives are interconsadors and resource personnel is established and, nected but as we are trying to put in a strong performance for our customers, insimilarly, responsibility for implementing CSR is deleternally and in the community, we have identified this as the best way to accomgated to the line organisation. SE IN BRIEF SE is one of Denmark’s largest energy companies and providers of sufjord in the north to the Danish/German border perfast fibre networks. We are a modern, open cooperative society which in the south. SE has over 260,000 cooperative focusses on the customer. owners. SE’s organisation comprises five general business units: SE Elnet, SE Energisalg, SE Kommunikation, SE Big Blue and SE Grøn Energiproduktion. SE has offices in: Aabenraa, Aarhus, Agerskov, Billund, Esbjerg (Head Net turnover (2011): ................ DKK 2.9 billion Office) Haderslev, Kolding, Copenhagen, Odense, Skærbæk, Sønderborg Equity (2011): .......................... DKK 9.0 billion and Ølgod. SE’s supply area covers more than 7,000 km² from Ringkøbing Number of employees: ............................ 720 SE’s climate goals are based on a close association with the region in which our cooperative society is growing. SE PLACES HIGH PRIORITY ON THE CLIMATE AGENDA 01 Legitimacy flourishes in active dialogue with our stakeholders 20 – 21 LEGITIMATE AND RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICE LEGITIMATE AND RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICE We want to operate a healthy business where profitability and sustainability are mutually inclusive and where we make active and positive contributions to the community. We believe that legitimate and responsible business practice will benefit everyone in and around SE. SE’s fundamental responsibility is to maintain responsible business ethics. At SE, we place great demands on the various building blocks on which appropriRemotely read electricity meters not only enable us to ate business practice rests. When we impose requirements, we must also be preanalyse the electricity grid in more detail, they also give pared to comply with these requirements. This is the basis of credibility. Legitimate our customers a better, ongoing overview of their elecand responsible business practice is therefore a cornerstone of SE’s businesstricity consumption on an hourly basis, the option to redriven CSR strategy. ceive warnings by e-mail or SMS when consumption fluctuates, and not least a statement detailing actual SE has upheld high standards in this field for many years, although we have to reconsumption rather than estimated account payments. cognise that we have not had a general Code of Conduct setting out responsibility requirements for all our suppliers. To ensure that SE maintains a high security of supply, we have set ourselves ambitious targets. For the elecSecurity of supply tricity grid, this involves being significantly below the ofIt is our responsibility and privilege to operate and develop two critical infrastrucficial requirement which in 2011 was assessed as being tures in South Jutland in the form of the electricity grid and the fibre network. If and 8.56 minutes, and for fibre broadband ensuring an anwhen outages occur, they often affect the activities and actions of thousands of nual connection time of 99.9%. See the table on page customers. We are very aware of our responsibility and we therefore try to ensure 25. that the networks satisfy our strict quality requirements (see figure on page 25 for the last 3 years’ security of supply). Credible and understandable products We want to retain a high level of credibility through Quality requirements also manifest themselves at the planning stage so that when open and transparent communication of our products there is an outage on one line, a superfast connection can be made to alternative and ensure in the very least that we live up to the prolines within milliseconds, thereby retaining a connection or minimising any disrupmises we make – and, of course, comply with legislation caused while the faults are being repaired. All our active equipment is digitally tion applicable in this field. monitored on an ongoing basis, which ensures high security of supply, and in 2011 and 2012 we are working towards upgrading the entire IT system on which the One example of this is our fibre broadband where the electricity grid is based. speeds our products promise are not subject to provisos of any kind. If we promise a customer a broadband The robust increase in decentralised production, with more wind power and other connection of 40/40 Mbit/s, this is the speed the cusSmart Grid initiatives (for further reading about Smart Grid, go to page 28), has intomer gets – and maybe even a little bit more to be on creased demand for much more detailed energy flow measurements and forecasts the safe side. than is the case today. Fibre broadband and the fact that all households and companies today are provided with smart, remotely read electricity meters provides us Another good example of credibility is our work managwith a better overview and means we can react very quickly. ing our entire fleet of on-the-road service technicians, which means that we can make precise appointments 22 – 23 LEGITIMATE AND RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICE with our customers. Since the beginning of September 2011 we have kept almost have all essential suppliers sign an agreement. We do, all appointments by guaranteeing to arrive at our customers’ within a 3-hour period. of course, realise that this is a long-winded process and as we only started to address the challenges of Sales and consultancy CSR seriously in 2011, there is much to learn and a lot Our sales advice helps customers to find the solution which can make the greatest of ground to cover. It is therefore an important action difference. We do not only offer standard goods but always assess the wishes and point for us. needs of the individual customer before providing them with the most profitable, and therefore the most sustainable, solution. SE’s supplying of fibre broadband to SE does, of course, also sign Codes of Conduct of the Danfoss Group, which has improved the home-working situation for employees other parties in Denmark significantly and, at the same time, has brought significant savings, is a At the beginning of 2012, SE entered into an agreement specific example of this. with Red Barnet (Save the Children Denmark) in which, amongst other things, we signed a declaration stating It is important in this regard to be aware that, in relation to some individual product that we would ensure that our respective organisations groups, such as TREND climate control CTS systems, we are today a certified and companies, subsidiaries or associated companies technology centre. It can be argued in this case that SE has selected a standard (suppliers, etc.) would not work or act in contravention product for our customers as there are also other CTS providers on the market. It is of the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the fields our belief however, that with the TREND cooperation we are ensuring that our cusof human rights, work, the environment and anti-cortomers are able to access quality products at competitive prices. ruption. To ensure that we prioritise this area, we track our customer satisfaction ratios It is our belief that by accommodating these agreeclosely. We are therefore satisfied with our repeated, positive customer satisfaction ments we can support both our own and our suppliers’ surveys which can be examined in more detail in SE’s Annual Report for 2011. CSR-related behaviour. Supplier responsibility Safety Our responsibility requirements across our entire supplier chain are formulated in a Working with electricity requires a high level of safety Code of Conduct which is still being developed and which is an important action awareness. Mistakes can cost lives and as an experipoint for us in 2012. It has two overriding objectives. With the Code of Conduct we enced energy company which has been operating and partly want to establish a handy guide which sets our specific guidelines which we maintaining the electricity grid for many decades, we can follow when important supplier decisions have to be made. We also partly want must take all aspects of health and safety seriously. to protect our employees from corruption and ensure that the selection of suppliers etc. is based on an objective decision-making process. In our efforts to act ethically Safety does not rely solely on our own fitters, techniand properly, SE also wants to set out specific requirements for our suppliers and cians, etc. having clear procedures for how they should their value chain. act in dangerous situations, but also naturally requires our suppliers to follow SE’s safety procedures and geWe prefer to work with suppliers who actively produce and deliver products and nerally exhibit due diligence to avoid accidents. It is services in a responsible and ethical manner – with the focus on the environment most important that ordinary private individuals are not and working conditions. exposed, and do not expose themselves, to danger from systems and activities. An example of this is our insistence that our excavation contractors sign a declaration stating that if they use foreign labour, this must comply with applicable Danish It was therefore deeply shocking when in 2010 a ten law at all times, including the Danish Working Environment Act and the Danish Road year old girl suffered serious injury when she entered a Traffic Act, etc. as well as any collective agreements relating to the work carried out. 60/10 kV transformer station. As a result of this, we The declaration is confirmed on an ongoing basis and was last signed in 2011. intensified our safety measures in dialogue with the Danish Safety Technology Authority beyond the legal SE’s business focus up to now has naturally meant that our supplier requirements frameworks in place for all peri-urban transformer stahave been concentrated on our excavation contractors. Our business plan “20in15” tions. When there is a risk of personal injury in spite of proposes development and expansion of our business areas. It has therefore been all regulations being observed, we of course review necessary to initiate a re-evaluation and extension of our Code of Conduct. During what else we can do to avoid similar situations from 2012, it is our ambition to broaden its scope to all business areas, and eventually to happening again. As a consequence of the accident in CSR report 2011 2010, SE decided to extend the fence to include 2 to 3 rows of barbed wire on all Documentation and energy savings stations in peri-urban areas where children are often present. In collaboration with the Danish Energy Association, SE has entered into an energy-saving agreement with the In general we can state that, over the years, there have been very few cases of perDanish Ministry of Climate, Energy and Building. The sonal injury on SE’s sites and plants as a result of our activities. In 2011, we had 11 agreement runs from 2010 to 2012 and aims to reduce work-related accidents among SE’s employees. See page 39 for more information. overall Danish energy consumption in relation to GDP development by accommodating the requirements to Profitable asset management which Denmark was a signatory in the Kyoto protocol. SAs a responsible cooperative society with equity of approx. DKK 9 billion, it is vital The agreement obliges SE to meet annually agreed that we manage the equity entrusted to us by the cooperative owners, profitably. It savings targets with which SE complies in cooperation is therefore vital that we can clearly account for how this equity is used, how it adds with the consulting engineering firm Enervision in which value for our customers and cooperative owners and what interest is paid. SE is the main cooperative owner. SE must be developed on the basis of profitable asset management, so that SE According to the Danish Energy Agency, in 2011 SE recan, in both the long term and the short term, be among the cheapest in Denmark alised documented savings of 114 million kWh. Thus, and deliver the best service for our customers. Profitable asset management is beSE fully satisfies the mandatory savings of 80.7 million ing grown in SE through implementation of the “20in15” business plan, which aims kWh agreed in 2011, as well as legislative requirements overall to generate an operating profit, EBITDA, of DKK 670 million by 2015. SE’s relating to documentation, the calculation of energy five business areas all have clear objectives for achieving this overall objective, but it savings, compliance with existing regulations governing is vital that we achieve objectives as a united, integrated company. companies’ involvement and realisation of savings. The objective of the group in 2011 was to realise an operating profit of DKK 320 milWe are extremely happy that we succeeded in making lion, which represents an increase of DKK 65 million on 2010. We succeeded in folso many kWh savings and today make the secondlowing the plan approximately, with an operating profit of DKK 316 million. largest savings of energy companies in Denmark. We It should also be mentioned that the value of fibre broadband in 2011 had to be rewould obviously like to make more savings and if we evaluated upwards by DKK 191 million as a result of huge customer interest. SE can assist our colleagues and customers to identify therefore again has positive annual figures; DKK 105 million before tax in 2011. further savings, we will of course be happy to do so. Downtime R: realised Uptime Realised savings As reported to the Last 3 years in mins/year M: target Last 3 years as % Danish Energy Agency for the last 3 years in kWh 15 100 % 120 99,98 99,98 99,98 13,5 90 % 108 114 12 80 % 96 101,2 12,30 10,5 70 % 84 9 60 % 72 7,5 50 % 60 8,56 8,56 7,41 6 40 % 48 4,5 30 % 36 3 20 % 24 2,87 2,93 21,9 1,5 10 % 12 0 0% 0 R M R M R M 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 02 Big ambitions are based on strong skills 24 – 25 CSR Mission IMPROVING CUSTOMERS’ SUSTAINABILITY AND DIGITISATION SE is part of the community in a wholly unique way due to our form of ownership status – we are owned by the community that surrounds us. To a large extent, improving customers’ sustainability and digitisation involves future-proofing the community of which SE and the cooperative owners are a part, so we can address the challenges the future will bring. SE takes active part in several initiatives promoting sustainability and we update Every kWh saved can clearly be seen on the customour solutions in the field of climate and energy efficiency on an ongoing basis. The er’s baseline and will be reflected in a more sustainable new business unit SE Big Blue provides solutions for large Danish and foreign CSR profile. Some of the proceeds from these energy companies, to create visible baseline results and, at the same time, make a posisavings can be used to minimise climate impact, e.g. tive contribution to the CO2 balance sheet. We also provide energy solutions to by purchasing one or more additional value-creating medium-sized and small enterprises, as well as private enterprises, which not services, for example wind power, electric cars and only makes a positive contribution to Denmark’s journey towards a greener comfibre-based home-working services. munity, free of CO2, but also reinforces the cost-benefit to individual customers. SE Big Blue employees have acquired extensive expeSE is working actively to convert the entire energy system in Southern Denmark rience by advising on, and implementing some of the from fossil fuels to a modern, digital and sustainable energy system, also known largest climate and energy efficiency projects ever as “Smart Grid”, which is primarily electricity-based. A basic element of this seen in Denmark. This also applies to solutions created system is fibre broadband which SE is rolling out throughout South Jutland. for Kommunekemi A/S, Hartmann A/S, Linak A/S, Vestas A/S, Dansk Supermarked A/S, as well as The fibre network offers more and we are sure that it will also give companies and Aarhus and Esbjerg municipalities. Today, together ordinary families access to a whole range of new opportunities. There are very with our consulting engineering firm Enervision, who few Danes today who in one way or another have not noted the effect of the 21st specialises in energy efficiency, and the acquired CTScentury’s digital reality. One of the opportunities is without doubt an ever greater company H.O. Service, who specialises in the field of use of digital communications, such as video streaming, which is finding more smart climate and energy control and building autoand more applications as the quality increases and it becomes more stable. mation, we can provide a full-service portfolio. This Companies using video meetings and video conferences save many tonnes of full-service portfolio means that we can provide introtransport-related CO2. In the same way, we anticipate a massive increase in the ductory screening and consultancy, planning and use of video in future welfare solutions. This will not only affect the environment in implementation, as well as final documentation and a positive way as there will be less transport, but also reduce costs, as the scarce measurement services. In addition, we offer to guaranhuman resources we have available can be activated much more efficiently than tee and finance our solutions, so the customer only has is the case with physical attendance. to specify objectives and then hand the entire job over to SE – we’ll take care of the rest. Blue before green SE’s vision is to become the preferred cooperation partner for large Danish compaCommitment to wind power nies, municipalities and public organisations wanting to lower their energy costs It is SE’s ambition to spend almost one billion DKK by and at the same time exhibit climate awareness by creating the basis for a Denthe year 2015 on the construction of windmills. Windmark free of CO2. Before the end of 2015, SE Big Blue must succeed in reducing mills are a regular, sustainable, low-risk source of enertotal Danish energy consumption by at least 800 GWh compared with 2011, which gy, which are very much in line with the ambition to corresponds to a quarter of the electricity consumption across SE’s supply area. make Denmark CO2-neutral. With our commitment to 26 – 27 CSR Mission wind power, SE wants to ensure that South Jutland, along with the rest of Dentricity will to a large extent be replacing fossil fuels. mark, achieves its target for the amount of wind-generated electricity in our energy This electricity should be based primarily on windsystem. We find it an obvious extension to provide wind-generated electricity as a generated electricity, which means that it will become supplementary product to SE Big Blue customers, among others, to help them to much more difficult to control production quantities. CO2-neutralise their remaining energy consumption. The wind-generated electricity We must therefore introduce a control mechanism, which we provide to our customers in this case is additional, which means that the which can, amongst other things, adjust consumpmills are not part of any policy or constructed on government-owned land. We estition and feed extra production from specific commate that we will be able to construct the first land-based windmills in 2012. SE’s bined heat and power plants into the energy system. skills in the field of windmill construction are based on sound business practice, finance and strategic capacity. The electricity produced by the mills will be locally In addition, decentralised production will have to insourced. This ensures ownership for local owners and customers and means that crease significantly, e.g. using heat pumps and solar the profits can be used to generate new local investments. cells. Finally, electric cars will replace conventional cars based on fossil fuels, which will pose a signifiWe are of course aware of the challenges we face constructing windmills in the cant challenge to the electricity grid. All in all, this vicinity of residential areas and we are happy to enter into dialogue with local resiwill require a comprehensive, secure and prompt dents. We do hope however that this dialogue can be constructive. We have management approach. In this regard, since 2006, generally had a positive reception in connection with our windmill commitment. SE has been taking part in a project along with We have evidence of this from many different forums, including dialogue meetings Energinet.dk. The aim of the project is to ensure within the Board of Representatives, calls from local landowners offering land that, in the future, we can meet and cope with the plots independently of one another, and not least in our dialogue with local challenges posed by the energy system using municipalities. wind-generated electricity and many other sources. Sustainable energy solutions are for everyone Using SE’s fine-mesh electricity grid, fibre broadband For small and medium-sized enterprises and private customers, sustainable energy and large quantities of wind power, the project culmisolutions can also be an advantage as they reduce total Danish energy consumption nated in the spring of 2011 with a comprehensive test by more than 50%. We therefore work proactively, and calls for investment in sustainin the town of Holsted, involving approx. 25,000 elecable energy solutions, information meetings and campaigns have generally been well tricity meters. We tested how it would be possible to received, but we are also experiencing a huge increase in general interest from our regulate power and voltage in a local area wholly customers. without the help of large power stations. By measuring customers’ consumption, measuring production We have now decided to focus our offers on small and medium-sized enterprises as from the area’s 47 windmills and using the local comwell as private companies, and to offer different sustainable energy solutions, such as bined heat and power plant generators as a buffer, heat pumps, geothermal heat, solar cells and gas boilers – all products which can the test was successful and Holsted became the first make a significant difference to energy consumption, climate impact and not least place in the world where a trial of this kind was sucpeople’s wallets. We want to give access to energy-efficient solutions to as many cessfully carried out over an existing electricity grid people as possible, and customers who have enrolled in our “Din&Min-produkter” and with “real-life” customers. The experiences (“Your & my products”) scheme as a result of a financing partnership we established gained from this test must now be used to further dewith the bank Nykredit, can amortise their investments over the electricity bill by payvelop a system which can be scaled up and applied ing a disbursement of 15% and an interest rate of 7.5%. In addition, access is of to the rest of the country. course provided to various allowances, such as trade or company schemes. For further information, please visit se.dk or skat.dk. To ensure that this development continues and that SE’s electricity grid can be adjusted in the best and Our objective is to significantly increase sales of sustainable energy solutions to this most profitable way to meet the anticipated challengtarget group before 2015, and the target for 2012 is 2000 MW, compared with the es, SE has identified five ratios for changing over to 103 MW we achieved in 2011 by selling energy solutions to this target group. Smart Grid on SE’s electricity grid. Smart Grid The first ratio is the proportion of remotely read In the journey towards a sustainable and climate-friendly Denmark, the Danish electricity meters which today is 100%. By extension, energy system must undergo fundamental changes, and in these changes elecfocus is placed on the number of private customers CSR Report 2010 paying differentiated prices. In 2012, SE wants to carry out a test with 300 tivity by 7.3% and increase Danish GDP by DKK 169 private customers. It is hoped that this test can be the starting point for the billion by the year 2020. creation of one general solution for all our customers in the future. SE is also focussing on power in MW from windmills within SE’s supply area. For In a similar survey in 2011, the Boston Consulting decentralised production, we have a corresponding ratio for the number of Group came to the same conclusions. heat pumps – in particular including those with accumulation tanks as these can convert excess wind-generated electricity to hot water and therefore act A high-speed connection affects how attractive a as a buffer in the energy system. residential area is; it boosts local competitiveness – the number of local companies, job opportunities, The final focus area for us is the number of charging stations for electric cars in schools etc. and this in turn affects the attractiveness SE’s area. Calculations performed both by the Danish Energy Association and the of the area. Surveys carried out by the estate agency Climate Commission anticipate a significant increase in the number of electric chain, Home, and the commercial and professional cars in Denmark over the next few years. By 2025 it is expected there will be organisation, the Danish Energy Association, show 600,000 electric cars in Denmark, of which 60,000 will be garaged in SE’s supply amongst other things that three out of four house area. Over the next few years, we therefore want to focus on the number of buyers believe that high-speed Internet is important charging stations, not least because charging places a very significant strain on when buying a new home. the electricity grid. The reason SE has put so much effort into rolling out Fibre broadband fibre broadband is its desire to future-proof the region, Today fibre broadband already exploits the capacity of the electricity grid more and the fact that it is also profitable and closely linked efficiently. However, exploiting the intelligent energy system to the full and supto our other business makes the project even more porting conversion to a energy system based on renewable energy sources will attractive. require a massive, sustained roll-out of fibre broadband. We want to give something back to our cooperative As we mentioned in the introduction, we believe that a high level of digital availaowners, the region and to the community, and with fibility should be a universal right. A strong digital infrastructure will not only supbre broadband, SE can help create the necessary platport a sustainable society but also open up the opportunity to provide added form on which sustainability and digitisation can grow. value to the individual. At the same time, it will boost increased local competitiveness and bridge geographical distinctions. The latest broadband map produced by the Danish National Telecommunications Authority clearly shows that South Jutland is the leading fibre-broadband region in Denmark and that there are no other areas where the number of households and companies with access to superfast fibre broadband is so high. Number of customers using SE’s fibre broadband The possibility of receiving a broadband connection speed of at least 100 Mbit/s in Denmark increased by 25% in the period from the middle of 2010 to the middle of 2011. This was due in particular to SE’s expansion of fibre broadband. In 2011, 50.000 SE’s fibre broadband experienced a net growth of 15,200 customers, equivalent 45.000 45.247 to 50% growth, and we now have over 45,000 broadband customers with access 40.000 35.000 to unique digital experiences. 30.000 30.917 25.000 By increasing the stability and not least the speed of data traffic for both upload20.000 ing and downloading, it becomes increasingly possible to use distance learning, 21.004 15.000 video communications, digital welfare services, home-working etc. solutions 10.000 which will blur geographical distinctions and at the same time help future-proof 5.000 the Danish welfare system. 0 In a report from April 2010, Copenhagen Economics estimated that upgrading 2009 2010 2011 Danish broadband connections from 10 Mbit/s to 100 Mbit/s would raise produc03 SE wants to be a role model and inspire future generations 28 – 29 AS A ROLE MODEL WE WANT TO INSPIRE AS A ROLE MODEL WE WANT TO INSPIRE At SE, we believe it is important to “take our own medicine”. CSR is therefore more than just tables and management statements. It is important for us that SE’s values are seen as relevant to all employees throughout the company. It has been amazing to see how our employees have taken the values on board and made them their own. By applying the concepts of openness, proximity, courage and not least sustainability, SE’s employees can help create the optimum basis for what we call “the Baseline 2011 CO2 emissions in tonnes (excl. grid losses) overall customer experience”. When we encounter the outside world, we can vouch for our business with confidence and fulfil our role as a catalyst for and supplier of CSR initiatives. When we speak of taking our own medicine, our target is to halve our own CO2 emissions by 2020 compared with 2011. In practice, this involves lowering SE’s own energy consumption and climate impact. The target includes electricity, heat and fuel consumption in our buildings, cars, servers, transformer stations and street lighting, and total emissions for 2011 have been measured at 8,863 tonnes of CO2. Emissions from grid losses, i.e. kWh lost during transport in the electricity grid, amount to approx. 63,000 tonnes are not included in the target. A certain amount of grid loss is inevitable when electricity is transported over an electricity grid and setting such a high percentage target for this is not realistic. SE is working constantly to reduce grid loss, which in 2011 was 5.3%, and is targeting a reduction to 4.9% by 2013. On this basis, future annual reports will track developElectricity consumption in buildings ............................................................... 1.687 ments in SE’s climate impact as we approach 2020. Heat in buildings ..................................................................................................................................... 333 Transformer stations .................................................................................................................. 1.077 The first major step on the way is the construction of our new premises in Esbjerg Street lighting ..................................................................................................................................... 2.882 which will have a unique and sustainable energy profile. As a consequence of the SE’s vehicles, mobile and stationary generators ...................... 2.884 construction of these new premises and an upgrading of our office in Sønderborg, Total CO2 emissions, tonnes ..................................................................... 8.863 we have decided to close our departments in Agerskov, Skærbæk, Ølgod, Haderslev and Aabenraa. To further reduce climate impact, we will also focus on better exploitation of resources in administration, on increasing exploitation of digital options and ultimately on making SE’s vehicle fleet more climate-friendly, both in terms of service vehicles and company cars. With our promise to halve our CO2 emissions by 2020, we want to show that it is possible to have big ambitions and still achieve 30 – 31 AS A ROLE MODEL WE WANT TO INSPIRE The new headquarters must set up a beacon for intelligent energy systems, where energy management ensures that renewable energy sources are exploited to the maximum extent. ambitious economic targets. The pivotal points in our working day must be charof new solutions and use smart energy systems and acterised by mutually supportive sustainability and profitability which also reflect associated energy management systems to optimally and reinforce our culture and values. exploit renewable energy sources. Denmark’s largest commercial building built to the Passive House Standard Sustainable administration The ground for SE’s new head office was broken on 14 November 2011 and it will Of course, it is not enough to create the perfect physibe ready for occupancy in May 2013. The building is a unique project as it is being cal frameworks. We also have to focus on what hapconstructed in accordance with all applicable regulations of the Passive House pens in these frameworks – and a number of areas of Standard and will be the country’s largest commercial building conforming to this everyday administration have been considered as part standard – and the fifth largest building in Europe. With one of the country’s of the planning process for the new building. This largest photovoltaic systems covering 1,800 m², our aim is for the house to comply means focussing strongly on: with a plus-energy house standard according to Danish building regulations. It will accommodate an earth-cooled server farm which can compete with Google and • a  fast digital infrastructure with efficient video Facebook on energy efficiency. At over 10,500 m², the office building will not only conferencing create a good climate framework but also an optimal working framework for 420 • reduced paper consumption employees with plenty of space and light. • charging stations for electric cars • optimised energy management systems The building includes 10,682 m² for administration and innovation facilities and 2,910 m² of storage space and will be a certified passive house which fulfils the The planning process is in full swing and we have alanticipated 2020 energy requirements. ready integrated a number of initiatives promoting sustainable administration. These involve ensuring that, as The premises in Esbjerg will be a unique example of the application and managefar as possible, invoices are sent digitally – currently ment of renewable energy sources in tandem with more traditional energy sys82% of all our customers are billed digitally via the tems. It will be a building in which comfortable internal temperatures can be obbanking payment service PBS. Another example is tained in both summer and winter with an extremely low energy consumption that in 2011 the vast majority of SE’s payslips were – which means very significant reductions in the heating requirement. The premissent out electronically and this will apply to all payslips es’ neutrality will be achieved through a number of variable solutions. Amongst from April onwards. In addition, it should be noted that other things, the building will be required to be compact and have good daylight, for a long time now, we have been using video confermechanical, energy-efficient ventilation, energy-efficient lighting, thermo-active encing facilities in several of our meeting rooms. Howstructures, energy accumulation systems, systems for exploiting excess heat, pasever, we can always do better, and therefore in 2012 sive earth cooling systems, geothermal systems, solar cells, an optimised building we want to implement the option of video-meetings envelope and a green roof, etc. Every detail affects the overall CO2 balance sheet, and video conferences from employees’ own desks. the everyday working environment and the further development of smart energy We are currently unable to give an exact percentage systems. for these savings, but with SE offices as far afield as Esbjerg, Sønderborg, Aarhus and Copenhagen, The aim of the new headquarters is also to help promote the further development having weekly meetings online means we save many CSR report 2011 miles spent on the road. Our objective is to optimise server operation by means of give figures for specific savings, but with regard to virtualisation, to reduce the number of physical servers and make cooling more fuelSMS, we know that, in companies offering a similar efficient, but we currently do not have the required data to assess our total energy service to SE’s, savings of 15-20% have been consumption from server operations and cannot therefore set quantitative targets achieved in the first year, after which further savings for the future. This is a priority for 2012. are made in motivation periods. Our vehicles’ environmental profile In 2011, SE has given more attention to the environSE provides services over a large geographical area and we have offices across mental profiles of its company cars and has agreed in Denmark. We are therefore naturally focussing on our vehicles’ environmental prothis regard that, in the future, any new acquisition by files to reduce our climate impact. At SE, we have more than 245 on-the-road emSE will involve environmental class A or B cars and ployees who often have to drive heavily laden vehicles. At the beginning of 2011, that we will implement incentive structures to ensure SE chose a new strategy aiming to ensure that service vehicles will be able to that they are driven with reference to this class. Envireduce their weight significantly in the future. All service vehicles must therefore ronmentally responsible driving benefits both the enviundergo a lean assessment where fitters and service technicians implement ronment and the economy. With this in mind, we have measures, such as emptying the service vehicle, organising the equipment and increased our focus of fuel-economising guidelines, unloading anything not relevant to everyday work. All vehicles are weighed before e.g. those covering tyre pressure, acceleration and and after the process. On average we succeeding in reducing the weight of the speed. It is SE’s ambition to focus on everyday driving first 30 vehicles by approx. 165 kg per vehicle and if this weight reduction transin company cars by integrating the fuelSMS scheme lates to the approx. 160 service vehicles on the road, this could mean these vehiinto company car ownership. cles are travelling with more than 26 tonnes of unnecessary weight. In this way, we have not only been able to optimise our fitters’ working conditions but also signifiFinally, it should be mentioned that, from 2012, SE is cantly reduced our vehicles’ fuel consumption. taking part in an electric car project Testenelbil.dk in which our employees are given the option of borrowWe are also making use of fuelSMS, a system whereby our fitters and service ing an electric car for private use for a three-month technicians send an SMS after refuelling and receive a return-SMS containing period. At the turn of 2012, SE therefore has four elecconsumption statistics. Once a month we receive a report summarising the techtric company cars, ten Testenelbil.dk electric cars and nicians’ consumption. Alongside the implementation of fleet management across one hybrid car. And this is only the start of the process the entire Group, this is a relatively recent initiative for which we are still unable to of halving our CO2 emissions by 2020. 04 Together we can create ripples in the water and achieve ambitious common goals 32 – 33 COOPERATION WITH OTHERS COOPERATION WITH OTHERS Local cooperation on products, projects and agendas enables us to bring developments in the field of sustainability and digitisation to new audiences. SE wants to support the community by cooperating and entering partnerships www.choosev.dk. During 2010, ChoosEV implementwith relevant players. This will be based in three focus areas: ed Europe’s largest electric car project called Testenelbil.dk, which compiles the experiences of ordinary The first area is involving ourselves in development projects creating new conmotorists with future modes of transport. At the same cepts, products and/or skills. We believe that action-oriented development protime, the investigation provides valuable experience of jects are worth more than a thousand PowerPoint presentations. SE therefore acthe charging and overall economy of electric cars. tively involves itself in, participates in, and supports development projects to gain experience, develop new knowledge and influence the behaviour of our customThe cars continue to improve in areas such as range, ers and the wider community. ChoosEV, Project Zero, Viva VARDE and Syddansk size and comfort which will strengthen their position in Energicenter (Energy Centre of Southern Denmark) are just some of our current the market. We have to keep focussing on creating cooperation partners and development projects. the right infrastructure so motorists can travel further between charging stations. We have therefore estabThe second area is establishing proactive supplier partnerships where we can lished several quick-charge stations and in 2012, they reach new heights and develop new standards for what is possible. Active coopwill also be found in both Sønderborg and Esbjerg. At eration with our suppliers enables us to create growth, jobs, new solutions and the same time, more favourable conditions have been new opportunities. This is an area we are currently trying to develop. However, we created for private charging, for example by installing already currently have proactive supplier partnerships, e.g. with companies such two electricity meters per home. as Trend, Danfoss and Cisco. 2011 was also the year when we entered an official Finally cooperation with others involves cluster cooperation partners and others, cooperation agreement with the infrastructure supwhere we, together with our industry, cluster and alliance partners, support agenplier Siemens, and established good cooperation with das promoting sustainability and digitisation. Our current partners include the BetterPlace with regard to roaming which enables us Lean Energy Cluster, the Danish Energy Association and Esbjerg Energy Metroto use each other’s charging infrastructure. The role of polis where we combine our sustainability and digitisation agendas with business electric cars is coming into sharper focus through growth and job creation. these cooperation partners and in the future, they can be included in the product range offered by SE Big ChoosEV Blue in our partnership agreements. Both the former climate commission and the current government point out that electric cars will play a decisive role in the smart, electricity-based energy sysProject Zero tems of the future. We therefore set great store in the experiences we gain SE is one of the authors of the so-called “Project through ChoosEV which is half-owned by SE. It currently helps us to create a Zero” the aim of which is to work towards making much greater insight into the future role of electric cars. Sønderborg Municipality CO2-neutral by 2029. The municipality functions as a full-scale, top-class testing We currently have a much deeper understanding of, for example, the charging environment, enabling us to gather knowledge which and consumption patterns of electric cars which means that we can take this into can be used to further develop future solutions. Proaccount when designing modern energy systems. Read more on ChoosEV at ject Zero focusses not only on technology and innova34 – 35 COOPERATION WITH OTHERS By focussing on energy efficiency, together we can strengthen Denmark’s position and competitiveness on the burgeoning international market. tion but also to a large extent on community involvement. The context is crucial solutions, such as video meetings, more attractive, when future energy systems have to be translated into reality. Read more about which not only creates better opportunities for homeProject Zero at www.projectzero.dk. working but also facilitates medical consultations and education. For SE, Project Zero means to a large extent that there is increased focus on the Smart Grid and the further development thereof. In 2012, this involves getting citiThe roll-out of fibre broadband can – and must – be a zens involved, changing their behaviour and further contributing to climate-friendstimulus for growth. The precondition for this is suply conversion. port amongst the population. Citizens supporting and choosing fibre broadband create fertile ground for Evidence of the growing interest in energy exploitation and climate-friendly alterproductivity and make companies and investments natives can also be seen in that, relatively speaking, Sønderborg Municipality has more attractive, which in turn increases the number of more than double the amount of people wanting to scrap their oil heating systems jobs which otherwise would not have been created. In compared with the rest of Denmark. The order books indicate that this is leading this cooperation, we see many parallels with the time to a huge interest in devices such as heat pumps and also in our newly develwhen cooperative societies were created. There was oped smart heat pumps, and we are therefore convinced that the project is creata need to take collective action to create opportunities ing fertile ground for greener future communities. and growth. We can do the same today. And as a cooperative society, this is what we are pledged to do. As a cooperative society, SE’s aim is to be a company which shares it experiences in Sønderborg with all municipalities in South Jutland. We can see evidence Energy Centre of Southern Denmark of this today in that SE has, amongst other things, also entered into a climate In 2011, SE decided to donate DKK 9.5 million to espartnership with Esbjerg Municipality and, at the same time, we are cooperating tablish the new Energy Centre of Southern Denmark with universities, official bodies, companies and private customers on smart enerat the University of Southern Denmark, the focus of gy solutions. which is the smart management of energy consumption. We are facing a revolution in the way we manage Viva VARDE energy in the future and for precisely this reason we Like many municipalities in what has been dubbed “Peripheral Denmark”, Varde are grateful that we can realise our ambition to estabMunicipality is struggling with a huge migration of people from rural areas to the lish cooperation with the University of Southern Denlarge towns, which does not only affect the composition of the population but mark whose aim is to focus on precisely this topic. also very significantly increases costs per citizen. This problem can be addressed The aim is to create a regional centre with a global by lowering the costs of services or by attracting new citizens. We believe that fivision focussing strongly on developing sustainable bre broadband can help with both these factors. SE is taking part in Viva VARDE energy technologies. Central to this is cooperation with the aim of making Varde Municipality Denmark’s first gigabit municipality. between the many energy companies in all regions in By providing high-speed broadband connections, we make the use of digital order to translate research into reality. The new centre CSR report 2011 should produce results which benefit the citizens and training courses in the reour customers. A supplier partnership must be based gion and, at the same time, make us more competitive in knowledge-intensive on mutual confidence and a desire to achieve new energy products on a global level. The centre should also help ensure that many heights of cooperation in which both SE and the supmore young people take the engineering courses which are such in demand by plier help to create added value for our customers the region’s biggest companies, so that the region gets a substantial proportion through development and efficiency. of the many greener jobs available in the future. Cooperation with suppliers such as Cisco and Lean Energy Cluster Danfoss does not just enable us to promote the The aim of the Lean Energy Cluster is to promote the development of energyfurther development of sustainable solutions and efficient solutions to such a level as to create new markets, jobs and economic digitisation. growth. This has our unequivocal support and, through our participation, we want to contribute to the testing and further development of energy-efficient technoloAt the same time, we create better and more profitagies and solutions. Cluster cooperation enables us to show that focussing on enble solutions for our customers, such as the smart ergy efficiency and the unique knowledge Denmark traditionally has in this area is heat pumps with accumulation tanks, and discuss the both sustainable and profitable. By doing this, together we can help to strengthen options for dialogue tools which can make use of the Denmark’s position and competitiveness on the burgeoning international market. fibre broadband’s speeds and stability. Specifically, we are helping to develop an electric refuse collection vehicle which We have also entered into cooperation agreements can save approx. 5,000 litres of diesel annually and reduce CO2 emissions by up with two other fibre companies and Waoo! to benchto 15 tonnes per vehicle. The refuse collection vehicle was presented to politimark ratios every month. Amongst other things, this cians at Christiansborg at the beginning of January 2012 and will now be tested will enable us to report uptimes, fault elimination times in Esbjerg Municipality. and the replacement of equipment. In this way we can optimise operations further, share experiences with Supplier partnerships colleagues from within the sector and thereby further SE wants to create proactive supplier partnerships to generate added value for strengthen our customer services. 05 High job satisfaction levels and strong unity create the best customer experiences 36 – 37 THE STRONGEST TEAM THE STRONGEST TEAM At SE, we are setting the strongest team by letting the right skills flourish in the right place, allowing diversity to create space for new opportunities and encouraging good experiences through job satisfaction. A happy employee reflects a healthy business and is fundamental to the overall customer experience. SE’s team comprises employees with various skills. We are working constantly to within the scheme, two of whom are themselves dysmaintain a unique and inclusive employee culture in which everyone can achieve lexic, who are on hand to provide insight and knowtheir full potential. SE values qualifications over gender, age, ethnicity and geograledge. In 2011 alone, five people registered for this phy as it is the qualities and skills of the individual which is the decisive factor when scheme and further initiatives in 2012 should ensure we as a team are creating optimal working conditions and results. To ensure the that we are helping those employees who are able to strongest team, SE focusses on continuing to promote inclusiveness and diversity. benefit from the tools provided. This includes support and help with training or offers for flexible solutions for those wishing to retain a link to the labour market. The everyday working environment Job satisfaction and the related job satisfaction levels among employees is also high on the agenda. We want to continue to develop our excellent working environment where employees’ skills have room to Inclusiveness and diversity flourish. It is important to have a culture in which emHistorically, our industry has had a predominance of male employees, which in ployees are happy with their everyday tasks, colterms of interest has imposed its own restrictions on how diverse and representaleagues and managers and which has room for positive SE’s employees have been. tive experiences. In addition to an extra initiative to change the immediate picture of our industry, We note that our employees indicate they are happy to SE’s new climate agenda and increased focus on customer services has led to a come to work, that they are attentive and committed change and renewal of the image of both the company and the industry. and, at the same time, willing to take responsibility. To keep our finger on the pulse of employee job satisfacAlthough we have already seen great changes in the profiles of those seeking a tion, SE carries out three job-satisfaction surveys anjob with SE, as well as internal redeployments, SE has also planned further initianually. These surveys target a positive job-satisfaction tives in 2012. We will promote initiatives that inspire continued development in the level of 75% for each of the 14 statements contained in fields of gender, ethnicity and professional groups. the survey. When all statements are above the target level, this target is raised. If a team does not reach the At SE, our aim is to actively support people who need a little extra help and flexirequired level, it is the responsibility of managers to bility to maintain a link to the labour market. For example, this may be because take the initiative to improve job satisfaction in the apemployees have a physical or mental impairment, come from ethnic backgrounds propriate area before the next survey. other than Danish, lack training or have reached an age where they are thinking about retirement or semi-retirement. We have introduced a mainly internal ‘flexjob’ In 2011, the total job satisfaction level for the statement scheme for employees who after many years’ dedicated service find they are una“Overall, I am very satisfied with my work” was 85%; ble to work with the same vigour. We do however also invite external employees this statement summarises the overall experience of who face particular work-related challenges in the organisation. In total, in 2011 we job satisfaction at SE. At the same time, there is still had eight people in the flexjob scheme and two on trial. work to be done in terms of our feedback culture, where only 74% believe they receive sufficient praise SE has specifically made an extra effort to help dyslexic employees who amongst and recognition. We have therefore spent a longer other things are offered clarification courses, reading programmes for computers time focussing on this issue and have arranged courand training in the use of computers. Internally we have a handful of ambassadors ses and team events on feedback management. 38 – 39 THE STRONGEST TEAM Another important job-satisfaction indicator is absence through sickness which lege EUC Syd in which it was agreed the EUC Syd, we monitor on an ongoing basis. Both absence through sickness and the result of among others, should submit solution proposals for the job-satisfaction surveys is available to all SE employees on the intranet. The future continuing education and apprenticeship polifigures are displayed along with our EBITDA, customer access, fibre contracts, cies at SE. etc. as employee welfare is closely connected with the business’ overall results. In the last 3 years, SE has targeted total absence through sickness of no higher In 2011, a model was also introduced for identifying than 3% per year, which is also the target for 2012. It is therefore gratifying that the talent amongst the managers in the company with reaverage absence through sickness for 2011 totalled 2.93%, a figure which is still gard further individual development. The model evalusignificantly below the average for the Region of Southern Denmark. ates the manager’s behaviour, 360-degree evaluation, skills, job satisfaction and, of course, the manager’s Great Place to Work performance results and estimated potential. The In 2011, SE decided to enter the competition “Great Place to Work” for the first model will eventually be applied at all levels at SE. time, achieving a 7th place in the category for large workplaces in Denmark with more than 500 employees. Our primary objective in taking part is to learn how we Organisational changes can improve job satisfaction and employee development even further, by comparDue to a number of major organisational changes and ing ourselves with other large, Danish workplaces. SE got strong feedback, espesubsequent changes to job specifications in 2011, cially on our cultural profile which placed great emphasis on the extent of SE’s culwe unfortunately had to give notice to approx. 25 tural journey, on the pride in the company which has been built up in recent years employees. and the unity created at SE after the silos were broken down in the last few years. It is our firm belief that all dismissals were handled The winner was McDonald’s Danmark which has managed to cultivate communiwith dignity and in an orderly fashion. All were subsety, job flexibility and talent and skills development extraordinarily well. We now quently offered help to find a new job in the form of naturally want to try to learn from the many good examples we experienced, in outplacement courses, continuing education offers, dialogue with our employees. etc. With over 100 new employees in 2011, it may seem paradoxical that we had to give notice to emTalent and skills development ployees, but if SE is to accommodate future developAt SE, our aim is to develop our employees to optimise support for the targets set ment and meet future challenges, we have to show out in our business plan and to attract some of the country’s biggest talents. Can due diligence and acquire new and specialised skills. we learn from McDonald’s, do we want to? To develop the appropriate skills, SE The organisational changes were therefore necessary enables managers and employees to continue education on an ongoing basis. in order to strengthen the overall SE team. This takes the form of long-term courses, intensive courses, e-learning and other qualification initiatives. We want to take the needs of the individual manager and SE wants to remain a safe workplace employee as our starting point and, when these needs are identified, offer specific SE continues to emphasise its desire to maintain a continuing education courses, either in-house or with our external partners. In good physical and psychological working environment 2011, SE entered into a Big Blue partnership agreement with the vocational col– both ‘operationally’ in everyday work and more forCSR report 2011 mally through the working environment group (previously known as the safety ly assess whether procedures and working conditions group). SE’s goal has always been, and will continue to be, a safe workplace. Obare optimal. In 2011, we had 11 work-related accidents, viously with our electricity grid, which is one of the company’s primary business three of which caused extended periods of absence. areas, safety has always had the highest priority in our approach to tasks. It is of fundamental importance to provide our employees with a working framework in However, should our employees experience serious which they can carry out their work safely under optimal working conditions. incidents which may cause psychological injury, we Working conditions are closely monitored by the working environment group. have a procedure where the employee is put in contact with a psychologist for discussion and debriefing, Should an employee have an accident or experience a near-accident in connection so potential consequences can be dealt with before with work, the circumstances are examined by the committee and we subsequentthey develop. Latest job-satisfaction surveys Number of employees ith positive responses to the statement “Overall, I am very satisfied with my work” End 100 1000 90 900 96,5 80 800 87,7 85,0 85,0 70 700 60 600 720 50 500 592 592 40 400 30 300 20 200 10 100 0 0 May 2010 October 2010 February 2011 September 2011 2009 2010 2011 06 It is a natural social responsibility to train apprentices and students 40 – 41 INVOLVEMENT IN THE COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT IN THE COMMUNITY At SE, we engage in the community of which we are a part and therefore in the lives of our cooperative owners. Our aim is to enhance our presence in South Jutland and be open about our business and the activities we undertake. SE is a consumer-owned cooperative society, which means that we feel that we share huge responsibility and have a duty to ensure growth and development in our supply area. We have therefore chosen to actively involve ourselves, where we can promise the future security of the community of which we are a part. The basic theory at SE is to unite two global megatrends. Sustainability and digitisation. By doing this, we will create new business opportunities in our region. In previous years, there has been a lot spoken about “Uneven Denmark”, “Peripheral Denmark” and the synergies needed to ensure that South Jutland does not miss out from a business and social perspective. The question is what has to be done to enhance competitiveness, create and retain jobs, develop skills and support cohesion. Fibre broadband creates growth At SE, we have decided to roll out fibre broadband across South Jutland and we are convinced that this will help ensure the necessary growth and development in the region. We hear this from our business customers, at the training institutes and from our own employees who can work from home. Fibre broadband gives the region’s companies a competitive advantage, it gives citizens new ways to access public training and welfare services, and opens up AVAILABILITY OF 100 MBIT/S whole new opportunities for individual families to exploit their digital media. SE’s DOWNSTREAM huge investment in and roll-out of fibre broadband is therefore much more than “just” a good product for the individual customer, it is an investment in the Danish Broadband mapping designed by the Danish National Telecommunications Agency in 2011. society. The colours clearly show that South Jutland is the preeminent fibre broadband region in Calculations from Copenhagen Economics indicate, amongst other things, that Denmark. investment in fibre broadband is one of the most effective growth mechanisms. Their calculations specifically show that fibre broadband will result in growth of Coverage and postcodes approx. 7% of GDP, equivalent to approx. DKK 169 billion at national level. 80 to 100% (106) 60 to 80% (93) 40 to 60% (87) Specifically, over 172,000 households and companies now have access to SE’s 20 to 40% (66) fibre broadband which currently has over 45,000 customers. In 2011 alone, net 1 to 20% (134) customer growth was 15,300, of which 1,300 were business subscribers. In 2011, 0 to 1% (100) SE’s customer base therefore grew by 50%, which means that we are on track to Source: Broadband mapping, 2011 meet our business plan commitment to ensure that South Jutland remains Denmark’s preeminent fibre broadband region. 42 – 43 THE STRONGEST TEAM Apprentices, students and trainees prospects for the region in the future, whether this be For us, training apprentices and students and running practical courses for citiresearch into smart energy, the training of energy enzens to hone the skills, etc. needed for future employment, is a natural part of the gineers, the development and embedding of future company’s activities and social responsibility. The number of apprentices and energy systems that can bring about a fossil fuel-free students at SE has been increasing in the last few years. In 2011, we had two apsociety or energy solutions which can create a CO2prentice electricians, two students acting as technical assistants, two economics free Denmark. Today, SE is concluding several initiastudents and two IT support students. In addition we organised seven practical tives promoting social and business development. and clarification courses with one marketing student, one graphic designer, two electricians, one graduate in heavy current engineering, one media sales trainee In addition, SE has great expectations for our future and one trainee in operations/fibre services. business park in Esbjerg which we call “Next Step City”. The business park was introduced as SE broke With the size SE today has grown to we feel obliged to take on as many appliground for the new headquarters. The aim is for Next cants for apprenticeship, student and trainee courses as possible. We do not Step City to create and attract more than 1,000 have a specific target number as it is essential for us to be able to offer contentknowledge-based jobs in the field of Smart Grid rich courses with good future prospects, which naturally places a limit on the development. number of places; everything depends on which areas applications relate to and how heavy the workload is in those parts of the organisation responsible for apAs mentioned previously, it is the fusing of sustainabilplicants. Given that we have expanded our gross number of employees, it is only ity and digitisation which will create growth in Esbjerg natural that the number of apprenticeships will reflect his and that we will take on and Southern Denmark. Next Step City is living proof further apprentices, students and trainees in 2012. of this. The project will cover more than 70,000 square meters and the business park’s target group is Support for social and business development development-oriented companies, working in the field SE is concluding a number of initiatives in which we provide support for the furof energy, climate and the high-speed Internet (based ther development of business and the community. This occurs largely in the coon digital solutions than can benefit from fibre broadoperation agreements described in the section ‘Cooperation with others’. SE band). With this in mind, SE is making available resupports projects such as the Energy Centre of Southern Denmark, Project Zero sources and infrastructure for innovative companies and the LEAN Energy Cluster because we are convinced that this will improve the wanting to run full-scale development projects. CSR report 2011 Smart energy management of renewable energy and climate-friendly solutions SE’s support pool and events are the key to ensuring an efficient and CO2-free Denmark. With its central hub of In addition to the three principal main sponsorships, critical infrastructure available virtually everywhere in the new business park and EfB Football Club, SønderjyskE Ice Hockey Club the physical frameworks Next Step City offers, we are in no doubt that we have in and SE Arena in Vojens, SE has a pool for smaller place a strong stimulus for world-class growth and innovation. sponsorships. We provide support without any expectation of active participation. By focussing on creSocial involvement and charity in dialogue with our surroundings ating value for the region and/or the customer, this At SE we believe in our hearts that openness about our experiences, successes, pool supports sport, culture and charity. SE distribfailures and challenges can create value and contribute positively to the world utes money once a year and anyone can apply for around us. We do not believe that ‘he who lives quietly, lives well’ but that we can sponsorship. The only criteria are that the applicant reach new heights through knowledge sharing and dialogue. and activity must by connected with our supply area and have an ethical value base which SE can support. We often receive invitations to speak to associations, clubs, networks, trade assoOur many small sponsorships are awarded from this ciations, training institutes and political conventions. We believe that making oursupport pool, which in 2012 is worth DKK 500,000. selves available for presentations and lectures through which we can share the Most receive somewhere between DKK 1,000 and cooperative ideal and inspire active participation is a fundamental duty. It is preDKK 20,000. cisely in the interaction with the community around us that we can get a feel for the issues affecting it. It enables us to address, embrace and at times provoke any As a new initiative, in 2012, SE will hold a 3-day attitudes that may exist. Through these meetings, 5-10 of which our Executive staged cycle race in collaboration with the newspaper Board members attend in a typical week, SE can inject enthusiasm, inspiration JydskeVestkysten and a number of influential sponand not least support for our products, initiatives and the journey we find oursors from South Jutland. The race will be called the selves on. A good example of this is SE’s meetings with people living in the vicinity SE Tour and it will be held for the first time from 31st of planned windmills, where the general attitude to windpower is positive, as long August until the 2nd September 2012. We are cycling as it happens in someone else’s backyard. We believe that openness is a decisive on behalf of the adventure clubs run by Save the factor, together with accurate information. When SE meets local residents, we Children for vulnerable children in South Jutland generally encounter optimism. Many living in the vicinity see opportunities rather and the 150 places in the race have already been than obstacles and offer land or suggest related business support initiatives. snapped up. Apprentices Students Trainees Number, last 3 years Number, last 3 years Number, last 3 years 10 10 10 9 9 9 10 8 8 8 7 7 7 7 7 6 6 6 5 5 5 5 4 4 4 4 3 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 1 1 1 0 ? 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 INTEREST IN SOLAR CELLS IS BOOMING Calculations carried out by the audit firm Deloitte show that solar cells may currently be a better investment than an annuity pension scheme. It is recommended that people make an individual assessment of their own circumstances and requirements. Facts and tabl es >> AUDITOR’S REPORT We have reviewed SE’s CSR report for 2011 (“the Report”). The company’s Executive Board is responsible for the preparation of the Report and has approved it. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on this Report based on our review. Our review was based on good practice and applicable standards for the provision of an independent auditor’s report on the CSR Report, including ISAE 3000, Assurance Engagements Other Than Audit or Review of Historical Financial Information issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, the IAASB. The purpose and scope of the engagement was agreed with the company’s Executive Board and included the subject matters for which conclusions are expressed below. On the basis of an evaluation of materiality and risk, we carried out analytical procedures, interviews and a random review of the information provided to support the subject matters. We believe that our review provides a reasonable basis for our conclusion on the subject matters which has been provided with limited assurance. A review engagement provides less assurance than an audit engagement. Conclusions Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that: 1. The Report does not provide a fair picture of the status of implementation of CSR policies and strategy. 2. SE has not implemented systems in the company, the aim of which is to identify and examine material CSR issues described in the Report. 3. SE has not systematically identified, collated, summarised and validated the information on material CSR issues to be included in the Report, see the description of reporting practice on page 48. 4. Information for 2011 in the Report is not consistent with the information collated using these procedures, and has not been fairly reproduced in the Report. 5. SE’s CSR reporting practice is not, in all material aspects, in accordance with GRI reporting principles and SE’s GRI index presented in the Report does not satisfactorily reflect the location of information on the various elements and indicators of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines in SE’s CSR Report 2011 and Annual Report 2011. Esbjerg, 21 March 2012 Deloitte Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab Jan Toustrup Preben J. Sørensen State Authorised State Authorised Public Accountant Public Accountant Partner Corporate Responsibility 48 – 49 PACKING REPORTING PRACTICE Unless otherwise stated, data covers the units included in the report. Basis for the data M = measured C = calculated Indicator E = estimated Calculation method Financial ratios c Ratios are generated using the accounting practice described in SE’s Annual Report 2011. Beyond the scope of this report, data covers affiliated companies in which SE has dominant influence, i.e. more than 50% ownership. Distribution, security of supply m Electricity grid downtime and losses are measured directly using SE’s and grid loss, electricity grid remotely read meters and measurement data from Energinet.dk. Energy savings c Energy savings cover total energy savings which SE can document via the engineering firm Enervision. The calculation follows the guidelines issued by the Danish Energy Agency. Customers and coverage, c Data is generated using SE’s customer system, based on fibre broadband area data from KMD and DM Partner A/S. Mapping of availability of 100 Mbit/s connections has been carried out by the Ministry of Business and Growth and covers that proportion of households and companies which, possibly with a modest degree of effort, are able to access the Internet via a specific broadband connection. CO2-emissions c CO2-emissions cover scope 1 and 2 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (World Resource Institute) for those units and activities included in the Report. Emissions resulting from grid losses have been determined separately. Consumption data for electricity, heating and fuel are based on own measurements and statements from supply companies and fuel companies. However, electricity consumption in transformer stations is estimated. CO2 calculation has been performed using the Danish Energy Agency’s standard value factors for fossil fuels and factors obtained from Energinet and district heating installations for 2011. Greenhouse gases other than CO2 are not included in the calculation. Our vehicles’ environmental profile m Average reduction in weight in service vehicles has been measured by weighing the vehicles before and after a lean-review. Personnel data c The number of employees, including apprentices, students and persons employed under the flexjob scheme and undergoing trial periods are calculated using SE’s payroll system. Work accidents include registered accidents causing at least one day’s absence. Longer periods of absence are defined as absence for more than one month. Job satisfaction m Job-satisfaction surveys are carried out 3 times a year, of which two contain 14 statements indicating consensus. The third and more detailed job-satisfaction survey was carried out in connection with the competition “Great Place to Work 2011”. The job-satisfaction level is based on a weighted average of the responses from the first two surveys and may lie between 20% and 100%. CSR report 2011 The Group’s key figures and ratios The Group’s key figures and ratios 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 TDKK TDKK TDKK TDKK TDKK Key figures Net turnover 2.685.473 2.955.230 2.342.903 2.386.244 2.879.198 Gross profit margin 271.599 248.805 290.512 545.114 684.664 Personnel expenses 232.951 252.626 278.765 294.525 368.201 EBITDA 38.648 -3.821 19.063 250.589 316.463 Operating profit -222.582 -327.354 -918.467 -193.948 72.643 Profit/loss of equity investments 320.388 257.377 -268.228 41.413 55.788 Net financials 83.454 -113.843 29.837 -18.737 -28.545 Annual profit/loss 389.686 -111.140 -911.544 -125.184 48.261 Equity 10.244.470 10.114.413 9.172.869 9.021.866 9.025.808 Total shares 12.044.984 11.892.265 10.825.123 10.840.269 11.789.238 Investments in property, plant and equipment 1.097.124 1.688.287 661.450 477.888 694.426 Invested capital including goodwill 7.143.389 8.527.848 8.053.411 8.007.681 7.474.218 Net interest-bearing debt -2.380.281 -611.448 175.306 441.026 706.964 Ratios Number of employees 569 590 592 592 720 Job-satisfaction levels (%) 87,7 85,5 Work accidents 10 11 Grid losses (5) 5,1 5,3 CO2-emissions, excl. grid losses (tonnes) 8.863 Documented energy savings (million kWh) 77,3 48,3 21,9 101,2 114 Return on equity (%) 3,9 -1,1 -9,5 -1,4 0,5 Solvency ratio (%) 85,1 85,1 84,8 83,2 76,6 50 – 51 PACKING GRI Oversigt Indicator GRI description Reference or specification of indicator Page 1.1 Management statement CSR is a natural part of the journey 11-12 2.1 Name of the organisation About SE 17 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services About SE 14 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation About SE 16 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters About SE 17 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates In 2011, SE’s major activities were in Denmark 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form SE’s Annual Report 2011 2.7 Markets served (incl. geographic breakdown, sectors served and About SE types of customers/beneficiaries) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation: Number of employees SE’s ratios 9 Net sales SE’s ratios 9 Total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity SE’s Annual Report 2011 Quantity of products and services offered About SE 15 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, No significant changes structure or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 3 awards: 2 x wins in Waoo’s customer satisfaction survey and one placement in Great Place to Work EU3 Number of customers SE’s ratios 9 EU4 Length of transmission and distribution lines by voltage SE’s Annual Report 2011 3.1 Reporting period About this report 7 3.2 Date of most recent report This is SE’s first CSR report 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding this report or its contents SE’s ratios 9 3.5 Process for defining report content About this report 7 3.6 Delimitation of the report About this report 7 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or delimitation of the report About this report 7 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, About this report 7 outsourced operations, etc. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases for the data Scope and reporting methods 48 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided This is SE’s first CSR report in earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, This is SE’s first CSR report delimitation, or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report This table 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under SE’s Annual Report 2011 the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also the This is not the case CEO/an executive officer 4.3 State the number of members of the highest governance body that are All members of the highest governance body are independent and/or non-executive members independent 4.4 Mechanisms for cooperative owners and employees to provide recomImproving customers’ sustainability and digitisation 26 mendations or direction to the highest governance body 43 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged in the organisation About this report 7 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders of relevance for About this report 7 the organisation CSR report 2011 Indicator GRI description Reference or specification of indicator Page EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed SE’s ratios (partially reported) 9 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organiImproving customers’ sustainability and 25-26 sation’s activities due to climate change digitisation Cooperation with others 33-35 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services Involvement in the community 41 provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagement EU6 Management approach to ensure short and long-term electricity availLegitimate and responsible business practice 21 ability and reliability EU8 Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at providCooperation with others 34-35 ing reliable electricity and promoting sustainable development 41 EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy As a role model we want to inspire 29 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Legitimate and responsible business practice 23 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based Improving customers’ sustainability and digitisation 25-27 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight As a role model we want to inspire 29 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary SE has not received any fines or sanctions in the sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations reporting period EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other As a role model we want to inspire 31 goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce EU14 Programs and processes to ensure the availability of a skilled workAbout SE 17 force LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and SE’s Annual Report 2011 total number of work-related fatalities by region LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the The strongest team (partially completed) 38-39 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career The strongest team 37-38 development reviews HR6 Activities identified as having significant risk for incidents of child Legitimate and responsible business practice 22 labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary SE has not received any fines or sanctions in the sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations reporting period EU24 Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy and disability The strongest team (partially completed) 37 related barriers to accessing and safely using electricity and customer support services EU25 Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets Legitimate and responsible business practice 22-23 EU26 Percentage of population unserved in SE’s licensed distribution or 0% service areas EU29 Average power outage duration Legitimate and responsible business practice 21, 23 (downtime) PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and SE has not breached applicable regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and agreements on product safety and health services, by type of outcomes PR5 Practices relating to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys SE’s Annual Report 2011 measuring customer satisfaction Ravnevej 12, DK-6705 Esbjerg Ø, www.se.dk
