COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 October 21, 2012 © 2012 KIROYAN PARTNERS. All rights reserved. Kiroyan Partners is a company that adheres to the Global Compact. The protection of Human Rights and Environment, promotion of ethical business by active involvement in the fight against corruption and protecting Labor are internalized in our business principles. We reiterate our continuing support by renewing our pledge to uphold the Global Compact. Noke Kiroyan President Director & Chief Consultant HUMAN RIGHTS “Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses.” Kiroyan Partners (KP) is a strategic consulting firm in the field of communications and stakeholder management that is committed to protecting and upholding Human Rights in its business conduct. KP’s commitment in supporting and respecting protection of human rights is manifested in its operations. Aside from this, KP always adheres to the law as well as internationally recognized human rights principles. The fundamental human rights principles that have been applied are the right to freedom of speech, the right to health and safety at work, and the right to a secure, healthy and ecologically sound environment. At KP, every employee is free to express their opinions, aspirations, or even critics to the Management. The company invites the employees to share their views through various forms of communication platforms which will be described below. This freedom is a manifestation of KP’s support and respect to the principle of freedom of speech. Firstly, KP holds a weekly project review that is done to discuss any development of projects from the clients we handle. At this opportunity, the employees not only explain the development of the project, but may also express their views and opinions freely. CONFIDENTIAL – Prepared as a report to UNGC only. Jakarta, October 12, 2012 Page 2 Other forums that KP facilitates to allow the freedom of expression of the employees are regular communication sessions to discuss lessons learnt from projects and the annual retreat and team building event. During the lessons learnt session, team members of a certain project are invited to collectively identify any problems that emerged in the course of the project and to seek ways for improvement. At the same time, team members also share achievements that should be recognized and maintained as appropriate to other projects.. The annual retreat and team building event is initiated to retrospect and recreate the team spirit in an informal and fun way. Finally, every year KP conducts a performance review where the Management and an employee sits together to review the performance of the said employee in the past year, including expectations and objectives for the year ahead. Aside from these forums, informally KP is always open to receiving inputs or criticisms from the employees. All of the abovementioned activities are a form of KP’s commitment in supporting the right to the freedom of speech. As a result, KP is able to identify rooms for improvement and determine action plans for further development. Moreover, KP is also committed to upholding the right to a secure, healthy and ecologically sound environment. KP has tried to create a safe and comfortable working environment by designing it in a way to allow employees to work comfortably, and equipping the office with a first aid kit to make the office a comfortable and safe area for the employees. Externally, KP supports and respects protection of human rights by communicating to the clients the importance to uphold human rights principles and respecting human rights in the implementation of CSR. In the past one year, KP did not encounter any problems relating to human rights. The company will continue to support and respect the principles of human right, and minimize any risks of human rights violation, both internally and externally. CONFIDENTIAL – Prepared as a report to UNGC only. Jakarta, October 12, 2012 Page 3 LABOR “Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor, the effective abolition of child labor, and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.” KP maintains its commitment to always support its employees and take into account employees’ advancements because KP understands that the company’s performance relies heavily on its employees’ competence and professionalism. Based on this fact, KP puts serious attention in retaining its employees. KP has put effort to improve its working system for the employees and create a sustainable relationship between the Management and employees. Forms of KP’s support and attention to the employees are manifested in a number of manpower-related policies and activities. Since last year, KP implemented a company regulation that is based on the Manpower Law and international labor principles. The company’s regulation has also been verified and approved by the Ministry of Manpower and Transmigration. Other policies and activities related to manpower include the right of the employees to receive a fair income, awarding employees who have performed well, applying programs to increase selfdevelopment and productivity, as well as setting a system to measure and improve efficiency of working hours. As an equal opportunity employer KP commits to diversity and is against any form of discrimination. KP strives to always maintain a sound relationship with its stakeholders. CONFIDENTIAL – Prepared as a report to UNGC only. Jakarta, October 12, 2012 Page 4 KP upholds the right to receive a fair income for the employees. That is, employees at KP are provided with an income that corresponds to their work output. More specifically, KP is transparent in its finances, reflecting from the way it operates. When KP is awarded a new project from a client, the team members are entitled to know the value of the project and will be required to prepare the budgeting plan; thus the mechanism of fee distribution from any project is conducted in an open and transparent manner. KP believes that the employees will perform well with a competitive remuneration. For this reason, KP always supports and observes the economic rights of the employees. As a company that puts forward professionalism, KP stresses on improving and advancing employees’ careers and competencies. After careful evaluations, KP will promote outstanding employees who have proven themselves in their work performance and pursuit of professionalism. Another form of reward for high-performing employees is a bonus which is provided based on the discretion of the Management. KP also provides opportunities for employees to participate in trainings to improve their work quality and productivity. Such people development programs are usually in accordance to the employee’s field. Following participation of training, the employees are encouraged to share their recently obtained knowledge to their peers in the office. This way, employees’ knowledge could be enhanced collectively. KP has implemented a new system to increase efficiency and productivity of employees’ working hours by employing a daily time sheet that records employees’ activities each day. By putting this system in place, the Management could identify the workload of each employee so that the Management could better allocate available resources in accordance to their capacities. As a commitment to sustaining a sound and healthy relationship between the Management and employees, KP has initiated various programs which range from birthday celebrations, break fasting dinners, annual retreats and other small celebrations with the whole team. All these activities and efforts create a stronger relationship between the employees and allow employees to get to know and understand each other much better. Reflecting on the past, KP will always be committed in upholding the dignity of everyone who has joined the company, as well as maintaining a good and professional relationship between the management and employees. KP respects every person’s rights and dignity. The Management will not hesitate to take measures against misconduct or breach of company regulations, and on the other hand, the management will not hesitate to apologize when they make a mistake. In this process, KP commits to comply with the law as stated in the company regulation, and prioritizes discussion as the principal tool for dispute settlement. Effective systems and policies will continue to be implemented and KP will make improvements to the policy which is considered disadvantageous to a particular party. CONFIDENTIAL – Prepared as a report to UNGC only. Jakarta, October 12, 2012 Page 5 ENVIRONMENT “Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.” Everyone has a responsibility to protect and conserve the environment. KP maintains its commitment to protecting and conserving the environment and will continue paying attention to this aspect. KP’s environmental policy focuses on energy saving and recycled goods utilization. As a consulting firm, KP does not interact directly with the environment, but the company has put efforts to reduce negative impacts on the environment, including protection and conservation efforts. Moreover, as a company that works in the field of CSR, KP stresses on the importance of environmental conservation to its clients. KP’s operations do not consume a great amount of energy; nonetheless, KP employs energy saving policies which have become a part of the employees’ daily activities. KP employees are accustomed to making sure that lights and appliances are turned off when they are not in use, as a way to save energy. Additionally, the layout of KP’s office and the building construction are dominated by large glass windows that allow sun rays to enter the rooms for lighting, supporting further energy conservation efforts. CONFIDENTIAL – Prepared as a report to UNGC only. Jakarta, October 12, 2012 Page 6 KP’s office is also equipped with a number of plants placed on the corners of the rooms to increase comfort, aesthetics and air circulation. These plants are regularly maintained by professionals provided by the building management. Aside from those, KP implements a paper recycling system which allows all used paper to be recycled and eventually reused, instead of using the traditional way of paper shredding. In this system, KP appointed a professional paper recycling company to regularly collect used paper to be recycled. This company will then provide KP with the recycled paper for further utilization. Furthermore, other efforts which have been done to reduce paper consumption is by using a server where all company’s data is kept in a data bank in the computer, hence the need to store documents in hard copies is kept to a minimum level. KP reiterates its commitment to the environment, and believes that with the small steps it took, KP has protected and conserved the environment. KP continues to communicate to all stakeholders of the need to consider the environment as observed on its e-mail signatures. The next step, KP plans to design visual messages for its internal stakeholders, calling for greater attention to environmental protection. CONFIDENTIAL – Prepared as a report to UNGC only. Jakarta, October 12, 2012 Page 7 ANTI-CORRUPTION “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.” KP is aware that its business operation as a consulting firm is prone to corruption activities. To prevent corruption, KP upholds the principle of integrity and puts forward the value of business ethics in conducting its business. KP’s first principle, Ethics and Social Responsibility, clearly illustrates the promotion of the ethical practices in all corporate actions. One of the forms of prioritizing ethics is rejecting all kinds of corruption practices. KP’s anticorruption action is the company’s commitment to achieving optimal company performance. To ensure that KP is free from corruption practices, KP has implemented both internal and external efforts. Internally, administrative matters in KP are managed in a transparent manner. KP also uses the service of a public accountant to conduct financial audits of the company each year. Externally, KP carefully selects the clients whom it engages business with. KP has never and will not work with clients who are involved in corruption practices. On the other hand, KP always encourages its clients to understand that in the principles of CSR there will always be a solution to every problem without employing unfair practices. In other words, promoting CSR also means promoting anti-corruption. . CONFIDENTIAL – Prepared as a report to UNGC only. Jakarta, October 12, 2012 Page 8 PT KOMUNIKASI KINERJA Menara Karya, 10th Floor Suite H Jl. HR Rasuna Said Blok X-5 Kav. 1-2 Jakarta 12950 – INDONESIA T/F +6221 5794 4694 / 5794 4696 info@kiroyan-partners.com www.kiroyan-partners.com
