COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS GAIL (India) Limited 2011 Report GAIL (India) Ltd. GAIL Bhawan, 16, Bhikaji Cama Place New Delhi 110066 India Web: www.gailonline.com Tel: + 91 – 11 – 2617 2580 Contents S.no. Content Page No. Cover Page Contents 1. About GAIL 1 2. Statement of Chairman & Managing Director 3 Human Rights 3. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of 4 internationally proclaimed human rights 4. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 6 Labour Standards 5. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 7 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 6. Principe 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 8 7. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour 8 8. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 8 occupation Environment 9. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 9 environmental challenges 10. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 10 responsibility 11. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 11 friendly technologies AntiCorruption 12. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 13 extortion and bribery GAIL (India) Ltd. Vision Be the leading company in natural gas and beyond, with global focus, committed to customer care, value creation for all stakeholders and environmental responsibility. Mission To accelerate and optimise the effective and economic use of natural gas and its fractions to the benefit of national economy. Introduction: GAIL (India) Ltd., India’s flagship Gas Major, was incorporated on 16.08.1984. GAIL is a schedule‘A’ Central Public Sector Enterprise under the administrative control of Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Government of India. As of 31.03.2012, 57.34 % shares of GAIL are held by the Government of India and the public shareholding in GAIL is 42.66 %. GAIL shares are listed on National Stock Exchange (NSE) and Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE). GAIL is also one of the fifty companies in benchmark Nifty index of NSE and one of the thirty companies in Sensex of BSE. GAIL Global Depository Receipt (GDR) is listed on London Stock Exchange. Business profile GAIL owns and operates 9,000 Kms of natural gas high pressure trunk pipeline with a capacity to carry 170 MMSCMD of natural gas across the country, 7 gas processing plants located at different parts of the country to produce 1.4 MMTPA of LPG and other liquid hydrocarbons, 2,000 kms of LPG transmission pipeline with a capacity to transport 3.8 MMTPA of LPG and a 450 KTA gas based petrochemical plant in northern part of India to produce Polyethylene (PE) which is being expanded to 900 KTA. Further through two Joint Venture Companies, GAIL is setting up two petrochemical plants in India to produce 1.7 MMTPA of Polyethylene and Polypropylene. GAIL is a promoter of three LNG receiving terminals in India. GAIL has incorporated 8 joint venture companies and 1 wholly owned subsidiary company for pursuing city gas and CNG projects in India. Financial Performance During FY 10-11 year, our sales were Rs. 32,459 Crore, PBT and PAT were Rs. 5,240 and Rs. 3,561 Crore respectively. Our 10 year CAGR of Turnover was 14 % and PAT was 12 %. We crossed 170 GAIL (India) Ltd. | 1 MMSCMD of the gas transmission capacity and are well poised to secure substantially higher volumes in coming few years. Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures GAIL was the first company to introduce City Gas Projects in India and has set up a subsidiary company ‘GAIL Gas Limited’ to pursue city gas distribution and CNG corridor projects. GAIL has formed eight Joint Venture companies for supplies to households, commercial users and for the transport sector in 8 cities (Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Tripura, Kanpur, Lucknow, Agra and Pune). GAIL has 32.88% stake in the Ratnagiri Gas and Power Private Limited (RGPPL) along with NTPC as equal partner, Financial Institutions and MSEB. GAIL is also a co-promoter with 17% equity stake in ONGC Petro-additions Limited (OPaL). GAIL has also acquired stake in China Gas Holdings for CNG opportunities in mainland China. In a move towards integration along the energy chain and for sourcing supply, GAIL has entered into the area of Exploration & Production. The Company holds a participating interest in 31 oil and gas exploration blocks including 2 blocks in Myanmar. GAIL has acquired its first shale gas assets in the USA through its wholly owned US subsidiary GAIL Global (USA) Inc. The subsidiary company has executed definitive agreements with Carrizo Oil & Gas Inc. based in Houston, Texas, to enter into an unincorporated joint venture, under which GAIL Global (USA) Inc. has acquired a 20% interest in Carrizo's Eagle Ford Shale acreage position. GAIL has also set up a whollyowned subsidiary company viz. GAIL Global (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. in Singapore for sourcing LNG, petrochemicals and LNG trading and overseas investments. GAIL has formed a Joint Venture with China Gas Global Energy Holdings Limited. GAIL and China Gas are equal partners in this JV which has been registered in Bermuda. This is the first Joint Venture Company of GAIL abroad. In order to have a long term association with China Gas and also to expand business in the fast downstream Chinese gas sector, the Joint Venture (JV) will pursue opportunities in CNG, City Gas, Pipeline, CBM, LNG and E&P projects. GAIL has established its CNG and City Gas presence in Egypt through equity participation in Fayum Gas and Natgas, Egypt. GAIL is pursuing business opportunities in regions such as South / South-East Asia, West Asia, Russia and Central Asian Republics and African continent in the areas of exploration and production, gas transmission, CNG and city gas distribution, LNG and petrochemicals. GAIL (India) Ltd. | 2 Principles of Natural Justice are the basic foundations Human Rights on which “GAIL Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules are applicable to its employees.  We treat our employees with respect and value difference. o We are committed to achieving a truly diverse workforce that is representative of the customers and communities we serve. o We do not condone any form of individual  Principle 1: Businesses discrimination unrelated to performance or merit, or the abuse or harassment of any employees. o We also provide employment opportunities to should support and disadvantaged and underrepresented segments of the communities we serve. respect the  We will provide a fair and safe working environment for our employees. o Our workplace policies reflect our commitment to protection of the principle of ‘fair and equal pay’ in those markets where we operate. o We foster a workplace environment where internationally employees are encouraged to express their ideas, opinions and concerns provided they do not proclaimed human infringe the human rights of others. o Engineers-In-Charge at every work centre ensure that all Labour legislations are strictly adhered to. rights; and  Promoting respect for our employees o We have established occupational health, safety and wellbeing plans for all work centres in our company. o We have announced a number of measures to address some of the challenges that women face at work such as sexual harassment, child care leave of upto 2 years etc. o We have a workplace policy on HIV/AIDS prevention and control to prevent discrimination and create awareness on HIV/AIDS.  We continue to encourage our employees to acquire higher qualifications, while in service of GAIL so as to enable them to improve their knowledge and professional competence to pursue development opportunities. GAIL (India) Ltd. | Principle 1 & 2: Human Rights 4  We use our internal communications channels to encourage employees to take responsibility for respecting and promoting human rights as they go about their everyday business. Practical actions include: o Welcoming and listening to the opinions of otherssuggestion schemes; o Providing forums for all views to be heardgrievances redressal, CMD open house and whistle blower policy; o Encouraging diversity and equal opportunity in our workplace; and o Contributing to a safe and healthy working environment.  Safety and Well being o Despite dealing with hazardous processes/products, the company has endeavored to protect human lives by deploying state-of-the-art technology, regular maintenance of equipment and activities such as mock drills. o Exhaustive Disaster Control Plans have been developed at each major location, which has the approval of the concerned District Authorities. o The organisation also conducts various training programmes pertaining to Safety, Health and Environment such as Lay-Off Protection Analysis, Hazardous Waste Management and Environment Protection, First Aid etc. o As a measure of caring for our employees even after they retire, we have an active Postretirement Medical Scheme for provision of facility of reimbursement up to limits as specified hereunder towards medical treatment after retirement. o Project Affected People are adequately compensated according to government norms and every measure is taken to provide employment to local people according to their competencies. o The HR policies developed over the years have also dynamically changed with the changing business environment respecting the laws of the land and driving the aspirations of the employees. GAIL (India) Ltd. | Principle 1 & 2: Human Rights 5  GAIL conforms to human rights principles and has Human Rights ensured that no violation has occurred during the year. o The organization has an approved policy for handling grievances of employees and customers raised by other stakeholders such as Contractors, Dealers, Vendors and surrounding villagers and public are also attended promptly.  Principle 2: make sure o It also shares information on different issues under the ‘Right to Information Act’ with various interested parties and stake holders. that they are not o Engineers-In-Charge at every work center ensure that all Labour legislations are strictly complicit in human adhered to by contractors and suppliers. rights abuses; GAIL (India) Ltd. | Principle 1 & 2: Human Rights 6  GAIL upholds the freedom of Association and Labour effectively recognizes the right in collective bargaining by generously recognizing and promoting the workers’ Standards unions, officers’ associations, Women’s Forums, etc. o Regular interactions with employee collectives o Coordination with labour authorities o Settlement of Industrial Disputes  Principle 3: Businesses o Grievance Redressal Systems o Issues pertaining to Contract Labour/ PAPs/ Coshould uphold the operative Societies o Labour Law compliances freedom of association o Records/ analysis of Work Centre level issues of collectives and the effective o Negotiations with Unions for Long-Term recognition of the right Settlement  The major employee collectives in GAIL are as to collective bargaining; follows: o GAIL Officers Association (GOA)Represents Officers of all Work Centres/ Offices of GAIL o GAIL Employees Association (GEA)Represents Workmen/ Non-executives of all Work Centres/ Offices except Corporate Office o GAIL Karamchari Sangh (GKS)Represents Nonexecutives of Corporate Office o GAIL SC ST Employees Welfare Association (GSEWA)Represents SC/ST Employees The company ensures that worker issues are represented at all levels. GAIL (India) Ltd. | Principle 3, 4, 5 & 6: Labour Standards 7  GAIL India Limited believes in voluntary labour Labour and right to work. Standards o There are in-built provisions in the company policy and compliance checks for labour laws. o The organization also does not force employees to deposit their original certificates  Principle 4: the pertaining to educational qualification or Date of Birth at the time of joining. elimination of all forms of  Engineers-In-Charge at every work centre forced and compulsory ensure that corresponding Labour legislations are strictly adhered to by contractors and labour; suppliers. ________________*________________  The company has a policy whereby minimum  Principle 5: the effective age for employment is prescribed and child labour is strictly denied. abolition of child labour; ________________*________________  All rules in GAIL India Ltd apply equally to all employees, irrespective of factors such as sex,  Principle 6: the caste, religion, race etc., following Mandatory elimination of government reservation norms. o In each Interview board there is SC/ST discrimination in respect representative to safeguard the interest of SC / ST applicants. In case vacancies against of employment and which selection to be made, is less than 10, efforts are made to have a Minority occupation. community member in such Boards/ Committees. o Organization provides equal opportunity for training and development to different strata of employees. o GAIL (India) Ltd has an active Women’s Cell that looks into issues faced by women at various work centres. o GAIL will preserve rights, privileges and dignity of employees and their family members affected by HIV/AIDS. GAIL (India) Ltd. | Principle 3, 4, 5 & 6: Labour Standards 8  GAIL has an enviable track record in taking requisite measures to mitigate environmental, safety, security Environment and social risks. The accountability and responsibility of risk management is defined from the Board level HSE subcommittee to individual risk officers as a part of the risk –management framework.  Emergency mitigation plans enable effective combating of emergencies are based on risk Principle 7: Businesses perception of respective installations.  We have an integrated Corporate Health, Safety & Environment Policy depicting our commitment to should support a promote globally comparable levels of Environment Management Systems. precautionary approach  We have a Board-level Sustainable Development (SD) Sub-Committee headed by Independent Director to to environmental regularly monitor our sustainability initiatives and performance. This committee is supported by SD Steering Committee to plan, oversee and implement challenges. on-ground sustainability activities. We have a focused SD Core team working at Corporate level.  Our SD Policy is in process of finalization and is soon to be released.  GAIL accords highest priority to promote eco-friendly activities, provide structured training to all employees for HSE best practices and continuous review of the policy with respect to business development.  All our gas processing and petrochemical plant, LPG pipeline systems and Natural Gas Compressor Stations under operation are ISO 9001, ISO 14001 & OHSAS 18001 certified.  Our Integrated Management System (IMS) based on systemic requirements of ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007 for all our processes, activities, products across locations to effectively control and manage our performance. GAIL (India) Ltd. | Principle 7, 8, 9: Environment 9 Our efforts in environment protection are not limited to our operations alone and extended this Environment responsibility to the communities we operate in by supporting or developing the environment.  Waste ManagementSeveral steps were taken to improve handling and disposal of hazardous waste by ensuring proper disposal of hazardous waste through CPCB-authorized waste handlers who process these wastes and ensure minimum impact on the Principle 8: Businesses environment from their disposal.  Managing Water resourcesGAIL understands that should undertake the depleting water resources pose a major threat for the sustainability of major ecosystems and significant initiatives to promote risk to the sustainability of any business. We are consciously optimizing our consumption of water and greater environmental at the same time make provisions for the nearby communities by trying to minimize our use of groundwater. GAIL is making continuous effort to use responsibility. recycled water and thus reducing the coverall water consumption.  Detailed environmental impact assessment and series of approvals from Ministry of Environment and Forests. The pipeline alignment is selected in such a way that the length is optimized avoiding ecologically sensitive and protected areas/ geographically unstable areas/ less number of obstacle crossings like NH/SH/ Railways, restricted / reserve forest area/ Coastal Regulation Zones.  Employee EngagementOur employees made a resolution to plant around 10,000 saplings in 2009 and 7500 saplings in 2010. Our Green Belt area is approximately 41% of our total land holdings which is around 17.2 million square meters. GAIL (India) Ltd. | Principle 7, 8, 9: Environment 10  Addressing Climate Change concernsWe understand Environment our responsibility towards securing energy as well as growing concerns over climate change. We thereby focus on sourcing wind and solar energy for captive consumption. During FY 10-11, we consumed 31,749 GJ of energy from such renewable sources. Projects undertaken in this direction are: o 4.5 MW Wind Energy Project, Sinoi, Dist. Kutch, Gujarat at a cost of Rs. 27.7 crores for captive consumption. o 14.7 MW Wind Energy Project, Jamanwada, Dist. Kutch, Gujarat at a cost of Rs. 93.76 crores for captive consumption. o 100 MW Wind Energy Projects in Karnataka & Tamil Nadu for Commercial utilization. o Investment in solar power by active participation in future bidding under Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar Mission.  Other InitiativesDuring the year, GAIL also undertook several other initiatives for environmental protection. These include development of gas-based crematorium in New Delhi and installation of bio-gas plants for poor slum-dwellers where GAIL supplies gas. _____________________*_______________________  We have taken measures for improving efficiency of our processes and optimizing use of energy Principle 9: Businesses resources. We were able to save 685,771 GJ of energy mostly on account of decreased electricity should encourage the consumption. Our total GHG emissions across development and operations in FY10-11 were 2.889 million tCO2e & were able to avoid 7948.12tCO2e of GHG emissions diffusion of owing to our energy efficiency measures. environmentally friendly  Increased use of low-NOx burners across our operations has helped us in reducing our NOx technologies. emissions by approximately 12% over the last year. GAIL (India) Ltd. | Principle 7, 8, 9: Environment 11  Some of our other major energy efficiency improvement initiatives are mentioned below: o Optimization of Bleed Valve Operation & SoLoNox mode Operation of Gas Turbines: at GPU Gandhar resulted in reduction in specific fuel consumption from 1.93% to 1.80% resulting in decrease in natural gas consumption as fuel by approximately 1.09 MMSCM in a year translating to saving of 92 lacs during the year. o Utilization of improved Molecular Sieves in Feed Gas Dryers: at GPU Gandhar has resulted in reduction in natural gas consumption as fuel by approximately 0.52 MMSCM in a year which translates to saving of 44 lacs during the year. o Implementation of Automatic blow down system: in Heat Recovery Steam Generator at GPU Pata resulted in reduction of natural gas consumption as fuel of approximately 0.18 MMSCM in a year which translates to saving of 17 lacs during the year. o Commissioning of Revamped BOG compressor: The diversion of boiled off gases directly to downstream polymer plant has resulted in saving of 762 MT of VHP steam which has resulted in saving of about 7.46 lacs in 5 months. o Switching from TEG power to Grid Power at Remote RR Stations: across JLPL pipeline, has resulted in saving of approximately 17 lacs during the year. o Land-fill gas to CNG: a possibility developed at GAIL Landfill gas, emanating from city landfills (or municipal solid waste dump yards) is one of the largest sources of methane emissions globally. Under a unique collaboration with the Municipal Corporation of Delhi, we have initiated a R&D program to recover this land-fill gas, purify it and make it suitable for commercial use in our CNG and PNG products. GAIL (India) Ltd. | Principle 7, 8, 9: Environment 12 AntiCorruption  Our guiding principle o Strong standard operating processes and procedures backed by effective leveraging information technology to bring utmost transparency is the guiding principle in GAIL which emphasizes on Predictive and Prevention Vigilance leaving a very little scope for Punitive Vigilance.  Principle 10: Businesses o GAIL has a Vigilance Department under the strong leadership of Chief Vigilance Officer, generally an IAS officer strives to continually should work against review and improve the existing systems and procedures and focus towards innovative corruption in all its management solutions to make organization free of corruption. forms, including  Actions o GAIL is among the first few organizations in extortion and bribery India to implement e-payments and ereceivables to / from its vendors and customers. Bill Watch System is in place to access and monitor the status of payment to vendors on real time basis. o To bring the utmost clarity in the procurement and award of works contract, web hosting of tenders, e-procurement, reverse auction are in place. o Whistle Blower mechanism and online Vigilance complaint portal are accessible by all employees and other stakeholders GAIL (India) Ltd. | Principle 10: AntiCorruption 13 o Since 2007, the Integrity Pact in consultation with CVC is under operation and IP agreement is mandatorily signed by vendors / suppliers having high valve contracts. It is also having grievance redressal mechanism by engaging Independent External Monitors. o Every year Vigilance Awareness Week is conducted to all offices/work centres of the company to refresh the Vigilance principles amongst the employees by publication of magazines, organizing seminars, conducting essay, slogan, online quiz competition, displaying banners / posters. Organizing customers’ and vendors’ meet to get their feedback to improve systems and procedures. o Anti-corruption compliance training is mandatory for all new entrants. GAIL (India) Ltd. | Principle 10: AntiCorruption 14
