Editorial Policy 02 Materiality Analysis 04 Our Standards 06 About Delta Holding: Leading The Way 08 Business Results in 2011 10 Our People Our Key Resource 16 Saving the Earth for Future Generation 24 Delta, Suppliers & Customers 26 Delta Foundation 28 Delta Agrar Group 34 Delta Real Estate Group 40 Delta Distribution 46 Delta Sport 52 Delta Generali Osiguranje 56 Delta Maxi 60 Expert Opinion 64 About the Report 66 Editorial Policy From the very beginning, Delta Holding has been paying dedicated attention to how its activities affect society. After the previous CSR report (published in February 2011), and along with this CSR report, we will be providing annually summarized information on policies, programs, activities and results related to the different aspects of Corporate Social Responsibility. The content of the report is defined through a series of consultations and interviews with the key managers and in cooperation with an external consultancy company. The report covers CSR activities that prevail in the whole company on one side, while highlighting specific CSR achievements in the individual companies on the other. Due to the diversified structure of the company the key performance indicators refer either to the company as a whole or to the most relevant parts of the company related to a specific subject. Although this report is mainly aimed at external stakeholders, any individual or organization interested in Delta’s activities can use it to find useful information. Starting with this issue, our CSR reports will follow GRI reporting guidelines. This report contains no significant changes nor re-statements from the previous reporting periods. The table with the reference to GRI’s Standard Disclosures is located at the end of the report. 02 More details and regular CSR updates are available on our web pages: http://www.deltaholding.rs/code/navigate.php?Id=19 For any question related to this report or its contents, you can contact Delta’s Corporate Communication Department at: korporativnekomunikacije@deltaholding.rs 03 Materiality Analysis As with any other major company, through its activities Delta can influence a variety of stakeholders and they can have a strong impact on Delta’s operations as well. For this reason substantial efforts were undertaken to identify the key stakeholder groups and to compare their CSR priorities with those of the company itself. The results of these analyses are presented in the accompanying map, defining Delta’s CSR focus areas. 04 High quality of products & services Support to marginalized groups (people with disabilities, children without parental care, under-privileged people) Development of enterpreneurship Energy efficiency, Renewable energy sources, Recycling Employee development programs, work – life balance Promotion of CSR within the company Pollution monitoring and control measures Value chain 05 Our Standards In our operations we adhere strictly to all key international standards. In addition, we take into consideration and adopt all major internationally accepted CSR guidelines and initiatives. 06 ISO Global Reporting Standards Initiative Throughout our organization we have In reporting its CSR activities and achieved the ISO certification 9001:2008 results, we are using GRI G3 guidelines, and ISO 14001:2004. In addition we recognized by more than 3000 of the have completed planning to introduce largest companies from 60 countries as a ISO 26000 to all key segments of our de facto reporting standard. organization in the years to come. SAM based Global CSR evaluation Compact For evaluation of our CSR procedures, Delta Holding and all of its constituents actions and results, we are using are members of the Global Compact methodology based on the most widelyorganization of United Nations and used concepts used in the world, such as provide regular annual Progress SAM, EACC and other. Reports to this organization. 07 About Delta Holding: Leading the way Delta Holding LLC and its constituent companies comprise five different business segments integrated into a system with the same values and same ambitions for business growth. Location of the headquarters is in Belgrade (Serbia), Milentija Popovica 7b. Although most of the business activities of the company are in Serbia, there is an increasing trend of expanding the activities into the other countries of the region and wider. In 2011 the company was present in Montenegro, Bosnia, Croatia, Macedonia and Russia as well, however they are not covered in this report. As one of the largest companies in Serbia, Delta has a specific responsibility to do things right from the start. Being publicly very visible, we do not only follow common standards and best business practices, we also establish our own, more stringent and more demanding standards than those commonly followed. Company Organization Chart 08 Board of Directors Miroslav Miskovic President Ivana Veselinovic Milka Vojvodic Dejan Jeremic Jelena Krstovic Senior Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Vice President for Finance and Economy for Operations for Corporate Communications Dragan Filipovic Dejan Racic Goran S. Karic Milorad Sredanovic Vice President Vice President Vice President Vice President Deputy CEO of Delta for Development CEO of Delta Sport for Agriculture Generali Osiguranje and Member of the Executive Board Jasminka Kiselcic Milan Grgurevic Aleksandar Camparevic CEO of Delta Holding CEO of Delta Agrar Group CEO of Delta DMD Ana Disic Zivorad Vasic Nemanja Lazic Ivana Miskovic Karic CEO of Shopping Malls CEO of Hotels and CEO of Delta Auto Head of Delta Foundation Business Units 09 Business Results in 2011 Contributing to Society Through our Business Operations At Delta we are taking great pride in contributing to society through our core business activities. In this way we are providing society with necessary products and services, in a socially and environmentally responsible manner. Delta Consolidated Results Delta Holding employs a total of 7200 staff in its diversified organization. In 2011, Group’s turnover reached 1.42 billion Euros. (Including the results of Delta Maxi Group (*) till its selling in July 2011). We finance our activities from our resources as well as from commercial banks and related financial institutions. By the end of 2012, the company aims to reach a target of 850 million Euros in revenue. Although most of the business activities of the company are in Serbia, there is an increasing trend of expanding activities into other countries in the region and wider. Delta Real Estate Group Delta Generali Osiguranje Delta Sport Participation of members in the total result of Delta Holding Delta Distribution (other than a result of Delta Maxi) Delta Agrar Group in 2011. year 10 Delta Agrar Group is one of the larger constituents of Delta Holding with more than 1500 people involved in primary agricultural production, cooperative and food purchase and trade, distribution of agricultural products and food processing. Delta Agrar Group reached a turnover of 256.1 million Euros in 2011. Delta Real Estate deals with property development, primarily shopping malls, residential and non-residential buildings, hires around 700 employees. This business group is developing properties in Serbia as well as in some other neighboring countries . Delta Real Estate Group reached turnover of 46.6 million Euros in 2011. Delta Distribution hires 1000 employees in three businesses: Delta DMD, Delta Automoto and Delta Motors, first one dealing with distribution of FMCG while the other two deal with passenger and commercial vehicles. Delta Distribution reached turnover of 188.4 million Euros in 2011. Delta Sport employs 1300 people and has developed three business segments covering import and distribution of sporting goods, fashion goods and HoReCa activities. Delta Sport reached a turnover of 123.9 million Euros in 2011. Delta Generali Osiguranje is the second largest insurance company on the Serbian market dealing with various types of insurance. The overall premium income according to International Financial Reporting Standards in 2011 was 114.1 million Euros. Delta Generali Group hires 2200 employees. * Delta Maxi was a part of Delta Holding only during the first half of 2011 and their results and CSR activities have been included only for the first half of the year. Total number of employees does not include employees at the headquarters and those in non-core businesses companies. 11 Message from the President The global crisis is posing multiple challenges to all companies, irrespective of their size and industry. The first and foremost of them is maintenance of business continuity and sustainability of a profitable operation. Profits earned in a responsible manner and distributed equally to shareholders represent a sound platform on which companies have to perform their primary economic duties: provide society with needed products and services. Delta Holding is a market-orientated company and we consider successful business operation a first step in our corporate social responsibility. Such an operation requires adherence to the highest business standards in all aspects of professional activities: from hiring of new employees, through delivering top quality products and services to caring about local communities and the environment. The goal of our company is to generate profit which will enable us to share them with our employees, suppliers and customers as well as with the local communities. We believe that such an approach to business operations is in interest of all stakeholders. As agriculture and food production are our first core business, we will keep our focus on production of healthy food with high nutritional content. Using the most modern technologies we will continue to improve the production processes to minimize the effects on the environment. We will also continue efforts to develop private entrepreneurship and further increase the amount of recycled waste. 12 In the areas of property development, Delta Holding will continue improving building technologies and materials used. We are seriously looking into improving energy efficiency of our buildings and will give more attention to new renewable energy applications. In each and every segment of our business we will struggle to make it fair and useful to all of our stakeholders: employees, customers, suppliers, partners and local communities. Despite the global crisis, in 2012 Delta Holding will continue its investments in new projects. I am pleased to state that these new projects will open new positions and decrease unemployment which represents one of the largest problems today in our society. Delta Holding is operating on Serbian market for more than 20 years. We have built our system relying on professional staff with an aim being to become a leading company in Serbia and the region. We have achieved success due to our aspiration to constantly improve ourselves by trying to respond to the needs of the market, our partners and the society we work in – this is the practice which Delta Holding will continue during the third decade of its existence. Miroslav Miskovic President of Delta Holding 13 Message from Vice President of Corporate Communications As the person responsible for communications of Delta Holding, together with my colleagues, I have a duty and responsibility to keep all of our stakeholders informed about our CSR efforts and results, on a daily basis. We are convinced that in this way we contribute to the spreading of awareness of CSR and the benefits it brings to the business and to society at large. As during the previous years, in 2011 in our daily business practice we have been strictly adhering to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Applying the principles to our operations and conducting our business in a responsible and sustainable manner, we believe that we have returned a fair part of our created value to our internal and external stakeholders. When I speak about value I do not consider merely the profit; I also refer to new technologies we develop and deploy in our production, high quality of products and services for our customers, and above all, know-how and wider knowledge that we all leave as a legacy to future generations. In 2011 we have worked on numerous CSR projects that have resulted in: • Employee development • New, high quality products and services • Use of the alternative green energies • Increased Eco-efficiency • Help to society through a variety of donation projects, employment assistance for marginalized groups Due to the diversified profile of Delta Holding and its activities in a variety of business segments, in the near future we will focus on consolidation and centralization of the CSR programs and activities relevant to the whole company. At the same time, the companies which are independent entities in Delta Holding will continue to develop and implement individual plans and actions specific to their business profiles. 14 As a priority program for the whole company is professional development of our employees and their job satisfaction, we will try to increase the amount of training that will enable the most capable to enjoy career development and professional advancements. We will also pay greater attention to training sessions that will improve the life / work balance and positively influence quality of life. We will continue to make our contribution to the environment protection by continuing and intensifying our efforts in the domains of recycling, energy saving and development of programs with alternative energy sources. Through various projects of Delta Foundation, we will continue to respond to the social needs, either individually or in cooperation with NGOs. In 2012, following the tradition of legacy building, we plan to donate to the city of Belgrade a major facility for children and people with disabilities. With this investment we wish to revive the spirit of this type of donation to society that has died out in the last 70 years. During 2011 we have established Serbian Business Foundation for whose actions we will allocate 10% of our overall profit. We expect other Serbian companies to join us in this project in the upcoming year, so that we can jointly contribute to the progress of society. One of our priorities is cooperation with leading CSR institutions, with an aim of acquiring knowledge on latest CSR trends, including CSR reporting in accordance to the highest international standards. We believe that in year we will be able to report on internationally verified data on our CSR progress. Our mission is to contribute to CSR development in business and society with our own examples and best practice. Jelena Krstovic Vice President of Corporate Communications Delta Holding 15 Our People Our Key Resource Since the very beginning, Delta Holing has been paying specific attention to our employees. We have always tried to hire the best and to assure them the best working conditions. As a result of such policies, we have a very high retention rate and employee satisfaction has been always at a very high level. Total number of employees in Delta Holding is 7200. We have managed to achieve a very balanced gender split with a 48.5% female workforce. Age distribution also shows a balanced split. Total number of Employees at Delta Holding 16 Age distribution Age distribution of all employees Age distribution of management Age distribution of our management demonstrates a healthy combination between dynamic younger management forces and experienced mature management skills. 17 Employees and Discrimination Delta Holding pays specific attention and The anti-mobbing law introduced in takes all possible measures to eliminate 2010 was adopted by the company discrimination on any grounds. During and is strictly adhered to. The company the selection process and employment, has undertaken all possible measures all related staff are strictly adhering to the to inform the employees about their principles of diversity at workplace and rights. Together with the employment nondiscrimination. All job applicants are agreement, an employee also receives treated objectively and on the basis of and signs a document with his / her rights the same objective criteria. and steps that can be taken if his / her rights are deemed to be violated. To confirm such an approach, each single job advertisement carries the mandatory In accordance to the legal requirements, statement: a dedicated staff is assigned to provide assistance to the employees that face “During the selection process, any problem related to their professional candidates will not be discriminated in activity. any way on the basis on their health or disability, gender, race, age, nationality, There are no operations which can be religion, marital status, sexual or political identified as operations with significant orientation or any other personal risk for incidents of child labour. No case characteristic.” of discrimination has been reported in 2011. The same non-discriminatory principles are applied to the career development of So far, in the whole company, not a single the employees within the company. case of discrimination, mobbing or any other violation of the human or labor rights has been registered. 18 Renumeration At Delta Holding salaries are Solidarity Assistance determined on the basis of position and responsibilities, using the Mercer’s Methodology. All the positions are placed inside the framework of wages All employees are eligible for financial support and classes and are exclusively valued in case of employee’s sickness or sickness of a by this methodology. At same positions family member, in case of a birth of child, in a men and woman receive the same case of death or in some other cases defined salaries. by related rules and regulations. Health and Security at Workplace Delta Holding has established and is for all employees working in the positions adhering to the policy on health with increased risk (e.g. drivers, heavy and safety at workplace. This policy is machinery operators etc.). designed to minimize the chances of serious injuries at work and damage of Risk assessment procedures are the employees health. To this end, new periodically reviewed and modified if regulations, rules of conduct and training necessary. programs (BZR, ZOP) have been defined. In addition to medical checks, employees Based on the newly published risk working in positions with higher risks assessment procedures applicable are regularly trained, their equipment is to all employees in the company, risk periodically checked and if needed they assessments have been made for are provided with means of personal all positions within the company. In protection in the work places. addition, risk control countermeasures are planned and , where necessary, All employees enjoy a 24 hour insurance put in place. For example, there are in case of an accident. preventive and periodical health checks 19 Ethical Code On our Intranet portal, accessible to all only after working hours and away from the Delta Holding employees, information working premises. regarding labor and human rights, ethical principles, and principles of the corporate One of the rules of business ethics states social responsibility can be obtained. that giving, offering, promising or taking money, products, rights, services, or gifts of Within the ethical codex (Code of Ethics), value over 50 EUR is unacceptable, as is the apart from focusing on the rights of possibility of being influenced by another the employees, the employees can get person who is in business relation with acquainted with company’s view regarding the company. Managers, employees and the relations with business partners, external employees are obliged to execute environment, as well as the anti-corruption their business chores conscientiously and in measures. Company additionally outlines goodwill. This means that people responsible that no political engagement of the for managing the company, employees, employees during the working hours will as well as people engaged as part time be tolerated, nor the abuse of the position employees in any part of the company are within the company or company’s assets obliged to act in company’s best interest, in terms of providing political support to to base their assumptions on the basis of a candidate or political party. Employees information and opinions given by experts, do have the right to take part in politics but and to execute the chores assigned to them in a manner such as not subordinate Employee company’s interests to their own, nor to raise a conflict of interest whatsoever. Satisfaction Understanding the importance of employees have responded to the call for the role that our key stakeholder the survey and we have received a very – our employee plays, in 2011 we positive feedback. have conducted a major survey on employee satisfaction. We wished to We will continue to conduct the Job understand the image of Delta Holding Satisfaction survey on an annual that our employees have, their views basis in order to remain in continuous on the working environment and communication with our employees and working conditions and their overall understand their genuine thoughts and job satisfaction. Almost 70% of the unbiased opinions. 20 Training and Education Delta Holding pays major attention to its employees and their education. We believe that such policy makes our company a first-choice employer for job seekers and that it greatly increases job satisfaction and employees retention. During the course of 2011, employees attended a variety of training programs totalling over 73704 hours of training. Average hours of training per year per employee reached the number of 10.2 hours. In addition, throughout the year we have successfully continued with our Delta Academy program, established in 2006. This is a specific introductory program aimed at young people joining the company, without or with limited prior working experience. It features seven basic coursers related to business conduct and competences such as Effective Communication, Presentation Skills, Team Work, Customer Care etc. All employees that have been employed by our company in 2010 have successfully attended the Delta Academy in 2011. 21 Delta and Persons with Disabilities Delta Holding and its constituents take a very serious and genuine care about persons with disabilities. As the results of such policies put into practice throughout the company, in the last three years 304 persons with disabilities have been employed in Delta companies. From total 45 of them are with mental, 111 with physical and 148 persons with sensorial disabilities. The process of promoting employment of persons with disabilities in Delta started before the introduction of the related regulations. Wishing to help persons with disabilities to lead independent lives, we have started numerous initiatives that preceeded their older ones are being modified to serve employment in our company. such purposes. We continue to cooperate and contact Delta Holding has initiated a program of with NGOs and associations of persons inclusion at workplace, aiming to enable with disabilities with a goal to motivate persons with mental and intellectual persons with disabilities to release disabilities to smoothly integrate. their working potentials and to seek Professional activities have a variable employment. To all of our employees schedule and are lasting anywhere we provide specific training aimed between two and five working days a at dispersing the prejudices against week and two to four hours per day. persons with disabilities and explaining the communication possibilities. All new A couple of months prior to their buildings are designed to enable the employment persons with disabilities are access of persons with disabilities and the trained in professional workshops in the 22 presence of supervisor and with careful Serbia as well. Delta Holding is a member monitoring of the progress achieved. of international organization ILO Global Business and Disability Network. Delta Holding has recently established In recognition to our commitment for cooperation with home for persons with well-being of persons with disabilities, disabilities in Belgrade from which we the ILO organization awarded Delta purchase donation boxes.In this way we Holding last year with the prestigious gain a double CSR effect by cooperating award called Disability Matters Europe with one organization. which will be presented to us in 2012. The active attitude of Delta Holding Delta Holding is also a member of a towards inclusion of persons with workgroup for the inclusion of persons disabilities attracted attention from with disabilities – Global Compact Serbia. international organizations outside of Engaging Students University students were invited to do their practical training at Delta Automotive and Delta Motors companies in 2011. During the two month period, attendants were trained on different aspects of business conduct such as sales and after-sales, marketing and logistics in a real-life working environment. In Delta Agrar, the finance department has organized practical training for students from the Faculty of Economics of Belgrade University. With such actions Delta is establishing a strong link between academic knowledge and practical applications of such knowledge, bridging gap between theory and practice. 23 Saving the Earth for Future Generations Sustainable business growth under the condition of preservation of the environment is the top priority and the most difficult challenge Delta Holding is addreses as a strategic target. Different business constituents of Delta Holding are engaged in different business activities which make their impact on the environment rather different. To this extent, under the umbrella of the slogan “For Future Generations” each of the individual businesses is opting for the most effective measures to minimize the environmental impact of their products, services and daily operations. The common environmental goals for all of the companies are: • Steps and measures to improve energy efficiency • Development of the projects for use of alternative energy resources • Reduction of the emission of green-house gases • Collection, storage and treatment of harmful waste • Collection and treatment of office waste • Use of recycled materials for making of bags, packing materials and cups made from recycled materials in wholesale operations • Education of employees on simple measures for increasing energy efficiency • Participation in the working group for Environmental protection at Global Compact in Serbia We are doing our best to analyze the energy consumption as well as the impact we have on the environment. By developing and applying new technologies in our business processes we are effectively contributing to the reduced negative impact of our operations. 24 Delta-Pak Activities Open Markets Within Delta Agrar Group there is a and Waste non-profit organization called Delta-Pak, specialized in packaging and During the last year Delta-Pak has waste management. Working together initiated a study on the waste of Belgrade with other companies of Delta Holding, open markets. The aim of the study Delta-Pak is developing actions was to identify the status and propose on packaging waste management measures for reduction of various types throughout the whole company. of waste (organic and packaging). Particular actions on collection, sorting A seven-day study which has been and recycling of packaging waste have published in cooperation with PE City been conducted in various segments of Markets on various locations provided Delta Holding. detailed information about the quantities and structure of communal waste. Combining the needs for packaging Within the framework of the project a waste management on one side with specialized seminar on the subject of the need to support local communities, Management of packaged waste has in 2011 Delta-Pak has organized been held. 30 volunteers have been wastecollection actions engaging the trained on this seminar. Partnership disadvantaged communities in the city between PE City Markets and Deltaof Belgrade. The action has proven its Pak is a good example of PPP, as it is purpose and has been a major success. done in modern European countries. The purpose of this cooperation is to From the total of 3798,63 tons of ensure a more pleasant surrounding and package waste used in 2011, 26% has cleaner city markets, thus improving the been recycled, which is more than the quality of environment in broader social necessary percentage needed to satisfy community whilst contributing to cleaner the national goals set at the level of 10%. and greener Belgrade. 25 Delta, Suppliers & Customers It is our belief that all of our successes are based on our internal and external stakeholders. Our employees, our suppliers and our customers are the main contributors to our operations and we pay great respect and attention to them. Our CSR principles and practices are actively promoted to our suppliers and customers, they are a part of our process of engagement and cooperation on a daily basis. In the supply chain we select the companies with sound CSR practices giving preferable treatment to those with key CSR certificates such as ISO 9001 and HCCP. Such choices contribute to our efforts to make our products and services of maximum quality and increased added value to our customers. All of our partners in the supply chain are provided with information related to the requirements for appropriate handling and storage of the materials, ensuring the maximum quality of the incoming goods and minimum impact on the environment. Our long term cooperation with well known international brands has enabled us to apply world class standards in meeting the expectations of our customers and business partners. 26 Following our strict adherence to legal regulations, industry standards and voluntary policies, we promote our products and services following the best business practices. We do inform our customers about our products in a consistent and transparent manner. All of our products carry information on price and content. Our advertisement campaigns are designed with careful choice of the communication style and focus on complete and truthful information. So far, we have registered no claims related to our marketing or PR communications. We are a “disability-friendly” company. Most of our facilities are equipped to accommodate the access of disabled people, who we treat as our respected customers and business partners. In our companies we conduct regular periodical assessments of customer satisfaction. Such assessments are applied both to the B2B partners and to the end users. The results of these surveys are used to adjust the business processes or products in order to further increase customer satisfaction. All occasional comments and suggestions of our customers we take into serious consideration. We consider such information relevant for the further improvement of our business operations. Personal data protection is one of the issues we handle with great care and sensitivity, not only related to our own employees, but also in of our customers. We have had no cases of violations of the privacy data laws and regulations, nor claims related to this matter. We are continuously striving to satisfy the needs of our customers with improved products and innovative solutions. With maximum quality and reasonable prices as well as with superior services, we do our best to maximize the satisfaction of our customers. 27 Message from Delta Foundation Director At Delta Holding, we do not measure our success only in terms of profits made. We believe that the value of a corporation is measured by the willingness to understand and readiness to participate in improving the lives of all our citizens. We have established Delta Foundation in 2007 in order to integrate previous and future humanitarian projects of Delta Holding with a wish to revive the spirit of strategic philanthropy in Serbia. We have executed 300 projects so far, with the total value of 5.5 million Euro and helped an estimated 65000 people. We carefully plan and release our activities because we are aware of the fact that: “Anyone can give or spend money; but to give to the right person, to the right extent, at the right time, with the right motive, and in the right way, can not be done by everyone nor is it easy . – Aristotle Ivana Miskovic Karic Head of Delta Foundation 28 The Delta Foundation was established as an institution that provides help and assistance to people in need. Although the Foundation assists a variety of social structures and groups, the main focus of support is dedicated to children without parental care and people with disabilities. The purpose of such assistance and support is to contribute to the solution of specific problems and to improve the quality of life. In addition to particular event-driven actions, Delta Foundation is involved in longterm strategic projects with an aim of solving some long term issues, particularly in the domains of social welfare, health, education and culture. In 2011 Delta Foundation has conducted 90 programs and actions with more than 10000 beneficiaries in which over 950000 Euro has been invested. 29 Daycare Center for Children with Disabilities In February 2011, a groundbreaking ceremony for the Daycare Center took place in Belgrade. This facility, financed by the Delta Foundation will be finished in April 2012 and presented to the city of Belgrade. The facility will feature a modern space of 3000 m² and will cost an estimated 2 million Euro. This is the first action in Serbia of this kind in the last 70 years. With this action, in addition to its obvious humanitarian goal, Delta Foundation is trying to revive the spirit of legacy buildings, traditionally present in Serbia at the beginning of the 20th century. 30 “Do Not Laugh at Me” Delta Foundation acquired copyright permission to arrange and translate the song “Do Not Laugh at Me”, an unofficial hymn of marginalized groups. Numerous friends, artists and public personalities (Kiki Lesandric, Voja Zanetic, Leontina & Filip Pat, the Carolia children’s choir and many others have taken part in this endeavour on a voluntary basis. The music video has been recorded in several institutions with children and adults with disabillities and can be seen on YouTube: http://www.youtube.com/user/deltafondacija?feature=mhee Helping Helping the with Hearth Earthquake Victims The action called “Helping with Hearth” was conducted together with Delta Sport. More than 2 Million Dinars, Delta Foundation has participated in donated by Delta Sport from its profits relief programs for helping the victims were planned for improvement of in the Kraljevo earthquake. In February, education and living conditions of three families were given the keys of new persons with mental disability. Collected houses in Vitanovac village, that were funds were used for refurbishment of severely damaged. The beneficiaries the daycare institution for handicapped were a large family and two families with children in Belgrade and purchase of a member with a degree of disability. equipment needed for daily operations. In addition a donation in corn seed, In addition, from the same resources, estimated at 9000 Euro was given to the financial support was granted to similar city of Kraljevo. facilities in Nis and Trstenik. 31 Fund for Future Established in 2006, the Fund has continued its activities in 2011 involving 45 high school children and five students from parentless children facilities in Belgrade, Krusevac, Nis and Sremska Kamenica. The purpose of this program is to increase employment opportunities by providing professional guidance, training and scholarships to the children in need. At the end of the year, the fifth generation of scholars has successfully ended the education program. Upon graduation, the students have a possibility to be employed in Delta Holding. As a part of the program ”Friends of the Fund”, even the children that did not attend the “Fund for Future” program are supported to seek a job in Delta. 32 Help to Hear Wind Instruments Resulting from a humanitarian action for Philharmonic Orchestra in 2010, last year Delta Foundation has donated more than 1 Million Dinars to the school for children with impaired hearing Stefan Decanski in Belgrade. As part of its actions for supporting The money was used for the purchase culture and related institutions, Delta of new furniture and new teaching Foundation has donated 5.5 Million equipment (computers, projector, TV Dinars to Belgrade Philharmonic set, video / photo camera) as well as for Orchestra for the specific purpose of training on use of the multimedial board. purchasing wind instruments. From this donation, the orchestra has purchased Financial funds for this donation were five clarinets, two oboes and two flutes in obtained through a humanitarian the Netherlands, France and Germany. auction held to mark the third year of Delta Foundation’s operation. Twelve photographs showing children communicating certain terms as love, Good Things strength, trust, in sign-language were sold at the auction. & Good People In May 2011, Delta Foundation and Yuhor have initiated a common action Ambulance under the name of “There is always place (ili room) for good things and good Vehicle people”. The aim of the project was to Donation raise the consciousness of the society towards children with disabilities through education, expression of creativity and Financed from the Delta Maxi’s action activities that children realized with in 2010, last year Delta Foundation famous persons. Actor and a pantomime has donated an ambulance vehicle to artist Marko Stojanovic tends to not only the institution for persons with mental have fun with children but also inform disabilities in Kulina. The ambulance them of the advantages of healthy vehicle will serve the purpose of safe and nutrition. In regards to this initiative Yuhor efficient transport of disabled people to has donated products worth 700.000 ambulances and hospitals. RSD and has visited six different schools. 33 Delta Agrar Group comprises of 14 companies, involved in four main areas of business: • Primary agricultural production, namely crop farming, production of fruit and vegetables and stock faming • Cooperation with external agricultural producers and redemption of their products • Agro commerce and distribution of seed, pesticides and agro mechanization food production in four facilities: Yuhor factory (meat, canned products and poultry, beef and pork meat products) Danubius factory (flour and pasta production) Florida bel packing center (appetizers, cereals, muesli, basic food items, dried fruit) Gala (bottled water) Since 2009, Delta Food Moscow is organizing the distribution of the Delta Agrar products in Russia and Belarus. In its international operations, Delta Agrar is partnering with leading international companies ensuring the top quality of its products and services. In line with fulfilling its primary function to serve society with high quality products and services, Delta Agrar has released in 2011 a whole new series of products, following carefully established market needs. 34 Vision & Mission Our vision is to be recognized as a domestic and regional leader, and a globally respected business partner. Our mission is to provide high quality agricultural and nutrition products and be a trusted partner by satisfying the expectations of our customers, employees, and community in which we operate and society as a whole. Our overall goal is optimization and continuous improvement of operational performance as an answer to the existing market challenges. 35 In accordance to its primary function to provide society with high quality products, Delta Agrar offered a number of various new products in order to meet new and existing customers' needs in 2011. In 2011, we have introduced MODI® apple to the market, making Serbia one of few countries in the world where such exclusive product is available. MODI apple production is limited and highly controlled. Our packing center Florida Bel has introduced 78 new products to the market, most of them in the category of basic food with completely new sorts of muesli and cereals, unique on Serbian market. The Danubius factory released to the market four new types of flour with substantially increased nutrition value. Furthermore we have improved our production processes to increase energy efficiency and reduce environmental impact. At the same time these processes and facilities have further contributed to the increased quality of our products. For instance, new storage space for onions, with the capacity of 1000 tons features the technology that can keep the product fresh up to 220 days. At Florida Bel factory, two containers with new fumigation technology have been put in operation, improving the production process and quality of the final products. We are very proud of quality and safety of our products, constantly reaching the highest standard levels. In addition to EN ISO 9001:2008 and EN ISO 14001:2004, we align to the requirements of several other internationals standards pertinent to our operation, such as GlobalGAP, EN ISO 22000:2005 and NSF. 36 Delta Agrar is dedicated to its employees, their wellbeing and their professional competences. In 2011 we have organized 25 trainings for 137 employees with almost 2500 training hours, with classes in foreign languages, IT, team building and corporative culture. It resulted in positive feedback and we plan to continue with these actions in future as well. Also we value safety and security of the workplace very highly. Beside all the necessary technical details, instructions are given on personal hygiene, risks and safety at work. 37 Environment Management System (EMS) In 2011, Delta Agrar has initiated a new project of Energy Management. The advanced TEAMS software based solution will enable monitoring of the raw materials, energy and water consumption, as well as the resulting CO2 emissions. The data will be used for the regular CO2 reporting. Green Energy Energy at Delta Agrar Efficiency Delta Agrar is proud to be one of the Having in mind that agricultural pioneers in renewable energy in Serbia. production is energy consuming, in 2011 The company has deployed biomass Delta Agrar has initiated the increase of boilers for heat production on two farms. energy efficiency in its operations. The The units (1 MW each) are producing the main goal of the Ecoprofit project is energy for farm heating. Based on the optimization of resources usage in order successful operation, savings achieved to reduce environmental impact and and positive environmental impact, improve economic results. It is expected the company plans to continue such that the project will expand on all development in future as well. members of Delta Holding in future. 38 Local Communities In 2011 Delta Agrar has continued As a part of these activities, in 2011 more its involvement in local community than 2000 individual producers were development by focusing on direct trained on the key aspects of the food support and cooperation with individual production. The subjects covered most food producers. Delta Agrar provides important aspects of food production, necessary know-how assists with the such as state of the art production business planning, financial advising technologies, product quality and safety, and support, production start-up and effective crop protection, health issues guaranteed yield redemption in the etc. We believe that with this approach period of 15 years. Such assistances is we are contributing to the growth of provided both to livestock and to fruits small and medium local enterprises as producers. well as development of community in general. Donations Due to the nature of its business, Delta Agrar is supporting the local communities by donating its products to those in need. From a half a ton of apples were donated to the children in need in November 2011 to three tons of apples for the charity event organized by city of Novi Sad. 39 Delta Real Estate Group is dedicated to state-of-the-art property development featuring a unique combination of four main development segments: retail (shopping malls), residential and hotels. As such, the Delta Real Estate Group is the largest business of this kind in Serbia and in the wider region. Today, the company is conducting its professional activities in several countries: Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Albania, Croatia and Bulgaria. The main focus of Delta Real Estate Group has been deployment of new technologies and quality materials, with specific attention being given to space, functionality and energy efficiency. In 2007 Delta Real Estate has opened Delta City, the first shopping mall in Serbia, featuring 85000 m² of shopping space with 127 shops, including retail facilities, restaurants, cinema, children’s playgrounds, a three-level garage etc. Delta City Montenegro, opened on 1st October 2008. , is a unique shopping mall in Montenegro. Belville is a major modern residential complex located in the centre of New Belgrade and represents an entirely new concept of a residential quarters. Hotel Continental in Belgrade is the first five star hotel in Serbia and is located at a prime location in New Belgrade. The hotel provides world class service, based on the highest international standards. 40 Vision & Mission Our vision is to provide better quality of life constructing green and safe realestate facilities. Our mission is to develop and execute projects in acordance to highest international standards and requirements. Our company goals are: • Establishing of new professional standards related to the properties development • Providing high quality with integrated sustainability considerations • Creating of in-house competence and establishment of world-class professional teams • Creating of the custom-made, unique business proposals for our business partners 41 Environmental savings were calculated to 340000 Euro and CO2 emissions were reduced by Concerns over 4500 tons. and Energy With these and future measures related to energy reduction, we estimate Consumption that the cumulative savings will reach the level of 3 – 5 mill Euro. Optimizing energy consumption in Delta Continental Smoke and exhaust gas City is primary concern of our operation. emissions from all hotel facilities are Actions that we have undertaken monitored on daily basis. Hotel has substantially reduced the consumption of established sound environmental electricity and gas. practices related to the replacement of linen and towels and in cooperation The key steps undertaken were: with the hotel guests is achieving visible improvement on this front. In addition, • Optimization of the HVAC operation, we carefully choose chemicals used for based on the attendance fluctuation hygienic purposes with minimal impact of visitors in Delta City as well as on the on the environment. A program which weather conditions, working hours and rationalizes the electricity and water events held. usage is being conducted in the hotel by introducing energy efficient bulbs, • Optimization of lightning in all facilities turning off electrical appliances and Introduction of the “Free Cooling” lighting when not in system for the night use, rationalizing the regime. usage of tap water and using technical water • Thermal losses from own depots. assessment of the heat losses through roof and external walls using thermo vision recordings. Total energy savings in the period 2009 – 2011 amounted to 5.5 mill KWh of electricity and more than 0.5 mill m³ of gas. The cumulative effects of energy 42 The Global warming awareness action took place in Belville in 2011, with assistance and support from the Ministry for the Environment and National Geographic Serbia. A large ice block was left outdoors with a challenging question for the public, which was to estimate the melting time. After almost 20 hours, when the ice block was completely melted, the winner was announced and awarded 100000 Dinars. During the whole action, Belville complex was hosting presentations and workshops on some burning environmental issues such as air pollution, CO2 emissions, global warming and climate change. The attendees were numerous pupils from elementary schools. Recycling From the very beginning Delta City is recycling packaging waste and oil. Since last year we have started the recycling of cooling chemicals and have made preparations for recycling of electronic waste as well. As a part of regular activities, the hotel is recycling paper, plastic and glass packaging materials as well as all sorts of oil, metal and technical waste. Bio-waste from the hotel grounds is classified with a goal of producing bio-fertilizers. 43 Customer Realations At Contintental Hotel we treat our guests with care and respect. Our regular guest satisfaction surveys help us to assess current and future customer needs and to adjust our offers accordingly. Extra added value to Belville residents is the housing estate management which provide services of green and clean public areas, technical maintenance, administration of the village, while particular priority is the safety of the neighborhood. Basic orientation of Delta City Shopping mall is a diverse and quality offer and variety of services, which provide high quality and enjoyable stay for our visitors. In 2011, the shopping mall improved its service with ten new tenants. 44 Contributing to the Society Delta Real Estate Group took an active part in many actions in 2011, in order to contribute to raising awareness of some social problems. Delta City in 2011 has participated in various humanitarian activities such as collecting food and clothing for underprivileged groups, necessary assets for people with mental disabilities, organization of fairs for companies with people with disabilities in order to promote social entrepreneurship etc. Several educational and cultural events have been organized at residential complex Belville in 2011, such as consultancy for pregnant women and young mothers, environmental awareness action etc. At Continental Hotel we are hosting practical training for the students of several professional schools, combining knowledge transfer with hands-on real life experiences. Delta City shopping mall and residential complex Belville are designed to enable the access of persons with disabilities. People with physical or sensorial disabilities can have access to all shops, toilets and elevators in Delta City shopping mall. Particular attention was given to the entrance to the buildings, elevators and parking places at residential complex Belville. 45 Delta Distribution comprises of three different business segments: Delta DMD (distribution of FCMG), Delta Automoto (import and servicing of Fiat, Alfa Romeo, Lancia i Honda) and Delta Motors (import and service of BMW). Delta DMD's core operations are sales, logistics, brand management and merchendising of the FMCG. Delta DMD commands a network of over 7000 business customers by distributing world known brands like Nivea, Ferrero, Mars, Johnnie Walker etc. Under the name DTS (Delta Transport Systems), Delta distribution has established an independent logistics company with a modern fleet of low polluting vehicles, thus reducing negative impact on the environment. Delta Motors was established in 2006 as the importer of BMW and MINI vehicles brands for Serbia. The company sells cars and manages complete service and maintenance activities. Delta Automoto was established in 2007, stemming from the Delta Auto business unit of Delta Holding. Delta Automoto sells and services vehicles of the Japanese brand Honda. 46 Vision & Mission Vision: To be a synonym for premium distribution and a respected business partner of all of our clients. Responsible to our employees, market and environment, as well as all the communities in which we perform our business. Mission: To become a reliable partner to all of our cooperates with constant improvements of our distribution services, partnership with the market and optimal offers of global and domestic brands. Goal: By constantly improving our services to keep the existing and attract new customers and ensure their satisfaction and loyalty. Our aim is to increase our market share by introducing new high quality products, with clear differentiation of the brands in clients’ perception, and by positioning ourselves as a market leader in innovations. 47 Our Ecological Credentials At Delta DMD our primary ecological concern is waste separation and recycling. In addition to the separation of paper and plastic, last year we have introduced separation and recycling of electronic waste, glass, batteries, rubber, metal and wood. The whole recycling process is managed together with the certified recycling partners. Our main achievements in 2011 are: • Established Recycling Plan together with Delta-Pak • More than 20 tons of waste recycled • Office waste recycling project with paper recycling boxes in our office premises • “Eco-yard” with boxes for waste separation In addition, we are doing our best to minimize our impact on the environment caused by logistics and transport. In addition to keeping our own fleet equipped with the most modern low-polluting vehicles, we are applying the same standards to our external logistic partners. A special bonus scheme has been established that rewards our partners with low polluting trucks and other transport vehicles. 48 Customer Satisfaction & Customer Support Delta DMD considers its relationship with the customer as a precondition for business success. To this effect, twice a year a tailor-made customer satisfaction survey is conducted. In order to address specific customer needs different surveys are designed for the traditional (individual shops) and modern trade (wholesale and retail chains). Based on the results of those surveys, the company is taking steps and measures (employee trainings and others) to further improve its operations and meet the requirements of even most demanding customers. The company has an active info-telephone line that serves the purpose of informing both business partners and individual customers about products and services. Customers can also use the info-line to make comments or give suggestions on possible improvements in our operations. Supporting Those in Need Most of our donation programs are planned and executed together with Delta Foundation. Some of the most prominent activities in the last year were: • Donation to the Centre for development of Roma children (computers and computer peripherals) • Donation to the School for mentally disabled children (confectionery and water) • Donation to the Children Olympic games for the children with special needs (confectionery and water) • Donation to the sport event “Tournament 8” (confectionery) • “Sunday Cakes” donation to the children without parents and children with special needs (cakes and cookies) • Donation to the homeless children’s houses (4t of washing powder) Transport services were completely provided by DTS company. 49 Care About the Environment Two automotive companies have a high regard for the impact of their business operation on the environment. As transportation represents roughly one third of the total energy consumption, each action resulting in efficient energy usage and reduction of CO2 emissions contributes to solving energy and climate issues. To support the promotion of the low-emission cars (less than 100g /km of CO2) the companies have taken part in the “Eco Friendly” campaign supported by the Serbian government. Together with the Fund for the Environment, Delta Automotive is giving a special discount of 100000 RSD. In accordance to company policies, the facilities management is taking continued measures in all premises aimed at efficient energy usage, such as control of the doors and windows, reduced heating during the weekends, light control, etc. In its daily operations, the companies strongly promote use of electronic communication, reduction of paper documentation and two-sided printing. Consistently conducted, these small measures have a visible impact on the usage of office supplies. Reduction of the operating costs means a smaller carbon footprint. 50 Waste Management and Recycling Our automotive companies take special the total PET packaging in use has been care about the treatment of harmful either reused or recycled which is more oily waters prior to their release into than two times higher than the legal the natural water chain. In the special requirements. In addition, the companies separation units the oil is extracted from are active in recycling of the IT equipment the mix and treated water is released into and other electric / electronic equipment, the eco systems. Rigorous laboratory in cooperation with certified recycling control is put in place and is conducted companies. four times per year by a certified laboratory. Two companies are actively cooperating with Delta-Pak by supporting their Plastic containers and other plastic packaging waste collection, separation packaging materials (PET packaging) are and recycling activities, participating systematically collected and forwarded in the related programs of Delta to an authorized recycling partner, Holding and conforming to the existing beyond the mandatory regulatory government policies on environmental requirements. In 2011 as much as 50% of protection. Customers Satisfaction Delta Motors is applying international slightly modified due to some specific QMA standard in its operations. Also characteristics of the Serbian market. Delta Motors has KR report customer The survey results are provided for report as customer satisfaction consolidation to BMW, which return feed monitoring. Customer satisfaction survey back of the overall and specific results to is done on a monthly basis both for the the individual organizations. Access service and sales clients and includes all to the survey results is accessible by of the customers that have purchased the managers, sales and service staff or serviced a car in the previous month. as well as the claims and complaints The BMW questionnaire has been department. 51 Established in 1993, Delta Sport is a business group of Delta Holding active in wholesale and retail of sport goods and HoReCa. Delta Sport isan exclusive distributor of the Nike company and features a leading retail chain for such goods in Serbia and the wider region. At the same time, the company is a franchising partner of the Canadian fashion house Aldo, Spanish fashion house Mango and Italian brand Yamamay. Delta Fashion, as an integral part of Delta Sport is an importer of some famous international fashion brands such as Monsoon, Monsoon Children, Accessorize, Sergeant Major and Staff Uniforms. In addition, Delta Sport has a franchising contract with Costa Coffee, a multinational coffeehouse company from the UK. In retail network of Delta Sport are also Sport Impulse shops, a multi-brand chain of sports equipment. In addition to the own brands Addiction and Gecco, the chain is offering some of the most famous world brands: Nike, Adidas, Converse, Lotto, Helly Hansen, North Face and others. Under the name “BUZZ”, Delta Sport has developed a new urban-sport concept, offering products of Franklin & Marshal, De Puta Madre, Ringspun and other international brands. 52 Vision & Mission Vision: As a modern and dynamic company which represents and promotes lifestyle, we wish to become a highly profitable and secure retail system in the region. Our success is based on professionalism, reliability and innovations which we value and wish to offer to our clients, partners, customers and employees. Mission: To offer our clients an authentic retail experience, by developing new ideas and concepts, enriching their lifestyle and become partners of choice in the retail sector in thie region. Goal: Within the retail business we want to ensure the availability of lifestyle philosophy concept. By the means of assured quality and the uniqueness of the service, products and ambient, we strive to offer original retail experience to our customers, as well as a long-term alliance in creating, realization and continuous enrichment of their lifestyles. 53 Delta Sport and Social Responsibility Delta Sport fulfils Its responsibility towards and traditional bracelets of the „Believe in society by practically addressing the Yourself“ project. needs of several categories of external stakeholders, namely young talents, people The company has developed the External with disabilities and other categories of Talent Pool program in cooperation with people in need. middle and high schools. University students are invited to do the mandatory practical Together with Delta Humanitarian Fund training in one of the Delta Sport companies, our company has participated in numerous to participate in the actual company’s projects actions for children in need. In the New and to do their research and diploma works Year’s Card action, parentless children with the company’s support. Students from have designed New Years’ cards that Delta high schools can do the practical training Sport sent to its domestic and international in the retail shops during the course of the business partners. As a result of this school year. The best are offered employment action Delta Sport has donated to a home upon successful graduation in their respective of parentless children furniture, sports schools. clothing and footwear as well as articles for exercising. The company is looking forward to supporting persons with disabilities through In cooperation with Delta Foundation a variety of programs and actions. Together project „Believe in Yourself“ has been with Delta Foundation and KEC MNRO continued. In June 2011, children without (Creative Educational Centre for People parental care have spent a sport’s day with Development Disabilities) Delta Sport with the athletician Olivera Jevtic and a participates in the program of employment waterpolo player Danilo Daca Ikodinovic. and social inclusion for young adults with Through carefully designed and chosen developmental disabilities. In addition, the motivation activities, play and games, the company is actively promoting employment of sportsmen have talked with more than people with disabilities in a variety of positions 50 children about what makes the life of (retail outlets, storage houses, financial a professional sportsman – motivation to departments etc.). In this way we are enabling practice sports, dedication to training, them to become contributing members of believing in oneselve’s capabilities, selfsociety on one hand and to become partly or confidence, support, lack of support, fully self-sufficient on the other. success and failure. Delta Sport Group has provided gifts for all the children, T shirts 54 Environmental Credentials: Responsible with Waste Due to the nature of its professional the glass waste. I activities as an importer of clothing and footwear, Delta Sport pays full n daily operation Delta Sport takes attention to the packaging waste and measures for waste reduction and its management. We are giving a very increasing energy efficiency such as: strong preference to manufacturers using biodegradable paper and plastic • Steps for reducing the number of for the packaging of their products. printed documents For example, the Nike company is • Controlled recycling of the printer packaging their footwear in 100% toners degradable cardboard boxes. Products • Use of energy saving light bulbs in all of companies Mango and Accessorize premises and facilities are not packed into cardboard boxes at • Use of air curtains in the shops and all, as purchased items are packed into other sales outlets fully degradable sacks. Delta HoReCa • Use of fan dryers as a replacement for activities are taking care about packaging paper towels waste as well. All products delivered to the customers (paper napkins, boxes, Delta Sport is committed to continue and sacks) are packaged in degradable further intensify implementation of the packaging. Recycling signs contribute to programs, steps and measures aimed rising awareness of environmental issues at environmental protection and energy with the customers and population at efficiency. large. Delta Coffee cooperates also with recycling company for management of Delta Sport’s packaging waste is managed in cooperation with Delta-Pak organization and authorized recycling companies SWIFT and Papir Servis. In addition to the packaging waste collection, SWIFT is providing information on the waste movement and recycling process. The cooperation with SWIFT contributes not only to the environmental protection. It also plays a social role as it provides for social inclusion of underprivileged populations in line with the Poverty Reduction Strategy. With almost 40 tons of recycled waste, all companies of Delta Sport have fulfilled the target of recycling more than 10% of imported packaging waste. 55 Established in 1998, today Delta Generali is the second largest insurance company on the Serbian market and at the same time the largest private-owned company in terms of premium income and assets. Headquartered in Belgrade the company network consists of 46 branches in 7 regional centers across Serbia. The overall market share of Delta Generali in Serbian insurance market in 2011 was almost 20%. Delta Generali is registered for providing all types of non-life and life insurances. Among the clients of Delta Generali are individuals, small and medium enterprises, banks and large companies. Currently, the company sells a wide range of products including, among others, motor insurance, property, accident, health as well as life products. In Serbia Delta Generali Osiguranje is the shareholder of Delta Generali Reinsurance, Delta Generali Voluntary Pension Fund Management Company and Health Center Jedro. In Montenegro Delta Generali Osiguranje has three subsidiaries: Delta Generali Holding d.o.o. Podgorica, Delta Generali Osiguranje Podgorica (Insurance Company), Delta Generali Životno Osiguranje Podgorica (Life Insurance Company). 56 Vision & Mission Vision: Company vision is to become a regional leader in development and introduction of new products and in setting efficiency standards in claims handling. Mission: Delta Generali Osiguranje mission is to offer professional and top quality insurance service to the clients and to become their major financial consultant always following market requests but also taking care of company’s efficiency and profitability. 57 Employees and Education For our employees we have been organizing in-house as well as external trainings. In 2011 we have established Delta Generali Academy with the goal of further improving the professional skills and competences of the employees. The main courses are aimed at improving communication and presentation skills, negotiating skills, project management and management skills. We believe that a competent and motivated employee is the company’s main asset and a key contributor in reaching the company’s goals. In 2011 we have held a large number of training sessions amounting to 70000 hours. 58 Socially Responsible Business Our Company rules and regulations explicitly forbid any form of discrimination on any grounds. Any form of discrimination is categorized as a serious violation of behavior at work place and can lead to dismissal. In addition, safeguards are put in place to ensure that applicants for the jobs in our company are not subjected to any discriminatory treatment. The same stringent rules apply for any kind of harassment, including sexual harassment. Ethical Safety Behavior on the Roads Delta Generali Insurance has adopted During 2011 we continued the long term the Ethical Codex of Assicurazioni projects “Apples and Lemons”, aimed at General S.p.A. and integrated it in the improving children’s knowledge about company rules and regulations. the basic traffic rules and safety on the roads. The program is organized in The codex has detailed the main cooperation with schools and local police premises on which ethical behavior is departments. Last year the program was based: conducted in 51 towns and included more than 8000 school children. • Leading ethical principles of the group • Guidance for relationship management Delta Generali Insurance is committed to • Rules of monitoring and control continue its business operations based on the integrity, transparency and sound The ethical codex specifically states that business principles and at the same time social responsibility is a key principle in to continue and further develop CSR the corporate business conduct. programs and activities. 59 Delta Maxi is retail chain, and the first one opened in Belgrade in 2000. Over the years, the Delta Maxi chain was growing, introducing standard supermarkets as well as some new formats such as Tempo hypermarkets and Mini Maxi shops designed for the smaller city quarters. As a response to the economic crisis, Delta Maxi has introduced its own private label “Premia”, offering to customers a wide spectrum of possibilities to purchase quality food at attractive prices. At the moment of purchase of Delta Maxi from the Belgium company Delhaize Group in July 2011, Delta Maxi featured 450 supermarkets. 60 Mission & Values Mission: To be the retailer of choice, the one most preferred by the satisfied consumer. Corporate Values Focus on the Consumer: Creating a future whereby the wishes and needs of the consumers are looked after with continuous and ongoing improvement in the quality of goods and services. Initiative: Introducing innovations that improve business and increase our efficiency. Integrity: To apply the ethics of consumers, employees and business partners, and the community that is the very company itself. Team Work: Building confidence and safety of employees through a transparent and fair exchange of opinions, knowledge and ideas. 61 Environmental Concerns During the first half of 2011, Delta Maxi was taking seriously the impact of its business operations on the environment. Amongst the other actions coordinated by Delta-Pak organization, continuous actions have been taken for the collection, separation and recycling of Customer packaging waste. In addition, energyRelationships saving light bulbs were installed in all premises. The most important business concern Maxi is the first retailer from Serbia for Delta Maxi is customer relationships. which has implemented boxes for A special department has been formed gathering used batteries in 39 of its and is in charge of communication retail centers. This project was carried with the customers on issues such as through in cooperation with the Ministry questions, complaints and suggestions of Environment, Mining and Spatial related to Delta Maxi operations. Planning. 62 Social Responsibility In order to provide access to its retail shops to people with disabilities, the action of facilities adjustments has continued during 2011. Delta Maxi was also actively participating in Delta’s program for social inclusion for people with mental disabilities. Maxi has continued to cooperate with NGO Bank of Food throughout 2011 to which 400kg of food was donated for numerous Municipalities in need in Serbia. In the first half of the year 2.4 tons of food was donated. Cooperation with National Kitchen in Vranje also continued, by donating it with food for preparing meals for a couple of hundred poorest inhabitants from this region. Delta Maxi has been a permanent donator of money and goods to the programs that Delta Foundation has coordinated (collection of money for Belgrade Phillharmony, donation of goods for breakfast of disadvantaged children at Sveti Sava elementary school etc). It is certain that Delta Maxi will continue their CSR programs and actions under the new ownership of the Belgian company Delhaize Group. 63 Expert Opinion Delta Holding is a large Serbian corporation with some of its activities extending beyond the country’s borders. Within the period of two decades the company has grown to be one of the largest in the country, covering multiple segments of economic activities, from food production to car sales and maintenance and from real estate development to sporting goods, fashion, HoReCa and banking. The management of the company is sound and transparent, combining youth and dynamism with experience and maturity. A large number of females in the middle and top management as well as the well-balanced age structure ensures the management diversity and optimizes the use of the management’s human capital. 64 The company’s CSR programs and action plans are numerous and diverse, reflecting the company’s structure and nature of the individual business operations. Often they are initiated by the businesses themselves rather than being a part of a centralized long-term CSR strategy. As a part of Delta Holding, Delta Foundation plays a major role in the development of CSR programs (predominantly in the area of social responsibilities), initiating and coordinating individual actions. In addition, Delta Holding is the initiator and leader of the new Humanitarian Foundation in which it will be investing 10% of the annual profits with a view to joining forces and financial resources with other major companies in the country. With such a public and concrete commitment to CSR, and contribution to society, along with its leadership attitude, Delta Holding is continuously confirming its long term CSR commitments. In the near future I would expect Delta Holding to develop a clear CSR strategy on the corporate level, to establish a dedicated CSR management and to consolidate similar actions carried out throughout the company while preserving some specific approaches of the individual companies themselves. Based on the 12 interviews with the CSR related managers of the company and after a study of the related documentation, I can confirm that this CSR report complies to the GRI “C” level and that the statements herein are accurate and truthful. With the continuation and further development of the CSR programs and with continuous monitoring of the most important KPIs I believe that the next year’s report will reach “B+3p” level. Dr. Miroslav Trifunovic General Manager CSR Expert International (*) * CSR Expert International is a Dutch company registered at KvK Netherland, No. 31036813 65 About the Report This Report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements established by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) organization. The current reporting guidelines of the third generation (3G) require companies to report on company profile, management approach and selected key performance indicators. For level “C” the report needs to provide information on the company itself (G3 Profile Disclosures) as well as information on the more than 10 selected indicators related to the company's economic, environmental and social performance (G3 Performance Indicators). GRI Standard Disclosures, Application Level C 66 GRI indicator References, Application Level C 67 Report drafting and preparation: Corporate Communications Department Team leader: Jelena Krstovic, Vice president of Corporate Communications Delta Holding Team members: Tijana Koprivica, CSR Manager of Delta Holding Aleksandar Bojic, Media Relations Consultant of Delta Holding Personnel from Delta Foundation, Delta Sport, Delta Generali Osiguranje, Delta Agrar Group, Delta Real Estate Group, Delta Distribution Consultant: CSR Expert International Design and preparation for printing: Corporate Communications Department
