Sustainability report 2011 Sustainability report Sveaskog AB (publ) with registered number 556558-0031 is a limited company Contents with its registered ofﬁce in Kalix, Sweden. Sveaskog sets a good example and contributes to sustainable develop2 CEO’s comments ment – economic, environmental and social – today and in the future. 4 Comments from Senior Vice President, Environment Our reporting on targets and target performance within economic, environand Social Responsibility mental and social responsibility aims to provide greater transparency and 5 Overall governance information about our operations. This is our seventh sustainability report and it is prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initiatives* guidelines, 6 Targets and performance GRI G3. 8 Materiality assessment and stakeholder dialogue The 2011 Sustainability Report is submitted by Sveaskog’s Board of 10 Economic responsibility Directors. The report meets GRI’s application level B+ and is reviewed by 12 Environmental responsibility PwC, the company’s auditors. 18 Social responsibility 21 Employees * Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a network-based organisation working in co-operation with the UN Environment Programme. The organisation has drawn up global guidelines for how companies 26 Reporting principles report information related to sustainable development. The guidelines contain three different 27 GRI G3 Index with page references application levels. They are titled C, B and A. The reporting criteria found in each level reﬂects an 33 Board signatures increasing application or coverage of the GRI Reporting Framework. An organisation can self33 Auditors’ assurance report declare a “plus” at each level if they have utilised external assurance. Detailed information about GRI and its regulatory framework is available at www.globalreporting.org. Owner’s guidelines Sveaskog is to be an independent player with its core activity in forestry and must generate a commercial return. Guidelines for Sveaskog’s operations Assignment Sveaskog belongs to the group of companies owned by the Swedish Sveaskog is to operate on a commercial basis and generate a state whose operations are subject to market conditions and commercial return. Sveaskog should be an independent player with requirements. As a complement to the Swedish Companies Act and forestry as its core activity, without major interests of its own as an the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, the government has end-user of wood raw material. Sveaskog may also conduct closely formulated an ownership policy that applies to state-owned comrelated activities provided they contribute to increasing the company’s panies. This states the principles for governance of these companies returns. and their reporting procedures. The ownership policy also underlines Furthermore, Sveaskog will continue with land sales on market that state-owned companies must have a well thought-out strategy terms to enable reallocation of land holdings and add-on purchases for ethical, social and environmental responsibility and set a good for private forestry, particularly in sparsely populated areas. Sales of example in their work on equal opportunities and diversity, and that land will be carried out until 10% of the area owned by the company they must have the best possible long-term growth in value. at its formation in 2002, has been sold. Guidelines for Sveaskog’s operations are stipulated in the company’s articles of association, as well as in the ownership policy and general legislation. 1 CEO’s comments Focus on customers and increased efﬁciency The forest industry is a backbone of the Swedish economy. And the forest is a pivotal resource for counteracting climate change. Sveaskog plays a key role in this work. We are Sweden’s leading forest company and develop sustainable beneﬁts within all forest applications. I took over as CEO of Sveaskog in October 2011. My task is to Uncertain market situation ensure that Sveaskog meets the targets decided by its owner during In a long-term, global perspective the use of wood raw material is the year. In relation to earlier targets these mean an increased proﬁt expected to increase. In particular, stricter environmental requirerequirement on an operating basis of approximately SEK 300 million. ments mean that wood, as a renewable material, is in demand in a In order to reach this target we must work with a greater focus on growing number of products. But in the year ahead, the market is customer orientation and proﬁtability. uncertain. The Swedish wood products industry is experiencing problems Lower sales with proﬁtability and uncertainty about how demand and prices will Sveaskog sold 10.6 million cubic metres of wood raw material in develop. The market for the pulp and paper industry is also declining 2011 which is approximately 6% less than in the previous year. The for most products while competition is intense. decrease is partly due to our allocation of 100,000 hectares of Global competition is forcing a consolidation in the Swedish forest productive forest land to the state as replacement land for nature and wood products industry towards fewer and larger units. At the reserves, and partly to a falling market for wood raw material with same time, there will continue to be successful wood products lower average prices. companies with a clear niche position in a speciﬁc industrial value The main decline was in sales of sawlogs which are our most chain. valuable product range. A lower proportion of sawlogs leads to lower The market for biofuel is growing. Swedish use of biofuel is well revenues and higher production costs since the two other main developed and therefore expected to rise at a lower rate than product assortments, pulpwood and biofuel, are more expensive to previously. In Europe, there are plans for major investments in fell and transport. biofuel-based energy production in order to attain the EU’s 20-20-20 Biofuel sales increased for the ﬁfteenth consecutive year and in climate targets. 2011 we delivered for the ﬁrst time more than three terawatt hours of renewable energy. We are focusing on the development of more Developed customer co-operation effective biofuel production. During the year we succeeded in Sveaskog offers customised deliveries of wood raw material to 170 obtaining a better dry matter content in the branches and tops customers in the wood products industry, the pulp and paper industry assortment, which is decisive for proﬁtability in the energy business. and the energy sector. Our customers consider that we are a reliable business partner with considerable expertise and that we are well Strong ﬁnancial position able to deliver the promised grades and agreed volumes. But they Net sales for 2011 totalled SEK 6,724 million, a decrease of SEK would like Sveaskog to have greater insight into their market 227 million due to lower sales volumes and lower average prices. conditions and to take more initiatives for joint development projects. Operating proﬁt from continuing operations decreased to SEK 1,085 Increasing knowledge about customers’ businesses and creating million (1,280), mainly due to lower deliveries and higher production more intense and developed co-operation with customers is our costs. highest priority. Return on equity amounted to 4.7% which is lower than in 2010 and below the 7% target. The lower return compared with the Business with forest as base previous year is mainly due to the review we have performed of the As well as raw material we offer seedlings and services related to model for valuation of standing timber. Starting with the year-end regeneration through Svenska Skogsplantor AB as well as leases for report for 2011 we apply current normal costs instead of a historical hunting, ﬁshing, eco-tourism and wind power. We see a growing average when calculating costs for forestry operations. market here and potential to create more products and services. Sveaskog has a strong ﬁnancial position with an equity ratio of We have also started development of ecosystem services related 54%. In order to reduce the equity ratio to 35–40%, which is the new to binding of carbon dioxide, biodiversity and water treatment. target adopted by our owner, Sveaskog proposes an extraordinary Together with LKAB, we are running a demonstration project in divided in 2012. Övertorneå which highlights the Swedish forest’s unutilised potential for climate beneﬁt. Sveaskog has carried out measures that make the forest bind more carbon dioxide and LKAB has purchased carbon dioxide credits from us based on this increased sequestration. 2 Sustainable development Sveaskog wants to set a good example within environmental initiatives and social responsibility. For our part this means working with ambitious environmental targets and acting responsibly in our relationships with employees, business partners and members of the community who are affected by our operations. We manage our forests in accordance with the market-driven FSC® certiﬁcation for responsible forestry and we support the UN’s Global Compact which seeks to achieve sustainable development. The Global Compact’s principles for human rights and labour conditions are given tangible form in our code of conduct and our CSR requirements which we regularly reinforce with training and follow-up. In order to be an attractive employer over time, we wish to increase diversity in the company. This applies to gender, age and education as well as ethnicity and cultural background. Including diversity in work planning and recruitment is an important part of leadership and therefore an issue which we underline at meetings with the company’s managers. Ambitious environmental objectives Sveaskog uses 20% of productive forest land in each forest region as nature conservation land. We make extensive efforts to secure and develop high natural values on our lands. Other environmental throughout the company and support more effective working objectives we work with include valuable aquatic ecosystems, a methods. Starting on 1 April 2012 we will work with decentralised reduced amount of signiﬁcant damage caused by vehicles and lower proﬁt responsibility in three geographical market areas: North, carbon dioxide emissions. Both independent external and internal Central and South, the Properties business area and the subsidiary follow-ups show that we have a high quality in our forest and natural Svenska Skogsplantor AB. values. Productivity in forestry depends on continued development of new technology and new methods. Here we work in co-operation Improved efﬁciency projects with the industry, equipment manufacturers and research We need to strengthen our customer orientation and increase our institutes. operational and administrative efﬁciency in order to achieve our I am looking forward to leading the development of our coreturn targets and develop the value of Sveaskog’s forest assets in a operation with customers, our forestry and our earnings, together sustainable manner. Key areas for development, and where we with Sveaskog’s employees. We will create values for customers, started a change programme during 2011, are management by owner and society by working with the forest in a new way. objectives and results, leadership, standardised working methods and As a leading forest company Sveaskog has a key task to encontinual improvements. Within the company there is consensus and courage the development of sustainable forestry. Together with our considerable support for the work that lies ahead. This can be seen customers, we will develop new products and solutions which create both in the VIS employee survey and in interviews with some 50 values in the entire chain from forest to end product. managers during 2011. This picture was strengthened during the meetings with all market areas and units I had during the late autumn in order to familiarise myself with the business. At the end of the year we started to design a new organisation which will create an increased focus on customers and market Per-Olof Wedin 3 Comments from SVP, Environment and Social Responsibility Year of Forests – opportunities and challenges The UN declared 2011 the Year of Forests. The forest and its usage are in many ways a cornerstone of sustainable development. At the same time, this represents major challenges for forestry to balance diverse interests and needs regarding forest values. This was clearly illustrated in 2011 when forest issues at a global level very much concerned land usage and climate effects while the forest debate here at home was characterised by different opinions about forestry’s consideration for nature and application of laws. Forest increasingly important in climate issue During the year things quietened down regarding the climate issue and expectations ahead of the climate conference in Durban in December were toned down considerably. Against this background it should be seen as a success that these negotiations resulted in a road map for a new climate treaty to be signed by 190 countries and implemented in 2020. Perhaps the clearest understanding was that the forest and land usage are the key to the entire question. But a lot must happen in a short time. From today’s situation where dependence on fossil fuels in the world is almost total and demand for energy is increasing, the European countries for example must in a few years increase the proportion of renewables in their energy mix to 20%. Expectations of possibilities for increased deliveries of wood-based biofuel represent one of the greatest business opportunities – and challenges – in the years ahead. Business-based climate work During the autumn Sveaskog and LKAB started a co-operation to phase out the mining company’s use of fossil fuels by 2020. By starting to replace the large amounts of fossil fuels that are mainly used in the mining industry’s reﬁning processes, with biofuels from the forest, emissions of carbon dioxide can be reduced over time. Another way to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide is to increase its sequestration in forest and land. Sveaskog and LKAB carried out a ﬁrst trade in this area during the autumn with ecosystem services, where LKAB paid Sveaskog for measures that make the growing Olof Johansson forest bind more carbon dioxide. This transaction is part of a demonstration project which the companies are conducting in Övertorneå where trading with forest carbon dioxide credits can expose the climate beneﬁts of the Swedish forests in a new way. Increased focus on ethics For many companies within different industries sustainability in FSC® training programmes governance and targets have become increasingly important. This is FSC® is a synthesis of the economic, environmental and social about purely ethical motives and also commercial considerations, ambitions in forest management. For over ten years now Sveaskog’s particularly for Sveaskog which wishes to set a good example in land holdings have been FSC® certiﬁed. During this period the these areas. Application of the UN Global Compact’s ten principles commercial signiﬁcance has increased at the same time as the on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption are a part system has also become more complex. There were therefore gaps of this work, and a more systematic follow-up of our sustainability to be ﬁlled in the training in FSC® matters for Sveaskog’s employees requirements on our suppliers was started during the year. The which was rolled out during the year. At the same time, these training intention is to ﬁnd out how our suppliers work with these issues and courses were a reminder of the role FSC® plays in combining the see how together we can develop mutually good business through different targets for operations and therefore for sustainable developimprovements in working methods for social responsibility. ment in 2011, the Year of Forests. 4 Overall governance Governance for sustainable development Sustainable forestry requires respect for forest ecology and a balance between established targets. Sveaskog has policies and guidelines that form a framework for how operations are conducted and how we as a company are to act within different areas. Sustainability issues are a natural and integral part of Sveaskog’s operations and governance and they support our overall vision to be a leader in developing the value of forest assets. Sustainability governance is about balancing different aspects of the business so that we meet our economic, environmental and social objectives. Mission from the owner A long-term approach is ﬁrmly embedded in Sveaskog’s operational targets for economic, environmental and social responsibility. Our strategic focus is based on the owner’s mission and on market conditions. Responsibility and reporting In Sveaskog’s process-oriented organisation, the managers within the line organisation have direct responsibility for environment issues and social responsibility. Overall responsibility for co-ordinating and following up work towards the targets adopted by the Board and the CEO rests with the Head of Environment and Social Responsibility Management systems and guidelines who is also responsible for the annual evaluation of targets and Sveaskog’s environmental management system is ISO 14001 performance. certiﬁed, and its forest holdings are certiﬁed in accordance with the For information on our reporting, see page 26. The Board reports Swedish FSC® standard. Reports on any deviations from these on its work in the annual corporate governance report. More management systems can be made via the company’s Intranet. information about corporate governance, the Board and Management Our work is supported by a number of policies and guidelines. See is provided on pages 64–70 of Sveaskog’s Annual Report in Swedish. below. External and internal policies and guidelines Global Compact The personnel policy establishes our joint responsibility for maintaining a good Sveaskog supports the UN’s Global Compact initiative, thereby assuming a working environment and presents the requirements for good leadership. It has strong stance on issues relating to human rights, social conditions, environmental been compiled in consultation with the trade unions. responsibility, freedom of association and anti-corruption. Global Compact is derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Rio Declaration on The equality and diversity plan expresses our commitment to promoting gender Environment and Development, the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles balance among employees at all levels and in all activities. and Rights at Work and the OECD’s principles and guidelines for how multiThe information policy governs how the company manages, disseminates and national enterprises should conduct responsible business. More information comments on internal and external information. about Global Compact is available at www.globalcompact.org. The ﬁnancial policy dictates how the company’s ﬁnancial activities are to be ® formed and conducted. FSC FSC® stands for the Forest Stewardship Council and is an international, The purchasing guidelines stipulate how to apply and maintain good business independent, membership organisation for the certiﬁcation of forestry and forest ethics and professional conduct. Sveaskog must comply with applicable laws on products. Read more about FSC® on the inside cover. the purchase of goods and services as well as taking environmental aspects into account in accordance with the environmental policy. Sveaskog’s policies and guidelines Our forestry policy stipulates how the forests are to be managed in terms of The Code of Conduct dictates how Sveaskog and our employees are to both production and the environment. conduct themselves as business partners, employers and members of society. Guidelines for silviculture and considerations when purchasing timber The environmental policy contains broad principles for environmental work include the requirement that procured timber must be felled in accordance with and covers the aspects given priority by us and our stakeholders. FSC®. The climate strategy describes the objectives and impact on the climate from The trade union co-operation agreement focuses on health and safety, the the production of forests and renewable energy. It also covers the reduction of working environment and co-operation and is concluded between management emissions. and the trade unions. 5 Targets and performance Based on goals decided by the owner, Sveaskog’s vision and strategies and principles for sustainable development, Sveaskog has developed objectives and targets for economic, environmental and social responsibility. These two pages describe Sveaskog’s targets for economic, performance in 2010. Performance for environmental and social environmental and social responsibility. Each area includes a brief targets is described in the Sustainability Report. The ﬁnancial results account of performance in 2011. Information in parentheses refers to for 2011 and reported in the Annual Report, in Swedish. Economic targets and performance 2011 The Annual General Meeting in 2011 decided Dividend, SEKm Yield, % on new ﬁnancial targets for Sveaskog. 6.0 4,473** For 2011 the Board proposed a dividend in Dividend in excess 5.4 accordance with the dividend target of SEK 473 of dividend target Target 5% million and a dividend in excess of the dividend Dividend according 4.4 to dividend target target of SEK 4,000 million. 3.3 2.6 1,739* * Incl. consolidated value for dividend of Ersättningsmark i 810 Sverige AB. 487 ** Proposed dividend to 89 be decided by 2012 Annual General 07 08 09 10 11 Meeting. 07 08 09 10 11 Financial target decided by owner: Financial target decided Lower earnings for At least 60% of proﬁt after tax including by owner: 5%. changes in value that affect cash ﬂow, Sveaskog in 2011 according to IFRS. compared with Return on equity, % Equity ratio, % previous year. 11.3 11.0 55 54 52 48 48 8.8 8.7 35–40% Target* 7% 4.7 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 Financial target decided Financial target decided by owner: 7%. by owner: 35–40%. * See pages 73 and 90 in the Annual Report, in Swedish. 6 Environmental targets and performance 2011 Biodiversity Water and land Climate impact and emissions Target: 20% of productive forest land Target: Identify valuable aquatic Target: To reduce emissions from Largest fossil CO2 emissions within each forest region to be used ecosystems and draw up action combustion of fossil fuels by at least (ktonnes) Sveaskog as nature conservation land. plans. 30% by 2015, comparative year is 2008. 83 82 Performance: 20% has been set Performance: Selection model for 77 aside and tools for selection, aquatic landscapes developed in Performance: Fossil emissions of 71 72 reappraisal and restoration are in 2011 and one aquatic landscape per carbon dioxide from all Sveaskog’s place. market area has been inventoried. operations totalled 133,000 tonnes 100 wetlands have been restored. (145,000) of which timber transports 45 47 45 Target: Create ecoparks corresponThe target has thus been reached. accounted for 55%. 41 38 ding to approximately 5% of forest land. Target: Reduce number of signiﬁcant incidences of hauling damage. Performance: 36 ecoparks totalling 145,000 hectares (5%) decided on, Performance: 93% (94) of felling 29 have been inaugurated. operations at random self-assessments were approved with regard to 07 08 09 10 11 signiﬁcant hauling damage. Forestry Timber and felling transports Social targets and performance 2011 Employees Social responsibility Satisﬁed employees No work-related injuries Good business relations Conﬁdence in Sveaskog Employee Satisfaction Index Work-related injuries per 1,000 FTEs Customer Satisfaction Index Conﬁdence Index Target: 70 Target: 0 Target: 70 Target: 67 Performance: 69 Performance: 6.0 (8.3) Performance: 64 (2010) Performance: 67 (2010) Completed performance reviews Supplier Satisfaction Index Stakeholder dialogues More even gender balance Target: 100% Target: 70 Target: 2,800 people/year Gender balance* Performance: 96% Performance: 70 (2010) Performance: 4,188 (3,786) Target: More even gender balance/unit* Good leadership Performance: More even gender balance Contractor Satisfaction Index at two out of four units Target: 70 Leadership index Performance: 69 (2010) Target: 70 Proportion of women managers Performance: 72 Target: Higher percentage Performance: 23% (25) * Permanent employees within forestry operations including Sveaskog Baltfor SIA, Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB’s staffs, Svenska Skogsplantor AB, Sveaskog Naturupplevelser AB. 7 Materiality assessment and stakeholder dialogue Dialogue – a key tool for change Sveaskog’s operations, goals and strategies affect and concern many people who have different views and expectations on our activities. Dialogue and co-operation are key tools for creating support among and values for our stakeholders. In order to carry out the assignment we have been given by our Dialogue and co-operation owner we need to balance Sveaskog’s goals and strategies with We work with regular stakeholder dialogues. These give us valuable expectations on the company. information and a better basis on which to make decisions. The aim is to conduct a close dialogue which leads to greater awareness and Wide variety of stakeholders participation. This makes it easier for us to identify potential areas of The many applications and values of the forest mean that Sveaskog dispute and raise the level of transparency in our operations. Our has many different stakeholders. Those most affected by and/or consultations and dialogue meetings do not always result in a concerned about our operations include owner, employees, customconsensus, but are characterised by respect for different and ers, suppliers, contractors, reindeer herders, authorities, nature conﬂicting interests. conservation organisations, tourism companies, hunters, anglers and Dialogues and meetings with external stakeholders are reported lending institutions. Many stakeholders are found locally where we in our environment and quality management system. This reporting have our forests and conduct operations. provides structure to our dialogues and facilitates systematic Sveaskog’s key stakeholders Our stakeholder dialogues are structured and the issues documented. A list of key issues from ten of our stakeholder groups is provided below. Stakeholder Issues What is Sveaskog doing Dialogue opportunities Employees Skills development and supply, working Internal training programmes, supports Performance reviews, VIS survey, environment and health, organisation internal mobility, active recruitment, manager days, trade union coworking environment initiatives and operation, workplace meetings develops organisation Owner Proﬁtability, responsible business Proﬁtability targets and annual AGM, dialogue with Chairman of the dividend, corporate governance Board report, sustainability report Customers Product quality, effective logistics, renewFSC® certiﬁcation, measures delivery Customer Satisfaction Index survey, able vehicle fuels, FSC®, Sveaskog’s role precision, develops new fuels, timber business development discussions in the market, professionalism, reliability traceability, market prices, code of conduct Contractors Developed co-operation, renewable Long-term co-operation, co-operation Contractor Satisfaction Index survey, energy, contract/remuneration issues projects, information and evaluations business development discussions Timber suppliers Ability to pay, market prices, renewable Good liquidity, market prices, FSC® Supplier Satisfaction Index survey, energy, quality of felling assignments, planning for felling assignments, FSC® co-operation, forest days information about our services information activities Authorities Swedish Forestry Act, national Annual audits, business management Consultations regarding ecoparks environmental objectives system, follow-up of goals and key and inaugurations, annual meetings indicators Tourism companies, hunters, Grant land for leases, lease prices, forest Leases, investments in outdoor areas Ecopark inaugurations, hunt leader anglers, outdoor enthusiasts and land for outdoor activities and ecoparks, roads and signs meetings, consultations, business discussions Nature conservation Biodiversity, nature conservation Environmental objectives, FSC® Excursions, co-operation organisations membership, nature conservation strategy Lending institutions, lenders Achieve ﬁnancial targets, stable ﬁnancial Report ﬁnancial targets. Group Company presentations, business ﬂows, responsible business, new business ﬁnance policy. Prioritise long-term discussions opportunities business relationships and customers with proﬁtability potential Reindeer herders Considerate silvicultural measures and Formalised consultations, better maps, Consultations about silvicultural concessions that do not affect reindeers’ projects to develop land usage measures, co-operation within winter grazing – co-existence Swedish FSC® 8 follow-up of issues. In addition to a number of external participants, In 2011 we performed an internal review of the materiality assessthemes and key topics are reported. If issues arise which need to be ment where all staffs, processes and subsidiaries prioritised the three dealt with directly, these are further managed in the environment and key issues within sustainable development within their own area. quality management system. The result was that we clariﬁed and merged together a number of Reported dialogues during 2011 include dialogues with authorities closely related areas in order to obtain a clearer prioritisation in our and nature conservation organisations, meetings on hunting issues, materiality assessment. dialogues with road associations, consultations with reindeer herders, business development discussions and ecoparks inaugurations. Customer and employee surveys Responsibility for reporting on dialogues rests with the person Every other year we carry out the employee survey “Vi i Sveaskog” holding the meeting. The target was to have a dialogue with 2,800 (Us at Sveaskog), VIS. The most recent survey was performed in people and the result was 4,188 people. autumn 2011. You can read more about the results under the section Social responsibility – employees. Identiﬁcation of material topics Customer Satisfaction, Supplier Satisfaction and Contractor As part of application of GRI’s guidelines with the aid of a materiality Satisfaction surveys are carried out at least every other year and assessment we have identiﬁed what are the key issues for us and our include questions relating to our sustainability work. A brand survey is stakeholders. performed every third year where our customers, suppliers, contracThe materiality assessment weighs up the issues which Sveaskog tors, the general public, journalists and decision-makers are asked regards as strategically signiﬁcant and the issues which our stakeabout awareness, knowledge and attitudes to the Sveaskog brand holders see as most signiﬁcant within the framework of our econoand conﬁdence in the company. mic, environmental and social responsibility. Our various dialogues are All surveys were performed in 2010 and the results showed that a key source for the materiality assessment. The results from the customers, suppliers and contractors expect that within sustainable materiality assessment help us to set better priorities, both in our development Sveaskog will work with issues such as renewable operations and for determining the content of our sustainability energy, reduced emissions for example through more efﬁcient report. logistics and issues linked to the working environment and health. Our materiality assessment is an aggregate of the issues that we at Sveaskog regard as strategically important and the issues that our stakeholders regards as most important SIGNIFICANCE OF ISSUES FOR SVEASKOG’S STAKEHOLDERS LOCAL WORK AND ASSIGNMENT PROVIDERS BUSINESS ETHICS* HUNTING, FISHING AND OUTDOOR ACTIVITIES CLIMATE EFFECTS** CO-EXISTENCE FINANCIAL RESULTS HIGH SKILLS SUPPLY BIODIVERSITY BRAND WORKING ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT USE OF LAND AND WATER EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY LOW DISCRIMINATION LOW HIGH SIGNIFICANCE OF ISSUES FOR SVEASKOG’S STAKEHOLDERS The order of the aspects within each of the four ﬁelds has no signiﬁcance. * In the review of the materiality assessment Demands on suppliers was moved under the heading Business Ethics. ** In the review of the materiality assessment the areas Reduced emissions, Climate beneﬁt of forest and Renewable energy were merged together under the heading Climate effects. 9 Economic responsibility New business in the forest creates values for many Sveaskog balances the different applications for the forest in a adapted. Read more in the risk and sensitivity analysis on pages manner that creates value in both the short and long term. 76–78 of Sveaskog’s Annual Report, in Swedish. The risks for future storms is managed through our forest insurance contracts. Sveaskog conducts strategic work to improve Value for many stakeholders insurance terms and conditions and adjust the insurance level. The The values Sveaskog creates are shared among a large number of Group purchases insurance in the reinsurance market though stakeholders, see table and diagram on the next page. The dividend Sveaskog Försäkrings AB among others. The Board has decided on a for 2010 amounted to SEK 916 million*. The proposed dividend for well-balanced risk level and the organisation has trained ahead of 2011 is SEK 4,473 million. Sales for 2011 totalled SEK 6,724 million future major storms. (6,951). Operating proﬁt from continuing operations was SEK 1,085 million (1,280). Investments in the development of fuel The value of our forests has developed. The book value of forest Sveaskog owns 27.9% of the shares in the biodiesel company assets was SEK 30,009 million (29,985). Net growth on cultivated SunPine AB in Piteå. Our assessment is that the return on this land was 11.2 million m3fo (11). investment will be good since demand for renewable fuel is considerable. Sveaskog has a member on SunPine AB’s board and thereby Local transactions inﬂuences sustainability work at the company. Sveaskog has forests throughout Sweden and most of our transacSveaskog together with Smurﬁt Kappa, IVAB (Infjärdens värme tions are local. Sveaskog is an important employer in rural areas and AB) and ETC, Energitekniskt centrum i Piteå, is one of the ﬁnanciers we co-operate with local entrepreneurs, within both forestry and behind Sweden’s ﬁrst pilot plant in Piteå for direct gasiﬁcation of eco-tourism. We have a signiﬁcant impact on indirect employment. wood biomass. The total number of job opportunities generated by our operations is signiﬁcantly higher than the number of employees in the company, since they also contribute to job opportunities at contractors, sub-contractors, purchasing power in other areas of business and indirectly with regard to social services. A study from 2008 shows that our operations in Norrbotten which then generated 180 FTEs contributed to more than 2,600 job opportunities in the county.** Consequences of climate change Climate change affects Sveaskog’s operations. It requires us to make investments which exploit business opportunities for wood raw material from the perspective of long-term sustainability and adapt our operations to minimise the risk of damage to the forest. We also make active efforts to reduce emissions from combustion of fossil fuels in our operations. Read more about our climate strategy on page 16. Risks of climate change The risks of changed weather and temperature conditions include a greater number of storms and reduced precipitation which will deplete water supplies. If the vegetation boundaries move we must review how nature conservation and biotope protection can be One central issue for success with the targets for emission reductions in both Sweden and internationally, is to develop and offer renewable fuel. * The total dividend amounted to SEK 1,739 million, of which SEK 756 million in cash and SEK 983 million corresponding to the consolidated value of Sveaskog, together with Preem and Södra, is co-owner of the biodiesel Ersättningsmark i Sverige AB. company SunPine. The biodiesel is produced from tall oil which is a residual product from the forest. Today, vehicles can ﬁll up with this diesel ** Source: Incedo Business Consulting 2008. at nearly 400 of Preem’s ﬁlling stations in Sweden. 10 How we govern economic impact Sveaskog’s responsibility Targets and performance 2011 Prioritised activities 2012 Sveaskog’s responsibility trustworthy supplier of wood raw material. We Targets and performance 2011 Our main economic responsibility is to safeguard invest in new, environmentally-sound and efﬁcient Financial targets and performance are reported the long-term value of the forest. We balance the technologies and we sell land at market prices. As on page 6. different uses of forests in a way that creates value a proﬁtable business, we are able to create job in the long term as well as the short term. We also opportunities, especially in rural areas. The CEO Prioritised activities 2012 increase the return on forest capital by developing has overall responsibility for the fulﬁlment of our • Increased administrative efﬁciency the use of both forest land and wood raw material. ﬁnancial objectives. The Group’s business plan • Develop timber business Our forest holdings represent signiﬁcant economic provides direction for the budget and business • Develop biofuel business value. The forest is a unique long-term resource. The plans. Process and staff managers are responsible • Leases for the establishment of wind farms forests we sow and plant today will not be harvested for their budgets. • R&D investments, broaden applications for for 60–120 years. The lands we set aside for this wood raw material. purpose are an important part of our sustainable Governing documents: forestry and have an inherent value in a market • Finance policy GRI indicators characterised by growing environmental awareness. • Information policy • EC1 • EC4 • EC8 We pursue sustainable forestry, we manage and • Forest policy • EC2 • EC6 • EC9 develop our forest holdings, we contribute returns to • Climate strategy • EC3 • EC7 the owner, and with our long-term outlook we are a Investments and services which beneﬁt many people Active promotion of eco-tourism Mörrums Kronolaxﬁske Road maintenance beneﬁts many people and outdoor activities (Mörrum Salmon Fishing) Sveaskog’s road maintenance activities are imOur ambition is to offer more people the opportunity Continual development of operations on a comportant both for the company and for our staketo experience nature. The widely differing character mercial basis takes place at Mörrums Kronolaxﬁske holders. Good roads are essential for silvicultural of our lands provides scope for everything from ﬁshing waters in Blekinge. Total investments in work and felling. They also make it easier for tourism solitary wilderness adventures, hunting and ﬁshing, Mörrums Kronolaxﬁske amounted to SEK 2.4 million companies, outdoor enthusiasts and hunters to get to commercially organised horse riding, paddling (1.1). out into the forests. Furthermore, the roads provide and guided tours. We offer land to tourism comus with revenues when other forest companies use panies, which allows them to conduct operations Hjälmare Kanal AB them for their transports. In 2011 Sveaskog laid 280 which in turn create new job opportunities. Our Sveaskog invests in the development of its subkm (260) of new roads and increased bearing outdoor ventures for the general public are mainly sidiary Hjälmare Kanal AB. Along the canal there capacity on approximately 790 km (1,200) of roads.* related to public areas, and in particular the deare a visitors’ centre, nature trails and cycle paths. SEK 71 million (136) was invested 2011. Most of cision to establish 36 ecoparks. We produce Through these investments, which are made on a these costs are direct depreciation. information material, web services, information commercial basis, we preserve and develop the boards, maintain hiking paths and rest areas. Total canal as a visitor attraction and part of Sweden’s * We comply with the Swedish Road investments in outdoor areas and ecoparks amountcultural heritage. Total investments in Hjälmare Kanal Administration’s guidelines for what ed to SEK 4.7 million (4.3) in 2011. AB amounted to SEK 1.5 million (1.1). may be classed as an investment. Direct economic value Sveaskog generates and distributes value to different stakeholders. Economic value distributed Value per stakeholder is shown below per stakeholder (SEKm) SEKm Stakeholder 2011 2010 2009 2008 Value generated Revenues From customers 7,257 7,773 7,044 8,328 Value distributed Cost of goods and services To suppliers and contractors –5,048 –5,087 –4,505 –5,940 Employee wages and beneﬁts To employees and social security costs –578 –523 –540 –500 Net interest expenses To loan institutions –246 –234 –283 –481 Tax To the Swedish state –220 –321 –385 –197 Suppliers, contractors 73% Dividend to shareholder * To the Swedish state through Employees 8% Ministry of Finance –856 –487 –89 –810 Lenders 4% Value retained 309 1,121 1,242 400 Swedish state 3% Dividend to shareholder 12% * Proposed dividend was reported in previous year, The diagram shows how value is but starting in 2010 we report this under dividends paid. distributed between stakeholders. Source: Sveaskog 11 Environmental responsibility Balance between production and environment Sveaskog has high environmental ambitions. We wish to set a good example in the development of sustainable utilisation of all the natural resources of the forest. The way we manage our forests affects the landscape and biodiversity today and in the future. With our target of 20% of land for nature conservation we achieve a good balance between production and environment. Nature conservation areas and ecoparks Restoration of natural values Nature protection in the form of formally protected areas, such as We work with restoration of wetlands in order to safeguard bionature reserves, and landowners’ own voluntary set-asides are key diversity. This work is carried out within the project “100 wetlands” parts of sustainable forestry. Our environmental targets include which is a co-operation between the Swedish Wetlands Conservation managing 20% of our productive forest land below the montane Fund and the Swedish Ornithological Society. We have now restored forest region as nature conservation land. This corresponds to 100 wetlands and will continue to identify and restore wetlands approximately 630,000 hectares. In these nature conservation where we believe this is justiﬁed. forests, which comprise 10% of our forest land, we do not conduct In co-operation with WWF we are conducting a project with any traditional forestry. We leave some forests completely untouched valuable aquatic landscapes using a tool known as blue target while we manage other forests in order to recover or strengthen classiﬁcation. natural values. Through nature conservation-oriented forest management, Our ecoparks comprise approximately 5% of forest land, corresSveaskog will increase natural values on 100,000 hectares of land by ponding to 145,000 hectares. The areas we set aside in nature 2030. This will involve extensive restoration work such as felling in conservation forests and ecoparks are protected through our growth spruce in deciduous forests. Nature conservation-focused voluntary undertakings and in some cases also enjoy statutory silviculture was carried out on a total of 2,000 hectares in 2011. protection in the form of an ecoparks agreement or as a reserve. We also show consideration for nature when felling in our Biodiversity production forests for example by leaving groups of trees, old and All forestry measures, transports and other activities related to dead trees. forestry can affect biodiversity. Felling changes the landscape and can harm biodiversity. Two new ecoparks Sveaskog’s nature conservation ambitions include exemptions for We inaugurated two new ecoparks in 2011: Luottåive in Norrbotten sensitive biotopes and other forests with high natural values. When and Raslången in Skåne. This means we have inaugurated 29 of felling we exercise consideration for nature by leaving sensitive the 36 planned ecoparks. Read more about our ecoparks at biotopes, edge zones, tree groups and individual trees untouched. www.sveaskog.se Cleaning can change light conditions by streams, for example, and therefore affect the micro climate. Soil scariﬁcation and planting change species composition, which also results from ditch maintenance. Planning of ditch maintenance includes a special nature conservation assessment when we also review opportunities to restore habitats by ﬁlling in some ditch sections. Forest roads can affect biodiversity by culverts which obstruct migration of ﬁsh and disturb other aquatic species. Our planning is based on natural conditions and takes such impact into account. Follow up of reported non-conformances Our guidelines and instructions are developed continuously in order to ensure that we meet as far as possible our different undertakings and certiﬁcations. Conformance is examined among other things by external and internal audits, external opinions and random samples of the self assessments that are obligatory after each measure has been carried out. All reports of deﬁciencies are registered in our environmental and quality management system and The Pigmy Owl, a skilled little hunter, result in remedial and/or preventive measures. lives in the Färna Ecopark. External views and proposed improvements are also registered. 12 Deﬁciencies reported relate for example to demarcation, the quality instruction were not communicated to the employees concerned, of thinning, hauling damage, inadequate planning which was and the absence of completed introduction training for some new compensated by a machine team, inadequate planning which was employees. corrected before the measure was implemented, inadequate The audit for the FSC® and PEFC resulted in two minor nonmanagement of sensitive biotopes, felled natural value trees, cultural conformances. One related to inadequacies in training of own environments/ancient monuments, stump height, thinned areas and employees and one to inadequacies in control of valid certiﬁcates. too few high stumps. The annual audit of the FSC® and PEFC group certiﬁcate for Sveaskog’s timber suppliers resulted in several minor non-conforExternal audits 2011 mances, primarily related to new requirements for large forest The certiﬁcation company Bureau Veritas performed the annual owners, supplier requirements on contractors, social consultations external audits for FSC® and ISO 14001. and various types of documentation requirements. Many positive assessments resulted from these audits, among No non-conformances during the year resulted in ﬁnes. other things for our new nature conservation database, our working methods and the review that has been carried out of all documenHistorical ecological debts tation with regular updates and approval. On our lands there are contaminated areas after earlier forest The audit of the FSC® certiﬁcate generated six minor non-conindustry operations, mining operations and various leases. Sveaskog formances. These related to the decision procedure for an R&D trial has an environmental responsibility for some of these areas. in a sensitive biotope in the Ätnarova research park, stumping which Svenska Skogsplantor has a number of nurseries with a serious resulted in damage to a stone circle in Tranemo, a poor working contamination situation due to historical use of pesticides. Some of climate due to sexual harassment at one ofﬁce, the lack of systematic these are in need of environmental measures. working environment work at a contractor, foreign planters who During 2011 an environmental technical survey was performed at lacked map material and alarm co-ordinates, one major hauling Deje nursery in the municipality of Forshaga. In addition, surveys were damage and a lack of consideration for dead wood. continued of the contamination situation at Larslunds nursery in The ISO 14001 audit generated a number of non-conformances. Nyköping municipality. Work on prevention of the spread of pollutants These included a lack of consideration for natural and cultural values to a water catchment in the municipality of Umeå is underway at within soil scariﬁcation and that some processes lacked their own Piparböle nursery. Svenska Skogsplantor’s work with contaminated environmental targets, the absence of a comprehensive system for areas is taking place in accordance with the company’s strategy environmental training within the company with regard to content, which is that nurseries where there is a potential environmental risk scope and timetables, that contractors’ environmental work needs to and decommissioned nurseries that are of interest for other applibe evaluated earlier in the procurement process, that changes in an cations are given priority for further examination. How we govern environmental efforts Sveaskog’s responsibility Targets and performance 2011 Prioritised activities 2012 Sveaskog’s responsibility and in compliance with Sveaskog’s environmental • Environmental requirements for leaseholders Our work is based on the environmental policy and demands. We prefer to purchase timber from FSC® • Guidelines for business travel the environmental targets. We work with environcertiﬁed forests. mental management in accordance with ISO 14001. We have guidelines for nature conservation in Targets and performance 2011 The environmental policy covers most of the environconjunction with leases for wind power and land Environmental targets and performance are shown mental aspects that are relevant to the business and sales. We specify environmental requirements and on page 7. our stakeholders. The CEO has overall responsibility require environmental plans when leasing land for for environmental aspects. Operational responsibility eco-tourism. The plans includes nature consideraPrioritised activities in 2012 falls to managers in the line organisation. Responsition, environment, noise, waste collection and • Measures to reduce carbon dioxide emissions bility for ensuring that employees and contractors transports. Companies with commercial operations • Measures to continue limitation of hauling damage have the relevant environmental training is shared by that lease waters from Sveaskog are required to • Development of ecosystem services managers and the environment department. draw up a ﬁsh management. • Inventory and remedy quality shortcomings Our forest is FSC® certiﬁed. When we harvest the The Group’s business plan provides direction for • Audits land of other forest owners, the guidelines for nature the budget and business plans. conservation apply in accordance with the FSC® standard. Timber management is certiﬁed in accordGoverning documents: GRI indicators • EN3 • EN13 • EN18 ance with the FSC® traceability standard, Chain of • Finance policy • EN4 • EN14 • EN20 Custody, which also includes FSC® Controlled • Environmental policy • EN11 • EN16 • EN30 Wood (with traceability for non-certiﬁed raw materi• Code of conduct • EN12 • EN17 als). We also have a certiﬁcate of traceability under • Climate strategy the PEFC standard. As such, we have procedures • Nature conservation strategy for tracing the origin of all timber. We are working • FSC® forestry standard Certiﬁcates towards ensuring that all imports are from suppliers • FSC® traceability standard • ISO 14001 with their own traceability certiﬁcation. Sveaskog has • PEFC traceability standard • FSC® forestry certiﬁcate own forest AEOF certiﬁcation (certiﬁcate for customs simpliﬁca• Forest policy • FSC® forestry certiﬁcate group tion/security and protection) which applies at all • Guidelines for silviculture and considerations when • FSC® traceability certiﬁcate customs within the EU. purchasing timber • PEFC traceability certiﬁcate The guidelines for timber purchases require, • Guidelines for the purchase of timber from outside • PEFC forestry certiﬁcate group among other things, that all purchased timber has Sweden • AEOF customs simpliﬁcation/security and been harvested in accordance with applicable laws • CSR requirements for contractors and suppliers protection 13 About FSC® pure and FSC® mixed The raw material we sell may not come from controversial sources and we Share of products* with FSC® origin work with traceability certiﬁcates. This means that there is information about FSC® where the timber comes from. Forest products are divided into two categoFSC® Controlled FSC® ries: FSC® pure which means that all wood raw material in the product Origin pure, % Wood, % mixed, % comes from FSC®-certiﬁed forests and FSC® mixed which means that most Timber from own forests 100 (100) – – of the product’s wood raw material comes from FSC®-certiﬁed forests and the rest of the raw material comes from controlled sources, controlled Timber from central purchases, wood. FSC® Controlled Wood is non-certiﬁed wood raw material that is excl. PEFC 33 (26) 67 (60) – (14) mixed with FSC®-certiﬁed raw material in FSC® mixed products. The Timber from own Controlled wood stamp provides assurance that the non-certiﬁed timber for certiﬁed terminals 45 (–) 55 (100) example is not illegally felled and does not come from controversial sources. Timber from ﬁeld purchases in Sweden 15 (13) 85 (87) – Imported timber with traceability certiﬁcate – (17) 100 (83) – * Excl. recycled wood, for example for use as biofuel. Source: Sveaskog and SDC 2011. Restoration and protection to conserve natural values Restoration Deﬁnition Status 31 Dec 2011 Size Third party measurement Co-operation Restoration of wetlands Target with 100 restored – – Swedish Wetlands Fund, wetlands has been met Swedish Ornithological Society Protected areas Deﬁnition Status 31 Dec 2011 Size Third party measurement Co-operation 36 ecoparks 29 (27) ecoparks have been inaugurated 145,000 ha* Swedish Forest Agency, Silvicultural agreement with out of 36 planned. Silvicultural agreeCounty Administrative Board Swedish Forest Agency ment with the Swedish Forest Agency in place for 24 (23) of these ecoparks Nature conservation forests Protected and reported at 300,000 ha County Administrative Board Swedish Society for Nature sveaskog.se. Status for silviculture (nature reserve) Conservation (deciduous carried out in 2011 is approximately forests), WWF (Effect 20) 2,000 hectares Nature consideration Control self assessments 241,000 ha Swedish Forest Agency WWF (Effect 20) when felling follow-up FSC® audit * Previously 175,000 hectares speciﬁed, which includes nature conservation forests in montane forests. Of the total area just over half is nature conservation forests. More information about our forest holdings and protected areas is available in the map tool at www.sveaskog.se 14 Sveaskog’s climate initiatives and carbon footprint Sveaskog’s target is to reduce emissions by at least 30% by 2015 compared with 2008. We make active efforts to reduce emissions from our operations. The forest binds carbon dioxide which means that the overall climate effect is positive. The importance of the forest as a carbon sink for undesirable future climate effects such as storms and warmer The growing forest and use of wood play a signiﬁcant role in weather. counteracting climate change. When renewable wood raw material is We contribute to society’s changeover to renewable energy used it often replaces ﬁnite and fossil resources, for example in systems, primarily by developing utilisation of forest-based biofuel building materials, packaging and energy. Research and development and by contributing to the development of forest-based fuel and wind means that a growing number of products are based on wood raw power. For biofuels we focus on knowledge build-up, development of material. This applies for example to car interiors, clothes, medicines modern technology and effective logistics which make it ﬁnancially and food. attractive to extract products from the forest that were not utilised The growing forest binds carbon dioxide through photosynthesis. before. In this process carbohydrates are formed with the aid of carbon dioxide, water and sunlight. When the forest binds carbon dioxide it Climate impact and emissions functions as a carbon sink. The forest can be a carbon sink to a Our target is to reduce our own emissions by at least 30% by 2015 varying extent during its life cycle, during different times of day and compared with 2008. We are working with an action plan primarily depending on where in the country the forest is growing. But taken within logistics and the felling process, where we have our largest overall, the forest’s ability to sequester carbon dioxide is positive for emissions, in order to reach our target level. the climate. Sveaskog’s carbon footprint in 2011 is 133,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide (145,000). The lower emissions are mainly due to lower Increased growth in the forest provides greatest climate beneﬁt sales volumes, which reduced our timber transports and therefore Our climate strategy is based on our ability to do several things emissions by about 10,000 tonnes. The rest of the emissions simultaneously which help to counteract climate change. reduction mainly derived from electricity consumption (changeover to By managing the forest using the same sustainable methods as eco-friendly electricity) and heating at the nursery in Älmfors using a today, but doing more, we aim to increase growth in the forest. As a biofuel boiler instead of a oil-ﬁred boiler, which lead to a decrease in result, the forest will bind more carbon dioxide and we will produce emissions by one-third compared with 2010 (2,000 tonnes). A new more renewable wood raw material. We also try to adapt our forestry biofuel boiler will go into operation at the nursery in Kilåmon in 2012. The forest and its climate potential Carbon uptake Carbon release Carbon release Year 0 20 40 60 80 Swedish forests bind carbon dioxide 140 million tonnes of carbon dioxide. Cultivated Swedish forests make a net Forests bind most carbon dioxide when growth is at its greatest, i.e. when the contribution, including the products made from wood raw material, to reducing forest is young to middle-aged. One cubic metre of forest binds an average of the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by 60 million tonnes per year. over one tonne of carbon dioxide per year. Since the Swedish forest grows by a This corresponds to Sweden’s total carbon dioxide emissions from fossil total of 110 million cubic metres per year, this means that it can sequester up to sources. 15 Of our emissions, timber transports accounted for 55%, felling and and/or hydropower. The Sveaskog Group’s total consumption silvicultural activities for 34%, road building 6%, heating 3% and amounts to 10 GWh/year. business travel 2%. Business travel data includes emissions from We are working to reduce our own travel by using video and company cars, travel by air, by train and hire cars. Taken overall, our telephone conferences. 257 (253) video conferences took place in climate impact was positive since the forest takes up and sequesters 2011. During the year we started to use Lync, which enables chat, carbon dioxide. audio and video conferences as well as virtual meeting rooms where documents and programmes can be shared between users. How we work – our investments and activities All Sveaskog’s ofﬁces took part in the World Wide Fund for Our assessment is that emissions and therefore climate impact can Nature’s (WWF) Earth Hour climate manifestation which involves be reduced by 10% in a few years through improved transport everyone turning out the lights for one speciﬁc hour on one day. planning, more effective timber exchanges, developed rail transport and timber vehicles and training in effective and fuel-efﬁcient driving of lorries. One key for achieving the target for reduced emissions is to Facts: Climate strategy in brief increase the use of renewable fuel. During the year we started a trial • Increased forest growth within framework of sustainable forestry using 100% rape methyl ester (RME) as a fuel in a number of our • Increased carbon dioxide sequestration through increased forest growth forest machines. The results of this trial were positive and the aim • Preparedness for climate change by making adjustments in forest is to increase use of RME in 2012. In order to contribute to the management development of forest-based fuel, Sveaskog has among other things • Doubling of biofuel deliveries to 4 TWh • Expansion of wind power to 4–5 TWh on Sveaskog’s land within ten years. contributed to the establishment of SunPine. • Reduced own emissions of carbon dioxide from fossil fuels by at least Skellefteå Kraft is the Group’s supplier of electrical energy and 30% by 2015 compared with 2008. they deliver only environmentally friendly electricity produced by wind Analysis of our carbon footprint (all ﬁgures in tonnes carbon dioxide/year) 72,500 tonnes 45,000 tonnes 8,000 tonnes Taken overall, 5,000 tonnes 2,500 tonnes Sveaskog’s operations have Forestry and Transports Road building Electricity Travel a positive climate felling (timber and heating (soil scariﬁcation, effect transports, planting, other logistics). fertilising, cleaning, thinning, felling). Carbon footprint – a deﬁnition We deﬁne carbon footprint as a measure of emissions of carbon dioxide which derive from one or more activities in our operations. We have analysed our carbon footprint and included emissions from both direct and indirect usage. Direct* emissions come from machines and vehicles which are owned or leased by Sveaskog and from heating of nurseries. Indirect emissions come from operations performed by contractors within transport, harvesting, –2 million tonnes** silviculture and road building. This also includes business travel by bus, air, train, rental and private car as well as emissions from energy production The estimated net ability of of the electricity we purchase. The indirect emissions of carbon dioxide Sveaskog’s forests to take up accounted for most, 86%, of the total carbon dioxide emissions in 2011. and sequester carbon. * Division into direct and indirect emissions is according to GRI’s guidelines. ** Calculated from the result of a study on the role of the forest in climate work, 2008, by the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, SLU, and GEOpartner AG. 16 Environmental data Largest fossil CO2 emissions Use of non-renewable Environmental facts (thousand tonnes) Sveaskog fuels (TJ) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Production All deliveries, 1,000 m3sub 10,605 11,268 10,834 12,451 13,610 83 82 Deliveries from own forests, 77 1,097 1,077 1,046 1,000 m3sub 5,704 5,694 5,629 5,496 5,902 71 72 984 933 Biofuel deliveries, 1,000 m3sub 1,498 1 461 1 339 946 872 781 766 Biofuel deliveries, TWh 3.0* 2.9* 2.7* 1.9* 1.7* 45 47 45 41 589 38 540 Energy consumption 495 Non-renewable fuels, TJ 1,750 1,895 1,602 1,559** 1,686** Indirect energy consumption, MWh 10,143 10,551 14,472 – – Emissions to air Fossil CO2, ktonnes 133 145 123 115** 128** 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 Of which direct emissions, ktonnes 18.5 20 19 – – Forestry Timber Forestry Timber Of which indirect emissions, ktonnes 114.5 125 104 – – and felling transports and felling transports NOX, tonnes 1,541 1,677 1,339 1,404** 1,616** SOX, tonnes 217 334 – – – Total emissions of carbon dioxide from Sveaskog in 2011 amounted to 133,000 tonnes. Timber transports accounted for most of emissions, 55%. Land Total land area, million ha 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.3 4.4 Source: Analysis by Skogforsk and Sveaskog 2012. Of which productive forest land, million ha 3.1 3.3 3.3 3.3 3.3 Proportion of unfelled total growth, % *** 44 44 41 45 39 3 * 2.0 is used as the conversion factor between volume in m sub and energy content in MWh. ** Relates solely to forestry, felling and timber transports. *** Includes uncultivated forests. Timber deliveries by rail are a climate-smart choice. Increased and extended rail transport enables business to be conducted in a larger geographical area with more potential customers in Sweden and the rest of Europe. 17 Social responsibility Sveaskog plays a key role in society Sveaskog has a key role as an employer and our aim is to contribute to development in the regions in which we operate. Our forest lands are located throughout Sweden and we conduct rights through training in the code. operations locally. One prerequisite for earning sufﬁcient trust to The code of conduct is translated into English, Russian, Polish and conduct business and opportunities to develop our operations is to Latvian. We have a whistleblower function on our intranet and always act as a long-term and reliable partner, employer and member external website. When reports are not anonymous, there is feedback of society. Other businesses must be able to operate in the forest and to the person making the report. A council comprising the heads of we create conditions for active outdoor pursuits. By conducting Legal Affairs, Communications, HR, and Environment and Social operations that are proﬁtable over time we create employment, even Responsibility, handles reported violations and decides on action in in rural areas where the need for jobs is high. For example, we have consultation with the CEO and relevant mangers. established our payroll and purchasing departments in Kalix. Three (three) notiﬁcations of violations of the code were received in 2011. Two were internal. One concerned co-operation difﬁculties Our code of conduct and an enquiry is underway. The other was about sexual harassment Sveaskog’s code of conduct dictates how Sveaskog must act as a and is described on page 24. The external notiﬁcation related to business partner, employer and member of society and is attached Sveaskog’s relations with a contractor. This matter has been when business contracts and co-operation agreements are signed. examined internally through interviews with the people concerned Sveaskog’s employees must be aware of and act in compliance with and we did not ﬁnd the accusations justiﬁed. the code of conduct. We have routines which describe managers’ responsibility to go through the code of conduct in conjunction with Contractors and suppliers new recruitment and the annual performance review. The code of Co-operation with local contractors and suppliers is important for the conduct is available to all Sveaskog’s employees both on the intranet development of Sveaskog’s operations. Our business creates job and the website. At the end of 2011, an e-learning course was opportunities both for our teams and for contractors within felling, completed for all employees on the subject of the code of conduct. silviculture and road building. In 2011 we hired 700 contractor During 2011 approximately 17% of employees were made aware companies within areas such as planning, felling, roads, silviculture of Sveaskog’s anti-corruption guidelines and approach to human and planting. How we govern impact on the community Sveaskog’s responsibility Targets and performance 2011 Prioritised activities 2012 Sveaskog’s responsibility • Guidelines for silviculture and considerations GRI indicators We run a responsible business based on our code when purchasing timber • SO2 • HR7 of conduct and social targets. • Guidelines for the purchase of timber from outside • HR1 • HR9 We would like to enable several enterprises to Sweden • HR2 • PR3 operate simultaneously in forests by leasing out • Forest policy • HR3 • PR4 attractive areas for hunting, ﬁshing and eco-tourism • Guidelines for consultations with the reindeer • HR4 • PR5 and thereby accommodate tourism companies at the industry • HR5 • PR6 same time as using the social value of forest land to • Instructions for gifts, beneﬁts and representation • HR6 provide new rural job opportunities and make forest landscapes accessible to one and all. Targets and performance 2011 Membership Employees are required to follow the code of Social targets and performance are shown on page • Skogforsk, Forestry Research Institute of conduct, policies and guidelines. Our managers are 7. Sweden (since 1992) responsible for ensuring such compliance while • Forest Stewardship Council® (since 2002) group management follows up outcomes contra Prioritised activities 2012 • UN Global Compact (since 2005) targets as regards corporate social responsibility. • Close co-operation with contractors • Eustafor, European State Forest Association • Follow-up of CSR requirements for contractors (since 2006) Governing documents: and suppliers • AEBIOM, The European Biomass Association • Code of conduct • Training of employees in the code of conduct (since 2008) • Information policy • Structured stakeholder dialogues • Swedish Wind Power Association (since 2009) • Guidelines for purchasing • SLA, Federation of Swedish Forestry and • CSR requirements for contractors and suppliers Agricultural Employers (since 1992) • Forest Based Sector Technology Platform (FTP) (since 2006) 18 Sveaskog’s forest lands are located throughout Sweden and co-operation with local contractors is important to us. To ensure that contractors are professional and competent, we use framework agreement suppliers have signed the requirements. a checklist in the procurement process which includes requirements During 2011 we started to work systematically with supplier followon contractors to be responsible for skills development of their up. A follow-up review with a site visit was made during the year. employees, working environment and machinery and well as These follow-ups are designed to ﬁnd out where our suppliers are in operations being conducted according to applicable laws and terms of CSR and how they work with these issues. agreements. During the year we held a training course in supplier assessment Sponsoring and co-operation for our employees who work with procurement. The intention is to be We give priority to sponsorship undertakings that beneﬁt the able to make even better economic and social assessments when company’s image, business and the communities in which we operate. procuring contractor services. We co-operate with the Swedish Orienteering Federation (SOFT) in We carry out checks of our contractors in internal audits, both in order to increase knowledge of and interest in the forest. The school the ﬁeld and through follow-up of checklists. Non-conformances are and youth project the Forest Adventure has been an important part of handled in our environmental and quality management system. During this venture which has so far contributed to approximately 100,000 the year one non-conformance led to termination of the contract with children learning about the life cycle of the forest, nature conservaa contractor. tion and legal right of access. The co-operation between Sveaskog The Supplier Satisfaction Index and business development reviews and SOFT also extends to the national orienteering team, O-Ringen are key tools in our co-operation with contractors. (a ﬁve-day competition) and Naturpasset (local forest orienteering maps) which are intended to persuade more people to explore forests Purchasing guidelines and CSR requirements and land with a map and a compass. We have guidelines for purchasing and an instruction with CSR Sveaskog and the Swedish Biathlon have a co-operation agreerequirements which are linked to the Global Compact’s principles on ment intended to help more people in Sweden to take up biathlon. human rights. The CSR requirements apply in general to all our In addition we have limited sponsoring of local associations and suppliers, but speciﬁcally to those where Sveaskog does not make activities. We support the Forest in School initiative both ﬁnancially other, more detailed requirements. In these cases it is the detailed and with activities. requirements (such a checklists for contractors) which apply. We have a long-term co-operation with the World Wide Fund for In conjunction with new procurements or renegotiations of Nature (WWF) with a focus on four projects: Living Forest Waters, agreements we work to get our framework agreement suppliers to Responsible production and trade with forest products, Sustainable sign our CSR requirements. This means that the Global Compact’s Landscapes and Effect 20 which got its name from our target that principles also apply to the supplier’s operations. In 2011 all new or 20% of forest land will be set aside for nature protection and renegotiated framework agreement suppliers signed our CSR consideration. Read more about our co-operation with WWF at requirements which means that 50 out of 59, or 85%, of our www.sveaskog.se 19 Compliance with the Global Compact principles for human rights and working conditions Sveaskog has supported the UN Global Compact initiative since 2005 and is working to substantiate how the principles are implemented in our business. Each year, we submit our “Communication on Progress” (COP) report to Global Compact, presenting the GRI indicators associated with the principles. Suppliers’ implementation of human rights Sveaskog strives to exert a positive inﬂuence on the industry by setting requirements for its supply chain. Our code of conduct, general CSR requirements (which are linked to Global Compact) and detailed requirements for contractors and leaseholders govern our assessments. Information about any deviations is reported in our environmental and quality management systems. (HR2) Corruption risks We work with internal control, our code of conduct, guidelines and requirements for business partners and the opportunity to report violations anonymously. Our subsidiary in Latvia, Sveaskog Baltfor SIA, has 28 employees and sales are one per cent of the Group’s. The company purchases timber in Russia and the Baltic countries which entails risks related to corruption. Training in the code of conduct has been provided to all employees. Sveaskog has a port terminal in Russia for the import of biofuel. These operations may have a negative impact through the risk of corruption in Russia. (HR1). Random checks were performed at a supplier in 2011. In order to minimize uncertainty factors, a new business method was introduced during the year. (SO2) Discrimination See page 24. (HR4) Freedom of association and right to collective bargaining Within Sveaskog Baltfor SIA, Sveaskog’s subsidiary in Latvia, there are no obstacles to joining a trade union. Nor are there any obstacles to collective bargaining agreements, although none are in place. With our CSR requirements, Laws and regulations govern consultation with reindeer herders and are applied suppliers are also covered by this. (HR5) throughout the entire reindeer herding zone. Sveaskog follows the FSC®’s Child labour principles with speciﬁc commitments concerning relationships with local comSveaskog has employees aged 15–18 years for planting work in Sweden. The munities and regularly consults with the Sami villages affected by forestry Swedish Work Environment Authority’s statute on the work of minors regulates operations. As far as possible, we are working to ﬁnd solutions that satisfy both the work minors are allowed to perform. Managers responsible for the working parties’ demands for land use and we co-operate with the National Union of the environment and trade union representatives responsible for occupational safety Swedish Sami People (SSR). Incidents are reported either in the environmental monitor compliance with laws and statutes. Otherwise, there is no risk of child and quality management system or as a violation of Sveaskog’s code of conduct. labour in Sveaskog’s operations and in this matter the CSR requirements also apply to our suppliers. Sveaskog Baltfor SIA has no employees under 18 years of Number of consultations with reindeer industry representatives age. (HR6) Time in Year Number working days Forced and compulsory labour 2011 54* 220 The risk of forced and compulsory labour in Sveaskog’s operations is low 2010 63* 210 because operations are mainly pursued in Sweden and fall under Swedish labour 2009 35* 200 laws. With our CSR requirements, suppliers are also covered by this. (HR7) 2008 35* 200 Rights of indigenous peoples 2007 100 400 The Sami have interests in Sveaskog’s lands. Parts of the company’s lands are 2006 100 380 reindeer grazing lands. The lichen, which is important for winter grazing, can, among other ﬂora, be affected by forestry. Sveaskog recognises the right of * Consultations with recorded minutes undertaken in the ﬁeld/ofﬁces. reindeer herders to graze their animals. Previously meetings where no minutes were kept were also counted. Co-operation 2011 Co-operation with contractors* Number 2011 2010 Forestry and planting 274 209 Felling and planning 209 163 Roadwork 217 258 Total 700 630 * Contractor teams with annual invoices of SEK >50,000. 20 Employees Employee development a factor for success Skills supply issues are a key area for our long-term competitiveness as a supplier, business partner and employer. Sveaskog’s geographically widespread operations place high demands on a clear, motivating and communicative leadership. Our employees have considerable responsibility and working duties that require initiative, co-operation and a feeling of responsibility. Employee survey whether there are any risks within skills supply, linked to key people We conduct our employee survey, “Vi i Sveaskog” (Us at Sveaskog, or retirements, for example All managers are offered training in VIS) every other year. The results for 2011 showed improvements performance reviews and guidelines and a checklist are available as within many areas, including job satisfaction, working situation and support for such reviews. development, clarity and information as well as follow-up of VIS results. More people are also proud to work at Sveaskog and would Co-operation with trade unions recommend others to apply for a job with us. Dialogue with our employee organisations is important. In the Group, Leadership received a higher grade compared with 2009 with 698 out of a total of 726 employees are covered by a collective regard to both operational management and relationships. agreement (96%). Some areas for improvement include internal co-operation and Sveaskog has cross-union information groups, known as reference customer orientation. The response rate was high, 85%. During 2012 groups. The reference groups have consultations between employee every workplace will work with improvement measures on the basis organisations and group management which include information of an action plan. about changes in operations. Performance reviews Leadership Well-conducted performance reviews provide a good base for Sveaskog’s managers have a clear responsibility for the code of participation and are often essential for a manager to become aware conduct, target follow-up and development of subordinate employof an employee’s training requirements and ambitions for further ees. In order to clarify leadership and obtain better tools for managedevelopment. Sveaskog’s objective is that all permanent employees ment and follow-up we have decided that “Good leadership” is one of should have a performance review with their manager every year. In our social targets. This is measured every other year in the employee this year’s employee survey, 96% said that they had had a perforsurvey and compiled in an index. The 2011 index was 72 (70), which mance review of whom 79% were very satisﬁed with the quality of represents an improvement over the previous survey and is high the discussion. compared with many other companies. Areas for improvement which In conjunction with the performance review managers report have been identiﬁed, among other things in the employee survey, wishes for further development outside their own position, skills provide the basis for planning of leadership development activities, development needs which they believe should be co-ordinated and such as seminars and coaching. Managers with lower results are How we govern employment issues Sveaskog’s responsibility Targets and performance 2011 Prioritised activities 2012 Sveaskog’s responsibility • Guidelines for combating offensive discrimination • Training of new managers We run a responsible business based on our code • Guidelines for salary setting • Internal development programme for potential of conduct and social targets. As an employer, • Information policy managers and specialists Sveaskog seeks to offer employees stimulating and • Trade union co-operation agreement • Training of employees in the code of conduct responsible work in a good working environment. • Active recruitment The CEO has overall responsibility for issues Targets and performance 2011 • Active working environment efforts regarding employees, the working environment, Social targets and performance are reported on diversity and equality. Managers at Sveaskog have page 7. GRI indicators a clear responsibility to their subordinates. • LA1 • LA11 The Group’s business plan provides direction • LA2 • LA12 for the budget and business plans. Prioritised activities 2012 • New organisation • LA4 • LA13 • Long-term skills supply strategy • LA5 • LA14 Governing documents: • Measures according to plan for equality and • LA6 • HR3 • Code of conduct diversity • LA7 • HR4 • Personnel policy • Work on company values • LA10 • SO3 • Plan for equality and diversity 21 offered support and development. In some cases this has resulted in employees is 43 (43) and 49 (49) for men. The average age for them leaving their managerial role and taking up new working duties. newly recruited people was 38 (38). During the year our managers took part in a conﬂict management In order to cope with the intensifying competition for labour, training programme and a course in labour law. primarily from the mining industry in the north, and with impending A number of our senior managers take part in various individual retirements we work actively to achieve a long-term broadening of development activities within strategic leadership, such as an MBA the recruitment base through industry-wide co-operation and other study programme (Master of Business Administration). activities. Skills development Diversity and equality Our employees must possess the right skills for their working duties. Diversity strengthens our competitiveness. Traditionally the forest The will be given resources and opportunities for skills development industry is homogenous, with mainly male employees. Few employees as well as inﬂuence on their own and the company’s development. are women or people from immigrant backgrounds. We seek leading-edge expertise within strategic areas and a good The average number of women at Sveaskog was 20% (19) in balance in the composition of the workforce. Internal mobility is 2011. important for an increased exchange of skills. We can retain skilled On the Board, six out of nine members (67%) were women and employees and be strengthened as an employer to a greater extent. 33% of group management were women. The proportion of female managers at year-end was 23% (25). Activities during the year We seek an even gender distribution within all parts of the Employees attended training courses within environment, culture and company. Our aim is that the proportion of women who work with nature conservation, IT training such as GISS (Geographic informaforestry duties and the proportion of female managers will increase. tion system in Sveaskog) and digital ﬁnal reports, basic FSC® training, In recruitment advertisements we clearly state our ambitions for training in supplier assessment, machine training, heart and lung ethnic diversity and an even gender distribution. When recruiting for rescue, stress management, media training courses and training in forestry positions we provide a contact from the women’s forestry our code of conduct. One annual component is internal forest training network. In interviews with external job applicants, Sveaskog is for employees without a forest background. represented by both sexes. Sveaskog uses interactive web-based training on the theme of silviculture and cloven-hoofed game for skills development of its own Women’s forestry network employees, contractors and hunting teams. Within forestry processes (excluding subsidiaries) the proportion of The number of training hours per employee and year averages 47 permanently employed women is only 9%. Sveaskog has had a hours for salaried employees and 39 hours for wage-earners, which women’s forestry network for several years. Over 30 women took corresponds to just over 5 (5) days per employee. part in the 2011 meeting. The aim of the network is to increase the proportion of women engaged in forestry in the company. The Future leaders and specialists network functions among other things as a reference group and In 2011, Sveaskog started an internal development programme for contributes to the exchange of experiences and the build-up of future leaders and specialists. The purpose is to ensure a future contacts. supply of leaders in the company. The programme stretches over one year and includes culture and leadership philosophy at Sveaskog, Employment and parenthood economic understanding, negotiating skills and communication. The We try to ensure that contacts between the employee on parental target group is young employees who currently work as specialists or leave and the company is maintained as far as possible during the are relatively new managers. leave period. Ahead of parental leave we have a dialogue about each employee’s needs and wishes, among other things as regards Recruitment performance reviews, training and meeting. In order to make things Recruitment of employees is an important and long-term investment. easier for the parents of small children we wish to reduce the number Everyone employed at Sveaskog is recruited and introduced carefully. of business trips and encourage distance meetings. In order to prevent discrimination we have special guidelines for In order to emphasise that there is an acceptance and understanrecruitment. ding for leave of absence linked to children, and to encourage men to In 2011 our employee turnover was 6.6% (6.9). We work to take out parental leave to a greater extent than they do today, under encourage internal mobility and advertise vacant positions internally certain circumstances Sveaskog pays a parent salary in addition to in the ﬁrst instance. 50% of our vacant positions during the year were that stipulated in collective agreements. ﬁlled with internal applicants. Local introduction at the workplace in consultation with the Working environment and health recruiting manager is important. Clear guidelines in the form of A good working environment is a key competitive tool and a strategic checklists are available to facilitate introduction of new employees. issue for Sveaskog. The working environment must be safe and In autumn 2011 we held a central introduction day for new employstimulating and characterised by respect for and conﬁdence in ees. New employees were given an opportunity to meet the CEO and employees. Managers with personnel responsibility and safety other managers within the company. representatives are offered annual Sveaskog-adapted training in working environment aspects. Measures to attract new employees We have a formalised and active working environment organisation The average age within Sveaskog is high: 48, and among machine which bases its activities on the Swedish Work Environment Act as operations it is even higher, 51. The average age of women well as central and local collective agreements. We follow up this 22 Healthy employees are important. Sveaskog encourages its employees to take part in various races. In 2011, the European Foresters’ Competition in Nordic Skiing was arranged in Östersund and Sveaskog was one of the principal organisers. About 100 participants from some 20 countries took part. About 30 Sveaskog employees took part in the competition. work in local safety committees and within each market area, where forest industry’s system, SKIA. By using SKIA we can compare all managers with personnel responsibility and safety representatives ourselves with others in the industry. The work of implementing take part and in a central safety committee where Sveaskog’s application throughout the Group is underway. management and all senior safety representatives take part. The most common work-related injuries occur in conjunction with As a complement to working environmental legislation and central moving on foot over terrain through slipping or sprains. Other working environment agreements, the parties within Sveaskog have common accidents take place in conjunction with work with forest drafted a local working environment agreement. The agreement machines during service and climbing on and off. clariﬁes the forms of co-operation we have to promote a good working environment. Sickness absence and stress Total sickness absence is 2% (2.4). Employees being put on the Work-related injuries and accidents sick-list due to stress does occur. Every manager is therefore tasked Sveaskog reports work-related injuries, i.e. the number of notiﬁed with taking stress-preventing measures where this is required work-related injuries that on the reporting date are expected to result according to VIS results. Examples of activities we offered during the in sickness absence. In 2011 we had 6.0* (8.3) work-related injuries year are individual coaching and lectures about stress where per 1,000 FTEs. In order to register work-related injuries we used the participants were given advice on various tools for managing their situation. * When recalculated according to GRI’s guidelines the number of work-related injuries was 7.2 (7.3) for 2011. 23 Exercise subsidies and company health service code of conduct can notify this, for example using a web form on the We want to have healthy and motivated employees with a low intranet or the website. One case of sexual harassment was notiﬁed sickness absence. In order to promote employees’ health we offer an in 2011. A careful review of the event has been performed and exercise subsidy. various measured taken. For example the company health service and All employees have access to the company health service and are external consultants were involved as support for coaching activities. offered regular health check-ups. The company health service is an Furthermore, group management has decided on new guidelines important partner for Sveaskog in its efforts to adjust working duties against offensive discrimination. Read more on page 18 about other and provide rehabilitation. notiﬁcations related to the code of conduct. In the employee survey we ask whether the employee has been Discrimination exposed to bullying, sexual harassment or negative discrimination by Sveaskog’s code of conduct, guidelines for combating offensive an employer due to gender. In total, the proportion of employees who discrimination and plan for equality and diversity make our attitude to consider they have been exposed to any form of offensive discriminadiscrimination clear. We wish to show each other respect and tion over the past year is at roughly the same level as in 2009. discrimination may not take place at our workplaces. Employees are Managers have been tasked with discussing this issue with their obliged to comply with the code of conduct and managers are employees when they present the results of the survey. We regularly responsible for compliance with the code in daily work. Employees or train new mangers in their responsibility in the event of offensive stakeholders who are of the opinion that Sveaskog has violated the discrimination. Sveaskog’s employees Relates to the entire Sveaskog Group unless otherwise speciﬁed. All employees Number of employees* by region (market area) included in the data have employment contracts with the Group. Since the Market area/region Number number of contractors hired during the year varies, these are not included. Bergslagen 184 Employees (number at year-end) Norrbotten 141 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Götaland 133 Number of wage-earners 314 320 328 337 360 Västerbotten 98 Number of salaried employees 412 400 393 404 366 Södra Norrland 79 Number of part-time employees 9/726 8/720 7/721 8/741 – Stockholm 61 Number of full-time, Latvia/Lithuania 28 temporary employees 717/726 712/720 714/721 733/741 – Finland 2 Number of HR managers 102 99 101 107 – * Only permanent employees. Average age 48 48 47 47 48 Employee turnover, % 6.6 6.9 6.6 6.8 9.2 Proportion recruited internally, % 50 72 63 51 45 Average no. of employees* in forestry operations 629 612 587 607 626 Average no. of employees* in staffs 107 104 118 114 81 Average no. of employees* in subsidiaries 272 248 253 297 320 Employees within different age groups Based on average number of employees * Total number of hours worked/1,650. 457 471 Breakdown of employees in the Group 406 415 2010 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2011 Proportion of women, %* 20.2 19.4 19.4 19.1 17.6 Proportion of men, %* 79.8 80.6 80.6 80.9 82.4 Number of women/men on the Board** 6/3 6/3 4/4 4/5 4/4 122 101 Number of women/men in group management 4/8 3/6 3/4 3/4 3/5 Proportion of women managers, % 23 25 21 19 20 –29 years 30–49 years 50– years Age span * Relates to average number of employees. ** Elected by annual general meeting. 24 Employee turnover 2011 The total number of employees who Employees who left Proportion Women/men By market area By age group left their employment during the year 48 (57) 48/725* (50/724) 8/40 (7/50) Bergslagen 10 (6) <30: 6 (5) was 48. Employee turnover was Götaland 10 (9) 30–50: 19 (25) 6.6% (6.9). Details of employee Norrbotten 4 (6) >50: 23 (27) turnover, the breakdown between * “Personalekonomisk redovisning och kalkylering” by Södra Norrland 6 (5) women and men, per market area and Gröjer/Johanson. Lowest number who started or left Stockholm 6 (11) age group are provided on the right. (72 started, 48 left) divided by average number of Västerbotten 6 (3) employees during the year. Permanent employees only. Baltfor 6 (17) Health and safety 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 * Excl. employees in Sveaskog Baltfor SIA. Permanent employees (excl. consultants and self-employed) 726 720 721 741 726 ** Proportion of employees employed Average no. of employees, incl. temporary employees 1,008 964 958 1,018 1,027 for at least three years with no Sickness absence, total % 2.0 2.4 2.4 2.9 3.2* sickness absence during the past Sickness absence women % 2.4 2.5 3.1 3.1 2.3* two years. *** Work-related injuries: accidents, Sickness absence, men % 1.9 2.3 2.2 2.9 3.4* travel accidents, work-related Long-term sickness absence % of total sickness absence 41.4 51.2 60.7 57.1 64.9* illnesses which on reporting date are Long-term health %** 42.9 40.7 33.3 44.4 50.2* expected to lead to absence. Also includes minor injuries at a Notiﬁed work-related injuries***/1,000 FTEs 6.0**** 8.3**** 11.5 4.9 6 ﬁrst-aid level. Contractor’s accidents Total absentee days due to work-related injuries***** 52 66 256 166 – are not included. We do not report Sickness absence due to work-related injuries % 0.02 0.03 0.10 0.07 – accidents by region, but follow-up takes place in the local safety committees within each market area. **** Recalculated using GRI’s guidelines the number of work-related injuries is 7.2 (7.3). ***** All absentee days started within two days after the accident. Relation between men’s and women’s salaries Further training programmes 2011 2010 Sveaskog offers various further training programmes in order to ensure that Number of employees 696 692 employees have the skills they require for the company to be able to meet its strategic targets. This also means that employees are offers personal Number of wage-earner women/men 17/283 13/292 development and opportunities for life-long learning. Women’s median salary in relation to men’s (wage-earners), % 95 92 Yes No Number of salaried employees women/men 113/283 110/277 Internal courses X Women’s median salary in relation to men’s (salaried employees), % 98 95 Financial contribution for external study X Number of women/men 130/566 123/569 Long leave of absence in accordance with current legislation X Pension planning for future retirees X (partly) The above comparison does not take into account that different requirements are made for different positions, but only provides an overall view of the pay Further training for those who intend to structure per agreement area. Salary information and the number of employees continue working X relate to permanent employees in Sweden (excluding foreign subsidiaries). Severance pay X Severance pay which takes age and service period into account X Assistance with ﬁnding new employment X Assistance in adjustment to non-working life X 25 About the report About our sustainability report conduct and the policies and guidelines which govern our operations. Sveaskog describes its sustainability initiatives and reports its The undertakings we have through certiﬁcation and various memberperformance with regard to economic, environmental and social ships, including FSC® and Global Compact, are of major signiﬁcance targets in a sustainability report which is published in March each for sustainability work. We base choice of issues that are most year. Since 2008, the report has been prepared in accordance with signiﬁcant for Sveaskog’s external and internal stakeholders to take Global Reporting Initiative’s guidelines (GRI G3) and externally into account and report on a materiality assessment. We have assured. analysed all GRI’s performance indicators on the basis of how We comply with GRI’s guidelines and report the results achieved important they are for the work with sustainable development and for the reporting period against the background of our undertakings, what control we have over them. Analyses of indicators with comstrategies and management approach. The intention is to present, ments are provided on pages 28–32. The report includes a total of measure and accept responsibility towards our stakeholders, both 33 of GRI’s core indicators and 12 additional indicators, which are within and outside the company, for what we have achieved in our listed with page references in the GRI index. We report all GRI’s work towards sustainable development. Within Sveaskog there is a proﬁle disclosures. special working group, led by the SVP, Environment and Social Responsibility, which is responsible for sustainability reporting. Boundaries Sveaskog’s Board submits the sustainability report and the audit Until the 2008 sustainability report, the report mainly contained committee prepares work with the report. information about the forestry operations in Sveaskog Förvaltnings The 2011 sustainability report meets GRI G3’s application level B+ AB. Since then, unless otherwise indicated, the information applies to and is reviewed by PwC. GRI guidelines are implemented in internal the whole of Sveaskog, a group which in addition to forestry work on sustainability issues and the information within most of the operations includes the wholly owned subsidiaries Sveaskog performance data meets GRI’s criteria in the so-called indicator Naturupplevelser AB, Svenska Skogsplantor AB and Sveaskog protocols. Baltfor SIA. The Board’s signature of the 2011 Sustainability Report and the The sawmill group Setra Group AB, which is owned to 50% by Auditors’ assurance report are provided on page 33. Sveaskog AB, is not included in the sustainability report except for the part of the ﬁnancial result for Setra Group AB which affects Scope of the report Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB’s earnings. Sveaskog has a member on Sveaskog’s ambition is to provide a comprehensive report of Setra Group AB’s board and is thus able to inﬂuence Setra’s sustainability initiatives, where both negative and positive developsustainability work. ment is clearly stated. Sustainability work is based on the code of 26 GRI G3 index The below index provides an account of Sveaskog’s reporting acKey: cording to Global Reporting Initiative’s guidelines (GRI G3) and where P = page the information can be found. We have used GRI’s reporting principles * = See Sveaskog’s Annual Report 2011, in Swedish as a basis for the decision as to which areas and indicators should W = www.sveaskog.se/About Sveaskog be reported and in order to guarantee the quality of the information. (C) = Core indicator The sustainability report meets GRI G3’s application level B+. Each (A) = Additional indicator category indicator is introduced with a commentary and analysis. The indicators reported are marked in bold in the matrices. Fully reported Partly reported Content index 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent 1.1 Statement from the CEO of the organisation about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy P 2–4 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities P 6–7, 10, 76–78* 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation P1 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services P 12–23*, 26–29* 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures P 16*, 64*, 71–72* 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters back cover 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries with major operations P 13–14*, 16* 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form P 1, 64* 2.7 Markets served P 12–13* 2.8 Scale of the organisation P 25, 75*, 79* 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership P 71*, 100* 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period None 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period P 26 3.2 Date of the most recent previous report P 26 3.3 Reporting cycle P 26 3.4 Contact person for questions regarding the report back cover 3.5 Processing for deﬁning report content P 8–9 3.6 Boundary of the report P 8–9, 26 3.7 Speciﬁc limitations on the scope or boundary of the report P 8–9, 54–60* 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can signiﬁcantly affect comparability S 26, respective indicator 3.9 Data measurement and calculation principles P 26, respective indicator 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports and the reasons for such re-statement P 26, respective indicator 3.11 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applies in the report P 26, respective indicator 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in this report P 28–32 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to external assurance for the report P 26 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure for the organisation P 64–67* 4.2 The Chairman of the Board’s role in the organisation P 64–65*, 68* 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board members P 64*, 68–69* 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body P 8–9, 64* 27 Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organisation’s performance (including social and environmental performance) P 64*, 67*, 92–95* 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided P 64–65*, W – Owner policy 4.7 Processes for determining the qualiﬁcations and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organisation’s strategy on economic, environmental and social topics P 64–65*, W – Owner policy 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation P 5, 18, 26 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation’s identiﬁcation and management of economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles P 1, 18–20, 33 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental and social performance P 33, 64–67* 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation P 5, 12–14 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social characters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. P 5, 12–14, 18, 20 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organisations P 18 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation P8 4.15 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage P 8–9 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group P 8–9 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting P 8–9 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS – Economic impact HIGH IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE SEK 136–217 million per market area, total for the year EC1 HIGH For Sveaskog is it of major importance that the company approximately SEK 898 million (EC6). As a consequence EC2 is profitable, is able to issue a dividend, to pay tax, and to of the geographic spread of our operations, we employee EC8 be a good and secure employer (EC1). Climate change people who live in the local area. Senior executives also EC9 represents major risks and opportunities for a forest owner have local connections which strengthens contacts with I M PACT (EC2). local communities and increases our ability to understand Sveaskog makes no investments for public benefit. local needs. Of group management in 2011, eight executives EC4 EC3 Investments are made on a commercial basis in order to were stationed in Stockholm, three in northern Sweden and EC5 EC6–7 strengthen the business and brand. Investments in roads, one in southern Sweden. Sveaskog has almost 100% local ecoparks and information material also have a value to the employment and general practice governs these routines LOW public since they provide opportunities for outdoor pursuits (EC7). (EC8). Our operations are spread throughout Sweden and LOW HIGH indirectly Sveaskog contributes to job opportunities, often in LOW IMPACT – LOW INFLUENCE INFLUENCE AND CONTROL rural areas (EC9). Sveaskog is owned by the Swedish state, operated on a commercial basis and governed by its articles of assoLOW IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE ciation. We have support from the public sector (EC4) in Sveaskog has extensive provisions for pensions as well the form of road subsidies which are reported in Note 1, as paying monthly premiums. Provisions are regulated by Revenues – government grants page 88 and EU subsidies Swedish law, collective agreements and special agreements. for nature conservation activities, which for 2011 totalled For a more detailed account of EC3 read Note 23 on page approximately SEK 5 million. Transactions with these, such 103 of Sveaskog’s annual report (in Swedish). Sveaskog as land sales, are reported in Note 3 page 92. EC5 is not uses contractors for forestry operations and most of the significant to report since salaries in Sveaskog are governed contractors are local, which means that Sveaskog is an by collective agreements in Sweden. In the Baltic countries, important local employer. During 2011 we outsourced individual salary agreements are applied, but all are far in forestry assignments to contractors for approximately excess of levels for local minimum wage. Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent Disclosure on management approach Targets and performance P 6–7, 10–11, 71* Policy P 5, 11, 94–96*, W Additional contextual information P 5, 71–75* Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed (C) P 10–11 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change. (C) P 10, 76–78* EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations (C) P 103*, above EC4 Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance received from government (C) P 88*, 92*, above Market presence EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at signiﬁcant locations of operations (C) P 10–11, 18, 20, above EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of signiﬁcant locations of operations (C) above 28 Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent Indirect economic impact EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public beneﬁt through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement (C) P 11 EC9 Understanding and describing signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts (A) P 10–11, 18–19 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS – Environmental impact HIGH HIGH IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE HIGH IMPACT – LOW INFLUENCE EN28–29 EN11–14 Protection of biodiversity is a key issue for Sveaskog We have no significant fines and sanctions for nonEN15 (EN11–14). A large number of species, including several compliance with applicable laws and do not report EN28. EN16–18 EN20 red-listed, have habitats on our lands. Work on an inventory Sveaskog has no follow-up of for example employee travel of red-listed species on our lands has started but we do to and from work and aspects such as noise and does not I M PACT EN30 not report EN15. Felling and transports lead to emissions report EN29. EN1–2 of greenhouse gases and other pollutants, see pages EN6 EN3–4 EN5 15–17 for a report (EN16–17, EN20). We work to reduce LOW IMPACT – LOW INFLUENCE EN8–10 our emissions from operations, see pages 15–17 for report Sveaskog has no production, which means that use of EN19 EN7 EN21–25 EN26 (EN18). materials and questions related to recycling, EN1 and EN2, EN27 LOW Environmental protection measures and projects to are irrelevant and not reported. EN6 does not apply to restore environmental and natural values involve major costs. Sveaskog’s products and is not reported. Since Sveaskog LOW HIGH We see our nature conservation work as an investment. has no emissions of ozone-depleting compounds, EN19 INFLUENCE AND CONTROL A rough compilation which includes salaries, certification is not significant to the report. The forest is important for costs, nature conservation silviculture, restoration of aquatic cleaning water, on the other hand we do not have extensive values, provides a cost of SEK 31.3 million (22.8) for 2011 water consumption or emissions to water and the indicators (EN30). EN8, EN9, EN10, EN21, EN25 are not significant to this report. Water for our greenhouses is taken from nearby LOW IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE dams, where water consumption makes a positive conWe report our energy consumption (EN3–4), see page tribution to regulating the water level. Waste and spills from 17. EN5 (energy saved due to conservation and efficiency forestry operations are minor the indicators EN22, EN23 improvement) and EN7 (initiatives to reduce indirect energy and EN24 are not significant for reporting. Since waste consumption and reductions achieved) may be reported and spills are not derived from a specific product EN27 is later. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of prodassessed as not significant to this report. ucts and services, EN26, is not reported since our environmental impact is not derived from a specific product. Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent Disclosure on management approach Targets and performance P 6–7*, 7, 27*, 12–17 Policy P 5, 13, W Organisational responsibility P 5, 13, 64* Training and awareness P 12 Monitoring and follow-up P 5, 12–17 Additional contextual information P 74–78* Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source (C) P 17 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source (C) P 17 Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased and managed, in or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas (C) P 24*, 27*, 13–14, W EN12 Description of signiﬁcant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity in protected area and area of high biodiversity value outside protected areas (C) P 24*, 12–14 EN13 Habitats protected or restored (A) P 24*, 12–14, W EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impact on biodiversity (A) P 24*, 27*, 12–14 Emissions, efﬂuents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (C) P 15–17 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (C) P 15–17 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved (A) P 11*, 22–23*, 15–17 EN20 NO, SO and other signiﬁcant air emissions by type and weight (C) P 17 Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type (A) above 29 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS – Labour practices and decent work HIGH HIGH IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE proportion represented in safety committees is over 75% LA1–2 Issues related to employees, labour law, working environ(LA6). LA4–7 ment, participation and skills development are important to Sveaskog works strategically with diversity and equality LA10–14 Sveaskog (LA1–2, LA4–7 and LA10–12). We have no issues (LA13–14), although due to current legislation we are routine reporting of the number of hours that consultants unable to follow up and quantify the results of all parts of I M PACT and self-employed work for Sveaskog and these groups are diversity work. LA3 not included in our reporting of LA indicators. As regards LA8–9 significant organisational changes in operations we have no LOW IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE specified minimum notice period (LA5), by law or in Benefits cover all employees and LA3 is not reported. The collective agreements. We work instead according to the risk of disease is limited for Sveaskog’s employees and the LOW principles in the Swedish Co-determination Act (MBL). indicator LA8 which takes up areas such as training, support In Sweden all employees are represented in safety and risk management for employees and their families in the LOW HIGH committees. In the subsidiary Sveaskog Baltfor SIA, this event of serious diseases, is not reported. Working environINFLUENCE AND CONTROL work is conducted with the aid of a working environment ment topics are systematically regulated by law and consultant, although based on the same working environcollective agreements which means it is not relevant to ment targets as those applying in the rest of the Group. The report LA9. Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent Disclosure on management approach Targets and performance P 5, 7, 21–25 Policy P 5, 21, W Organisational responsibility P 5, 21, 64* Training and awareness P 21–25 Monitoring and follow-up P 5–7, 21 Additional contextual information P 75–78*, 94–95* Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region (C) P 24, 94–95* LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region (C) P 22, 25 Labour/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (C) P 21 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes included whether it is speciﬁed in collective agreements (C) above Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programmes (A) P 22–23, above LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism and work-related fatalities (C) P 25, 94–95* Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category (C) P 22 LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings (A) P 25 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews (A) P 21 Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity (C) P 24, 68–69*, 70*, 94–95*, above LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category (C) P 25 30 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS – Human rights HIGH IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE LOW IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE HR2 HIGH Our production and silvicultural activities are conducted to Investments outside Sweden are modest and the risk of HR3 a large extent by contractors. We place extensive demands negative impact is therefore low. Investments in Sweden HR4 on environment and social issues and follow up these include infrastructure and R&D projects. We make demands HR9 requirements. Framework agreement suppliers are subject in the supply chain based on our Code of Conduct and CSR I M PACT to our CSR requirements. One follow-up examination with requirements (HR1). We support the Global Compact and a site visit was made during the year (2%) (HR2). Training report how we specify and comply with principles on human HR8 HR1 in policies and guidelines is important and takes place at rights (HR5–7). HR5 organised training days. During the year 17% of our HR6 employees participated in training related to human rights. LOW IMPACT – LOW INFLUENCE HR7 LOW An estimated 200 employee training hours have been Sveaskog has no safety employees relevant for reporting dedicated to these issues (HR3). The number of incidents under HR8. LOW HIGH of discrimination is followed up annually (HR4). Reindeer INFLUENCE AND CONTROL herding takes place on our lands and Sveaskog consults in accordance with the Swedish Forestry Act and FSC® undertakings with reindeer herders regarding forestry activities (HR9). Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent Disclosure on management approach Targets and performance P 7, 18–20 Policy P 5, 18, 21, W Organisational responsibility P 5, 18, 21, 64* Training and awareness P 18–20 Monitoring and follow-up P 8–9, 18–21 Additional contextual information P 76–78* Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening (C) P 20 HR2 Percentage of signiﬁcant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken (C) P 18–20, above HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained (A) P 18, above Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken (C) P 24 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations identiﬁed in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at signiﬁcant risk, and actions taken to support these rights (C) P 20 Child labour HR6 Operations where there is a risk of incidents of child labour and actions taken (C) P 20 Forced and compulsory labour HR7 Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced and compulsory labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced and compulsory labour (C) P 20 Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken (A) P 20 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS – Society HIGH HIGH IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE with risk analysis of our business units (SO2). One tool for SO1 Sveaskog’s operations affect both the local community preventing corruption is to train our employees in the code SO2 and other businesses. Most of operations are in rural areas of conduct. An estimate made after a review of the list of SO3 where the need of job opportunities is considerable and participants at various training days is that 17% of our Sveaskog is a significant employer as well as a key part of employees attended training in the organisation’s policies I M PACT local business. Studies show that our operations have a and routines relating to anti-corruption during the year SO5 SO4 significant influence on indirect employment. We have no (SO3). SO6 programme, however, for evaluating impact in the local SO7 community apart from the study of indirect employment LOW IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE SO8 and do not report SO1. Corruption is a threat against Sveaskog did not have any incidents linked to corruption LOW free competition and Sveaskog dissociates itself from during the year and does not report SO4. >> corruption and bribes in our code of conduct and works LOW HIGH INFLUENCE AND CONTROL 31 >> SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS – Society, cont. LOW IMPACT – LOW INFLUENCE (SO5). We are members of Eustafor, a Brussels-based Sveaskog participates in the Swedish political decision interest group comprising European forest owners. We do process as a body to which a proposed measure is referred not give contributions or gifts to political parties or similar for consideration. In 2011, Sveaskog among other things and do not report SO6. Our sponsorship work is governed responded to Proposed changes in regulations and general by guidelines. Sveaskog has not carried out any activities advice to §29 of the Swedish Forestry Act and Swedish that can be regarded as restricting fair competition or illegal Inquiry on Predatory Animals interim report SOU 2011_37 that results in fines and reports neither SO7 nor SO8. Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent Disclosure on management approach Targets and performance P 7, 18–20 Policy P 5, 18, 21, W Organisational responsibility P 5, 18, 21, 64* Training and awareness P 18–20 Monitoring and follow-up P 8–9, 18–21 Additional contextual information P 76–78* Society SO2 Business units analyses for risks related to corruption (C) P 20, 31 SO3 Employees trained in the organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures (C) P 18, 31 SO5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying (C) above SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS – Product responsibility HIGH IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE LOW IMPACT – LOW INFLUENCE PR3 HIGH Sveaskog’s forests are certified according to the Indicators PR1 and PR2 are not significant to report, since PR4 Swedish FSC® standard. Raw material, for example the our products, wood raw material, do not have the type of imPR5 wood raw material we import, may not come from conpact to which the indicators refer. Sveaskog’s marketing and troversial sources according to the FSC®’s definitions market communication complies with current rules and we I M PACT and we have two traceability certificates (PR3 and PR4). do not report PR7. We look after the integrity of our custoSveaskog has routines for evaluating and maintaining mers and receive no complaints regarding integrity issues or PR1–2 PR6 PR7–9 customer satisfaction, including customer surveys and loss of data. PR8 is not reported. Sveaskog has not received business development discussions (PR5). any fines for non-compliance with regulations concerning the use of products and services and does not report PR9. LOW LOW IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE Sveaskog’s information activities, market communiLOW HIGH cation and sponsoring are governed by the information INFLUENCE AND CONTROL policy, sponsoring guidelines and FSC®’s graphic manual. Compliance is checked in conjunction with brand audits, FSC® audits and review of sponsoring co-operation (PR6). Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent Disclosure on management approach Targets and performance P 6–7*, 7, 12–14 Policy P 5, 12, W Organisational responsibility P 5, 12, 64* Training and awareness P 4, 12–14 Monitoring and follow-up P 8–9, 12–14 Additional contextual information back cover, P 76–78* Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures (C) back cover, P 12–14 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling by type of outcomes (A) P 12–14 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction (A) P 7, 9 PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes for marketing communications (C). P 5, 19, above 32 Signature by the Board of Directors The undersigned hereby submit Sveaskog AB’s (publ) sustainability report for 2011. The sustainability report describes Sveaskog’s sustainability initiatives and is prepared in accordance with Guidelines for sustainability reporting, issued by Global Reporting Initiative. Stockholm, 15 March 2012 Göran Persson Eva Färnstrand Marianne Förander Thomas Hahn Chairman Board member Board member Board member Carina Håkansson Birgitta Johansson-Hedberg Elisabeth Nilsson Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson Board member Board member Board member Board member Mats G Ringesten Sture Persson Eva-Lisa Lindvall Board member Employee representative Employee representative Per-Olof Wedin President and CEO Auditors’ report on limited review of sustainability report To readers of Sveaskog’s annual and sustainability report We have been engaged by the management of Sveaskog AB (publ) Our review has, based on an assessment of materiality and risk, to review the Sveaskog Sustainability Report for the year 2011. The included e.g. the following procedures: Board of Directors and Executive Management team are responsible a. update of our knowledge and understanding of Sveaskog’s for the company’s activities regarding environment, health & safety, organisation and activities, social responsibility, and sustainable development, and for the b. assessment of criteria suitability and application with regard to preparation and presentation of the sustainability report in accordstakeholders’ information needs, ance with applicable criteria. Our responsibility is to express a c. interviews with management at group level in order to assess if conclusion on the sustainability report based on our review. the qualitative and quantitative information stated in the Sustainability Report is complete, accurate and sufﬁcient, The scope of the review d. examination of internal and external documents in order to assess We have performed our review in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance if the information stated in the Sustainability Report is complete, of Sustainability Reports issued by Far. A review consists of making accurate and sufﬁcient, inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the e. evaluation of the design of systems and processes used to obtain, Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other review manage and validate sustainability information, procedures. A review is substantially less in scope than an audit f. analytical procedures of the information stated in the Sustainconducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and ability Report, Quality Control and other generally accepted auditing standards in g. assessment of the company’s declared application level according Sweden. The procedures performed consequently do not enable us to to the GRI guidelines, obtain assurance that we would become aware of all signiﬁcant h. assessment of the overall impression of the Sustainability Report matters that might be identiﬁed in an audit. Accordingly, we do not and its format, taking into consideration the consistency of the express an audit opinion. stated information with applicable criteria. The criteria on which our review is based are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3, published by the Global Conclusion Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the Sustainability Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the us to believe that the information in the Sveaskog Sustainability company has developed and disclosed. We consider these criteria Report has not, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. with the above stated criteria. Stockholm, 15 March 2012 Mikael Eriksson Fredrik Ljungdahl Authorised Public Accountant Expert member of FAR SRS PricewaterhouseCoopers AB PricewaterhouseCoopers AB 33 Sveaskog AB, reg. no. 556558-0031 Stockholm Torsgatan 4 SE-105 22 Stockholm Tel +46 8 655 90 00 Kalix Torggatan 4 Box 315 SE-952 23 Kalix Tel +46 923 787 00 www.sveaskog.se Contact: Charlotte Jönsson charlotte.jonsson@sveaskog.se Tel: +46 8 655 92 74 This is FSC® FSC® is an independent international organisation for certiﬁcation of responsible forestry. The aim is socially beneﬁcial, environmentally appropriate and economically viable responsible forest management. FSC®’s logotype on products represents independent The mark of responsible forestry certiﬁcation of forestry and product manufacturing according to FSC®’s rules.
