United Nations Global Assessment, Policy and Goals Implementation Measurement of outcomes Compact Principles HUMAN RIGHTS: Camelot has a Code of Conduct which We have a number of HR policies In the past year Camelot has not been Principle 1 – Businesses should support requires that all employees must be supporting and covering a spectrum of subject to any investigations, legal cases and respect the protection of treated fairly and with respect and that Human Rights. These include policies in or incidents involving human rights. internationally proclaimed human any form of discrimination or harassment, bullying, equality, diversity rights. harassment will not be tolerated. We and grievance. Any staff found to be committing Principle 2 – Businesses should make also have a number of individual policies human rights abuses will be dismissed sure that they are not complicit in which go into the finite details of the A grievance mechanism is in place which from the company. human rights abuses human rights of our staff (eg. Bullying enables staff to raise any grievances and Harassment Policy, Equality and that they may have fairly, consistently We also hold an annual Supplier Diversity Policy). and quickly. We also have an elected Conduct Review which allows us to see staff forum which provides employees if our suppliers are implementing the Camelot actively supports the Universal with a platform to air their grievances correct standard of human rights. Declaration of Human Rights. Our Audit including any possible human rights and Procurement departments manage issues that they may have with the processes and procedures which company. Employees are also provided highlight any potential risk of us working with the telephone number of a with companies who do not respect confidential external expert advice human rights. We will not form a company which facilitates staff access to relationship with a business if they do legal advice and allows them to discuss not comply with our human rights any grievances that they may have. values. We also have a ‘Supplier Conduct Review’ which looks into our Staff are required to complete a number current suppliers’ conduct and whether of online training courses which include they are complying with our required topics relating to human rights. For values (eg. human rights) example we currently have a training course in equality and diversity and health & safety. Staff are also given a physical handbook of our Code of Conduct which employees are encouraged to read once they join the company. This Code of Conduct gives an overview of our human rights stance and policies. We also frequently discuss the topic of human rights with our stakeholders. For example staff have recently participated in a survey around organisational health. Our stakeholder engagement on human rights issues does not just lie internally as we also go over the topic of human rights with our stakeholders. For example we have discussed human rights issues with our Advisory Panel of External Corporate Responsibility Experts. We also mention the topics of diversity and inclusion in our annual stakeholder report. The responsibility for the protection of human rights falls under the responsibility of both the HR and CR departments. LABOUR: Camelot supports the ILO Core Camelot holds a monthly staff forum We have just integrated a new Principle 3 Businesses should uphold Conventions and will not do business where staff are given the opportunity to performance management process, the freedom of association and the with any organisation that uses forced liaise with the senior managers and the DPP (Developing Performance and effective recognition of the right to or child labour. To ensure that this stays CEO about a number of topics including Potential) which rates employee collective bargaining. the case we have an annual supplier labour matters such the condition of the performance and act as a barometer on Principle 4 Businesses should conduct review which looks into our workplace and staff bonuses. whether an employee deserves a eliminate all forms of forced and current suppliers conduct including promotion or bonus. It is also used as a compulsory labour. whether they are using forced or child We have a Bullying and Harassment way to set individual objectives for staff. Principle 5 Businesses should labour. policy which states that any effectively abolish child labour. discrimination in the workplace will not In the past year Camelot have not been Principle 6 Businesses should Camelot complies with all relevant be tolerated. This is compounded by the subject to any investigations, legal cases eliminate discrimination in respect of health and safety legislation and fact that we have a thorough grievance or incidents involving labour rights. We employment and occupation. provides a range of different safety mechanism which enables staff to raise also haven’t been subject to any health related training to staff as appropriate any grievances that they may have. We and safety statutory notices or to their job role. We also ask staff to also have an online training course prosecutions in the last year. complete an online health and safety which all staff have to complete on course so that they do not get into any equality and diversity. Agency workers are given a detailed hazardous situations while working. description of their employment within Camelot has a thorough health and the company (eg. hours, working Once an individual has been offered a safety policy which contains a number requirements etc.). They are also free to role within the business they are issued of procedures. Our Health and Safety use all the facilities that we provide for a contract of employment which states Manager also conducts regular audits of full/part-time employees such as their terms and conditions including the workplace to make sure that showers, canteen and rest areas. their salary, overtime and annual leave employees are not under any risk when allowance. Employees are also given a they enter the workplace. We also physical copy of the Code of Conduct provide online health and safety training which includes information on what the for staff to make sure that staff stay safe company expects from staff and the when in the workplace. rules and policies (grievance, disciplinary etc.) that are in place. All agency workers we employ are fully compliant with the agency worker regulations. ENVIRONMENTAL: Camelot has a thorough environmental We regularly run environmental Camelot uses licensed waste companies Principal 7: Businesses should support policy which is supported by senior campaigns to try and encourage our for the disposal of waste. In the a precautionary approach to management and our CEO. staff to be environmentally aware in the infrequent circumstance of us needing environmental challenges. office. We mainly focus on energy usage to throw out IT equipment we follow Principal 8: Businesses should We have a number of annual and recycling as these are the two WEEE regulations and use the necessary undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental key performance largest environmental areas that staff companies for electronic waste disposal. environmental responsibility. indecators. These cover topics such as have a bearing on. One example of an Principal 9: Businesses should reducing waste, increasing recycling, environmental campaign that we have We have half hourly automatic meters encourage the development and reducing our CO2 emissions per run in the past year is the ‘Switch it Off’ in our offices in Watford and in our diffusion of environmentally friendly employee and reducing the amount of campaign which encouraged employees warehouse in Northampton. These technologies paper used per £1,000 provided to good to switch their monitors off when they meters enable us to monitor our energy causes. left work. use online and discover any unexpected trends in the data. We also have a We also have environmental targets In the past year we have redesigned our Footprint Tracker in our Watford Head such as reducing our water usage, mixed recycling stations to make them Office. This enables us to see which making the vehicles in our fleet more more vivid and clear so that staff have work zones are using the most energy environmentally friendly and more confidence in recycling their and also gives us the opportunity to run encouraging employees to use more waste. We also ran a recycling campaign energy saving competitions between eco-friendly ways to commute (eg. alongside the implementation of the different departments in our head shuttle buses from the local train new bins so that employees were clear office. station, car sharing or cycling to work) about what could potentially be recycled. In addition to tracking energy usage we In the coming year we will continue to also collect monthly data in the try and the meet the environmental key During the past year we have also following topic areas (water, fuel, waste performance indicators and targets installed a voltage optimiser in our – recycling and landfill, rail and air travel mentioned above. In addition to this we Distribution Centre in Northampton. and paper usage). This data is then used will also continue to work closely with This voltage optimiser has reduced the to see how we have fared against our our supplier to try and make our scratch amount of electricity used in our environmental targets. card composition more eco-friendly. warehouse which in turn means that we We have not been involved in any legal We will also try and make our have emitted less CO2 into the cases, rulings or fines related to promotion material more eco-friendly. environment. environmental principles over the last 12 months. To make sure we are on the We regularly ask our suppliers for right legal track we regularly update our environmental data on the products and environmental legislation register to services that we order from them. By ensure that we are complying with all doing this we are able the compare the the relevant environmental legislation. different areas of business and see where we could potentially make improvements in the future. All incidents which have environmental repercussions are investigated and procedures are put in place to prevent incidents from happening again. For example in the past a small amount of waste in the outdoor recycling skips in Northampton has been blown into the surroundings area by the wind. To eradicate this problem lids have been put on the outdoor skips to stop waste from being blown away and not recycled. Anti-Corruption: Camelot is compliant with the Bribery The responsibility of dealing with antiCamelot has not been involved in any Principle 10 Businesses should work Act and does not participate in any corruption falls with our Corporate legal cases, rulings or other events against corruption in all its forms, corruption, bribery or extortion. We Assurance department. All company related to corruption or bribery. including extortion and bribery. support the UN Convention against staff are required to complete the AntiCorruption and do not operate in bribery and Corruption training course. One way in which we monitor countries or with organisations that are This training provides staff with corruption is through our Gifts and corrupt. information on our stance on bribery Hospitality Register which is monitored and corruption and states how by HR and shared with the National We have an Anti-Bribery Policy which employees can report suspected Lottery Commission (NLC). As a part of states that the company has a zero bribery/corruption. our Corporate Gifts and Hospitality tolerance approach to bribery and Policy we inform employees that it is complies with all relevant anti-bribery Camelot’s Whistleblowing Policy not acceptable to accept gifts from laws in all jurisdictions in which it provides staff with a step by step guide companies which we are currently not transacts business. This policy is to how they can report suspected cases doing business with. In addition to this officially backed by the Board or of bribery and corruption. It also the policy states that any high value Directors and the CEO. provides staff with a guideline of how corporate gifts or corporate complaints of bribery/corruption will be entertainment / must be passed onto All staff are encouraged to report dealt with once they are submitted. Head of Departments to decide if the suspected forms of bribery in gift should be accepted. accordance with the Camelot Whistleblowing policy. Employees are also told to record all offered and accepted gifts and hospitality on the Gift and Hospitality form and send this form to HR to record onto the Register. Employees that are found to be violating the policy will be punished accordingly. Additional Measures Indicator Target 2011 / 2010 / 2009 / 2008 / 2007 / 12 11 10 09 08 Cumulative total raised by 28 26 24 23 21.5 lottery players available to the Good Causes (£ billions) 1 Retailers who refused to sell to 90.0 89.46% 88.14% 90.2 91.8 93.0 an Operation Child test purchaser on first visit (%) th th th th th Camelot's ranking in the world To remain 54 60 64 66 54 on 'Per capita sales against outside of 2 total sales'' the top 10 worldwide Adults being positive towards 56 56 55 52 45 The National Lottery (%) Staff agreeing with the 70 85 85 72 78 X statement 'I am proud to work 3 for Camelot' % Average sickness days per Benchmark 6.9 9.5 8.8 (6.4) 8.9 (6.7) 9.5 (6.7) 4 employee from CBI (6.4) 5 Overall percentage of pre-tax 1.5 1.2 0.6 0.6 3.4 profit spent on community investment (%) Employees participating in Above 20 26 29.8 15.2 15.3 28.2 community activities (%) Ratio of independent to 56.4% 57.2% 58% 59.4% 58.5% multiple outlets (%) 43.6% 42.8% 42% 40.6% 41.5% Invoices paid to term (%) 90 89 87 90 94 1 This coincides with Camelot implementing a risk based approach with regards to selection of the stores to be visited. X This survey was not undertaken this year 2 Independent study by Terri La Fleur. 3 As the ODP staff survey was not completed during Transformation (08/09 & 09/10) we have replaced the statement 'Camelot is one of the best companies I have worked for' with a relevant KPI from the pulse survey. 4 Using average Full Time Equivalent for 2009/10 5 This figure went down because of our decision to cease funding to the Camelot Foundation before the end of the second Licence. Ceasing funding for the Camelot Foundation has enabled Camelot to be even more cost-efficient and thus return more money for National Lottery Good Causes. Suppliers satisfied with overall 80 97 99 98 97 97 relationship with Camelot (%) Retailers satisfied with 90 94 94 94 x x Camelot's approach to the relationship (%) Solid office waste produced 5% reduction 291 445 324 411 343 (tonnes) by 2013 on 2009/10 levels % solid office waste recycled 80 by 2013 62 40 49 48 49 6 Total kg CO2 produced per 5% reduction 3,849 4,435 6,675 6,275 5,086 7 employee by 2013 on 2009/10 levels Tonnes paper consumed Below 4,000 4,543 3,894 4,402 4,144 3,630, Kg paper consumed per £1k to 2.49 2.34 2.84 3.01 2.69 Good Causes 6 Scope 1 and 2 plus business travel in scope 3 7 This is the average Full Time Equivalent of contractors and employees in 2009/10.
