GLOBAL COMPACT Good practices 2011 Dassault Aviation is one of the major players in the global civil and military aircraft industry. A reasonably sized and financially secure private international group, with a presence in more than 70 countries across 5 continents, Dassault Aviation has been profitable ever since its creation in 1936. Structured to adapt its production to market cycles, Dassault Aviation encompasses a rich industrial network of high-tech companies in France, Europe, and many countries worldwide. In order to achieve its objectives in a highly competitive and increasingly global economy, Dassault Aviation builds on strong values, a clear identity and strict ethical standards. Its values are: customer spirit, human qualities, technological excellence and innovation, economic performance, openness to the world, environmental protection measures. In 2003, Dassault Aviation, whose Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is Mr Charles Edelstenne, joined the UN Global Compact initiative. The Group supports the ten principles relating to human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption .It is through this commitment that Dassault Aviation has progressively incorporated the Global Compact principles into its strategy, culture and daily operations. For more informations :please click : http://www.dassault-aviation.com/group/ethics/globalcompact http://www.dassault-aviation.com/finance/annualreport2011 (pages17,46) Dassault Aviation renews its commitment to the Global Compact for 2012. Dassault Aviation is committed to the respect of Human Rights as stated in Principle 1 and 2 of the Global Compact, whether in France where Dassault Aviation designs and manufactures aircraft or in the United States where the company makes the completion of some of its business jets. Dassault Aviation is also watchful regarding its suppliers which are mostly located in industrialised countries. For more informations: please click: http://www.dassault-aviation.com/group/ethics/ethicalcharter A number of measures taken in 2011 are illustrative of a strong and steady orientation in favour of social progress and equality at work (principles 3 and 6). They also belong to Principle 1 (human rights) of the Global Compact. On December 23, 2011, Dassault Aviation has signed a new equal-opportunity agreement (replacing the 2007 agreement) in order to increase the recruitment of women and better combine family life with professional demands. Dassault has implemented the October 7, 2010, agreement on handicapped employees and raised the share of handicapped employees from 7.5% to 8.4% in 2011. Dassault Aviation belongs to the 14% share of French companies which employs a higher level of handicapped persons than legally required. In addition, Dassault Aviation is a founding member of HANVOL, a non-profit organisation helping the training and employment of handicapped persons in the aircraft industry. The September 9, 2010, agreement on specific resources and career opportunities for employee representatives has led to opening a dedicated website accessible to the employees on the company’s Intranet. The management and the unions have agreed on a chart of use of this website by the unions on October 11, 2011. For more informations about principles 3 and 6, click : http://www.dassault-aviation.com/group/ethics http://www;dassault-aviation.com/finances/annualreport2011 (pages 18, 19,48,49,50) In 2011, Dassault Aviation has taken several environmental steps related to Principles 7, 8 and 9 of the Global Compact. For several years, Dassault Aviation has gradually developed an environmental policy and an organizational structure that helped reinforce environmental considerations at all its sites. Dassault Aviation has received ISO 14001 certification of their environmental management systems . In its General terms of purchase, the company recommends to its suppliers to respect the 10 principles of the Global Compact and to obtain ISO 14000 certification. Compliance with the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) European Union Regulation has again been a priority in 2011. Based on transparency and precaution, REACH is to improve the protection of human health and the environment through the better and earlier identification of the intrinsic properties of chemical substances. It also calls for the progressive substitution of the most dangerous chemicals when suitable alternatives have been identified. Dassault Aviation’s industrial environmental approach is complemented by the definition and launch of an eco-design plan for 2021 aimed at reducing the environmental impact of future products. Dassault Aviation is one of the founder members of the IAEG (International Aerospace Environmental Group) created in 2011. IAEG is a non-profit corporation comprised of a global group of aerospace companies, established to facilitate harmonization of compliance amongst aerospace companies and their supply chains with the existing and emerging laws and regulations protecting human health and the environment. IAEG will achieve that by promoting the development of voluntary consensus standards published by an independent standards organization harmonizing environmental requirements applicable to aerospace companies. IAEG aims to address such issues as chemical material declarations and reporting requirements, greenhouse gas reporting and management, and to create a forum for dialog and information exchange on industry optional approaches for implementation of environmental requirements. Besides, Dassault Aviation has a policy reduction of natural resources and energy consumption. Here are some very practical examples for 2011 : the share of electrical-powered vehicles in the company has risen, on some sites by 15%, building and roof insulation has been changed to minimize thermal loss, and new gas-boilers have led to a 10% decrease in energy consumption. For more informations, click http://www.dassault-aviation.com/group/environment http://www.dassault-aviation.com/finance/annualreport2011 (pages 22,44,45,50 to 55,113) Dassault Aviation follows a proactive policy against corruption. This is in compliance with the French law which, ever since 2000, has enacted and applied stringently numerous international conventions under the OECD, the UN and the European Union against foreign corruption practices. The Dassault Aviation policy is stated in its Chart of Ethics and is in accordance with Principle 10 of the Global Compact. In order to promote business ethics, Dassault Aviation has initiated within the AeroSpace and Defence Industries Association of Europe, ASD, a committee in charge of elaborating European business ethics standards. These Common Industry Standards have been approved by the Council of the ASD then chaired by Dassault Aviation CEO Charles Edelstenne and signed by Dassault Aviation. Within GIFAS, the French aerospace industries association, Dassault Aviation contributes to good governance standards through several committees. Dassault Aviation has set up(with GIFAS) a number of events, including, on July 12, 2011, a information seminar on the evolution of anti-corruption laws and the good practices to implement them. This seminar has met a remarkable success among Dassault Aviation employees and other aerospace companies. Dassault Aviation participated in building up the Global Principles or shared ethics principles between European and American industry professionals, which is under ratification. For the Dassault Aviation values, ethics, reports, please click : http://www.dassault-aviation.com
