IDL’s COP for GC / Oct. ’10 – Sept. ‘11 “I D Lanka Ltd, in recognition of the importance of the principles of Global Compact, is proud to be a signatory to the UN’s Global Compact. We pledge our continued support to the ten Principles of the Global Compact in all our dealings with our stakeholders.”  Relevant Statistics : Turnover (y/e 30.09.’11) LKR 11.472 billion (US$ 99.8M) Number of employees 263 Capital employed (y/e 30.09.’11) LKR 1.8 billion (US$ 15.65M)  Principles Selected. Human Rights : Principle No. 01. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights, and Principle No. 02. Make sure they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses. I D Lanka Ltd. is fully compliant with the Principles 1 & 2. Labour : Principle No. 03. Business should uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Collective Bargaining. The Company has once again entered into a Collective Agreement with the Union representing blue collar workers in November 2010. Further, the company recognized the newly formed Union representing the Clerical Grade employees. The Company was able to maintain industrial harmony in the organization, having had several meetings with the 02 Unions throughout the year. Discussions were held and the issues raised were settled amicably during the period under review. Principle No. 04. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle No. 05. The effective abolition of child labour. I D Lanka Ltd. is fully compliant with the Principles 4 & 5. The company ensures that no person under 18 years will be hired for any form of employment in the company. Principle No. 06. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Currently, there are 7 physically and mentally disabled youth on the permanent cadre. These youth, recruited under the “ Employers Network on Disability”, a joint venture of the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon (EFC) and Motivation Charitable Trust, serve in the Manual Grade. They represent nearly 03 % of the total work force in the Company. I D Lanka encourages disabled persons who have the necessary qualifications to apply for vacancies in the organization and all newspaper and web advertisements carry this message. The company has on its cadre over 20 female employees, which is nearly 8% of the total employee base. We are committed to protect the rights of female employees in the company. In this endeavour the company has a policy in place to address issues relating to Sexual Harassment. IDL employs persons from different ethnic groups and religious faiths. Environment : Principle No. 07. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle No. 08. Undertake initiatives to promote great environmental responsibility, and Principle No. 09. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies. It is the policy of I D Lanka Ltd., (IDL) to minimize the environmental impact of all its operations and to comply with environmental regulations at all times. We have developed procedures to minimize the generation of waste and for the disposal of solid waste, liquid waste and gaseous emissions in an environmental friendly manner. The company has invested on a new ETP plant to minimize the environmental impact on our business activities. Through this project, the company expects to direct all the waste water generating sources into the new ETP, which will in turn release only the treated waste water to the ground. We have embarked on a programme for the reduction of water and electricity consumption through an ISO systems guided measure & monitor procedure to reduce the environmental impact from our business activities. We have also set stringent targets to reduce bottle breakages and increased the re-use of bottles to further reduce the environmental impact from our business. The Head of Quality Assurance and Q A Manager have been trained as Internal Auditors for ISO 14001 (Environmental Management System). ISO and Quality Systems awareness programmes were conducted for all employees during the year. Continuous improvement in this area has led to IDL being the only company in the alcoholic beverages industry in Sri Lanka to be certified under ISO 14001 : 2004 Environmental Management by SGS, UK. Anti-corruption : Principle No. 10. The promotion and adoption of initiatives to counter all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. As a business policy I D Lanka Ltd. is fully compliant with the Principle on Anti-corruption. Reporting Person : Arjuna Samarathunga. Chief Operating Officer. Company : I D Lanka Limited. “Melfort Estate”, Kothalawala, Kaduwela. Sri Lanka. Telephone No. : +94 114653400 E-Mail : Arjuna@idl.lk
