Communication on Progress UN Global Compact (COP) Editor: Peter Savoie Version: 1.00 Date: 01/20/2012 1. Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) ....... 3 2. Human Rights Principles ................................................................................... 4 3. Labour................................................................................................................... 5 4. Environment ........................................................................................................ 6 5. Anti-corruption .................................................................................................... 7 2. Human Rights Principles Topic Summary, actions, results further information Principle 1: Businesses SFS defines in its Corporate Model a clear statement towards the SFS Group Corporate should support respect of the community regarding basic rights, protection of Model and respect the environment, safety of products as well as the support of free market protection of and democracy as economical and political system. internationally The International Quality Manual contains a generic Code of Conduct International Quality proclaimed which states the regard of all basic rights of our employees and the Manual V3 01/01/2011 human rights adherence of international conventions as well as national laws and provisions. Internal processes (so called Group Guidelines GGL) are established 51 GGL 01 to certify the legal compliance and monitored yearly by the 56 GGL 01 management at each site of SFS intec as well as internal and external audits. All employees throughout the company were trained in these topics the year the documents were introduced. New employees receive their orientation during the job introduction training. Action planned 2012: release of a more detailed Code of Conduct for SFS employees Principle 2: Make sure that SFS intec has to a certain extent an assertiveness and authority they are not towards its vendors. The vendor base of SFS intec is very narrow complicit in because of the high value added within SFS intec and its technologies human rights applied. Nevertheless for all strategic vendors exist contracts which 74 GGL 01 abuses govern the partnership with SFS intec and deal amongst others with 74 GGL 02 environmental and safety aspects regarding the vendors employees as well as its products. All strategic vendors are monitored on a regular basis through audits 82 GGL 04 performed by SFS intec employees. Action planned 2012: release of a vendor policy. Version 1.00 dated 20.01.2012 4 SFS intec Communication on Progress UN Global compact (COP) 2011 3. Labour Topic Summary, actions, results further information Principle 3: Businesses SFS intec employees are entirely free to join labor unions and similar should uphold organizations in adherence to ILO core labor statements without the freedom of consequences for them by the employer. In many countries of association and activities internal employee representative committees exist with the effective which the local managements maintains a constructive and fruitful recognition of dialogue. the right to Collective agreements (e.g. overall work contracts, tariff agreements) collective exist in countries where this is common practice (e.g. Germany, bargaining. Austria). Principle 4: Businesses The SFS intec Code of Conduct excludes forced labor. International Quality should uphold Manual V3 01/01/2011 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses The SFS intec Code of Conduct explicitly excludes child labor. International Quality should uphold SFS intec strongly supports the education of young people through Manual V3 01/01/2011 the effective apprenticeship and provides adequate resources for the respective abolition of child training programs at its local sites. The SFS group employs labour. approximately one hundred apprentices which corresponds to 2.5% of the work force. Principle 6: Businesses SFS intec has no personnel policy or employment practice to prefer or International Quality should uphold discriminate a person by his or her characteristic (i.e. gender, age, Manual V3 01/01/2011 the elimination confession). The employment is purely based on professional of discrimination knowledge and achievement. in respect of For SFS intec fair and equal pay for men and women is matter of SFS Condition of employment course. The proportion of female employees as of end of 2011 was employment CH and occupation. 22%. Action planned 2012: release of SFS Condition of employment internationally where applicable. Version 1.00 dated 20.01.2012 5 SFS intec Communication on Progress UN Global compact (COP) 2011 4. Environment Topic Summary, actions, results further information Principle 7: Businesses SFS intec has a long tradition regarding sustainable business ISO 14001 Certificates should support execution towards environmental challenges. The headquarter in a precautionary Switzerland is certified according to the international standard approach to ISO 14001 since 1996, the year of the first issue of this standard. Five environmental sites followed since. challenges. The company wide applied Business Management System (process Different Group descriptions regarding quality, environment and safety) fulfils the Guidelines (GGL) requirements of the ISO 14001 standard. The environmental and safety policy clearly states that all actions of International Quality SFS intec must be in harmony with economics, ecology and with the Manual V3 01/01/2011 responsibilities to the community, particularly looking forward to future generations. Principle 8: Businesses SFS intec measures the ecological impact by so called eco-balances. http://www.sfsintec.biz should The main aspects and key figures regard the consumption of energy, follow company and undertake water and air, the generation of waste and the emission of green environmental and initiatives to house relevant gaseous substances. safety report promote greater Every year goals for the relevant key figures are set and actions environmental defined. Over the years substantial improvements in absolute values responsibility. and even more in relative values (in proportion to produced parts) have been achieved. Principle 9: Businesses SFS intec's business consists to roughly two thirds of subcontracting should to the automotive and other industries without development of encourage the products. However, SFS intec searches explicitly for business development partners which develop environmentally friendly products. and diffusion of SFS intec screens the market for environmental friendly production environmentally equipment and resources in its applied technologies, i. e. all friendly investments into new machinery for injection moulding are electrically technologies. driven machines which reduce the consumption of electricity by up to 40%. The portion of such machines has reached 30% over the last three years. In the area of mechanical fastening system, where SFS intec develops and distributes products, a new fixing system for photovoltaic panels has been developed and released in 2011. The product improves (cost, time to install, static, etc.) the fixation of panels on various building constructions significantly and reduces hereby the cost of ownership. Version 1.00 dated 20.01.2012 6 SFS intec Communication on Progress UN Global compact (COP) 2011 5. Anti-corruption Topic Summary, actions, results further information Principle 10: Businesses The SFS intec Code of Conduct excludes all forms of corruption and is International Quality should work enforced regularly through the local management. Any applied form of Manual V3 01/01/2011 against corruption known to SFS intec will lead to immediate dismissal of all SFS Group Corporate corruption in all involved employees. Model its forms, Action planned 2012: release of a more detailed Code of Conduct for including SFS employees extortion and bribery Version 1.00 dated 20.01.2012 7 SFS intec Communication on Progress UN Global compact (COP) 2011
