JUNE 2012 UN Global Compact Report eBay Inc. Communication on Progress Dear Mr. Secretary-General: Since 2006, eBay Inc. has endorsed and actively participated in the United Nations Global Compact. In the years that have followed, our company has grown and changed significantly, and the broader commerce and technology industries in which we operate have also radically transformed. And while our business and operating environment will continue to evolve, our commitment to the Global Compact and its principles for how business should operate remains unwavering. eBay has been built on the conviction that we are more than just a company. Through our employees, technologies and global network, we believe eBay has the capacity and opportunity—as well as the responsibility—to create and enable positive change in the world. Today, we are committed to integrating social innovation in everything we do and everywhere we operate by creating economic opportunity, enabling greener commerce and embedding charitable giving in our business models. As eBay and commerce continue to evolve, our founding spirit is more critical than ever in ensuring that both our business and society continue to grow and thrive. eBay’s involvement with the Global Compact demonstrates the value we place on driving positive social impact through our core business. As we continue to grow our company and innovate new programs and initiatives around the world, the Global Compact will remain an important framework through which we measure and share our performance. What follows is eBay’s latest Communication on Progress, which outlines our activities across the Global Compact’s key focus areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption since our last report in 2010. I am pleased with our efforts and achievements to date, and look forward to sharing even more progress in the years to come. Sincerely, John Donahoe President and CEO, eBay Inc. EBAY GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 p. 2 HUMAN RIGHTS eBay Approach As eBay strives to innovate within a fast-changing commerce landscape, we believe that our founding principles and fundamental beliefs as a purpose-driven enterprise are more important than ever in defining who we are to our customers, partners, and stakeholders. These beliefs—we create opportunity, we make a difference, and we care—reflect a fundamental belief in the worth and value of people, as shared by the United Nations and articulated in their Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We reflect this in not only the way we conduct our business and the ethical standards that we hold ourselves to, but also in the way that we treat our customers and the information that they share with us, as well as the inclusive nature of our business model and our efforts to extend their benefits to underserved communities. Additionally, we extend our commitment to upholding human rights principles beyond our core business efforts to innovative programs that engage our employees in community development projects around the world, as detailed in our recent accomplishments. Recent Accomplishments Compliance and Regulatory Practices the award. The results are based on a review of eBay’s Code of Business Conduct reflects our companies’ social responsibility efforts, corpovalues and expectations for employees includrate governance, and business practices. GIVE Teams ing the legal requirements that we must meet. To educate our employees around our Code of Privacy In communities around the world where Business Conduct, our Office of Compliance eBay operates a Global Privacy Office, a ceneBay has business operations, employees and Ethics conducts formal, annual companytrally managed team tasked with handling are involved in promoting and managing wide training, as well as other periodic training. privacy matters for all of eBay’s products and In 2010, 97% of our employees completed this companies across the globe. Its purpose is to charitable giving and volunteerism. training. In 2011, 98% of our employees compromote trust in the eBay brand through transThrough eBay Foundation GIVE Teams, pleted this training. parent, consistent, and reliable use of personal employees are directly involved in information. recommending grants to organizations To ensure the integration of the eBay founding that are the most important to them. values in each and every employee we hire, we eBay is a founding member of the Consumer eBay has 20 GIVE Teams in 11 countries also conduct new employee training campaigns. Privacy Law Forum, now the Business Forum for that make grant recommendations and 6,500 employees were provided this training in Consumer Privacy, which helped draft US feder2011. al privacy legislation to protect consumers and provide financial support to charitable provide consistency for business. organizations. In 2012, eBay will be launching a newly revised Code of Business Conduct policy that will have In 2007, eBay invented AdChoice, recognized Through a grant from eBay Foundation’s a localized training component and will be as an industry-leading solution for providing GIVE Team in Shanghai, funds translated into the local languages of our emtransparency and choice in the field of behavare supporting the project “Kiki’s ployees around the world. ioral targeting, with prominent notice and a Kindergarten,” with the mission to persistent opt-out. eBay’s global network of Business Ethics improve the integration of Tibetan blind Officers (BEOs), who are charged with answereBay was the first e-commerce company to rechildren into society by giving them ing questions about and enforcing eBay’s Code ceive approval of its Binding Corporate Rules to an early opportunity to develop motor of Business Conduct, continued to expand with transfer data outside the EU. and social skills. The project is helping our business throughout 2010 and 2011. to address the isolation and neglect In 2009, the Ponemon Institute Survey rated that many children with disabilities In 2011 and 2012, eBay was recognized as one eBay as the most trusted brand for privacy by encounter. The school is focused on of the world’s most ethical companies by the consumers. Ethisphere Institute, a leading business ethics bridging the cultural gap between those think tank. eBay is among approximately 100 who can and those who can’t see and global companies chosen for the designation in teaching children skills to become more a year with a record number of nominations for independent. Photo credit: Global Roots EBAY GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 p. 3 Accessibility In 2010 and 2011, as part of our ongoing commitment to support and expand the base of 2011 Holiday Gift more than 25 million entrepreneurs and small business owners doing business on eBay.com, At the end of 2011, John Donahoe, we continued our efforts to deliver an accesPresident and CEO of eBay Inc., sible eBay platform that creates opportunities announced the annual company charity for people of all abilities. contribution which, in addition to helping In 2011, eBay and the National Federation for families around the world, also offered a the Blind launched a pilot training and mentorselect number of employees the chance ship program to empower the visually impaired to personally make a difference. Through to launch their own e-commerce businesses usa partnership with Habitat for Humanity, ing eBay. eBay sponsored four Habitat Global Village home-building trips, deploying Early success of the pilot program has encouraged the launch of a new phase of the program. 60 employees worldwide on week-long volunteer trips to work alongside Habitat The program is expanding to establish a future homeowners to help build or Successful Entrepreneurship program to break ground on safe, affordable shelter serve an even broader audience of special acfor more than 150 families in Brazil, India cess needs. The first ever visually-impaired and China. Education Specialists trained by eBay are already working within the visually-impaired community with the goal of teaching others to help themselves, using the eBay platform. LABOR eBay Approach Recent Accomplishments As stated in our 2010 Communication on Progress, we are proud to In early 2012, eBay was recognized as a Great operate a company whose workplace is characterized by fairness and Place to Work across Europe, making lists pubmutual respect, and guided by a set of principles, as described in our lished by the Great Place to Work Institute in the Netherlands, Switzerland, the United Kingdom Code of Business Conduct, that articulate nondiscriminatory hiring and and Germany. employment policies. Also in 2012, eBay ranked 80/100 on the world’s At eBay, we find value in empowering a diverse workplace. We believe most reputable companies based on a surthat in order to nurture and inspire the entrepreneurial and innovative vey of 47,000 global consumers conducted by Reputation Institute. spirit that defines our company and our global employee base, we must uphold a respectful and discrimination-free culture. This includes fair and equal treatment of our employees across gender, race, religion, Creating Opportunities for Women national origin, pregnancy status, age, marital or veterans status, sexual in the Workplace In 2010, we launched the Women’s Initiative orientation, gender identity or on any other basis protected by law. In Network (WIN) program, which helps women to 2010 and 2011, we have extended that commitment through a series of build lasting, successful careers at eBay. WIN is programs and policies articulated in our recent accomplishments that committed to providing opportunities, tools and resources that enable women to learn, grow and follow. develop. In addition to our global employment policies, we are committed to In 2011, we hosted the company’s inauguleveraging our unique business models to create economic opportunities ral WIN summit in North America, convening and build the labor market around the world. We extend our commitment women leaders from around the world at our global headquarters in the San Francisco Bay to the Principles laid out in the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Area. The summit featured guest speakers who Principles and Rights at Work through unique programs that provide discussed the importance of sponsorship and employment opportunities to not only small business and entrepreneurs mentorship, work-life balance, and networking. in the developed world, but individuals and communities in emerging In 2012, we hosted our second global WIN sumand undeveloped markets. mit, again assembling women directors and above for three days of intensive lectures, discussions and panels led by industry experts EBAY GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 p. 4 and eBay leaders on subjects vital to supporting In 2011, MicroPlace began expanding its work women’s professional growth and development with Calvert Foundation in the US, driving at eBay, including sponsorship, transcending investments into the California FreshWorks gender biases, and risk-taking. Fund, dedicated to bringing new grocery stores and other markets that offer healthy On an ongoing basis, WIN partners with busifood choices to urban food deserts. ness units to host educational events; offers online support, tools, resources and educational In 2012, MicroPlace in partnership with Calvert materials; and provides support to local grassFoundation provided funding support for WINroots employee groups (like eWIT and eWIN). WIN (Women Investing in Women Initiative), a new initiative to support programs that provide child care, education, health care, housSame Sex Benefits and LGBT Issues ing, leadership, and entrepreneurial support to In 2010 and 2011, eBay received a 100% rating women around the world. from the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Supporting Small Business Equity Index. We were honored for having In 2011, eBay Foundation launched The strong inclusive policies and programs that Opportunity Project, a global social innovation and Entrepreneurs support gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgeninitiative designed to support and help scale dered employees. market-based approaches to providing ecoAs part of our eBay marketplaces business, nomic opportunity in vulnerable, impoverished we have, since our inception in 1995, offered In 2011, we reviewed our policies and made communities. a unique and dynamic technology platform changes to ensure equity for our LGBT that enables individuals all over the world to population: In 2011, eBay Foundation sponsored a competibuild and grow small business enterprises. tion with Ashoka Changemakers, awarding a to› Federal Medical Leave Act – Extended job/benefits Over the last sixteen years, there are tal of $250,000 to five organizations: Fundacion protection to employees who take leave to care for thousands of examples of individuals who Paraguaya, Grameen Foundation, Nuru Energy, a same-sex domestic partners Solidarium, and Twin Cities RISE. have leveraged to platform to not only make › Adoption Assistance – Expanded our adoption assistance program for same sex couples so that a living for themselves, but build businesses In 2011, a team of eBay software engineers dethat employ, in some cases, hundreds of eBay will reimburse up to $5,000 in adoption signed and built an application to enable voting expenses, and will gross up the amount for taxes. others, all over the world. and engagement for Changemakers’ competitions through the Facebook platform. In 2011, eBay joined the Business Coalition for eBay offers a full suite of resources and Immigration Equality – a group that supports services to our sellers, including our Also in 2011, eBay Foundation announced a the passage of the Uniting American Families new partnership with Samasource, a nonprofit celebrated eBay Main Street program, a Act (UAFA) that would allow a U.S. citizen or that connects people living in poverty to work grassroots network that keeps small business permanent resident to sponsor their same-sex via the Internet. Samasource has connected owners informed of legislative matters that partner for immigration to the U.S. more than 2,500 women, youth, and refugees in affect their ability to buy and sell on eBay. the poorest parts of the world to microwork— To date, more than 250,000 eBay users have small tasks like content services, data enrichEmpowering Individuals and participated in the program. ment and transcription that can be done online Communities around the World using inexpensive computers. Since 2007, eBay has invested in MicroPlace, a Additionally, our PayPal and X.commerce PayPal subsidiary that enables socially responIn October 2011, GittiGidiyor launched a partbusinesses extend our commitment to sible investments in microfinance to alleviate nership with Kadın Eme ini De erlendirme Vakfı individuals and enterprises by offering global poverty. – KEDV (Foundation for the Support of Women’s innovative tools and technologies—products Work) to support female entrepreneurs in sellTo date, Microplace has attracted more than like Magento and PayPal Here—to help ing handmade products on the GittyGidiyor 12,300 investors to raise over $18.4 million USD entrepreneurs grow their businesses, provide platform, an eBay subsidiary in Turkey. in fixed-income funds for microfinance, comaccess to cutting edge technologies, and munity development and other social impact compete on a global scale. projects in the US and around the world. ENVIRONMENT eBay Approach At eBay, we are committed to becoming the leading eBay is a disruptive innovator in our industry and we global engine for greener commerce. We have three believe we have the power to create the greenest key strategic priorities to move us toward that vision: commerce platform in the world. From building innovating in our buildings and operations, enabling and operating data centers with industry-leading the trade of greener goods on our commerce efficiency, to finding cleaner energy to power our platforms, and leveraging our voice and size to drive business, and making more environmentally-friendly industry-level change. shipping, packaging, and purchasing decisions, we’re EBAY GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 p. 5 continually working to understand and manage the effects of our electronics. Since inception, the program has generated nearly 10 million offers. For products business on the environment in powerful new ways. that don’t have a resale value, the program still provides guaranteed recycling at no cost to the In addition, we are committed to using our platform to make the very act owner. of buying and selling more sustainable. Whether we are using our own business models and platforms to encourage environmental benefits like In July 2011, the program was expanded to Germany and eBay Sofort-Verkauf was material reuse and waste reduction, or through partnerships with leading launched to bring the electronics recycling probrands to extend the useful life of their products and drive sustainability gram to the European market. thinking across industries, we believe we have a critical role to play in shaping a greener and more responsible future for retail. In September 2011, eBay and Patagonia launched a new marketplace for consumers to buy and sell pre-owned Patagonia gear with othFinally, as a global business, we recognize—and take seriously—that we ers who share a common environmental comhave a powerful voice in the broader conversation on the environment. mitment, giving Patagonia’s famously durable We see transparency and collaboration as key to driving transformational apparel a second life on eBay. This was the first change both in our own business and the world at large, and we believe time a major retail brand and eBay have worked together to promote the buying and selling of in lending our voice and influence to shape policy at all levels—local, pre-owned products. We are currently expandstate, national, and global. ing the model to other categories and brands. In February 2012, we re-imagined and reRecent Accomplishments launched the green.ebay.com site, fusing our old sites—the content-focused eBay Green Investing in Sustainable Operations Inspiring Greener Commerce Team site and the shopping-focused green. In June 2011, we installed a 100kW solar arIn the fall of 2010, we launched and completed eBay.com—into one comprehensive, informaray on top of our Denver data center which can our eBay Box pilot program, which evolved from tive, and idea-rich experience. generate electricity even when covered with a partnership with the US Postal Service in 2007. two inches of snow. We are currently applying what we’ve learned In April 2012, we also launched eBay Green from the pilot to build a greener global shipping Driving, a new site aggregating tools and reIn October 2010, we unveiled our Topaz data program. sources, as well as eBay’s unique green vehicle center in South Jordan, Utah which is one and parts inventory, to enable drivers to reduce of only a small handful of data centers on In October 2010, we also launched eBay Instant their environmental impact. U.S. soil to achieve LEED® Gold status by the Sale to enable consumers to sell and recycle old US Green Building Council. The facility was also recognized by Green IT Magazine as their “Environmental Project of the Year”. eBay achieved industry-leading data center Employee Green Teams efficiency with our Project Mercury facility in Phoenix, Arizona. Opened in December 2011, The eBay Green Team started in 2007 as the site has been the subject of a case study by The Green Grid, was named one of InfoWorld’s 15 a group of 40 passionate eBay employees superstars of sustainable IT for 2012, and was who wanted to make the company a truly awarded a Green Enterprise IT Award. green place to work. Since then, the team has grown to more than 2,800 employees in In February 2011, we completed a lighting retroover 35 offices around the world, promoting fit at our headquarters in San Jose that enables sustainable business practices within us to avoid nearly 800,000 KWH of power usage eBay, volunteering in the community, and and save $200,000 annually. supporting environmental programs that In March 2011, we broke ground on a new emreduce the company’s ecological footprint. ployee center in Draper, Utah which, when completed, we hope will take its place as our third In 2011 alone, Green Teams from San LEED®-certified facility. Jose to Tel Aviv tackled a variety of programs that reduce energy consumption, Through our “Zero Waste for Green Space” iniencourage more sustainable forms of tiative, we achieved a waste diversion rate of 99% at our San Jose headquarters, meaning transportation, and engage employees in that only 1% of what went into a disposal can community events. In Bern, Switzerland at both of our San Jose campuses ended up in and Tel Aviv, Israel, Green Teams launched a landfill. bike-sharing programs; in Singapore, the local team transitioned the entire office to On an ongoing basis, we provide local and susbiodegradable dishes and flatware; and in tainable dining options in San Jose and mainScottsdale, Arizona and San Jose, California, tain organic gardens at our facilities in San Jose and Omaha, Nebraska. Green Teams launched the company’s first electric vehicle charging stations. Facilities in Dreilinden, Germany and Dublin, Ireland were 100% powered by renewable energy (hydropower and wind, respectively). EBAY GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 p. 6 Industry Partnerships & Advocacy In addition, eBay has openly advocated for the We collaborate regularly with nonprofit advoIn 2010, eBay joined the Steering Committee following policies: cates, peer companies, and other stakeholders for BICEP—Businesses for Innovative Climate through memberships and affiliations such as: › Signed on to the 2 Degree Challenge Communiqué and Energy Policy. Through our involvement, we for Rio+20 › Business for Innovative Climate & Energy Policy, help to set the climate advocacy agenda for a › Showed public support for Kerry-Lieberman a project of Ceres group of more than 20 members companies. climate legislation in the summer of 2010 › BSR (which stands for Business for Social › Demonstrated public support for AB32 and Responsibility) In March 2012, we worked with Republican opposition to Proposition 23 in California during › GreenBiz Executive Network State Senator Mark Madsen to develop and pass the fall of 2010 › The Green Grid Advisory Board legislation in Utah allowing non-utility energy › Data Center Pulse consumers (like eBay) to buy and transmit pow› Forum for the Future er directly from renewable energy developers. ANTI-CORRUPTION eBay Approach At eBay, we have a strict policy of doing business based on the merits of our services, not based on any form of bribery, or any other corrupt For more information or unethical business practice. Our Code of Business Conduct outlines contact us at: our policies and principles on bribery and extortion in countries around the world. eBay Inc. Headquarters Whitman Campus The United States and countries around the world strictly prohibit 2065 Hamilton Avenue the bribery of government officials, and we abide by these laws and San Jose, CA 95125 regulations. We educate our employees to ensure that they do not (800) 322-9266 intentionally or inadvertently make any unlawful payment, kickback, or (408) 376-7400 gift to any US or foreign government official or candidate for office in order to get or keep business. www.ebayinc.com As a money transmitter, our PayPal business is also committed to actively deterring and detecting money laundering (AML) and terrorist financing activities. Using a sophisticated system of controls, we aggressively work to report and identify any abnormalities in the transaction system that could be indicators of corrupt activity, coordinating with law enforcement and regulators around the world in this effort. We are proactive in enhancing our current policies to meet regulatory expectations as new geographies, products and services, monitoring authorities or jurisdictional requirements are introduced or developed. Recent Accomplishments We operate a 24-hour help line that employees We hired an Anti-Corruption Officer based in can call or email to make anonymous reports Asia who is focused on building out a robust of violations, or ask questions about our anticompliance program, which ensures that eBay bribery and AML policies, as well as Code of complies with all applicable anti-corruption Business Conduct. Additionally, our Business laws around the world. Ethic Officers are able to provide in-person assistance and guidance to employees who wish In 2012, we updated our mandatory AML trainto raise concerns. ing, adding an online compliance component, and hired compliance training managers focusWe treat all reports as confidential to the extent ing on our high risk regions. permitted by laws, and have a strict no-retaliation policy for those who reported misconduct This year, eBay extended our online AML trainin good faith. ing to contractors, employees, and vendors. As of 2012, no eBay employees were cited for infraction of our anti-bribery policies. EBAY GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 p. 7
