Sustainable Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 The commitment and expertise of Vasakronan’s employees is the key to our successful sustainability efforts. Contents 2011 in brief The CEO’s The popularity of Green Leases has contincomments ued to rise, with a doubling of their number Sustainability efforts are a main in 2011. This, along with a growing interest driving force in the property sector, in the Green Office concept, means that explains Vasakronan’s CEO Fredrik making wise environmental choices in Wirdenius in an interview. every­day life is that much easier. Page 4 Page 2 A more sustainable landlord Sustainability is a well-integrated aspect of our daily work. This section explains more about what we do and how we do it. Page: 6–9 Vasakronan’s responsibility in society 10–15 Employees 16–19 Energy consumption and climate impact 20–23 Choice of materials and limited use of chemicals 24–25 Residual products and waste 26–29 Cooperation with our tenants Results Governance Governance for sustainable growth Results Sustainability (GRI) reporting of Vasakronan’s financial environmental and social responsibilities Vasakronan’s mandate from its owners is to generate a high, risk-balanced, longterm return from the Swednatural part of the everyday operations and governance of the company. Accordingly, the Board of Directors and CEO are ultimately Based on the overall policies and guidelines, processes and routines have also been developed to ensure that daily operations are conducted units. Goals are continually monitored to ensure that the overall aim is achieved. Vasakronan’s sustainability goals are described in more Sustainability Reporting (GRI) of Vasakronan’s financial, environish property portfolio. Simulresponsible for sustainability efforts. in an appropriate manner. Everyday detail in each section of the sustainmental and social responsibilities. taneously, the business Vasakronan has elected to follow sustainability tasks throughout the ability report must be run ethically and the UN Global Compact as the platentire organization are supported with consideration for the form for its sustainability work. The and governed by central units for Awards and prizes in 2011 environment, without com10 principles of the Global Compact such functions as the environment Awards and prizes are proof that suspromising the overall objecrevolve around human rights, labor and HR. tainability work is moving in the right tive of a high return. issues, the environment and antidirection. Here are some of the corruption. Daily operations are then Action plans to address awards and prizes that Vaskronan Sustainability initiatives are strategigoverned by policies and guidelines risk exposure received in 2011. cally important to achieve the overall on purchasing, communication, Each year, Vasakronan identifies the • The Riga property, located in Värta­ Page: return target. This is reflected in our diversity, equality, the environment significant risks that the business is hamnen/Norra Djurgårdsstaden vision of creating ”good cities, where and other areas. Vasakronan’s valexposed to and once that is done, received the Green Building Award people are happy and companies can ues provide the foundation for how the risks are then ranked according 2011. develop.” Vasakronan’s aim is to be we work and interact with one to probability and impact. Certain • The daycare center, Paletten, Sweden’s leading property company another. Policies, routines and trainrisks that have been identified are located at Telefonplan received the and a good role model for Swedish ing all contribute towards discouraglinked to sustainability issues that Stockholm Chamber of Comindustry. This is achieved by: ing all forms of corruption and all of could affect the business and brand. merce’s urban environment award. 32–33 Governance • Having a higher return than the Vasakronan’s employees and suppliBased on the risk analysis, action • In Universum’s survey of Swedish industry average. ers are expected to comply with plans are then drawn up to change students and young professionals, • Being the first choice for tenants existing laws on competition and the risk exposure when doing so is FöretagsBarometern, Vasakronan looking to lease facilities. cartels. Violations will not be deemed necessary. Action plans was rated as the most attractive • Being perceived as the most attracaccepted and may result in discispecify certain activities and the employer in 2011. tive employer in the industry. plinary action, dismissal or prosecuindividuals responsible for imple• Carolina Wadsten, Business Area • Taking responsibility in society and tion. In 2012, we will clarify this even mentation and regular follow-up Manager at the Gothenburg office 34 Financial responsibility striving for long-term, sustainable more by introducing a Code of Conduring the year. received the Guldhuset award for growth. duct. It is a company-wide frameHow Vasakronan works with risks is her excellent leadership skills. work with guidelines on ethical and described in more detail in the 2011 • Anna Nyberg, Business Area ManResponsibility for and govprofessional behavior for all VasaAnnual Report on pages 54–55. ager at the Stockholm office ernance of ongoing sustainkronan employees and Board memreceived the 2011 award for ability initiatives bers. The policies have been pubGoals ”Leader of the Future” in the prop35–39 Environmental responsibility Vasakrona’s overall governance lished on the intranet, where they In conjunction with annual business erty sector. structure is described on pages can be read by all employees. There planning, goals are established that • Vasakronan’s customer magazine 32–35 of the 2011 Annual Report. is also regular follow-up to ensure also consider sustainability aspects ”En bättre värd” (A Better World) This also includes sustainability compliance with the policies by all of operations, both centrally and won the award called ”Silverbladet”. issues, which are an integral and parts of the organization. locally within the various business 40–41 Social responsibility Global Compact principles Governance of Vasakronan’s sustainability efforts Global Compact is a UN initiative aimed at getting companies to collaborate on External regulations Internal regulations sustainability issues in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environ• Inventories, examples of • Policies, such as ment and anti-corruption. legislation – Environment – Swedish Environmental Act – Purchasing – Swedish Work Environment – Diversity and equality 42–44 GRI Index • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Act – Gifts and entertainment proclaimed human rights and – Swedish Companies Act – Work environment • Make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Environmental certifications • Environmental management • Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. – ISO14001 systems • Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. – LEED • Process descriptions • Abolition of child labor. – BREEAM • Other applicable instructions • Elimination of discrimination. – Green Building • Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. – Miljöbyggnad • Promote greater environmental responsibility. • Other applicable laws • Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. and regulations • Work against corruption in all forms. 32 VASAKRONAN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 About Vasakronan Vasakronan is the leading property company in Sweden, with 216 properVasakronan is jointly owned by the First, Second, Third and Fourth ties and a leasable area of 2.8 million m2. The market value of properties is Swedish National Pension Funds. The owners’ goal is to obtain a high, approximately SEK 82 billion and they primarily consist of centrally located risk-balanced, long-term return from the Swedish property portfolio. The offices and retail properties in growth regions of Sweden. Vasakronan also business must be run ethically and with consideration for the environruns construction and development projects and participates in the planment, without compromising the overall objective of a high return. ning and development of new office parks and city districts. The aim is to Vasakronan’s organization and business is described in more detail in create attractive, sustainable facilities in urban environments where people the Annual Report for 2011. can live happily and companies can develop. Administration is performed in-house and at year-end 2011, the company had 336 employees. In our vision of a good city, sustainability is fundamental As the leading property owner in Sweden, Vasakronan has a major responsibility to strive for sustainable development and less environmental impact. Our sustainability efforts partly have to do with environmental and climate issues, and partly with the social aspects of developing sustainable cities and city districts using an overall approach. Everything is based on maintaining a balance between achieving the company’s profitability target with less environmental impact and positive development of society. Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 1 2011 in brief Landlord’s Day – where people meet This was a day of dialog and meetings when Vasakronan’s employees gathered for Landlord’s Day in September. Besides having the opportunity to pose direct questions to the management team, employees also got to ponder some practical and symbolic issues. If Vasakronan were an animal, which one would it be? There were lots of suggestions. Comparisons were made with the working ant, chameleon, lion and puma – always on the hunt, sleek and smart. 558 Green Leases – growing in popularity The number of Green Leases more than doubled during the year and by year-end 2011, a total of 558 Green Leases had been signed. This means that leases corresponding to 23 % of Vasakronan’s total leasable area now have a green component. Green Office – the next success Green office is a wide-ranging initiative to make it as easy as possible for our tenants to make environmentally smart choices in everyday life. This offering, which has been gradually expanded, Top rating in the consists of moving to a new office and Swedish Student shutting down the prior one, as well as Survey transports and a variety of other services. Vasakronan was once again ranked as the most attractive employer in the real estate sector in this survey of Swedish students and young professionals. 2 Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 Sweden’s most environmentally smart building On a city block in Norra Djurgårdsstaden, Stockholm, Vasakronan has built Riga, which is one of Sweden’s most environmentally smart buildings. At an event held in Brussels last spring, Riga won first prize for its low energy consumption. The prize is awarded every other year by the European GreenBuilding Programme (GBP). Riga won in the “new building” category. Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 3 Focus on sustainability benefits Vasakronan Sustainability issues are becoming increasingly important and growing demands from customers are causing a more rapid development of the property sector. Vasakronan holds a leading position and sustainability efforts are a fully integrated part of our operations. We’re now taking the next step, i.e. more properties that are environmentally rated and certified, as well as further developing our popular Green Office concept, explains Vasakronan’s CEO, Fredrik Wirdenius. How important are sustainability issues in the Vasakronan sets its sights very high when it ries than what we currently see today in the property sector? comes to sustainability. Isn’t this also a huge fragmented construction, construction materials Sustainability issues are becoming increasingly challenge? and property sectors. This will be one of the drivimportant to our customers – and accordingly, to Absolutely! Because we approach our work from a ing forces for technology development, better us as well. We welcome the growing demands sustainability perspective, we have to think more methods for new construction and reconstruction, from our tenants and we want to be part of the freely than what has traditionally been required of and the design of new, more environmentally process that will result in them having even higher property companies. Many Swedish cities are curfriendly materials. expectations of us. Clear customer expectations, rently competing with each other to see who can as well as more stringent regulatory requirements take the lead in sustainable urban development. Which initiatives will Vasakronan prioritize are good for Vasakronan and the entire property So, for example, if Vasakronan is involved in develin 2012? sector. This is what helps push development foroping an entire city district, we can’t just simply Above all, we’ll be focusing on further developing ward. focus on our own properties. We must also conthe Green Office concept. Green Leases have At present, there are two main forces that are sider how they impact the overall sustainability of been successful and the challenge now is to credriving the development of office and store envithe city district. To an increasingly greater extent, ate the same level of acceptance and interest in ronments. One is the rapid developments in IT and environmental ratings and certification will apply to taking an overall sustainability approach for office mobility. The other is the growing demands on entire areas, not just specific properties. environments. For example, we’ve established a properties to meet very stringent environmental goal for what we call Green Moves. More and more and indoor climate requirements. As a property How important is environmental rating and tenants are starting to realize the value of also conowner and developer, we must therefore take a certification? ducting their move in a sustainable manner. And sustainability approach for all areas of operations. Using environmental rating and classification as there certainly is a lot to do in this area. It is terrible an indication of the quality of environmental and to see container after container filled with perfectly How do environmental and climate issues affect climate aspects, is becoming increasingly imporacceptable furniture being driven off to the dump. your daily interaction with customers? tant. More and more customers are placing such Unfortunately, that is still all too common when Because there is a commitment to such issues on demands when selecting a property, which is why companies move from one property to another. both sides, a more in-depth dialog with customers I’m convinced that this will be a central issue for We have also noticed a growing interest from the is possible. For example, when we discuss susmany property companies in 2012. Last year, a tainability issues in conjunction with signing a major tenant in the public sector was looking for a Green Lease and formulating the goals, we sit on new head office and it required a building with the same side of the negotiation’s table as tenants, environmental classification. This was a “wake-up figuratively speaking. This enables us to learn call” for many who are in this business. Many more about our customers’ operations and the close relationships that ensue help us predict and government authorities are starting to adopt new guidelines and requirements for low energy conPriorities meet their needs and wishes more successfully. sumption and the companies that don’t have any • Lower energy consumption Our sustainability work is one of the many environmentally rated and certified properties • Environmental certification of buildings important factors behind Vasakronan’s success in simply won’t be able to compete for the most • Green Office and Green Retail achieving higher rents and lower vacancy rates – attractive customers. • Increased social responsibility and thus higher profitability than the norm for this The increasing rating and certification requiresector. ments will have additional positive effects by forcing more cooperation across established bounda4 Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 tenants of our retail properties, large retail chains in particular, to try to reduce their environmental impact and energy consumption. We are trying to assist in this effort in a variety of ways, such as making it easier for them to dispose of waste and recycle used packaging and other items. How committed are you to sustainability efforts when it comes to Vasakronan’s own organization? We never view sustainability or the environment as separate issues. It is an integral part of our core business and accordingly, all discussions and decisions consider these aspects. Vasakronan also supports the UN Global Compact initiative because we are committed to taking financial, environmental and social responsibility. With those principals as our starting point, we continually develop our way of working to ensure that we run a responsible business. I am personally very interested in sustainability issues and it is very evident to me that employees working in all parts of Vasakronan’s organization feel the same way. Because of that, there is a great deal of power in the conscientious sustainability work that is carried out here at the company and we are all working to achieve a very clear, common goal. Vasakronan’s employees are the ones who make it possible for the company to take a leading role in the sustainable development of the property sector. Stockholm, February 2012 Fredrik Wirdenius CEO Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 5 Vasakronan’s responsibility in society Our values provide the foundation for how we get involved in society Vasakronan’s position as a leader in the property sector carries with it a great deal of responsibility as well as excellent opportunities for becoming actively involved in the sustainable development of society. We do this through involvement and commitment to urban development, various types of cooperation on sustainability issues and by running our business in a highly ethical way. Stockholm Royal Seaport, Norra Djurgårdsstaden, Stockholm This is where Vasakronan is involved in building a world-class eco-district. The City of Stockholm is planning to build 10,000 new dwellings and 30,000 new work spaces by 2025. The goal is to create an area that is one of the world’s first climate-positive eco-districts, with both passive and plus homes, investments in solar energy, energy-efficient transports and closedloop systems for water, waste and energy. In 2010, Vasakronan opened Riga, an office and commercial property that won an EU GreenBuilding Award in 2011. 6 Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 Our operations affect people and the surrounding area in ment, but also on people’s well-being and how they are many ways. Responsibility for how we can best contribute able to function in society. Accordingly, helping create an to a long-term sustainable social development is thus very area where people can grow and develop is an important much a strategic issue for Vasakronan’s management, component of Vasakronan’s sustainability work. By board and owners. All aspects of our operations must be actively striving to create good environments around our run ethically and with consideration for the environment, buildings, we not only increase the value to ourselves and without compromising the overall objective of a high our customers, but also to our neighbors and all others return. Our starting point for all of this is the UN Global who move about in the area each day. Compact initiative. Towards a more sustainable future Building a good city From a broader societal perspective, we realize that it will As one of the largest property companies in Stockholm, become increasing important to focus environmental and Gothenburg, Uppsala and Öresund, Vasakronan is helpenergy initiatives on our existing properties. Regardless of ing to develop entire city districts in these places. This whether we are involved in new construction or renovatype of effort requires cooperation and interaction with tions, our fundamental objective is to create sustainable many different stakeholders. The actual construction of environments that meet both the current and future buildings not only has a major impact on the environneeds of tenants. New approach for community involvement Vasakronan aims to take on greater social responsibilcooperation partners is that they have a business conity. We want to do that by getting involved in finding cept that supports our vision of “a good city”. Furthersolutions to problems in society. We want to take part more, their employees must also be committed to solvin a way that will make a difference. But, the first ing issues in society and both sides must understand question we need to answer is where to start. So, that these are long-term investments. By the end of efforts got underway in 2011 to define just how and 2012, our aim is to have established the principles where we should become involved. The first step is to upon which our community involvement will be based. create an internal framework that specifies what our We will also strive to have initiated various forms of involvement should be and how we select our cooperacooperation that will make it possible for us to contribtion partners. One important criteria when selecting ute more substantially to society. “The work to create an internal framework has been based on a number of criteria. For example, there must be local support for projects and our involvement should be more than just providing financial resources. We want to be actively involved. We’ve held workshops throughout the organization and slowly but surely, we’ve identified a couple of areas that our employees feel particularly strongly about. Now we will concentrate on the process of solidifying internal support with the aim of starting to create projects already this fall in cooperation with local partners.” Viktoria Nilsson, Project Manager, Communication Department, Vasakronan. Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 7 Modern touches to a historic site Now that modernization of the interior and conveniently close to Gärdet, now a popular The two new, independent semi-circular buildings of the historic Svea Artillery barracks open green space, but frequently used back then will each contain approximately 3,500 m2 of office has been completed, efforts will now by the soldiers as a training ground. Since then, space. They will be situated in a quiet, protected focus on developing the neighborhood, the city has spread out and this neighborhood is area behind the older buildings and they will add by adding a modern touch in the form now part of central Stockholm. a modern touch to this historic site. The new of new office buildings in the lovely The Svea Artillery barracks were used by the buildings will be certified in accordance with the barrack courtyard. Swedish National Defence College until 2005. LEED environmental classification system and However, after they vacated the property, careful Vasakronan will offer Green Leases to all Svea Much has happened around Svea Artillery since adaptations and interior modernization of the hisArtillery tenants. It is estimated that tenants will the regiment moved into the newly constructed toric barracks have been made to convert it into a be able to start moving into the office buildings barracks in 1877. At that time, Svea Artillery was modern office facility. And now, two additional during spring/summer 2013. located a fair distance from downtown Stockholm office buildings will be built in the courtyard. The echoes of history are ever present in and around these beautiful buildings from the 1800s. The Svea Artillery barracks were the first to be built as an enclosed courtyard, which created a unique parkland setting with a quiet, peaceful atmosphere. 8 Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 Vasakronan will construct two modern office buildings at the Svea Artillery historic site. There are glass sections in the light facade which allows lots of natural daylight to enter the building and from inside, tenants have an excellent view of the lovely park. Vasakronan’s sustainable cooperation A significant part or our community involvement revolves around Climate pact with City of Stockholm active participation in networks and industry related projects and The City of Stockholm introduced a climate pact aimed at joining associations. Our cooperative efforts are at the national and local forces to reduce the capital’s climate impact. More information about levels on issues having primarily to do with climate change, sustain­ the results of the work being conducted within the scope of the Cliable construction and property management. mate Pact is available at www.stockholm.se/klimatpakten. Sweden Green Building Council BELOK Sweden Green Building Council is a non-profit organization that was BELOK is a joint effort of the Swedish Energy Agency and Sweden’s founded in June 2009 by Vasakronan and 12 other Swedish compalargest property owners who are specialized in commercial facilities. nies and organizations active in the Swedish construction and propThe purpose is to run various development projects focused on erty sector. In 2011, Sweden Green Building Council became a full energy efficiency and environmental issues. member of the World Green Building Council and progress is still being made towards developing and impacting environmental and BVB – industry’s system for environmental assessment sustainability efforts in the sector. of building products In cooperation with a number of Sweden’s largest property owners Haga Initiative and building contractors, we have developed a standard for environIn cooperation with 7 other well-known companies, Vasakronan has mental assessment of building materials, including an easy-to-use started up the Haga Initiative. Its aim is to reduce the climate impact support system to search for approved building materials. from business and industry and promote climate change as one of the most important key issues for the future. Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 9 Employees Expertise and commitment create customer value and build customer relationships Vasakronan’s goal is to be the most attractive employer of all Swedish property companies. We will provide our employees with an attractive workplace that has a good working environment and where there is shared responsibility. We are also convinced that by having happy, committed employees, we will also have satisfied tenants. 10 Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 Our employees are the ones who have made Vasa­ For external recruitment, the challenges are offices. These are opportunities for sharing all kronan the company that it is today. Employees who somewhat different. We hold a strong position in sorts of news and discussing current themes. are involved, motivated, committed and happy is the property market and we are doing well in Our goal is to one day achieve an ESI of 100 %, not only a key factor for running a successful propterms of our overall goal of being the most attracbut in the short term, our expectation is to at least erty business, but also our responsibility as tive employer among Swedish property compamaintain our current level. A new employee survey employer. In that role, we make a significant impact nies. One way of measuring our success is by will be carried out in 2012. on the everyday life of many people and this is an checking our standing in FöretagsBarometern, important component of the continual effort to which is Universum’s survey of Swedish students Good opportunities for an interesting make our organization more efficient. The number and young professionals. This year, Vasakronan future of employees working at Vasakronan decreased was once again rated as the most attractive In 2011, Vasakronan had an employee turnover somewhat in 2011 and there were 336 at year-end. employer in its sector. However, when it comes rate of 11.1 %. The company does not have a to recruiting specialist expertise in such areas as specified target for the employee turnover rate. The right expertise now and in the technology and project management, the compeHowever, we realize that we must look more future tition is extremely tough. Other factors, such as closely at the reasons why this figure has The process of ensuring that the company has the the orientation of education systems, also impact increased and one way of doing this is by holding right expertise aims at meeting both current and the supply of a skilled labor force that meets the exit interviews with each individual who has termifuture needs. This work is carried out both inneeds associated with managing and administernated his or her employment at Vasakronan. We house and externally. Within the organization, we ing a commercial and retail property business. also consider employment terminations as opporneed to work in cooperation with our employees tunities to think in a new way. For example, finding to document their skills and design relevant trainMany satisfied employees a replacement might not be the best solution. In ing programs. Externally, we have many different The results of employee surveys are an important some cases, we may need to recruit someone strategies for attracting new employees and safeindicator of how employees feel about their job, with a different profile and skill set. guarding our brand as employer. cooperation, development opportunities and the Our aim is to further increase internal mobility We strive to maintain a high, consistent level of company culture. The 2011 employee survey and we are implementing various measures to expertise within the organization so that we can revealed that the employee satisfaction index (ESI) open up more career paths within the company. successfully compete in the property sector and increased by 5 percentage points to 97 % (benchFor example, all available positions are always we regularly review our employees’ education levmark is 83 %). This is an improvement on a level published internally before external recruitment els. On the whole, our assessment is that the eduthat was already very high. The survey results proefforts begin. This gives our existing staff priority cation level for our organization is good and 58 % vide hard evidence that an overwhelming majority when applying for a new position within the comof our employees have a college or university of Vasakronan’s employees feel that the compapany. Employee appraisals are held each year and degree. A college or university degree is a requireny’s values permeate the organization. Employees these are opportunities for employees and managment for nearly all positions that we recruit for. also feel that there are good career development ers to discuss suitable goals for career developOne of the ways that we improve the organizaopportunities at the company. Furthermore, ment within the company. These goals are primartion is through recruiting and knowledge transfer. employees are pleased with the results of efforts to ily based on the employee’s own level of ambition We strive to raise the competence level of our improve/increase the frequency of the information and needs. It is also important to make sure that existing employees and we also recruit externally flow between managers and the rest of the organian employee’s goals are aligned with the compato acquire new expertise. To the extent possible, zation. Above all, employees appreciate the inforny’s business objectives and our continuous we design training programs so that our employmation sessions at our Friday breakfasts for all efforts to ensure that we have the right expertise. ees can obtain new skills and expertise. staff members and they are held every week at all Award-winning employees in 2011 In May 2011, Carolina Wadsten received an award for During the fall, Anna Nyberg received an award for her excellent leadership skills. Guldhuset is an award the property sector’s “Leader of the Future”. Sponfor young leaders working in the community developsors of the award are the news magazine, Fastiment sector who have demonstrated excellent leaderghetsnytt and Stronghold Invest, in cooperation ship skills over several years. Guldhuset is awarded with Academic Search. Anna received the award jointly by CMB (a center for management in the conbecause she is a strong, committed leader who struction sector), the Swedish Construction Clients has successfully motivated her team to achieve Forum, Byggindustrin (a news magazine about the excellent results even during periods when significonstruction and property sector), the Swedish Propcant organizational changes were being impleerty Federation, the Swedish Federation of Consulting mented. Anna’s ability to “get the job done” and Engineers and Architects and the Swedish Construcher straight-forward communication skills have Carolina Wadsten, tion Federation. Carolina received an award due to Anna Nyberg, helped the group achieve top performance and Business Area her much appreciated leadership skills and commitBusiness Area thus successfully achieve established goals and Manager, ment to the organization. At Vasakronan, the busiManager, Stockholm exceed the profitability targets for her business Gothenburg office ness area managed by Carolina received the highest office area. customer satisfaction rating. As manager, Carolina excels in winning support for decisions by creating shared goals among employees. Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 11 Vasakronan’s fundamental values Our responsibilities as business partner, employer and A holistic approach stakeholder A sense of overall responsibility, Vasakronan’s values are firmly established in the organization and they finding synergies between specialist provide the foundation for how we interact with one another and conduct functions, an open attitude towards business. We are now taking this one step further by formalizing a Code of the ideas and actions of others. Conduct, i.e. a company-wide framework containing guidelines on ethical and professional behavior. In order to do this, we will be holding a series of workshops during spring 2012 based on the SOL method (situationoriented learning). With this method, managers and groups of employees are presented with a number of fictitious situations. We examine the choices that each group makes to determine the extent to which behavior Humanistic High ethical is aligned with Vasakronan’s values, and perhaps even more importantly, to see where there are discrepancies. philosophy standards We will also simultaneously carry out an analysis of/dialog with suppliers Demonstrate compassion, Clear communication aimed at determining the best way of formulating our expectations and empathy and the ability to on what is expected, communications material regarding the ethical and professional behavior “step into someone else’s sincerity and honesty. of suppliers. shoes”. Everyone has equal value. What exactly does the work here involve? A wide range of expertise and experience is required to construct, develop and manage properties. Regardless of the position, the focus here is on service and development. Here are some examples of what we do at Vasakronan. BM TM PM Business Area Manager – manage and Property Manager – this is a coordinaTransactions Manager – calculates develop property administration tor position, with responsibility for and acts as project manager for acquiwithin a business area. As business everything from customer relations to sitions and sales of property or major area manager, you have overall perforthe revenue for a number of properholdings. Must have the right instincts mance responsibility for a geographic ties. Key success factors are low on when to buy and when to sell. area and several property managers vacancies and satisfied tenants. report to you. 12 Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 Charlotta DeJong At one of my appraisals during that time, I was Position: Business Developer (recently asked if I had ever considered becoming a appointed) property manager. In fact, this had actually Number of years at Vasakronan: 9 (March crossed my mind! 2012) So, when a property manager position became How did you come to work for Vasakronan? available within the business area for Southern I had been working in London for a few years Stockholm, I decided to go for it. These last two and when I returned home to Sweden, I wanted years as property manager have been exciting, to try something new. I saw an advertisement in fun, and I’ve learned a tremendous amount. DN newspaper that AP Fastigheter was looking Plus, switching paths was a lot easier than I for a controller, so I applied, got the job, and thought it would be. here I am! What do you think you will be working with How would you describe your years with this in 5 years? company since then? Well, you can see from my experience just how I started out as a controller in the commercial many opportunities there are for a person to part of the business. I then worked for a short develop at Vasakronan. So, it’s difficult to say period of time as controller for the Stockholm what I might be doing five years from now. But, region between my two periods of parental I do already know what the next step in my leave and after that, I substituted as Group Concareer at Vasakronan will be. During spring troller for a year. Then the merger took place 2012, I will start working in a new position as and in the newly formed Vasakronan I became business developer. Business Controller for the Stockholm region. PD L PT TM Lessor – responsible for leasing Property Technician – Technical Manager – overall Project Developer – works vacant premises. This is primarresponsible for property responsibility for technical with the development of ily accomplished via outreach management as well as operations and mainteproperties that are in various sales, administration of applicaidentifying and resolving nance of properties. A perstages, such as land developtions received and managing the service malfunctions. In son holding this position ment, new development and process through to a signed other words, this position must be creative and solurenovation projects or facility lease agreement. is all about making sure tion-oriented to make sure modifications for tenants. that everything works that each facility operates properly. as efficiently as possible. Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 13 Report from Landlord’s Day 2011 Landlord’s Day, held in September 2011, was a day full of activities involving all Vasa­ kronan employees. This event provides excellent opportunities for interacting with colleagues in a relaxed environment and discussing the company’s operations and development. The aim is to achieve a high level of openness and transparency so that employees genuinely feel that their opinions matter. A dialog system is used, which means that employees use computers to both answer and pose questions to managers on the stage. This makes it possible for each voice to be heard. Tenants, who represent the core of our operations, were invited to provide employees with their view of Vasakronan as a property owner. Tenants both asked and received many direct questions during these sessions. Of course, CEO Fredrik Wirdenius was in the spotlight quite a bit when employees posed questions to the management team. For example, he got to ponder such questions as how he could become more visible out in the organization. He was also asked to describe exactly what he does each day, i.e. what a typical day at work looks like for him. Business deal of the year Customer team of the year, Trade Emplo Typical behavior of Vasakronan’s “HR works with both “I’d like to praise all the “Every day, the property employees is to be generous with head and heart. They technicians who each day technicians help us achieve praise and give a pat on the back to always make a professolidify the confidence we our energy goal for the someone who has done a good job. sional contribution.” all have in Vasakronan.” year of 6 %, which is This was particularly evident on equivalent to cost savings Landlord’s Day, when employees of as much as SEK 27 were asked to give examples of million.” excellent performance! “Our lawyers are incred“All lease agreements are ibly alert and knowledge“We are very good at now computerized. The able. The feedback they turning criticism into effort to do that has provide is excellent. They insight. One example of reduced the number of are always available and this is explaining to the necessary signatures by a ready to answer any customer how he or she can few thousand each month.” questions you might have.” impact the indoor climate.” 14 Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 Peter Fritz Position: Property Manager, Gothenburg office Number of years at Vasakronan: 4 (March 2012) How did you come to work for Vasakronan? After completing my M.Sc. in engineering, I wanted to work in the construction and property sector. Someone gave me a tip that Vasakronan was looking to fill a temporary position. After a lunch, two interviews and a personality test, I was offered the job and I accepted. Working for Vasakronan felt right for me. How would you describe your years with this company since then? It’s a journey that began in state-owned Vasakronan, via AP Fastigheter’s acquisition of Vasakronan and after everything that has happened since then, I’m now working for Sweden’s largest property company. When I began working here in March 2008, it was to fill a temporary position for someone on leave. I was responsible for the office hotels at Kista Entré and Kista Science Tower, just north of Stockholm. I did a good job and at the end of that assignment, I was offered a position as Assistant Property Manager at Östermalm in Stockholm, with responsibility for three properties: Göta Livgarde, Svea Livgarde and Port 108. Love then pulled me in the direction of Gothenburg and luckily, a position became available there for a property manager and I’ve had that job since May 2011. I very much enjoy working as a property manager and I will gladly keep doing this for many more years. In general, I have to say that if you do a good job and show enthusiasm, the opportunities are endless for taking on new challenges at Vasakronan. I can promise one more thing, too. Being involved in building customer relationCustomer team of the year, Office ships and managing impressive, beautiful properties is as cool as can be! yee of the year, Hanna Jessing There was also an enormous response to this question: what have we specifically done to ensure the highest rating for Vasakronan in the 2012 Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI)? “Frequent meetings with “We are good at sharing the customer to discuss experience and knowledge their needs and make sure across regions. We are that we obtain a better constantly learning from understanding of their each other.” business and operations.” Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 15 Energy consumption and climate impact A structured effort to decrease energy consumption that gets people motivated and involved Properties and the operations conducted there account for a significant portion of Sweden’s energy consumption. Lowering it is thus an important issue for Vasakronan and the property industry as a whole. We also have a responsibility to increase awareness of how to consume energy as efficiently as possible and reduce our climate impact. 16 Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 Vasakronan’s most significant environmental The challenge going forward will be figuring out impact is from the energy consumed by operahow to meet the BBR requirements when renovattions performed in our buildings. Energy coning existing properties. However, there are examsumption has three components: electricity, heatples from renovations conducted in recent years ing and cooling. Electricity can be further broken that indicate we have the ability to meet the new down as follows: the electricity used by our cusrequirements that came into force during fall 2011. tomers at their facilities and the electricity required for operating various functions in a building, such Initiatives that impact our own as elevators, escalators, ventilation and lighting. emissions Since 2006, Vasakronan has managed to reduce Industry-leading position from several its own carbon emissions by more than 90 %. perspectives This was achieved by continually reducing energy Vasakronan’s long-term goal is for the energy conconsumption and by purchasing climate neutral Clean sumption of our property portfolio to be 50 % district heating/cooling and green electricity. Development lower than the industry average. Vasakronan’s operations currently result in carMechanism For 2011, the goal was to reduce energy conbon emissions of approximately 1,600 tons per Vasakronan has chosen the route of climate sumption by 6 % compared to the year before and year. The components of purchased electricity compensation by investing in the Clean we managed to exceed that goal by reducing are as follows: 75 % hydroelectric, 15 % wind Development Mechanism (CDM) project, energy consumption by 7 %. One of the reasons power and 10 % biofuel. which results in a corresponding reduction in behind this success is that our prior energy effiThe greatest opportunity to further lower our emission levels. Our contribution involves investing in bio-fueled power plant prociency investments are now starting to pay off. In emissions is by changing our travel behavior. For jects in India that produce elecaddition, each day our property technicians do an travel associated with operations, we primarily use tricity from agricultural excellent job at ensuring efficient energy consumpECVs (Environmentally Classified Vechicles). Our waste products. tion of our properties. Yet another important contravel policy also stipulates that employees should, tributing factor is the fact that more and more tento the extent possible, travel by train for business ants are entering into Green Leases, which involves travel in Sweden. Our travel agency also offers a cooperative efforts to save energy, for example. We web service that compares figures on the emission want to keep up the pace too, so our goal for 2012 levels and costs for each mode of transportation. is to once again reduce energy consumption by 6 % Since 2007, we also compensate for the carbon compared to the results for the prior year. emissions we haven’t been able to eliminate from During the year, a new EU Directive came into our operations by purchasing units through the force aimed at ensuring that new buildings conClean Development Mechanism. By doing so, sume as little energy as possible, i.e. Nearly Zero Vasakronan becomes a climate neutral company. Energy Buildings. In Sweden, this has resulted in stricter requirements on new construction issued Cooperation is the driving force by the Swedish National Board of Housing, BuildSustainability is already an integrated, natural part ing and Planning (BBR). For example, the energy of our daily work routines. So, we are striving to consumption for newly constructed office buildings make further progress via new technical solumay not exceed 80 kWh per m2. Vasakronan is tions, investments in environmental technology already able to meet that target with a good margin. and energy optimization. We want to influence In fact, our goal is for the energy consumption and cooperate with our tenants, suppliers and of our newly constructed buildings to be 50 % other stakeholders in the property sector by poolbelow BBR’s requirements and even though the ing our efforts to reduce our combined environrequirements are now stricter, we feel this is mental impact. Our vision is to create “good citentirely possible. So, we have not felt the need to ies” where people are happy and companies can adjust that target. develop. Climate neutral – what that means Climate neutral involves acting in a way that does not produce a net increase in greenhouse gases. That can be achieved by reducing one’s own overall climate impact as much as possible and through compensation to neutralize any remaining emissions. (Source: www.klimatneutral.se) Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 17 Energy consumption and climate impact Vasakronan in Uppsala has been Have tenants ever turned down a Green very successful in increasing the Lease proposal? number of Green Leases. In fact, Yes, but very few. However, when that hap71 new Green Leases were signed in pens, it’s not because they think it is a bad 2011. We asked Jan Erik Hellman, idea. There are just other circumstances that Business Area Manager at the office cause them to hesitate. For example, the tenant for the Uppsala region how they did might have a binding agreement in place with it and what the tenants think. an electricity supplier, who doesn’t meet the only formal requirement we have about green What is it exactly that so many tenants seem electricity. to love about Green Leases? I think it has to do with the fact that so many of In what ways do you cooperate with tenants? our tenants are very environmentally aware. When modifications will be made, cooperation They know that it is important to contribute in has to do with that and taking an environmental all ways possible to reduce the environmental approach. For an existing tenant, the starting impact. Furthermore, when we start discusspoint involves documentation of electricity ing the terms of agreement, one quickly realneeds and use. Typically, we are able to obtain izes that it’s not so hard to become more aware useful information about what consumes the of behavior that consumes more electricity and most electricity during a typical workday. And, make changes to lower consumption. equally important, we find out what continues to consume electricity after everyone has gone home. After that, we compile a list of possible measures and enter into an ongoing dialog with the tenant on which ones can be implemented. One of Vasakronan’s first tenants to revealed a number of areas where it was possible enter into a Green Lease was the stufor us to cut back. For example, we installed timdent aid agency, CSN, located at the ers on fan coil units and we now have copy Svavagallerian property in Uppsala. machines and printers that automatically go to We asked CSN’s office manager, stand-by mode. On our own initiative, we also Anders Arovelius, why this choice was started up a project to discover options for cutting important to them. our lighting consumption in half using modern, energy efficient lighting technology. That project CSN has a carefully formulated environmental polis now in the implementation phase and we will icy that we try very hard to follow. So, this type of start installing new lighting during spring 2012. modified agreement is a natural choice for us. The timing of Vasakronan’s launch of Green Leases was What types of savings do you hope to achieve? perfect and the first step in our cooperation Well, we will of course cut costs due to lower coninvolved a review of our energy consumption habits sumption. But because we are a government and how we could decrease it. agency, we also want to set a good example and show how quite substantial energy savings can What measures did CSN then implement? be achieved by implementing relatively simple The documentation on how we consume energy measures. Green Leases – a more modern lease alternative With a Green Lease, Vasakronan and the tenant work together to lower the consumption of electricity, heating and cooling at the office facility. The tenant also makes sure to sort and recycle waste, as well as adhere to the requirements on building materials when renovations are made. The tenant is also required to only purchase green electricity in accordance with the Swedish Society for Nature Conservation’s ecolabel, “Good Environmental Choice”. At year-end 2011, Vasakronan had 558 (223) Green Leases in place, which corresponds to nearly 23 (10) % of its total leasable area. The goal for 2012 is to enter into a total of 250 new Green Leases. 18 Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 Aquifer used for Triangeln property Triangeln is the name of Vasakronan’s property and shopping center in the heart of Malmö. An aquifer has made the property nearly self-sufficient in terms of its heating and cooling needs. “Provided that the geological conditions are right, as is the case with Skåne’s water-rich limestone bedrock, this is an amazing technology for cooling and heating supply,” explains Peter Jansson, Head of Technology at Vasakronan in Malmö. He is also in charge of the aquifer project at Triangeln. Triangeln, which has an area of 23,000 m2, expects to lower its electricity consumption by 300 MWh and its district heating by 2,900 MWh per year once the aquifer is up and running. In terms of Vasakronan’s entire property portfolio in Malmö, the aquifer could lower energy costs and energy consumption by approximately 3 %. The aquifer at Triangeln is expected to be up and running sometime during summer/fall 2012. Aquifer – like a natural underground thermos The word aquifer comes from two Latin words: aqua, or “water” and ferre, “to bear or carry.” Basically, an aquifer is an underground waterbased energy storage unit for cooling and heating supply. During the warm months of the year, cold water is pumped out of the aquifer and used to cool the building. Warmed-up water then flows back and is pumped underground and stored until winter, when it is used to warm the building instead. Award for Energy Initiative of the Year Roland Skoogh Jojje Abrazis Both large and small energy conservation initiatives were nominated for Vasakronan’s award, Energy Initiative of the Year. The winners were Roland Skoogh, Technical Manager for the Gothenburg Region and Jojje Abrazis, Property Technician. By cleverly combining a new building management system and systematic operations optimization, they’ve been able to reduce energy consumption by around 30 % at two of our properties. Collaborative work and a high level of commitment to the task were among the success factors that made it possible to decrease energy consumption to a very low 80 kWh per m2. Also nominated was Jonas Hansson, Technical Manager for the Öresund Region. He developed a new, relatively simple control device for one of the escalators at the Triangeln shopping center. The reduction in energy consumption using this device corresponds to the annual consumption of a typical single-family home. Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 19 Choice of materials and limited use of chemicals Caring about human health and conserving resources is the starting point The environmental impact of a property is largely determined by the materials used for new construction, renovation, modification and maintenance. We strive to reduce the quantity of materials used in operations and we emphasize the importance of always adopting a lifecycle perspective when selecting materials and building supplies. Paletten daycare center The design of this award-winning daycare center incorporates bright colors, curved shapes and excellent material to provide our youngest citizens with a stimu­ lating, creative and safe en­­vironment. 20 Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 Paletten daycare center We run our business based on the knowledge that cessfully achieve a closed loop system and thus and consultants for all new construction, renovaa property impacts the environment during its generate a minimal amount of waste. For example, tion and modification projects. entire lifecycle, i.e. from design, project planning we analyze the amount of material used for differOne thing that all of the 8,000 products in the and construction to management, renovation and ent projects and try to determine how we can utidatabase have in common is that they all use a demolition. For Vasakronan, its all about getting it lize existing materials to a greater extent so that a lifecycle perspective as the starting point. All items right from the start. Fundamental aspects are smaller quantity of new materials is required. are classified as follows: Recommended (green), knowledge, control and documentation of the Acceptable (yellow) and Avoid Using (red). Materimaterials used, which includes the chemicals and BVB (industry’s system for environals used for building construction must be classicontaminants that may also be present in materimental assessment of building prodfied as either green or yellow. The only time that als. Therefore, Vasakronan and its contractors ucts) is the basis for requirements on “red” materials may be used is in exceptional strive to use resources conservatively and only contractors and suppliers cases and when no other alternative exists. use eco-friendly materials and building products. Only eco-friendly materials and building products may be used by Vasakronan and our tenants. This Importance of both large and small Careful renovation and reuse of requirement is specified in most our our lease recycling systems existing materials agreements, along with the requirement that tenWe continually make our requirements on materials Typically, modifications are required each time a ants who do the work themselves must document and building products more stringent. The same new tenant moves into a property and we realize all materials used. applies when auditing Vasakronan and its contracthat this behavior is neither financially, operationByggvarubedömningen is industry’s system for tors in terms of the building materials used and also ally nor environmentally sustainable in the long environmental assessment of building products. the documentation of materials used for construcrun. In other words, these activities are essentially Vasakronan has used the database, which contion. The aim is to increase the proportion of recy“bad business” for the environment, the tenant tains more than 8,000 products, since 2009 cled materials used for renovation and modification and us. This is why we continually strive for more when selecting all materials. projects. We hope to achieve this partly by setting conservative use of resources by carefully renovatWe also require that BVB is included in all up better internal recycling systems and partly ing and reusing existing materials so that less framework agreements and accordingly, it is through closer cooperation with various parties materials are required. The goal is to more sucamong the requirements we place on contractors involved in large-scale recycling systems. Environmental certification of buildings For quite some time, Vasakronan has been working with Several systems are used for environmental certification environmental certification of its buildings in order to of buildings. Vasakronan mainly uses the following communicate the environmental characteristics of our international systems: LEED, BREEAM and Green­ buildings and meet the growing requirements of our tenBuilding, which is primarily a system for assessing ants. The goal for 2011 was for 20 % of our property portenergy efficiency. Sweden Green Building Council’s folio to have environmental certification. Unfortunately, certification system, Miljöbyggnad, is also used. we didn’t quite make it, and this figure was 10 % at year end. The goal for 2012 is for 30 % of our property portfolio to have environmental certification by year end. LEED tion system that was launched in 1990 and it is Building Council is the organization in charge The environmental certification system, Leadthe most widely used of all the international sysof this system. The goal is for Miljöbyggnad to ership in Energy and Environmental Design tems in Europe. A building’s environmental perbecome the nationwide system for Sweden. (LEED), is widely used internationally for all formance is assessed in a number of areas, such GreenBuilding types of buildings. A building’s environmental as energy consumption and waste management. GreenBuilding is an EU initiative that was performance is assessed in terms of energy It also considers the location of the building in launched in 2004. It aims at improving the and water consumption, indoor environment, terms of public transport accessibility. energy efficiency of buildings. The certificahazardous substances, conservative use of Miljöbyggnad tion shows that the building uses 25 % less both resources, commuting options and Miljöbyggnad is a certification system based energy than before (for existing buildings) and impact on the surrounding area. on Swedish construction and government regu25 % less than the requirements on new conBREEAM lations, as well as Swedish construction pracstruction issued by the Swedish National BREEAM is a British environmental classificatices. As of 1 January 2011, Sweden Green Board of Housing, Building and Planning. Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 21 Facilities that can be changed It is understandable that tenants want to adapt Have the trends in office space design made it office facilities to their own needs. But, at the easier to come up with sustainable solutions? same time, it is necessary to keep sustainability in In the past, it was common to have individual, mind when making modifications. We talked to enclosed offices. Not only was this a constraint, Bengt Jansson, Environmental Manager at Vasa­ but it also required a lot of space, i.e. around kronan about this: 25–30 m2 per person. So, it’s not so strange that we are moving towards open-plan office spaces, How do you actually construct and design buildwhere there aren’t any walls in the way and less ings and facilities so that they can repeatedly be than half that area is required per person. The modified with as little environmental impact as next step, if you want to achieve an even more possible? space-efficient office is to create flexioffices (no Well, the key word that must be etched in stone is fixed workstations) and activity based offices, “variability”! So, when planning and designing a which are flexioffices with various types of workbuilding and its office facilities, you need to keep stations that are adapted to the type of operations. both generality and flexibility in mind. Generality But, at the same time, all focus shouldn’t be on means that the building’s leasable area can be trying to achieve a minimal amount of square used for new operations without having to make meters. To a large extent, long-term sustainability any major changes. For example, building compois also about focusing on key figures that have to nents and installations with a long expected techdo with low energy consumption and conservative nical and economic life must be planned with use of materials. When that happens, it is a “good generality in mind. Flexibility and generality go deal” all around, i.e. for the tenant, the property hand-in-hand. Flexibility means that it is easy to owner and the environment. come up with a new floor plan by moving, adjusting and adapting walls, openings and installations The View, property: Jakob Större 18 as needed. Of course, it must also be possible to replace building components and installations individually at various intervals without any difficulty. Kista Science Tower 22 Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 Environmental certification of buildings is a challenging task One of Vasakronan’s overall goals for 2011 was to achieve environmental certification of buildings equivalent to 20 % of the total leasable area of the portfolio. We asked Anna Denell, Environmental Manager at Vasakronan how this has gone. At year end, approximately 10 % of our buildings had environmental certification. There are many reasons why we didn’t achieve our goal. Above all, the process of selecting and prioritizing which of our existing buildings to start with took longer than expected. Why is it important for Vasakronan to obtain environmental certification for its buildings? Our goal is to have a property portfolio that is certified and this is important to us from several perspectives. Environmental certification is verification from a third party that we effectively work with environmental issues and that doing so pays off and gives results. For negotiation purposes as well, it is very important to have enviVariability and flexibility are essential concepts when ronmentally certified buildings because many tenants only want to we build and design properties lease office space in certified buildings. So, we will still keep the and office facilities that must be bar very high. Our goal for 2012 is 30 % and we are able to set repeatedly modified with as little that goal because we know that most of Vasakronan’s properties environmental impact as already meet the requirements, even though we still haven’t possible. managed to obtain formal certification. For several buildings and projects, certification is already underway. I am quite certain that we will be able to catch up in 2012 and achieve our goal for the number of environmentally certified buildings. Pennfäktaren, Vasagatan 7 Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 23 Residual products and waste Towards more sustainable waste management practices, with less waste and more recycling Vasakronan continually strives to make better use of the residual products generated from operations and achieve more efficient waste management practices. Vasakronan, our tenants and society at large can all benefit quite substantially by doing so. New rules and solution. The latter means that documents to be printed are put into a virtual queue and centrally located in order to minimize the environmental impact. You also need to replace old practices for printing before they can be printed, a personal code printers that consume a lot of energy. Another must be entered into one of the printers. good idea could be adding an extra line to The paperless office is still a concept for the Because of this, there has been a considerable email messages, such as “think about the future for most of us and this applied to Vasa­ decrease in ‘frivolous’ printing since we impleenvironment before kronan’s own office as well. We asked Sören mented this solution three years ago. Now, the you print”. Sandell, IT Manager at Vasakronan, to tell us office also generates much less paper waste as a bit about what Vasakronan is doing to miniwell!” mize the amount of printing and paper waste that is generated. What are the most important things to consider “We’ve managed to come quite far by getting a in order to achieve a “green” printing pracgood grip on exactly how much and what we tices? actually print. Important measures that were From an environmental perspective, you need taken include only having a few centrally to reduce the amount of paper waste, of located printers, front-and-back printouts as course. Equally important, however, is to keep standard and implementing a ‘follow me’ print the number of printers down and have them 24 Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 However, the most substantial quantities of ties. For example, we’ve managed to cut the From waste to resource waste that our business generates are prinumber of transports by having contracts We believe that many benefits can be marily from new construction and renovawhere contractors are paid according to the derived by, to a greater extent, regarding tions. In addition to that, there is the waste amount of tonnage collected. waste as a resource that can be included generated each day from operations and by In most cases, we are responsible for the and used in various recycling systems. For our tenants. Regardless of the source, you waste generated by our tenants once they example, combustible waste can be used need to take an environmental approach to sort and deposit it in the building’s containas fuel for district heating and organic waste the management of residual products and ers. If we all cooperate, we can have the can be used in the production of biofuels. all hazardous waste must be dealt with in greatest effect on improving the environWe are also, to an increasingly greater accordance with existing regulations. ment and conserving resources more effecextent, reusing doors and glazing. In addiAnother important aspect is a methodical tively. Tenants sort their waste materials and tion, new gypsum wallboards are being effort to continually reduce waste volumes Vasakronan is responsible for providing manufactured from the recycled material of and achieve more efficient waste managerooms with sorting containers for various used ones. In cooperation with our suppliment practices. types of items depending on the tenant’s ers, we aim to further develop and refine operations. Signs with clear instructions are logistics, infrastructures and methods for Joint effort for continual posted in all of these rooms and on containobtaining better control of waste, so that we improvement ers. For example, in some buildings, we use resources more conservatively and proWaste management is a highly regulated have placed containers specifically for food duce less waste. area. In order to lower the environmental waste, so that even more options are availaimpact of waste transports, we are working ble for sorting waste and recycling it in the in various ways to coordinate such activibest way. Clear rules and commitment are required for successful waste management Torbjörn Pettersson, Technical Manager for Retail, Gothenburg region, is responsible for waste management at our Nordstan properties and other properties. He explains how cooperation with tenants and contractors has resulted in more successful waste management. Clear rules and commitment by everyone involved are important prerequisites. What types of things do your tenants put in the waste receptacles? That entirely depends on the type of building and the operations conducted there. In general though, for commercial properties, we get incredible amounts of corrugated cardboard and for offices, as you might expect, a lot of paper waste is generated. What are the key factors for successful waste management? The building must have space for a large waste collection room and everyone must be committed, i.e. tenants, Vasa­ the costs for the joint recycling center, which we provide in kronan and waste contractors. We all have certain responsibilaccordance with the requirements of the waste contractor. ities throughout the entire chain of sorting, storing, and colThe tenant pays a standard fee for sorted waste and the fee is lecting waste from the property. Information is also key. For by weight for combustible waste. There is no point in hiding example, it is important to provide information on the costs the fact that in many cases, behavior has to do with costs. So, associated with various types of waste and the rules that by providing thorough information about waste and, in particapply for each building. We’ve come quite far at our Nordstan ular, what it costs, an incentive is created for the tenant to shopping center properties in Gothenburg. All tenants pay for engage in various activities that can reduce the amount of their own waste and this is specified in the lease. Tenants are waste generated. also responsible for entering into a contract directly with a specific waste contractor. Tenants must also pay for a share of Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 25 Cooperation with our tenants Offices for greener everyday life Vasakronan strives to make daily life easier for our tenants in every way possible. One important aspect is making it easier for them to make smart environmental decisions by offering a variety of services that help make their offices “greener”. 26 Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 Vasakronan strives to provide office facilities to work together with tenants in various ways delivered by our selected partners. Our that are flexible, attractive and promote proto reduce our environmental impact. With cooperation agreements specify the high ductivity. They should also be designed and that goal in mind, we have collected a large requirements that we place on them. managed as environmentally as possible number of daily services in our Green Office One fundamental requirement is that the and in a way that meets the changing needs concept, which is based on the idea that “if supplier must run sustainable operations of tenants over time. The actual office facilit can be done green, it should be done based on an ethical approach, humanistic ity and what goes on there accounts for a green”. philosophy and good governance. large portion of a company’s environmental The services that are offered as part of the impact. Because of that, Vasakronan strives Green Office concept are provided and Green Office services Traditional services are included in the Green Office contenants shut down their old office in an environmentally concept, including the following: cleaning, plant care, coffee scientious way. For many of our properties, it is also possible and fruit. In everyday life, it is perhaps easy to forget the to join a carpooling service with eco cars (as defined by the environmental impact of such services. The concept also government), which helps make business travel greener. includes green moving services, which means that we help Green Move – When Green Lease – All of Green Electricity – Green Services – Green Carpool – This vacating an office, Vasakronan’s tenants For Vasakronan’s tenVasakronan coordiinvolves sharing cars many things often get who lease premises ants who have their nates such services with other tenants. left behind. However, may enter into a Green own electricity subas cleaning, fruit, Costs are only something that one Lease. This provides scription, it is possible printer ink supply and charged for reserved person considers as the foundation for a to enter into an agreeplant care in order to time and they include waste, might be conjoint effort to lower ment for green eleclower the environmenfuel, service, tax and sidered as useful to energy consumption tricity with either a tal impact from transinsurance. someone else. With for heating, cooling variable, fixed or comports. In addition, a Green Move, we help and electricity, as well bined variable/fixed selection of other eco you with recycling, as more waste recyprice. Green electricproducts is offered, which might even gencling and renovating in ity is derived from including office erate an income from a way that uses water, wind and/or biomaterial with the Noritems that we are able resources more conpower and it is offered dic ecolabel, organic to sell. Other items servatively. You can at competitive prices. fruit and eco-labeled are sorted on site and read more about Green detergent. recycled. Leases on page 18. Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 27 Vasakronan practices what it preaches The effort to eco-label all services performed at Vasakroact with sustainability in mind. We are aiming to achieve nan’s own office has resulted in a Coor’s silver medal for the gold standard for our new head office, Klara Zenit,” the company’s office on Sveavägen. In fact, Vasakronan says Åsa Almquist, Head of Customer Services. She is in was just two points away from gold. Coor, which is also charge of Vasakronan’s effort to eco-label the services one of our Green Office partners, performed the evaluaused by its own office. A joint effort with Coor is now tion as part of its Coor Green Services concept. Following underway to document areas that can be improved. a comprehensive review, Coor Service Management may “It is difficult, but certainly not impossible to reach the award a company with either a gold or silver standard gold standard. In 2012, we will strive to obtain a gold environmental label. award for as many of Vasakronan’s offices as possible,” “The award is a nice fit with our own environmental goal says Åsa Almquist. of working together with our customers and suppliers to About Coor Green Services Coor evaluates service functions on a variety of environmental criteria. Here are some examples of such services and how they The reception function is For mail, packages and The evaluation also looks For plant care, only bio­ can be made more environevaluated on such things goods delivery services, at the extent to which logical fertilizers and pesmentally friendly. as whether it offers ecoevaluation is based on office supplies and cleanticides may be used and taxis, bicycle rental and if such things as whether ing products are ecoplants that are replaced visitor badges are reused. deliveries are coordinated labeled. must be recycled. and if drivers have been trained in eco-driving. 28 Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 There is more value than one might expect in an old desk. 17 tons of metal from desk legs, screws and other metal parts can be recycled and used to make 1,352 bicycles. Each year, around 700 company moves take place at Vasakronan’s properties. This generates quite a bit of office waste – including everything from furniture and servers to paperclips and curtains. With Green Move, it is possible to reduce both moving transports and the quantity of waste. 55 tons of old desktops, bookshelves and other combustible Green Carpool can lower a waste can generate heating for company’s travel costs by as 10 average-sized homes for an much as 50 %. entire year. Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report 2011 29 Mailing address: Box 30074, 104 25 Stockholm Street address: Sveavägen 167 Tel: +46 (0)8-566 20 500, Fax +46 (0)8-566 20 501 www.vasakronan.se CIN: 556061-4603 Results Sustainability (GRI) reporting of Vasakronan’s financial environmental and social responsibilities Governance Governance for sustainable growth Vasakronan’s mandate from natural part of the everyday operaBased on the overall policies and units. Goals are continually moniits owners is to generate a tions and governance of the comguidelines, processes and routines tored to ensure that the overall aim high, risk-balanced, longpany. Accordingly, the Board of have also been developed to ensure is achieved. Vasakronan’s sustainterm return from the SwedDirectors and CEO are ultimately that daily operations are conducted ability goals are described in more ish property portfolio. Simulresponsible for sustainability efforts. in an appropriate manner. Everyday detail in each section of the sustaintaneously, the business Vasakronan has elected to follow sustainability tasks throughout the ability report must be run ethically and the UN Global Compact as the platentire organization are supported with consideration for the form for its sustainability work. The and governed by central units for Awards and prizes in 2011 environment, without com10 principles of the Global Compact such functions as the environment Awards and prizes are proof that suspromising the overall objecrevolve around human rights, labor and HR. tainability work is moving in the right tive of a high return. issues, the environment and antidirection. Here are some of the corruption. Daily operations are then Action plans to address awards and prizes that Vaskronan Sustainability initiatives are strategigoverned by policies and guidelines risk exposure received in 2011. cally important to achieve the overall on purchasing, communication, Each year, Vasakronan identifies the • The Riga property, located in Värta­ return target. This is reflected in our diversity, equality, the environment significant risks that the business is hamnen/Norra Djurgårdsstaden vision of creating ”good cities, where and other areas. Vasakronan’s valexposed to and once that is done, received the Green Building Award people are happy and companies can ues provide the foundation for how the risks are then ranked according 2011. develop.” Vasakronan’s aim is to be we work and interact with one to probability and impact. Certain • The daycare center, Paletten, Sweden’s leading property company another. Policies, routines and trainrisks that have been identified are located at Telefonplan received the and a good role model for Swedish ing all contribute towards discouraglinked to sustainability issues that Stockholm Chamber of Comindustry. This is achieved by: ing all forms of corruption and all of could affect the business and brand. merce’s urban environment award. • Having a higher return than the Vasakronan’s employees and suppliBased on the risk analysis, action • In Universum’s survey of Swedish industry average. ers are expected to comply with plans are then drawn up to change students and young professionals, • Being the first choice for tenants existing laws on competition and the risk exposure when doing so is FöretagsBarometern, Vasakronan looking to lease facilities. cartels. Violations will not be deemed necessary. Action plans was rated as the most attractive • Being perceived as the most attracaccepted and may result in discispecify certain activities and the employer in 2011. tive employer in the industry. plinary action, dismissal or prosecuindividuals responsible for imple• Carolina Wadsten, Business Area • Taking responsibility in society and tion. In 2012, we will clarify this even mentation and regular follow-up Manager at the Gothenburg office striving for long-term, sustainable more by introducing a Code of Conduring the year. received the Guldhuset award for growth. duct. It is a company-wide frameHow Vasakronan works with risks is her excellent leadership skills. work with guidelines on ethical and described in more detail in the 2011 • Anna Nyberg, Business Area ManResponsibility for and gov­ professional behavior for all Vasa­ Annual Report on pages 54–55. ager at the Stockholm office ernance of ongoing sustain­ kronan employees and Board memreceived the 2011 award for ability initiatives bers. The policies have been pubGoals ”Leader of the Future” in the propVasakrona’s overall governance lished on the intranet, where they In conjunction with annual business erty sector. structure is described on pages can be read by all employees. There planning, goals are established that • Vasakronan’s customer magazine 32–35 of the 2011 Annual Report. is also regular follow-up to ensure also consider sustainability aspects ”En bättre värd” won the award This also includes sustainability compliance with the policies by all of operations, both centrally and called ”Silverbladet”. issues, which are an integral and parts of the organization. locally within the various business Global Compact principles Governance of Vasakronan’s sustainability efforts Global Compact is a UN initiative aimed at getting companies to collaborate on External regulations Internal regulations sustainability issues in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environ• Inventories, examples of • Policies, such as ment and anti-corruption. legislation – Environment – Swedish Environmental Act – Purchasing – Swedish Work Environment – Diversity and equality • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Act – Gifts and entertainment proclaimed human rights and – Swedish Companies Act – Work environment • Make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Environmental certifications • Environmental management • Freedom of association the right to collective bargaining. – ISO14001 systems • Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. – LEED • Process descriptions • Abolition of child labor. – BREEAM • Other applicable instructions • Elimination of discrimination. – Green Building • Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. – Miljöbyggnad • Promote greater environmental responsibility. •Other applicable laws • Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. and regulations • Work against corruption in all forms. 32 Vasakronan Sustainability report 2011 Governance STAKEHOLDER DIALOG AND IMPORTANT AREAS Vasakronan’s operations affect ated for ensuring that the company Vasakronan’s financial the amount of waste generated from a number of stakeholders can deliver a high return while taking responsibility operations and management, both within and outside the responsibility in society and striving When the business generates value, reduce the amount of unsorted company. It is necessary to for long-term sustainable growth. greater benefits can be distributed waste and streamline the managemaintain a regular dialog with to stakeholders. A stable financial ment of residual products. stakeholders to ensure that Important sustainability position is also important because it sustainability efforts focus on areas enables the company to take a longEnvironment in buildings the most important issues. In addition to our dialogs with staketerm approach. The goal is to make a positive contriholders, Vasakronan also monitors bution towards good indoor environBased on Vasakronan’s operations, overall trends in the area of sustainVasakronan’s environ­ ments. Vasakronan also strives to the following primary stakeholders ability. A media analysis and commental responsibility make it easier for tenants to make have been identified. parison with the rest of the property Energy consumption and climate wise, environmentally conscientious • Tenants sector have also been made in order impact decisions. • Owner to identify any other important issues Energy consumption is the largest • Employees having to do with sustainability. single item impacting the environVasakronan’s social • Lenders The information that was colment. Decreasing energy consumpresponsibility • Suppliers lected, along with results from the tion results in a lower climate Employees • Influential members of society annual risk evaluation, confirm that impact, as well as lower costs. Committed, knowledgeable employIdentifying and analyzing the expecthe areas Vasakronan has identified ees are key to achieving success. tations these stakeholders have of are the most important ones to focus Choice of materials and limited Strong values based on ethics and a Vasakronan is a prerequisite for on for sustainabilty initiatives. use of chemicals holistic approach and humanistic being able to achieve the goal of Besides expectations of a high Materials used in new construction, philosophy must therefore permeate delivering a long-term high return return and stable financial position, renovations, tenant modifications and the organization. while simultaneously achieving the sustainability efforts should primarmaintenance must be eco-friendly aim of ”taking responsibility in sociily focus on the environment, which and resources must be used as conResponsibility in society ety and striving for long-term susis logical given the impact that propservatively as possible in order to creVasakronan has both an obligation tainable growth.” This occurs erties have on the environment. The ate healthy buildings and good indoor and ability to play an active role in the through various forms of ongoing responsibilities that Vasakronan and environments. It is also important to sustainable development of society. It dialog with each stakeholder group its employees have in society are work actively with recycling to procan do so by actively participating in in order to obtain necessary inforother important areas. mote an efficient use of resources. urban development projects, through mation and, when necessary, adapt The focus of efforts on sustainabilvarious types of cooperation on susoperations to their expectations. ity issues can thus be categorized in Residual products and waste tainability issues and by running the This is how the conditions are crethe following areas: Continual efforts are made to reduce business in a highly ethical way. Vasakronan’s stakeholders Stakeholder Dialog Expectations Sustainability perspective Tenants Focus meetings with tenants, customer satisA long-term property manager that offers approFinancial stability, high environmental faction surveys priate and affordable premises with good service and ethical standards. and work environments and that minimizes adverse environmental impact. Owner Board meetings, of which one per year is a Long-term stable returns while taking responsiProfitability, high environmental and strategy meeting. Meetings with owner reprebility in society and striving for long-term sustainethical standards. sentatives for special discussions on corpoable growth. rate governance. Lenders Separate meetings with each bank. Financial Good financial management, clear and transparProfitability, financial stability, high reports and capital market presentations. ent reporting. environmental and ethical standards. Employees Performance appraisals, employee surveys. A stable, long-term employer, good employment Skill development, work environment, conditions and development opportunities, good leadership, high environmental and work environment and social responsibility. ethical standards. Suppliers In the procurement of framework agreeA dependable client that makes expectations Financial stability, high environmental ments, ordering and project meetings. clear and is highly competent and ethical. and ethical standards. Society Stakeholder and industry organizations, as Contributes to the sustainable development of Development of society, high environwell as other forums. society, minimizes adverse environmental effects. mental and ethical standards. Vasakronan Sustainability report 2011 33 Financial responsibility Vasakronan’s financial responsibility Maintaining a perspective of of other stakeholders and be able to that the company maintains a stable amounted to 10.6 %. The average financial sustainability when take a long-term approach. financial position over time. for the SFI/IPD Swedish Property running the business results The business generates value Index, not including Vasakronan, primarily through rental revenue. Key financial figures was 10.2 %. Vasakronan’s total yield in competitive advantages However, changes in the value of The financial return target is to over the last ten years has been that benefit Vasakronan’s property should also make a positive achieve a total yield of at least 9 % 7.8 % per year. The corresponding stakeholders in various ways. contribution over time. When the per year. In addition, the total annual figure for the SFI/IPD Swedish Propbusiness generates value, greater yield should be at least 0.5 percenterty Index is 6.9 %. Vasakronan’s mandate from its ownbenefits can be distributed to stakeage points higher than the SFI/IPD Vasakronan has a strong financial ers is to generate a high, risk-balholders. Each year, once distribuSweden Annual Property Index, not position. At year-end 2011, its anced, long-term return from the tions have been made to other including Vasakronan. Total yield is equity/assets ratio was 34 % and property portfolio. In order to achieve stakeholders, the owners look at the comprised of both the yield and LTV was 53 %. More detailed inforthe return target, it is necessary to remaining surplus and decide how change in value of properties. mation about Vasakronan’s financial run the business with sustainability much should be distributed and Annual results are monitored and position, including comments on the in mind. It is also important to how much should be retained by the analyzed. The average result over results for 2011 is available in the achieve a high total yield and maincompany. Such decisions take into rolling ten-year periods is also evalufinancial statements, on pages tain a stable financial position so that account estimated future earnings ated. For 2011, total yield, including 39–75 of the 2011 Annual Report. it is possible to meet the expectations and transactions in order to ensure projects and transactions, Total yield SFI/IPD Swedish Property Index Net operating income Equity/assets ratio % MSEK % % 10 5,000 90 40 8 3,750 80 30 6 2,500 70 20 4 2 1,250 60 10 0 3 year 5 year 10 year 0 50 0 ■ Vasakronan 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 ■ SFI/IPD Swedish Property Index, Pro Forma Pro Forma not including Vasakronan Source: SFI/IPD Swedish Property Index Net operating income Surplus ratio Equity/assets ratio Vasakronan’s total yield over the last ten Net operating income increased by The equity/assets ratio is stable and at years has been 7.8 % per year, which 13 % in 2011 and the surplus ratio year-end 2011 it was 34 %. was higher than the industry average was 70 %. of 6.9 % Creation of economic value Distribution of economic value 2011 2010 2011 2010 ■ Revenue, 67 % ■ Revenue, 53 % ■ Employees, 4 % ■ Owners, 12 % ■ Employees, 3 % ■ Owners, 38 % ■ Changes in value, 33 % ■ Changes in value, 42 % ■ Lenders, 18 % ■ Current and ■ Lenders, 12 % ■ Current and ■ Other revenue, 5 % ■ Society, 7 % deferred tax, 15 % ■ Society, 5 % deferred tax, 13 % ■ Suppliers, 17 % ■ Retained by ■ Retained by the ■ Suppliers, 10 % the company, 27 % company, 19 % Vasakronan’s revenue is primarily comprised of rental revenue. Other revenue is the The distribution of economic value to Vasakronan’s employees is primarily through profit from discontinued operations. Value changes are from property, derivatives and salaries and social security contributions. Distribution to society is primarily via property goodwill. tax and site leasehold fees. Value is distributed to the owners as dividends and Group contributions before tax. 34 Vasakronan Sustainability report 2011 Environmental responsibility Vasakronan’s environmental responsibility Goals Goals 2011 Goals 2012 Long-term goals Overall Environmental certification of buildings corresponding to Environmental certification of Vasakronan is the industry leader environmental 20 % of the total leasable area of the portfolio. buildings corresponding to 30 % of for environmental and sustaingoals Actual: Buildings corresponding to 10 % of the total leasthe total leasable area of the portability initiatives. able area had obtained environmental certification. The folio. goal was thus not achieved. To have 400 Green Leases in place by the end of 2011. To have 250 new Green Leases in Actual: At the end of 2011, Vasakronan had 558 Green place by the end of 2012. Leases in place. Thus, the goal was achieved. Environmental initiatives Based on the guidelines established ENVIRONMENTAL OVERALL ENVIRON­ must be based on the by Vasakronan’s management team, PRIORITY AREAS MENTAL GOALS knowledge that a property environmental initiatives are led by a As the leading property owner in Vasakronan’s goal over the long term special Environment unit. Planning, Sweden, Vasakronan has a major is to remain the industry leader for impacts the environment execution and monitoring are based responsibility to contribute to susenvironmental and sustainability iniduring its entire lifecycle, on ISO 14001 Environmental Mantainable development and less envitiatives. Specifically, the goal for 2011 i.e. from design, project agement System, which covers ronmental impact. The goal is for was environmental certification of planning and construction goals, routines and processes. ProVasakronan to be the industry leader buildings corresponding to 20 % of to management, renovation cesses have been designed so that for environmental and sustainability the total leasable area of the portfolio and demolition. All aspects environmental aspects will be dealt initiatives. Environmental initiatives and to have 400 Green Leases in of operations must take with during all stages of a building’s must focus on the areas where the place by year end. The latter goal was environmental concerns into lifecycle. Each year, an audit is concompany has the greatest opportuachieved and there were 558 Green account. Accordingly, this is ducted to ensure compliance with nity to influence and where it can Leases in place at the end of 2011. an integral part of how the environmental management syshave the greatest impact. In the Environmental certification of buildprocesses are designed and tem. This has been integrated into environmental field, the following priings is underway, but this has taken the company’s overall quality system ority areas have been identified: more time than expected. Accordemployee behavior. and coordinated with business planEnergy consumption and climate ingly, fewer properties than originally ning. The most recent audit was impact anticipated were certified in 2011. conducted in December 2011, Choice of materials and limited use However, many of Vasakronan’s propwhich is also when the company’s of chemicals erties already meet the requirements ISO 14001 certification was Residual products and waste and the work to get them certified will renewed. Indoor environments continue. The overall environmental goals for 2012 are to have a total of 250 new Green Leases and for 30 % of buildings to have environmental certification. Vasakronan Sustainability report 2011 35 Environmental responsibility ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND CLIMATE IMPACT Goals Goals 2011 Goals 2012 Long-term goals Energy consumption Improvement in the energy performance of Improvement in the energy performance Total energy consumption that is and climate impact the property portfolio by 6 % compared to of the property portfolio by 6 % com50 % lower than the industry 2010. pared to 2011. In addition, energy conaverage. Actual: The energy performance of the sumption should be property portfolio improved by 7 %. – 50 % lower than the Swedish BBR new Thus, the goal was achieved. construction requirements – reduced by 50 % after renovation work has been completed. The energy consumption of Vasakro40 % below the industry average. buildings in order to identify where reduce emissions from travel. Vasa­ nan’s properties and the operations Short-term energy consumption the levels are high. Based on that kronan primarily uses ECVs for travel that are run there is primarily from targets are established to ensure information, a list is drawn up to priassociated with operations. Furtherheating, cooling and electricity. that the long-term goal is achieved. oritize the buildings where the need more, the company’s travel policy Vasakronan constantly strives to The goal for 2011 is to improve the for action is most acute. states that employees should travel use energy as efficiently as possible energy performance of the entire by train for business travel in Sweden. and is able to do so thanks to property portfolio by 6 % compared A climate neutral company adapted technical solutions and its to 2010. The actual improvement for the last 5 years Next step effective, competent organization. was 7 %, which was higher than the Vasakronan has had climate neutral Streamlining energy consumption There is also close collaboration target. The main reason behind this operations since 2007. This has been even more is a highly prioritized between Vasakronan and its tenants success is that efforts to fine-tune achieved by continually reducing issue. Besides the enormous beneto engage in joint efforts, such as existing installations and prior energy consumption and purchasing fits to the environment, Vasakronan entering into a Green Lease and lowenergy investments are now starting a higher proportion of green electricand its tenants can significantly ering energy consumption. to pay off. ity and carbon neutral district heating reduce their costs, which is an For all new construction, the goal and cooling. The components of purimportant incentive to achieving Overall goals and actual is for energy performance to be chased electricity are as follows: good results going forward. This will results 50 % lower than the Swedish BBR 75 % hydroelectric, 15 % wind be possible via continued streamlinVasakronan’s long-term goal is for the requirements. For renovations, the power and 10 % biofuel. Since 2006, ing of existing installations, additional energy consumption (from heating, goal is for energy consumption to be Vasakronan has succeeded in reducenergy investments, and creating cooling, electricity and the tenant’s 50 % lower after the work has been ing its carbon emissions by more buildings which, to a greater extent, own operations) per square meter of completed. The forecasts for ongothan 90 %. The level in 2011 was contribute to their own energy supits property portfolio to be 50 % ing projects that were started after approximately 1,600 tons. The comply. The goal for 2012 is to improve lower than the industry average. At these requirements were estabpany compensates for the carbon the energy performance of the proppresent, it is not possible to fully lished show that it should be possiemissions it hasn’t been able to elimierty portfolio by an additional 6 %. measure the energy consumption of ble to meet those targets for both nate from operations by purchasing tenants. However, based on Statistics new construction and renovation units through the Clean Development Sweden’s energy statistics on the projects. Mechanism. heat consumption of Swedish buildThere is an ongoing effort to docuThe greatest opportunity to further ings, Vasakronan is approximately ment the energy consumption of lower direct carbon emissions is to Energy consumption for heating Energy consumption for cooling Energy consumption for electricity In 2011, there was a decrease in GWh kWh/m² GWh kWh/m² GWh kWh/m² the energy consumption for heating, 300 120 300 120 300 120 cooling and electricity per square meter. This success was due to efforts 250 100 250 100 250 100 to fine-tune existing installations and prior energy investments that are now 200 80 200 80 200 80 starting to pay off. In 2011, total energy consumption declined by 7 % 150 60 150 60 150 60 compared to 2010. 100 40 100 40 100 40 50 20 50 20 50 20 0 0 0 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 GWh total kWh/m² GWh total kWh/m² GWh total kWh/m² 36 Vasakronan Sustainability report 2011 Environmental responsibility Sources of carbon emissions, Use of ozone-depleting Carbon emissions share of total emissions in 2011 substances in 2011 Water consumption Tons Kg/m2 Kg Thousand m3 Liters/m² 9,000 6 4,000 1,500 750 7,500 5 3,200 1,200 600 6,000 4 2,400 900 450 4,500 3 1,600 600 300 3,000 2 1,500 1 ■ Electricity, 50 % ■ Travel, 6 % 800 300 150 ■ District cooling, 20 % ■ Cars used in 0 ■ Commuter operations, 2 % 0 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 travel, 12 % ■ Oil, 1 % 2008 2009 2010 2011 Tons Kg/m2 ■ District heating, 9 % Stockholm Gothenburg Thousand m3 total Liters/m² Öresund Uppsala 2010 The decline in carbon emissions was priOf the carbon emissions that the organizaThe use of ozone-depleting substances The reduction in water consumption per marily due to lower energy consumption. tion has not been able to eliminate, half has slightly increased. The reason for the square meter occurred because most of are due to ordinary (not green) electricity increase in Uppsala was due to having the housing portfolio, which had higher subscriptions that have temporarily been more refrigeration equipment in use. consumption per square meter, was sold taken over. in 2010. Three-part strategy for achieving the energy goals Reduction – Vasakronan will reduce the Organization– Supplied energy will be organized Selection – We can reduce green house gas amount of supplied energy through conservasuch that source and use are appropriately emissions by altering the mix of sourced tion and using energy efficiently. matched. For heating purposes, the primarily energy, i.e. using less energy from fossil fuels sources of energy used are district heating, self and more energy from renewable energy heating biofuel, hot water from solar collectors sources for daily operations, tenant modificaand geothermal heating. Electricity use is limited tions, new construction and renovations. to lighting and the operation of appliances, installations and office equipment. Vasakronan Sustainability report 2011 37 Environmental responsibility RESIDUAL PRODUCTS AND WASTE Goals Goals 2011 Goals 2012 Long-term goals Residual products Implement routines to document, measure and For 2012, no specific goals have Reduction of the total amount of and waste reduce the waste generated by properties. been established for this area. waste and also the amount of Actual: Routines for documenting and measuring However, activities will be impleunsorted waste. have been developed. Various measures will get mented aimed at achieving the underway to reduce the waste generated by proplong-term goal. erties during 2012. Accordingly, the goal for 2011 is considered as not being met. Regardless of the source, it is necesments. Contractors involved in the sary to take an environmental construction process are required to Waste from tenants in 2011 Own hazardous waste in 2011 approach to the management of have a documented environment residual products and all hazardous and quality policy. Furthermore, for Tons Kg 20,000 100,000 waste must be dealt with in accorall new construction and renovation dance with existing regulations. projects, all handling of residuals 80,000 16,000 and waste must be in accordance Overall goals and actual with existing regulations. Tenants are 12,000 60,000 results important partners when it comes to Vasakronan’s overall goal is to sorting waste, so making this task 8,000 40,000 reduce the total amount of waste, easier for them is a high priority. the amount of unsorted waste and Vasakronan also strives to help its 4,000 20,000 to also have more efficient managetenants decrease the amount of 0 0 ment of residual products. Another waste that they generate and one Stockholm Öresund Offices Retail Restaurants aim is to recycle and reuse as much way of doing this is through Green Gothenburg Uppsala 2010 waste as possible. Leases. 2010 During the year, routines were The total amount of waste increased priAs of 2011, electronics are included, developed to document and meaNext step marily because more properties were which is the main reason for the increase leased to restaurants, which generate more in hazardous waste. The reported figures sure the waste generated by properMore and more, waste is being waste than offices and retail businesses. do not include hazardous waste that tenties. Based on that, it will be possible regarded as a resource that can be ants deal with themselves. to implement measures aimed at used in various types of recycling sysreducing the total amount of waste. tems. Vasakronan both can and will and refine the methods for obtaining important component of waste manOne obvious starting point for make demands and contribute to this better control over waste amounts agement is continuing to develop waste management is compliance positive trend. Vasakronan and supand thereby identify more opportunilogistics and infrastructures that facilwith laws, rules and industry agreepliers can work together to develop ties for recycling. Going forward, one itate more efficient use of resources. 38 Vasakronan Sustainability report 2011 Environmental responsibility CHOICE OF MATERIALS AND LIMITED USE OF CHEMICALS Goals Goals 2011 Goals 2012 Long-term goals Choice of materials Develop a strategy for the material flow at properFor 2012, no specific goals have Only eco-friendly materials and and limited use of ties aimed at lowering Vasakronan’s environmenbeen established for this area. building products may be used by chemicals tal impact even further. However, activities will be impleVasakronan. Whenever possible, Actual: A strategy has been developed that will be mented aimed at achieving the materials should be reused. adopted and implemented in 2012. The goal is long-term goal. thus considered as having been met. Materials used for new construction, materials and building products may ing products. It contains an environdeveloped guidelines, many of renovation, tenant modifications and be used by Vasakronan and our tenmental assessment of more than which are much more stringent than maintenance greatly impact the enviants. This requirement is also speciapproximately 8,000 products. the regulatory requirements. Vasa­ ronmental impact of a property. Vasa­ fied in most lease agreements. All contractors used by Vasakrokronan’s buildings are well docukronan’s goal is to use eco-friendly A materials strategy has been nan for new construction and renomented. Chemicals and pollutants materials and building products during developed that will be adopted and vation work must have a docuare dealt with in accordance with all phases of a property’s lifecycle. It implemented in 2012. During the mented environment and quality established plans. also strives to use resources as conyear, analyses have also been made policy. Efforts are still underway to servatively as possible. of the quantity of material used in create better routines for checking Next step different types of projects. Different that there is compliance with these Efforts to obtain control over the flow Overall goals and actual ways of lowering the amount of new requirements. In 2011, more ranof materials will continue. Once that is results material are being considered, such dom sampling and on-site monitordone, the aim is to then reduce the The overall goal is to always use buildas reusing building material to a ing was carried out. total amount of resources used, ing material that does not contain any greater extent. Swedish legislation on the manwhich can be accomplished by using hazardous substances. The materials The construction and property agement of dangerous chemical less material and also by recycling used should also have a low environsector’s database should be used substances is quite comprehensive and reusing material to a greater mental impact. Only eco-friendly when selecting materials and buildIn addition, the property sector has extent. ENVIRONMENT IN BUILDINGS Goals Goals 2011 Goals 2012 Long-term goals Environment in The Green Office concept that is offered to tenants should be a Tenants who rent retail Long-term management buildings natural choice for both existing and new tenants. space will be offered enviof properties where peoActual: The Green Office concept was launched at the start of ronmentally friendly services ple are happy and compa2011. There is certainly an interest in the services, but our assessas part of the Green Retail nies can develop. ment is that this still isn’t a natural choice for existing or new tenconcept. ants, which is why the goal is considered as not having being met. An important component of sustaintenants to become even better at cartotal amount of electricity, heating shows how Swedish tenants perability work is for Vasakronan’s propering for the environment and reducing and cooling consumption at their ceive their landlords. In the 2011 ties to create and supply a good indoor our climate impact. Based on the idea leased facilities. They are also survey, Vasakronan received a score environment. The goal is to offer facilithat ”if it can be done green, it should required to sort waste and when on the environment of 67 compared ties that are designed and managed as be done green,” a number of services renovating, they must follow the to the industry average of 62. Vasa­ environmentally-friendly as possible have been offered as part of the requirements that Vasakronan has kronan thus received one of the and in a way that meets the changing Green Office concept that Vasakroon the types of building materials highest scores in the survey, even needs of tenants over time. In order to nan started offering tenants at the that may be used. Tenants with a though it is 2 percentage points make it as easy as possible for tenants start of 2011. Tenants have shown Green Lease are also required to lower that the score it received in to make smart environmental decigreat interest in these services. Howonly purchase green electricity in 2010. sions, we also offer a variety of serever, many existing tenants already accordance with the Swedish Socivices that help make offices ”greener”. have agreements in place with other ety for Nature Conservation’s ecolaNext step suppliers and it will take some time bel, ”Good Environmental Choice”. One important component of longOverall goals and actual before they can enter into new agreeFastighetsbarometern, which is term management is continuous results ments. We hope that the scope of the property industry’s satisfied cuscooperation between property owner In order to be able to achieve the goal Vasakronan’s green services will contomer index, is one way of measurand tenant to reduce the overall enviof good indoor environments there tinue to increase. ing the success of our joint environronmental impact, while ensuring that must be compliance with legislation in Tenants who enter into a Green mental initiatives with tenants. This tenants’ employees are happy and this area. We work together with our Lease also commit to reducing the survey is conducted each year and it companies can develop. Vasakronan Sustainability report 2011 39 Social responsibility Vasakronan’s social responsibilities Goals Goals 2011 Goals 2012 Long-term goals Employees Through active, committed efforts maintain an Through active, committed efforts To be the most attractive employer employee satisfaction index (ESI) of at least 92. maintain an ESI of at least 97. of all Swedish property companies. Actual: In the most recent employee survey, the ESI was 97. Accordingly, the goal was achieved. Vasakronan will always act Overall goal Performance appraisals out in the areas and departments in a way that is consistent Vasakronan’s overall goal is to be the and skill development where opportunities to improve had with being a long-term, relimost attractive employer of all SwedAll employees participate in perforbeen identified. ish property companies. In order to mance appraisals each year. PerforA profit-sharing program has able partner, employer and achieve that goal, it is necessary to mance appraisals are designed such been in place for many years that is stakeholder in society. work continually with skill developthat the company’s business objecopen to all employees except the ment, career planning and other tives are compared to employee skill senior management team. The aim Employees who are involved, motiways of creating participation among development needs. The aim is to is to create even more motivation vated, committed and happy is not employees. These efforts are carried become even better at identifying the and commitment within the organionly a key factor for running a sucout by Vasakronan’s HR department skill development needs of employzation. It is based on target areas cessful property business, but also according to guidelines that have ees, while making sure that the comthat have basically been derived our responsibility as employer. been established by the company pany has the right expertise to from financial results and satisfied The work to further develop the management team. To check the achieve its objectives. The annual customer scores. The maximum organization and employees is still progress on how well the company is employee survey was carried out in possible payout per year is two underway and the focus is on both doing in terms of achieving this goal, 2011 using the same format as the months’ salary. leadership and collaboration. In Vasakronan once again participated one introduced in 2010. In the most The education level of employees 2011, the number of employees in FöretagsBarometern, which is recent survey, the employee satisfacis regularly reviewed and current declined due to additional efforts to Universum’s survey of Swedish stution index (ESI) was 97 on a scale of statistics show that 50 (57) % of streamline the organization. At yeardents and young professionals. In 100 (benchmark is 82). The goal was Vasakronan’s employees have a end, Vasakronan had 336 (364) 2011, Vasakronan was again rated as to achieve an ESI of at least 92. Since college or university degree. employees. Employee turnover was the most attractive employer in the 2010, significant overall improveDuring the year, 24 (24) internal 11 %, which was a slight increase property sector. ments have been made. Furthertraining courses were offered on varcompared to last year. more, specific activities were carried ious topics, which corresponds to Employees 2011 Salaried Employment under Total Sick leave 2011 employees a collective Sick leave by age and gender (%) Women Men Total agreement age 29 years or younger 0.9 1.2 1.1 Stockholm 168 52 220 age 30 to 49 years 1.4 2.0 1.8 Gothenburg 30 11 41 age 50 years or older 2.2 3.0 2.8 Öresund 26 9 35 Total 2.0 Uppsala 29 11 40 Total 253 83 336 Sick leave by length of absence (%) 60 days or less 66.5 % of total number of employees 60 days or more 33.5 –29 years 8% 30–49 years 63 % 50–59 years 22 % Training hours (average) 2011 60 years and 7% above Number of training hours per employee 26 Average age, years 44.0 Number of training hours for employees with 41 collective agreement Employee turnover 11.1% 11,1 % Number of training hours for salaried employees 21 Of which Women 9.0 % Men 12.2 % 40 Vasakronan Sustainability report 2011 Social responsibility 64 (62) training sessions. In 2011, centage points lower compared to as well as equal pay for equal work. Next step each employee had participated in 2010. The reduction was primarily in The starting point is to treat all Efforts will continue to develop an average of 26 hours of training on short-term sick leave. The long-term employees and job applicants Vasakronan’s organization, with a 4 different occasions, which is goal is for sick leave to be below 3 %. equally. Employees are encouraged particular focus on recruiting and approximately the same as last year. No occupational injuries were to immediately report any cases of succession planning. Another task reported in 2011 or 2010. discrimination to: their closest superinvolves clarifying Vasakronan’s valEmployee health visor, the HR department or their ues and what they mean in practice. Employee health and well-being is Diversity and equality union representative. Vasakronan’s One component of that will be develregularly monitored and Vasakronan Vasakronan’s policy that governs General Counsel also serves as the oping a Code of Conduct during invests substantially in preventing diversity and equality efforts forbids compliance officer, i.e. the person 2012. For 2012, the goal for the occupational injuries, as well as rehadiscrimination, hostility towards forthat employees should go to if they employee survey is to once again bilitation for employees on long-term eigners and harassment. Women need to report suspected inappropriachieve an ESI of at least 97. sick leave. The level of sick leave in and men are given equal opportuniate behavior or crimes. No cases of 2011 was 2.0 %, which is 0.2 perties for development and promotion, discrimination were reported in 2011. RESPONSIBILITY IN SOCIETY Goals Goals 2011 Goals 2012 Long-term goals Responsibility Continue to be active and involved in networks Develop guidelines for increasHelp in creating physical environin society and associations in order to bring about progress ing responsibility in society ments that promote growth and proson sustainability issues. and enter into various types of perity in society and for citizens. Actual: Vasakronan played an active role and cooperation to make that helped bring about progress on sustainability happen. issues. The goal is thus considered as having been met. Vasakronan’s operations affect Overall goals and actual that we can contribute to the areas sustainability issues, primarily havpeople and the surrounding area in results were Vasakronan is active. ing to do with the environment. many ways. We thus have both an As one of the largest property comVasakronan works against all obligation and ability to play an active panies in Stockholm, Gothenburg, forms of corruption and violations of Next step role in the sustainable development Uppsala, Malmö and Lund, Vasa­ human rights in society. The three Vasakronan aims to take on greater of society. Social responsibility is kronan is helping to develop entire fundamental values that provide the social responsibility. Accordingly, based on the 10 principles of the UN city districts in these places. This is basis for how employees should act efforts are underway to come up Global Compact, which is aimed at being done in cooperation with sevare well ingrained in the organizawith an overall strategy and develop getting companies to collaborate on eral other stakeholders, such as the tion. They are also reflected in interguidelines so that the company will sustainability issues in the areas of local authorities, public transport nal policies and guidelines. Exambe even more effective going forward human rights, labor standards, the providers, architects and urban planples are the gift/entertainment in helping bring about a sustainable environment and anti-corruption. ners. In both existing areas and policy, and the diversity/equality development of society. In 2012, The responsibility for living up to future construction projects, the aim policy. In addition, Vasakronan Vasakronan may also become those principles should be reflected is to create environments that are participates in several networks and involved in various types of cooperain both internal policies and actions. sustainable for as far into the future industry sponsored projects and tion where its involvement matters as possible. Commitment, like sponassociations aimed at actively supand can make a difference. soring local initiatives, is another way porting and influencing progress on Vasakronan Sustainability report 2011 41 Sustainability About Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report This report is the third report submitrespects, with the ambition of basis. Compared with the 2010 susnot cover activities that are conted by Vasakronan in accordance satisfying B-level requirements. The tainability report, no significant trolled by individual tenants or supwith the guidelines from the internareport is partially integrated with changes have been made as pliers. tional organization, Global Reporting Vasakronan’s Annual Report. A sepregards the boundary, scope or Vasakronan has chosen not to seek Initiative (GRI). These guidelines can arate overview in this document measurement methods. Neither has external assurance for the report. be followed at three levels, from the shows where the various indicators there been any change in the inforThe main reason for this is that enviC level (lowest) to the A level (highcan be found in the report. mation provided in last year’s report ronmental activities are audited est). Vasakronan’s report for 2011 The sustainability report is prebeyond that which is provided in the within the framework of ISO 14001 has been compiled, in all materials pared and published on an annual GRI index below. The report does certification. List of contents based on GRI guidelines Disclosure Description Location Comments Strategy and analysis 01.01 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization about Sidan 4–5 the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 01.02 Description of main impact, risks, and opportunities. Sidan 32 Organizational profile 02.01 Name of the organization. Cover 02.02 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Contents page; inside cover of the AR 02.03 Organizational structure, units, business areas, subsidiaries and joint Inside cover of AR, pages ventures. 32–33, Notes 23–25, pages 66–68 02.04 Location of the organization’s head office. AR Note 1, page 54 02.05 Number of countries where the organization has operations and the names Contents page of countries where important operations are conducted or that are particularly relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 02.06 Ownership structure and type of company. Contents page Vasakronan only has operations in Sweden. 02.07 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and Contents page, AR Vasakronan only has operations in Sweden. types of customers/beneficiaries). inside cover, pages 12–13 02.08 Size of the reporting organization, including number of employees, net Pages 11, 40 (number of sales, total funding and the quantity/volume of products and services. employees), page 34 (total revenue), AR page 28 (funding), 18–25 (quantities/volumes) 02.09 Significant changes during the reporting period in terms of size, structure or AR, pages 14–15 ownership. 02.10 Awards and prizes that were received during the reporting period. Page 32 Report profile 03.01 Reporting period. Cover, page 42 03.02 Date when the most recent report was published. The 2010 report was published in March 2011. 03.03 Reporting cycle. Published annually in conjunction with publication of the Annual Report. 03.04 Contact person for questions about the report and its content. Last page, back cover of the report. 03.05 Processes for definition of the content of the report. Pages 32–33, 42 03.06 Report boundary. Page 42 03.07 Limitations on scope or content. Page 42 03.08 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outAR, pages 55–58 sourced operations and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or organizations. 42 Vasakronan Sustainability report 2011 Sustainability Disclosure Description Location Comments 03.09 Measurement techniques and the basis of calculations, including assumpPages 42–44 tions and techniques underlying estimations that were used to compile the indicators and other information in the report. 03.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in Page 42 earlier reports and the reasons for such changes. 03.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary Page 33 setting or measurement methods applied in the report. 03.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Pages 42–44 03.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for Page 42 the report. Governance 04.01 Governance structure of the organization, including Board committees that Page 32, AR pages 32–34 are responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 04.02 Indicate whether the Chairman of the Board is also the CEO. AR, pages 36–37 04.03 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of AR, pages 34–35 Board members that are independent and/or non-executive members. 04.04 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations AR, pages 34–35 or Guidance to the Board or management team. 04.05 Linkage between compensation to Board members, senior executives and AR, pages 34–35 managers (including severance agreements) and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 04.06 Routines and processes used by the Board to ensure that there are no AR, pages 32–35 conflicts of interest. 04.07 Routines and processes for determining the qualifications and expertise AR, pages 32–35 that Board members should possess in order to govern the organization's strategy on economic, environmental and social issues. 04.08 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct and Pages 12, 32, AR page 31 principles relevant to economic, environmental and social performance along with the extent to which they have been implemented by the organization. 04.09 Routines and procedures use by the Board for overseeing the organization’s Page 32, AR pages 32–35, identification and management of economic, environmental, and social Note 2 page 54 performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 04.10 Processes for evaluating the performance of the Board of Directors, particuAR, pages 34–35 larly with regard to financial, environmental and social performance. 04.11 Explanation of whether the organization adheres to the Prudence Concept Page 32 Vasakronan is a member of the UN Global Compact. and how it does so. 04.12 Externally developed financial, environmental, and social charters, princiPages 4–5, 6–29, Reported under each section. ples, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 04.13 Memberships in organizations (such as industry associations) and/or Pages 6–29 Reported under each section. national/international advocacy organizations. 04.14 List the stakeholder groups that the organization interacts with. Page 33 04.15 Principles for identifying and selecting stakeholders. Page 33 04.16 How the organization engages in dialog with stakeholders. Page 33 04.17 Important areas and topics that have been raised through dialog with stakePage 33 holders and how the organization has addressed such areas and issues, including how they have affected the organization's reporting. Economic indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. Page 34 EC3 Scope of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. AR Note 10, page 61 Environmental indicators EN3 Direct energy consumption broken down by primary energy source. Page 36 The basis of calculation for the energy consumption of property from heating, cooling and electricity is meter readings on the actual consumption per property, which are then aggregated to company level in a media monitoring system. EN4 Indirect energy consumption broken down by primary source. Page 36 See above. CRE1 Average energy consumption. Page 36 New indicator EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Pages 36–37 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products Pages 36–37 and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Vasakronan Sustainability report 2011 43 Sustainability Disclosure Description Location Comments EN8 Total water consumption by source. Page 37 The basis of calculation for total water consumption by source are meter readings of the actual consumption at each property, which are then aggregated to company level in a media monitoring system. CRE2 Average water consumption. Page 37 New indicator. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, by weight. Page 37 The following original sources have been used when calculating carbon emissions: reported data from district heating companies, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Energy Agency and the Swedish Society for Nature Conservation. Peat has been regarded as a renewable fuel. CRE3 Average greenhouse gas emissions. Page 37 New indicator. EN18 Initiatives to reduce emissions and reductions achieved. Pages 17–19, 36–37, EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances, by weight. Page 37 The basis of calculation for the use of ozone-depleting substances consists of the information that Vasakronan reports to government authorities. EN22 Total quantity of waste by weight, type and the waste management method Page 38 Information provided by waste contractors was used used. to calculate the quantity, type and weight of waste. Indicators for product responsibility CRE8 Number and type of environmental certifications for buildings. Page 21 New indicator PR5 Routines for ensuring customer satisfaction, including the results of Page 39 customer surveys. Indicators for labor practices and decent work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. Pages 40–41 Comprised of Vasakronan's employees. The number of employees includes permanent and probationary employees. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age Pages 40–41 Age group is not reported. Employee turnover is calcugroup, gender, and region. lated as the number of employees that terminated their employment during the year divided by the average number of permanent and probationary employees. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Pages 40–41 Sick leave is calculated as the number of sick leave number of work-related fatalities by region. hours compared to planned work hours. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee broken down by employee Pages 40–41 Average hours of training is calculated as the total category. number of training hours in relation to the average number of employees. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career develPage 40 All employees participate in performance reviews opment reviews. once per year. LA13 Composition of Board of Directors and management team, as well as a AR 36–37, Note 11 Minority group membership is not reported. breakdown of employees by employee category. page 61 Indicators for the organization’s role in society SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Pages 7–9, 41 lobbying. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and No such actions were brought forth against Vasa­ monopoly practices and their outcomes. kronan. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sancVasakronan has not incurred any significant fines. tions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Nor have any sanctions been imposed. Human rights indicators HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. Page 41 Vasakronan did not have any reported cases of discrimination. HR5 Freedom of association and collective bargaining. New indicator. Vasakronan upholds, respects and fully supports employees' fundamental rights to organize themselves and engage in collective bargaining, in accordance with Swedish law. HR6 Child labor New indicator. There is no risk of child labor being used in Vasakronan's operations. Managers with responsibility for the work environment and union representatives also monitor the legal compliance of our suppliers. HR7 Compulsory labor New indicator. There is very little risk of compulsory labor because Vasakronan only has operations in Sweden and the company complies with Swedish law. Managers with responsibility for the work environment and union representatives also monitor the legal compliance of our suppliers. 44 Vasakronan Sustainability report 2011 Contact information HR Sustainability Report Environment Cecilia Söderström Anders Hellberg Anna Denell HR-Manager Group Controller Environmental Manager +46 (0)8-56620531 +46 (0)8-56620579 +46 (0)8-56620581 cecilia.soderstrom@vasakronan.se anders.hellberg@vasakronan.se anna.denell@vasakronan.se Mailing address: Box 30074, 104 25 Stockholm Street address: Sveavägen 167 Tel: +46 (0)8-566 20 500, Fax +46 (0)8-566 20 501 www.vasakronan.se CIN: 556061-4603
