2012 Stakeholder Report Leaving a legacy and creating a sustainable future Deloitte Southern Africa | Next Contents Message from the Chief Executive and CEO-elect................................................................1 Message from the Chairman of the Board............................................................................7 About Deloitte.....................................................................................................................10 Stakeholder Engagement ....................................................................................................18 Our Governance...................................................................................................................30 Magnet for Top Talent.........................................................................................................41 Environmental Sustainability................................................................................................57 Commitment to Society........................................................................................................62 United Nations Global Compact...........................................................................................78 Glossary of Terms.................................................................................................................82 Contacts...............................................................................................................................83 Previous | Next Message from the Chief Executive and CEO-elect Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 1 Message from the Chief Executive Dear Stakeholders It was decided upfront that partners and directors, rather than staff, should bear the brunt of the recession. Costs were reduced and staff intake I find it appropriate that after six slowed down. Most notably, we continued with every corporate social years as chief executive, one of my investment without making any reductions in our commitments. last official acts before departing Deloitte for retirement is the writing The recessionary storm saw revenue growth slow significantly, with of this foreword for the 2012 profitability flat in 2010. Although these days are now behind us, Deloitte Stakeholder Report. I emerged with two clear lessons, these were: The action is appropriate, as this document covers the essential It pays to put people first. If you have the right people in place and treat elements of a firm that I have been them well, they will assist by serving clients better and making the personal part of as an employee, partner and sacrifices required to weather recessionary times. Grant Gelink finally chief executive, for 26 years. Chief Executive Secondly, the recession taught us that we make our own future by seeking During this time Deloitte has become an integral part of my life. clients, and by being agile in the way we serve them. Ultimately, our strength lies in our relationships with our clients; it is these relationships I, like my colleagues, have taken on board the values that have been central that are crucial to the growth of any business. to this firm. These values are reflected in all sections of this report. The theme of our 2012 Stakeholder Report is “Leaving a legacy and I am also proud to say that I have been privileged to play a part in building a creating a sustainable future”. It is a crucial part of our strategy that we distinctive Deloitte brand in Southern Africa. continuously monitor and assess the impact and impressions we have made as corporate citizens, and that we strive to realise all that we set out Our brand is synonymous with a Deloitte culture that is founded on the to do by creating a sustainable future. attributes of integrity, ethics, quality and positive leadership. Naturally, there have been many challenges during my career, but none more daunting than the latter months of 2008. It became clear during the last six months of 2008 that the economy was in distress. At Deloitte the impact was felt through clients cutting back on our advisory services and postponement of projects. Obviously, tough decisions had to be made. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 2 Corporate citizenship providing a firm base for our business • We see our diverse business activities as a means of adding value Our culture is based on our Shared Values. It finds expression through an through participation in the economic value chain, an activity that ongoing commitment that is based on our people doing the right thing assists in creating sustainable work and business opportunities across the today, to ensure our sustainability in the future. Our strategy is not based on socio-economic spectrum. delivering short-term business solutions, but rather on delivering lasting value for all our stakeholders, which naturally includes all who work at Deloitte. • Using the Deloitte Foundation as a dedicated vehicle to execute defined projects within our corporate social investment strategy. The We have a multi-focused approach to corporate citizenship and corporate main driver of this activity is based on involving Deloitte staff members in social investment (CSI). Our strategy encompasses: community-based activities across Southern Africa. Through volunteering their participation and use of their talents, our staff make contributions • Placing good corporate governance practices at the centre of our that are designed to impact on the quality of life of these communities. business and our distinct corporate culture. These practices are applied in all our business dealings to our clients and suppliers, who also uphold Financial and logistical support is provided by the firm, which also has a strong corporate governance standards. formal voluntary staff contribution programme that focuses on promoting education, enterprise development and job creation. • Upholding the rights of employees by recognising that they have the right to be fairly treated and have equal opportunities within our workplace. We also: Strive to ensure that all our people enjoy the best possible career opportunities, recognition and rewards Provide a safe and healthy work environment for all Deloitte staff, clients and contractors. • Contributing to environmental sustainability by identifying, introducing and adhering to policies and business initiatives to reduce our impact on the environment. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 3 Looking forward Deloitte has been challenging professional and societal boundaries since we began operating more than a century ago. The firm has grown and changed with Southern Africa, expanding its services footprint to keep pace with our developing nations. We have also, where we have deemed it necessary, challenged conventions. The prime example of this was our commitment to transform the profession by leading the drive towards attracting black professionals into the accountancy profession. Although Deloitte only makes up approximately 15% of the pool of candidates writing the IRBA Part 2 Public Practice Examination, it has contributed 23% of all African Black CA(SA)s (audit elective) over the past 11 years. Our commitment to the continued transformation to our firm and profession is unwavering. We place the emphasis on identifying people with potential, assisting them with their development and enabling them to enter the business world with skills and confidence. It is with great confidence and pride that I hand over the chief executive role to Lwazi Bam. Lwazi has served Deloitte in various capacities for a number of years. I have no doubt that he will succesfully lead the firm to great social and economic heights. Sincerely Grant Gelink Chief Executive Deloitte Southern Africa For questions or comments: sustainability@deloitte.co.za Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 4 Message from the CEO-elect On becoming CEO of Deloitte I am also taking over at an exciting time for the African continent, never before has our continent had such exciting prospects. It is indeed Africa’s Dear Stakeholders time to shine. Our continent is endowed with natural riches and it is exciting that we now have an opportunity to use such riches for the I am privileged and honoured to upliftment of Africa and more importantly, the upliftment of its people. have been elected by the partners Deloitte as the largest practice in Africa will play an integral part in the of Deloitte Southern Africa as fulfilment and the conversion of the African prospects into reality. We their next Chief Executive and as acknowledge that our success is not only dependent on the success of our a successor to Grant Gelink. individual countries but of Africa as a whole. I have been entrusted with leading an organisation that has been To achieve all of this, it will be critical that as a professional services the leading professional services firm we have the talent required to broaden and expand our services to Lwazi Bam firm for almost all of its over 100 our clients throughout the continent. Our talent growth is founded on CEO-elect years of existence in Africa. It will one of our foundational values “strength in diversity”. It will therefore therefore be my responsibility to ensure that this dynamic organisation be important that the South African firm continues to transform our continues to be the leading professional services firm or as per our vision workforce and ownership to reflect the demographics of our country. to be the “Standard of Excellence”. I am convinced that the professional services firm of the future will have I am taking over at a time where there are several challenges facing not to be more adaptable than was the case in the past. I will therefore be just professional services firm but the business community as a whole. The concentrating on fostering a renewed spirit of innovation within Deloitte most pervasive of these challenges, following on the 2008 financial crisis, in Africa. is the challenge of credibility and trust. The financial crisis has led to a deep mistrust of the role of business from a broad range of our stakeholders, including Legislators, Regulators, employees both current and future and the broader society. The role of business as a leader of growth and a provider to society has been significantly tarnished. It is important that the trust is restored and Business as whole will have to lead that process of ensuring that we are and are seen as positive force to society. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 5 I believe that by identifying and introducing innovative ways of developing our people, our service delivery and new services and products, we will cement our reputation for excellence and industry leadership. Reinforcing and maintaining high performance teams that deliver across the spectrum of Deloitte services will therefore be a major focus. Finally, I wish to express my sincere thanks and gratitude to Grant Gelink. He has succeeded in leaving our firm in a much better shape than he found it. I don’t believe that there could be any other measure of success for a leader. I wish Grant all the best for his retirement, I am sure he will continue to play a positive role in South African business for many years to come. Sincerely Lwazi Bam CEO-elect Deloitte Southern Africa For questions or comments: sustainability@deloitte.co.za Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 6 Message from the Chairman of the Board Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 7 Message from the Chairman Taking custodianship of Our stakeholders Deloitte I would like to pay tribute to our stakeholders, without whom our business would simply not exist. Dear Stakeholders It is appropriate that I examine those stakeholder groups separately. Becoming chairman of Deloitte on 1 September 2011 after being with Our people the firm for 33 years represents the I begin by welcoming newly graduated professionals to our firm who have pinnacle of a relationship that began their eye either on obtaining their Chartered Accountant qualification or when I was a mere 18 year old! working through the ranks of our consulting and advisory businesses. I feel privileged to serve Deloitte in Congratulations! You have joined one of the greatest firms, a place where this role, and thank my colleagues people, whether they are staff or clients, are valued. During your time Trevor Brown for the trust they have placed in me. with us I am sure you will be exposed to professionals from all types of Chairman of the Board disciplines and also have contact with our most diverse client base. Use I take on the role of chairman at a these opportunities fully and you will develop and sharpen your skills by time when the global economy is facing enormous challenges challenges assimilating the knowledge offered by those with whom you come into from which South Africa and its neighbouring states will not be entirely contact. exempt. However, it is also a time when Deloitte is performing well. To our partners and directors, especially those that have been newly Tribute appointed, and to all of our people; thank you for your personal Our Partnership Agreement provides that the chairman of the Board can contribution. May I say that self-actualisation and pushing personal serve for a maximum of three consecutive terms. Futhi Mtoba has been our boundaries are intrinsic to the fabric of Deloitte. We look forward to your chairman for the past three terms of the Board since 2004 and I would like continued hard work and commitment to each other. to take this opportunity to thank her, as our outgoing chairman, for the diligence and rigour she exercised in performing this role most ably. With our focus on Africa, we have formed an African Board to ensure we deliver top client service throughout the continent. I am very pleased that Futhi has assumed responsibilities as chairman of this African Board. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 8 Our clients Lwazi Bam assumes office as CEO on 1 June 2012 Our major responsibility, however, is to a stakeholder group we sometimes We look forward to the appointment of Lwazi Bam as chief executive on know well or sometimes remain unknown – our clients. Our clients hire 1 June 2012. Lwazi will be the first African Black chief executive of our us to either give assurance to their stakeholders or to help them solve firm, which is a true indicator of the progress our firm has made in its problems that they face. We give assurance to those people who have transformation. Lwazi’s history with Deloitte goes back nearly 18 years and pensions, those who hold shares in listed companies and the ordinary for six of those years, Lwazi has been a member of the firm’s executive investor through our audit, risk advisory and tax businesses. Our auditing committee. As a member of the executive committee Lwazi has held several service is the cornerstone of governance. Then there are those clients to roles including being the head of Corporate Finance, Strategy leader, whom we offer a diverse advisory and consulting service – we genuinely National Public Sector leader and the African Integration leader. Perhaps want to add value to them through these services and our people — to most importantly, is that as chief executive he will bring to the table, years of help improve their businesses in areas of strategy, Information Technology living the Deloitte values. He is a worthy successor to Grant Gelink and we and human capital development. look forward to his stewardship of the firm for this ensuing term of the next four years. Our government We support government through the assurance, tax and advisory work we perform for government departments and other Public Sector entities. Sincerely We also support the Auditor-General, who has the responsibility to audit Trevor Brown government departments and entities. This support helps government Chairman improve its performance and ability to deliver services. Deloitte Board of Partners and Directors Our community For questions or comments: sustainability@deloitte.co.za Corporate citizenship is taken into account, not only by reporting activities in our annual reports, but in a meaningful way that impacts our clients and our people. We participate in a range of initiatives, starting with IMPACT Day, our firm wide day dedicated to giving back to our communities. Because we value education, empowerment, enterprise development and entrepreneurship, we particularly support these areas. To all our stakeholders, we offer our thanks for your valued support. We welcome your feedback on this report and in general and look forward to continued engagement with you in the year ahead. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 9 About Deloitte Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 10 About Deloitte Our business Deloitte in Africa The purpose of this section is to define for our stakeholders the nature of In Africa, Deloitte operates in a number of countries. The map below our business, our geographical footprint and our fundamental business demonstrates the firm’s coverage throughout Africa. principles. On the African continent, Deloitte operates in more than 28 countries and Introduction to Deloitte employs more than 5 000 people. Our global strength Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL) is an organisation of member With 54 countries on the African continent, the sheer size and diversity firms devoted to excellence in providing professional services and advice. of markets present unique challenges to local, national and international We are focused on client service through a global strategy executed in 150 businesses alike seeking to establish or expand their influence in Africa’s countries worldwide, with access to the deep intellectual capital of rapidly expanding business sectors. 182 000 people worldwide. We serve over one-half of the world’s largest companies, as well as large national enterprises, public institutions, and Deloitte member firms offer assistance to clients by bringing their insights, successful fast-growing global companies spanning multiple industries. experience and professional skills to bear in a region that is presently a focus for international businesses seeking growth opportunities outside the “Deloitte” is the brand under which tens of thousands of dedicated developed markets of Europe and the USA. professionals in independent firms throughout the world collaborate to provide audit, consulting, financial advisory, risk management, and tax TUNISIA services to selected clients. These firms are members of DTTL, a UK private MOROCCO ALGERIA company limited by guarantee. Each member firm provides services in SA LIBYA HA EGYPT RA RN TE ES a particular geographic area and is subject to the laws and professional W MAURITANIA MALI CAPE NIGER VERDE SUDAN regulations of the particular country or countries in which it operates. DTTL ERITREA ISLANDS SENEGAL CHAD GAMBIA BURKINA GUINEA-BISSAU FASO DJIBOUTI GUINEA TOGO does not itself provide services to clients. DTTL and each DTTL member NIGERIA SOMALIA IVORY CENTRAL ETHIOPIA SIERRA LEONE COAST BENIN AFRICAN SOUTHERN GHANA SUDAN REPUBLIC LIBERIA CAMEROON firm are separate and distinct legal entities, which cannot obligate each EQUATORIAL GUINEA GABON BRACONG ZAV O DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO UGANDA KENYA ILLE RWANDA SEYCHELLES other. DTTL and each DTTL member firm are liable only for their own CABINDA BURUNDI TANZANIA acts or omissions and not those of each other. Each DTTL member firm ANGOLA MALAWI COMORES ZAMBIA is structured differently in accordance with national laws, regulations, ZIMBABWE MO ZA MB IQ UE MADA AR MAURITIUS NAMIBIA GASC customary practice, and other factors, and may secure the provision of BOTSWANA SWAZILAND REUNION professional services in its territory through subsidiaries, affiliates, and/or DELOITTE OFFICES LESOTHO SOUTH COUNTRIES SERVICED AFRICA other entities. COUNTRIES NOT SERVICED Click to view larger map online Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 11 Francophone Africa Cameroon Deloitte has been involved for some thirty years with the French-speaking The Cameroon practice is the number two professional services firm in countries in Magreb, West Africa and Central Africa. These French Cameroon in terms of both revenue, client size and staff numbers. Total speaking countries of Africa successfully combine the quality of local staff amount to 55 employees, 31% of the firm’s employees are female. resources with the contribution of Deloitte France’s expertise. Diversity is at The firm’s clients stretch across many industries including Energy & the heart of their culture. There are eight main countries and these are: Resources, Financial Services, Consumer Business and Public Sector. Ivory Coast, Gabon, Algeria, Senegal, Tunisia, Equatorial Guinea, Benin. East Africa Central and Western Africa Deloitte is one of the longest established professional service firms in Our Central and Western Africa practice serves multinational, large national East Africa. Dedicated since 1907 to the needs of our clients, we have enterprises and the public sector across four countries of the region: grown with the economy and aspirations of the region into a large and Nigeria, Ghana, The Gambia and Cameroon. experienced firm, supplying the very best in accounting, taxation and business solutions to some of East Africa’s most prominent organisation. Deloitte has a long history in this region – in fact, Deloitte in Nigeria is the oldest indigenous accounting firm in Central and Western Africa, Today, with 18 partners and over 650 employees in offices in Nairobi, established in 1952. With over 585 people within this region, all unified by Mombasa, Kampala and Dar-es-Salaam, Deloitte East Africa serves a a collaborative culture that fosters integrity, outstanding value to markets wide range of clients from the largest organisations in the region to and clients, commitment to each other, and strength from cultural diversity. international lending agencies spanning a wide variety of local and The countries which constitute Central and Western Africa include: international organisations from all sectors, including manufacturing, retail, financial, distribution, agricultural, governmental and non-governmental Nigeria organisations and charitable bodies. The Nigerian practice consists of 432 employees. The firm services a number of international clients including Microsoft Corporation, Coca Kenya Cola, SABMiller and Procter & Gamble Nigeria to name a few. The Kenyan firm holds a second seat market position in the country with two offices in Nairobi and Mombasa. The firm comprises 337 employees Ghana and service clients in terms of their Audit, Tax, Enterprise Risk, Financial The Ghanaian practice consists of 98 employees with a service focus Advisory and Consulting needs. Some key clients include The Auditor on Assurance & Advisory, Consulting, ERS, Legal & Tax. Some of the General, East Africa Breweries Ltd and KenGen. firm’s inbound clients include Vodafone, SGS Ghana Ltd and Boeing International. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 12 Tanzania Mauritius The Tanzanian firms holds a second seat market position in the country Deloitte Mauritius was established in 1952 and is one of the leading firms with one office in Dar-es-Salaam. The firm consists of 204 employees. The of accountants in Mauritius, serving the leaders of each of the industry firm’s key clients include USAID, TTCL and the Ministry of Infrastructure group in the domestic market and many international companies which Tanzania. are registered as global companies in Mauritius. The Mauritian firm has one office in Ebenen and it consists of 150 employees. The firm focuses on Uganda Audit, Tax, Consulting and FAS services. The Ugandan firm holds a third seat market position in the country with Deloitte CEO Grant Gelink, Botswana’s Minister one key office in Kampala. The firm consists of 123 employees and key DRC, Rwanda and Burundi of Finance, Ontefetse Kenneth Matambo with clients include USAID and the Uganda Ministry of Energy. Global Professional Organisation (GPO) Partner co-ordinates the activities Botswana Partner in Charge, Max Marinelli. of GPO Partners Congo, GPO Partners Rwanda Ltd and GPO Partners Zambia Burundi, three independent correspondent firms of Deloitte. With seven Deloitte Zambia is a partnership consisting of three partners and directors. partners and 70 professionals, GPO Partners is a Global Professional The total number of people permanently employed is currently 100, all Organisation delivering world-class audit, accounting, tax and consulting based in the Lusaka office providing professional services in Audit, Tax, services to international companies, as well as national enterprises and Consulting and Financial Advisory. Many of their clients are found in the public institutions. Energy, Resources and Manufacturing sectors. Zimbabwe and Malawi Deloitte Zimbabwe provides professional services in Audit, Consulting, Financial Advisory and Risk Advisory. The Zimbabwean firm operates in Zimbabwe and Malawi through five offices in Harare, Bulawayo, Kwekwe, Blantyre and Lilongwe. Deloitte Zimbabwe is a partnership consisting of 13 partners and directors with a total of 242 employees. Angola Pretoria office managing partner Xavier Botha, The Deloitte Angolan firm has one office in Luanda and 171 employees. Auditor General Terence Nombembe and chief executive Grant Gelink at the opening of The firm’s service lines which are drive from the Angolan office include the new Pretoria office. Assurance, Consulting, Tax, Corporate Finance and BPAS. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 13 Deloitte in Southern Africa Deloitte is one of Southern Africa’s foremost professional services firms, Deloitte currently has nine offices in South Africa, making our reach on a providing services through 3 600 people in nine offices in South Africa and national basis easy. 17 cities in Southern Africa. The headquarters of Deloitte in the Southern African region is in Johannesburg, South Africa. Deloitte South Africa is a partnership consisting of 242 partners and directors. Partners and directors are effectively the shareholders in the business and the black equity/ ownership currently constitutes 28%. Lilongwe Blantyre Deloitte Southern Africa is a member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL) and part of the EMEA region (Europe, Middle East and Africa). Gweru Harare The turnover of the Southern African practice for financial year 2011 was R2.9 billion. Bulawayo An organisation chart of the Deloitte leadership in Southern Africa at Windhoek 1 November 2011 is available. Click here to view. Gaborone Pretoria Deloitte Southern Africa Maputo Board Chairman: TJ Brown Deputy Chairman: M Comber Organisational Structure at 1 November 2011 CEO Johannesburg G Gelink COO A Swiegers Pietermaritzburg Richards Bay Markets & Clients Regional Leaders Audit Risk Advisory Corporate Finance Tax Consulting Group Admin GHR&D Office of the CEO Marketing G Gelink D Kennedy G Pinnock D Kennedy L Bam N Kader L Geeringh C Beukman J Mazzocco G Gelink Transformation Clients Markets Western Cape A&A RA JHB Corporate Finance Tax Gauteng Strategy & Innovation GIS P Grobler D Schneider A Hugo B Fannin N Ranchod S Maharaj L Bam T Rogers T Pillay E du Bruyn Strategy L Bam Corporate Affairs H Ebrahim* KZN G Brazier Audit JHB M Jarvis RA PTA E Bosch Tax Cape L Barlow Technology K Ramsingh Finance H Yunus Durban Innovation Pretoria Audit CPT RA KZN Tax KZN Human Capital Partnership Affairs A Hugo X Botha B Fannin N Sing M Freer G de Beer J Cooper Audit KZN RA Cape BPS Legal Counsel Ethics, R Ebrahim M Alberts W Nieuwoudt M Dicks Independance Risk & Quality M Comber Audit PTA Tip-offs Anonymous Africa Solutions East London X Botha N John Dave Wilson Independence Audit PE Legal Exco J Beaumont S Wedderburn D Kennedy Botswana * Seconded Stellenbosch M Marinelli Namibia J Mungunda Cape Town Port Elizabeth FIST K Black Audit D Crowther Advisory R Verster Deloitte Offices A&IS A Rayner Other Offices Mozambique P Ferreira Zimbabwe T Gumbo Malawi N Uka Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 14 Services at Deloitte Deloitte operates through five strategic service lines. Our competitive advantage lies in the Deloitte difference, which draws on the offering of a unique suite of services and is based on a deep understanding of our clients’ issues. Deloitte earns its revenue through the provision of professional services and advice to clients in both the private and public sector by means of five strategic service areas: Audit, Tax, Consulting, Risk Advisory and Corporate Finance. This is supported by co-operation based on our Shared Values, global client service standards and a OneDeloitte multi-disciplinary approach. Deloitte serves clients across a number of industries, and these are: • Consumer Business • Financial Services • Health care • Manufacturing, Automotive and Construction • Mining • Oil and Gas • Power and Utilities • Public Sector • Technology, Media and Telecommunications The Deloitte five strategic service areas: Audit Consulting Corporate Finance Risk Advisory Tax Audit Africa Solutions Debt Advisory Data Analytics Corporate Tax Actuarial & Insurance Solutions Business Process Solutions Due Diligence Forensics Custom and Excise Financial Institution Services Team Human Capital Mergers & Acquisition Advisory Governance & Risk Management Financial Institutions Tax Special Services Group Strategy & Innovation Private Equity Services Internal Audit Global Employment Services Technology Reorganisation Services IT Audit Government Growth Initiatives Sponsor Services Legal International Tax Valuations Security & Privacy Services Mergers & Acquisitions Technology Risk Advisory Sustainability & Climate Change Tip-offs Anonymous Tax Management Consulting Transfer Pricing Value Added Tax Services Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 15 Our business principles Our vision is to: Be the Standard of Excellence. Be the first choice of the most sought-after clients and talent. “The focus of our Our mission is to: business strategy is to be the Standard of Excellence Help our clients and our people excel. in all we do.” Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 16 2011/2010 Highlights and Achievements • Deloitte bolstered technology integration with the successful acquisition of Cyan ES, • After 46 years with the firm, Costa Qually retired and stepped down as deputy chairman which added new clients and capabilities, specifically in serving the Financial Services Industry. of the Board at the end of May 2010. Mike Comber was appointed as deputy chairman • Launch of a Leadership Impact service offering, leveraging the global As One positioning of the Board in July 2010. Costa was awarded honorary life membership of the South (collective leadership), the latest global positioning on Leadership by Design, the acquisition African Institute of Chartered Accountants (SAICA). of Colbrad (leadership performance and risk) and OneFuture Consulting (collaborative • The Board of SAICA appointed FIST partner Dinesh Munu as the chairman of the Pension leadership solutions). Fund Trustees. • Deloitte successfully disposed of its Tax Technology business to Thompson Reuters (TR), • 2010 FIFA World Cup staff events were held across the country and celebrated this unique a move which pre-empted IFAC rules to be effective shortly. time in South Africa’s history. • The Audit business continues to be a magnet for attracting the top university talent. The Audit • 2010 saw the launch of the “green dot” advertising campaign, using the green dot to Graduate Recruitment team again achieved a 100% fully qualified (at a CTA level) 1st year express the unique value that Deloitte adds to clients. trainee intake in January 2011; Deloitte is the only Big Four firm to achieve this. • Former chairman Futhi Mtoba was elected as president of Business Unity SA (BUSA) in • Deloitte is proud of trainees who passed the final qualifying Exams in 2010/2011: May 2010, she was nominated by the Association of Black Accountants of Southern Africa 2010 Part II (results released in February 2011): we achieved an 88% pass rate compared (ABASA) and the Business Women’s Association (BWA). with the national IRBA pass rate of 81%, securing 1st, 5th and two Deloitte candidates • In November 2010, Justine Mazzocco and Nazrien Kader were both invited to join the tying in 7th place in the Top Ten firm’s Executive Committee, responsible for Talent & Transformation and Taxation Services 2011 Part I (results released in June 2011): we achieved a 74% pass rate compared with respectively. the national SAICA pass rate of 64% • Turnover Deloitte Southern Africa (FY2011): R2.9 billion at growth rate of 4.9% (FY2010: 2011 Part II (results released in February 2012): we achieved a 82% pass rate with two R2.78 billion). candidates have achieved the distinction of a place in the Top Ten. We now have a • Number of new partners/directors appointed FY2011: 13 (FY2010: 10) further 294 new chartered accountants in Deloitte. • Lwazi Bam is appointed as CEO-elect; his appointment to chief executive becomes • Lee Swan, a manager in our Sustainability and Climate Change team, became the first effective on 1 June 2012. African-born woman to reach the Magnetic North Pole in the 2011 Polar Race, winning • Our Level 2 BBBEE rating is a testimony to the commitment of the firm’s leadership and the the competition. many individuals who work towards the achievement of our transformation goals. • The 2011 Our People Survey (global employee engagement diagnostic) resulted in an 87% • Currently, 28% of our partners and directors are Black. This translates to 68 partners/ participation, with an overall employee engagement index of 72 (US: 72, UK: 67). directors. • Working Differently takes flexible work arrangements to a new level. We know that • Deloitte is recognised as the leading management consultants in the world by Kennedy. mobility, flexibility and a need for work-life balance is what our people want. In January 2011, a similar rating was received for Consulting in South Africa. This was a • Deloitte opens the Innovation Zone, which is a radically different problem-solving testament to the broad and deep capabilities we have in Consulting, and market leadership environment where clients can leverage Deloitte tools, methodologies, knowledge and positions within Strategy and Human Capital. expertise to tackle any business challenge at an accelerated rate and in an intense, • Kennedy now ranks Deloitte second by revenue in global strategy consulting after collaborative way. McKinsey. According to Kennedy, Deloitte is the fastest growing strategy consulting firm, • Deloitte has produced 20% of all newly qualified African Black CAs (audit elective) in the with a growth rate of 18%. Deloitte has also received strong recognition of our positioning market in 2011 and 23% over the last eleven years. in the area of Executable Strategy, Finance Transformation and Merger Integration services. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 17 Stakeholder Engagement Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 18 Stakeholder engagement Current or potential impact As an employer of choice and professional services business partner to the private and public sectors in Southern Africa, Deloitte engages with High a varied stakeholder base that includes its staff, and extends through its Reputation Employee Client client base to the general public at large. & Brand development satisfaction Diversity and In order to clearly define its interfaces with these audiences, Deloitte GHG emissions fair treatment Governance, and energy use risk, and annually examines each stakeholder group, how and when they interface Education with compliance with Deloitte, how Deloitte in return interacts with them, what primary development Supply chain Work-life issues impact on each stakeholder group and how the firm can respond to balance Public policy these issues. Preferential Concern to Stakeholders procurement positions Job creation/ The stakeholder engagement matrix clearly defines each contact. enterprise CR commitment Privacy and development from leadership data security The purpose of this chapter is to define to stakeholders the nature and Transformation Ethics and practice of governance in Deloitte. Anti-corruption integrity Compensation Stakeholder feedback Water use Promoting relevance Materiality analysis and matrix Findings from stakeholder engagement were used as key considerations for defining the report’s content. The diagram below classifies the material issues according to their importance to stakeholders and to Deloitte, with Physical security Biodiversity resulting topics of particular importance in the upper-right area of the matrix. Deloitte aims to test the relevance of its reporting by engaging Materials use stakeholders for feedback about this report and responding to them to a and waste practical extent. Low Low High High-materiality issue Medium-materiality issue Low-materiality issue Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 19 Stakeholder Engagement matrix Key Stakeholder Group: Clients Engagement approach and Type of response Areas of high concern Sample Sample of topics typical frequency of interaction (may vary across Deloitte) (see materiality matrix) • Client interaction during • Publicly traded company clients, • Service needs of clients • New service offerings • Ethics and integrity engagements including their audit committees and boards of directors • Independence • Organising client service around • Client satisfaction • Client satisfaction process industries • Closely held company clients • Ethics • Governance, risk, and compliance • Business development activities • Lead client service roles and • Government clients • Security and privacy concerns responsibility • Protection of investors and • Conferences market • Past and potential clients • Value of trusted advisor • Adoption of anti-corruption policy • Proposal responses and follow-up relationship • Anti-corruption on losses • Adoption of policy regarding • Need for industry understanding privacy programmes and • CR commitment from leadership leadership • Privacy and data security • IT security policies • GHG emissions and energy use • Voluntary sustainability reporting • Reputation and brand • Supply chain standards Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 20 Key Stakeholder Group: Alumni Engagement approach and Type of response Areas of high concern Sample Sample of topics typical frequency of interaction (may vary across Deloitte) (see materiality matrix) • Valuable contacts and resources • Ongoing interpersonal and • Trusted relationships • Upgrading Alumni programme to • Client satisfaction electronic communication facilitate ongoing engagement • Clients • Quality • Ethics and integrity • Professional acquaintances • Ethics and intergrity • Reputation and brand • Independence • Transformation and BBBEE • Transformation and BBBEE • Reputation and brand Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 21 Key Stakeholder Group: Deloitte staff and their families Engagement approach and Type of response Areas of high concern Sample Sample of topics typical frequency of interaction (may vary across Deloitte) (see materiality matrix) Ongoing • Current, former, retired, and • Job satisfaction elements • Flexible work arrangements • Employee development • Internal discussions prospective employees • Work-life balance • Benefits package changes • Diversity and fair treatment • Alumni network • Career advancement • Extension of certain services to • Ethics and integrity • Social media family members • Fair treatment • Client satisfaction • Recruiting events • Mentoring programmes • Privacy • Privacy and data security • Exit interviews • Coaching programmes • Security • Governance, risk, and compliance • Confidential ethics hotline • Opportunities for global • Contributions to society deployment • CR commitment from leadership • Training sessions • Environmentally sustainable • Industry training • Protection of investors and Multiple times a year operations market • Performance reviews • Wellness programmes • Access to technology • Work-life balance • Employee councils • Updates to software and hardware • Diversity • Advisory councils • ICAS • Ethics Annual basis • Talent Referral Programmes • People survey • Partner / Director meetings Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 22 Key Stakeholder Group: Governments and regulators Engagement approach and Type of response Areas of high concern Sample Sample of topics typical frequency of interaction (may vary across Deloitte) (see materiality matrix) Ongoing and/or ad hoc • National financial market • Auditor independence • Participation in advisory and • Protection of investors and • Contribution to shaping of new regulators advocacy groups market regulations • Transparency • Audit oversight bodies • Independence policies and • Anti-corruption • Collaboration on policies • Quality monitoring • Finance ministries and central • Public policy • Participation in development of bank governors • Competitiveness of markets • Audit standards standards • Ethics and integrity • SARS • Diversity • Response to reviews • Website and current event • Diversity and fair treatment monitoring • Corporate governance • Employee diversity programmes • Governance, risk, and compliance • Responsiveness to inquiries • Supplier diversity programmes • Privacy and data security Annual or regular recurring • Issuance of transparency reports basis • GHG emissions and energy use • Quality/performance reviews • Transformation • Reputation and brand Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 23 Key Stakeholder Group: Professional associations Engagement approach and Type of response Areas of high concern Sample Sample of topics typical frequency of interaction (may vary across Deloitte) (see materiality matrix) Ongoing • Associations of certified/chartered • Governance • Standards for engagement • Public policy positions • Involvement in committees and accountants acceptance and performance working groups • Barrier-free trade • Ethics and integrity • Associations of tax professionals • Peer reviews • Representation on leadership • Sustainable development • Governance, risk, and compliance councils • Management consulting • Commentaries on proposed professional associations • Adherence to professional standards • Protection of investors and • Attendance at conferences performance standards market • Financial advisory professional • Training Ad hoc associations • Standards for auditing on • Anti-corruption • Collaboration on industry white non-financial information • Thought leadership papers • CR commitment from leadership • Strategy formulation • Speaking engagements • Diversity and fair treatment • Bursaries and scholarships for • Participation in the development accelerated development of Black • Transformation of standards Chartered Accountants • Skills development Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 24 Key Stakeholder Group: Non-profit organisations and community organisations Engagement approach and Type of response Areas of high concern Sample Sample of topics typical frequency of interaction (may vary across Deloitte) (see materiality matrix) Ongoing • Adopt-A-School Foundation • Training • Skills-based volunteering • Education and job creation • Board representation • African Children’s Feeding • Performance improvement • Community volunteering • Diversity and fair treatment • Pro bono engagements Scheme • Funding • IMPACT Day • Ethics and integrity • Collaborations • Charities Aid Foundation Southern Africa • Marketing • Pro bono engagements • Employee development • Volunteering • TEACH South Africa • Specific agendas • Foundation and firm monetary • Anti-corruption • Social media and in-kind gifts • The Hope Factory • Local business promotion • CR commitment from leadership • Electronic mail • Transparency in reporting • Privacy and data security • Meetings and conferences • Speaking engagements Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 25 Key Stakeholder Group: International multi-stakeholder organisations Engagement approach and Type of response Areas of high concern Sample Sample of topics typical frequency of interaction (may vary across Deloitte) (see materiality matrix) Ongoing • United Nations Global Compact • Establishment of and adherence • Pro-bono engagements • Ethics and integrity • Steering committee members to international norms • World Economic Forum • Internal and external training • Anti-corruption • Organisational stakeholder • Understanding of frameworks meetings • Cross-industry business alliances and initiatives • Thought leadership • Public policy • Economic, social and • Voluntary reporting on • Protection of investors and humanitarian development sustainability market • Diversity and fair treatment • Education for underprivileged young people • Governance, risk, and compliance • CR commitment from leadership • Privacy and data security • GHG emissions and energy use • Water use • Biodiversity Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 26 Key Stakeholder Group: Suppliers Engagement approach and Type of response Areas of high concern Sample Sample of topics typical frequency of interaction (may vary across Deloitte) (see materiality matrix) Ongoing • Software suppliers • Purchase volumes • Establishment of alliances • Ethics and integrity • Negotiations • Hardware suppliers • Purchase projections • Establishment of preferred • Anti-corruption • Meetings vendors • Travel service suppliers • Pricing • Diversity and fair treatment • Proposals • Contracts • Certainty • Privacy and data security • Industry meetings • Supply chain audits • Opportunities for (mutual) • Preferential procurement sustainable solutions • Implementation of SAP • Enterprise development • Opportunities for collaboration • BBBEE procurement Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 27 Key Stakeholder Group: Analysts Engagement approach and Type of response Areas of high concern Sample Sample of topics typical frequency of interaction (may vary across Deloitte) (see materiality matrix) Ongoing • Forrester • Capabilities • Improved performance • Client satisfaction • Dialogue • Gartner • Growth • New service lines • Ethics and integrity • Question and answer sessions • International Data Corporation • Leadership • New strategy developed • Governance, risk, and compliance • Webinars • Kennedy • Innovation • Innovation programmes • Anti-corruption • Provision of information • Verdantix • CR commitment from leadership Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 28 Key Stakeholder Group: Educational institutions/academia Engagement approach and Type of response Areas of high concern Sample Sample of topics typical frequency of interaction (may vary across Deloitte) (see materiality matrix) Ongoing • Funding of scholarships at • Subject matter knowledge • Matching gifts • Education for underprivileged • Participation in programmes universities young people • New perspective • Guest lecturers • Collaborations • High school training • Ethics and integrity • Leading research • Funding • Recruiting • Diversity and fair treatment • Career placement • Recruitment • Guest lecturing and speaking • Employee development engagements • Thought leadership • Bursary programmes • Input information • Training and development of graduates Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 29 Our Governance Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 30 Our governance The purpose of this chapter is to define to stakeholders the nature and In addition, the Board has a responsibility to the broader stakeholders, practice of governance in Deloitte. which include the present and potential beneficiaries of Deloitte products and services, clients, employees, alumni and the profession, to achieve Deloitte is a leading brand in the South African market and globally. As a continuing prosperity and a pristine reputation for the firm. firm engaged with roles as an auditor, advisor and business partner across the entire spectrum of the South African economy, the maintenance of the At Deloitte we aim to preserve public trust through the practice and Deloitte reputation essentially the factor that differentiates it from many promotion of sound ethics, good corporate governance and quality in all others in the market is of vital importance. its forms. Our firm is governed by the Deloitte Southern Africa Board of Directors In accordance with the best traditions of corporate governance, we insist (‘the Board’), which in turn is constituted in terms of the provisions of the on a separation between the Board of Partners and Directors and executive Partnership Agreement. To the extent possible for a partnership the Board management. subscribes to the King III Code of Corporate Practices and Conduct. Effective management of the partnership requires that changing The Board elects a chairman at the beginning of its term and his or her circumstances and differences in the individual contributions and duties are very similar to those of a corporate chairman in line with the circumstances of each of the partners and directors is taken into account. best principles of corporate governance. Our Board of Partners and It is recognised that as there are too many partners and directors to permit Directors regards its primary responsibilities as fourfold: all to participate fully or meaningfully in the governance of the partnership, this must be delegated to a Board of Partners and Directors in whom • To approve the corporate vision and mission overall responsibility for the oversight of the business and affairs of the • To oversee the development and implementation of a strategic plan partnership vests. The purpose of the Board is to represent the interests • To ensure ethical behaviour and legal compliance of the firm, its partners, directors and other stakeholders, in pursuit of • To select, monitor, evaluate and compensate the firm’s CEO the firm’s mission of becoming the leading professional services firm in Southern Africa. To facilitate the work of the Board it has been structured into a number of committees. Each Board committee has its own charter which governs its The Board, as the focal point of corporate governance and the ultimate role and performance. oversight and monitoring body, is accountable for the long-term sustainable success of the firm and the quality and value of its contribution viewed from the perspective of all our stakeholders. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 31 Board members and their portfolios (as of 1 September 2011): Board committees and their members (as of 1 September 2011): Board Member Portfolio Board Committee Board members Trevor Brown Chairman Gauteng Partner/Director Remuneration Tony Zoghby (Chairman) (Johannesburg) Committee (RemCo) Charles Larbi-Odam Michael (Mike) Comber Deputy Chairman Reputation and Allen Swiegers Risk Leader CEO Performance, Trevor Brown (Chairman) Grant Gelink Chief Executive (ex officio) Remuneration, Succession and Grant Gelink/Lwazi Bam (by invitation) Nominations Committee Charles Larbi-Odam Allen Swiegers Chief Operating Officer (ex officio) Tony Zoghby Christoffel (Chris) Beukman Chief Financial Officer (ex officio) Chris Beukman Geoffrey (Geoff) Fortuin Western Cape and Namibia Social, Ethics & Transformation Trevor Brown (Chairman) Ruwayda Ebrahim KwaZulu-Natal Committee Ruwayda Ebrahim Nazeer Essop Gauteng (Pretoria and Botswana) Grant Gelink/Lwazi Bam Kamal Ramsingh Consulting Bonga Nyembe Kamal Ramsingh Anthony (Tony) Zoghby Assurance Partner/Director Admissions Kamal Ramsingh (Chairman) Louise Vosloo Tax Committee Nazeer Essop Charles Larbi-Odam Risk Advisory and Corporate Louise Vosloo Finance Finance Committee Mike Comber (Chairman) Bongisipho (Bonga) Nyembe Transformation Allen Swiegers Nthobi Angel External advisor to the Board Chris Beukman Lot Ndlovu External advisor to the Board* Geoff Fortuin Nazeer Essop * Resigned March 2012 Risk & Compliance Committee Trevor Brown (Chairman) Allen Swiegers “The Board of Partners and Directors is constituted Chris Beukman Louise Vosloo in terms of the Partnership Agreement and is elected Mike Comber by partners and directors every three years.” Murray Dicks (Co-opted) Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 32 Register of Board Meeting attendance: April 2011 February 2012 Board member 8 Apr 9 May 18 Jul 18 Aug 31 Aug 17 Nov 9 Feb Futhi Mtoba • • • • Term ended Grant Gelink • • • • • • • Nthobi Angel • • • x • • • Danie Crowther • • • • Term ended Justine Mazzocco • • x • Term ended Guy Brazier • • • • Term ended Sandile Gwala • • • x Term ended Tawanda Gumbo • • • x Term ended Roly Hofmeyr • • • x Term ended Louise Vosloo • • • • x • • Thiru Pillay • • • x Term ended Mike Comber • • • • • • • Lot Ndlovu* • • x • • • Tony Zoghby • • • • • x • Allen Swiegers • • • • x • • Chris Beukman Officially elected • x Ruwayda Ebrahim Newly elected • • Nazeer Essop Newly elected • • Trevor Brown Newly elected • • Geoff Fortuin Newly elected • • Charles Larbi-Odam Newly elected • • Kamal Ramsingh Newly elected • • Bonga Nyembe Newly elected • • *Resigned March 2012 Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 33 The Deloitte Board of Partners and Directors (as of 1 September 2011): Trevor Brown Michael (Mike) Grant Gelink Allen Swiegers Christoffel (Chris) Geoffrey (Geoff) Ruwayda Ebrahim Nazeer Essop Chairman Comber Chief Executive Chief Operating Beukman Fortuin KwaZulu-Natal Gauteng (Pretoria) Deputy Chairman (ex officio) Officer Chief Financial Officer Western Cape and and Botswana (ex officio) (ex officio) Namibia Kamal Ramsingh Anthony (Tony) Louise Vosloo Charles Larbi-Odam Bongisipho (Bonga) Nthobake (Nthobi) Lot Ndlovu Consulting Zoghby Tax Risk Advisory and Nyembe Angel External advisor to Assurance Corporate Finance Transformation External advisor to the Board the Board (resigned March 2012) Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 34 Executive Committee (Exco) The Deloitte Executive Committee Exco comprises the firm’s executive management and is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the firm. In terms of our corporate governance practices, and also in terms of the partnership agreement, no member of Exco (with the exception of the CEO, COO and CFO) may be a voting member of the firm’s Board of Partners and Directors. In line with the firm‘s approach to good governance, Mike Comber, the firm‘s Reputation and Risk Leader, is invited to attend all Exco meetings. Our Executive leadership Grant Gelink Lwazi Bam Allen Swiegers Chris Beukman Geoff Pinnock Chief Executive CEO-elect Chief Operating Chief Financial Assurance Member Portfolio (Clients, Markets & Corporate Finance Officer Officer Grant Gelink Chief Executive Marketing) & Strategy Lwazi Bam CEO-elect Allen Swiegers Chief Operating Officer Chris Beukman Chief Financial Officer Geoff Pinnock Service Line Leader: Audit and Financial Services Dave Kennedy Service Line Leader: Risk Advisory Louis Geeringh Service Line Leader: Consulting Nazrien Kader Service Line Leader: Taxation Services Dave Kennedy Louis Geeringh Nazrien Kader Justine Mazzocco Risk Advisory Consulting Taxation Services Talent & Justine Mazzocco Executive Leader: Talent & Transformation Transformation Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 35 Role definitions of senior partners The Deloitte operational ethos Safeguarding the value of the Since a partnership differs somewhat from traditional corporate structures, Deloitte brand we have mapped out the roles and responsibilities of our senior partners To ensure that the brand, and all that it stands for, is not compromised in and directors to provide clarity in this regard. any way, Deloitte has a Reputation and Risk Leader who has the overall responsibility of preserving the firm’s reputation. Chief Executive Officer (CEO) The CEO is selected by the Board for a four year term (with a maximum The responsibility for the management of risk is also assumed by each term of seven years) and affirmed by a vote of the partners/directors. Grant partner and director of the firm, who are assisted in their tasks by a Gelink was appointed on 1 June 2006 and is responsible for the execution network of risk leaders and teams within each of the firm’s service lines, of strategy, policy and the performance of the firm, and is accountable to while the global firm continues to extend the nature of risk, independence the Board. and ethics requirements for member firms. Chief Operating Officer (COO) This is accompanied by training, monitoring and reporting elements with The COO is appointed by the CEO and is responsible for the day-to-day which all Deloitte member firms around the world must comply. operations of the firm. Allen Swiegers was appointed to this role on 1 June 2006. By extending our internal risk assessment practices to our clients, we ensure that Deloitte only provides services to clients that are ethical. Providing services to clients who are unethical exposes the firm to both reputation and brand damage. Partners and directors therefore consider and classify the risk of serving clients, either existing or new, on an annual basis. Where risk is considered to be high, the firm either resigns from an account, or declines business. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 36 Our ethical framework Our Shared Values are at the heart of our Ethical Principles and the Deloitte is committed to the highest levels of ethics, integrity, and quality. relationship between them is simple: Our Shared Values define the This is evidenced by our business practices and client service standards, underlying beliefs that tie our global firm together, and our Ethical our leadership behaviour and shared values, and most importantly, by the Principles further define the specific standards of behaviour that we expect quality of people we employ. In fact, ethics, integrity and quality are at the of our leaders and our people. Each Ethical Principle maps directly back to core of all that we do. our Shared Values helping to reinforce and sustain behaviour that reflects those values. They are, in fact, our values in action. Our Ethical Principles define the standards of ethical behaviour that unite all our people. In particular, they offer guidance about appropriate professional conduct covering such issues as objectivity, confidentiality, and competence. The behaviours these principles elicit will enhance and maintain the integrity and reputation of our firm as the premier global professional services firm. It is important to note that while these principles provide a foundation for ethical decision-making, they do not cover all the situations we may face on a daily basis. When faced with difficult choices, personal integrity and responsibility must be our guide. It is during those times that we are encouraged to seek advice and counsel from our leaders and colleagues, and work together to make the right choices. Our Ethical Principles apply to all our people and we use the term “we” to mean all partners, directors, professionals and administrative staff no matter what country or function we reside in. Deloitte partners, directors and staff have an obligation to know, understand and adhere to not only these principles, but also the shared values on which they are founded. We have the responsibility to encourage our leaders and colleagues to do the same. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 37 Our ethical principles • Honesty and Integrity “We act with honesty and integrity.” • Fair Business Practices – “We are committed to fair business practices.” We are straightforward and honest in our professional and business We receive fees that reflect the value of services provided and relationships. responsibilities assumed, and are considered fair and reasonable by our We are truthful about the services we provide, the knowledge we clients. possess, and the experience we have gained. We respect our competitors and do not compete unfairly. • Professional Behaviour – “We operate within the letter and the spirit of • Responsibility to Society – “We recognise and respect the impact we applicable laws.” We comply with professional standards and applicable laws and have on the world around us.” regulations. We take our role in society seriously and do not cause intentional harm. We avoid any action that may discredit our firms or our professions. We support contributions to the communities where we operate. We strive not only to do what is legal, but also what is right. • Respect and Fair Treatment – “We treat all our colleagues with respect, • Competence – “We bring appropriate skills and capabilities to every courtesy, and fairness.” client assignment.” We understand the impact that our individual behaviour has on our We understand that the public and our clients expect our work to firms, our colleagues, and society, and always work to take responsible meet high professional standards. action. We use due care to ensure that client needs are matched with Deloitte We encourage and value the diverse mix of people, viewpoints, personnel who have the competence required for their assignments. talents, and experiences found at Deloitte. We are fair in our behaviour and our policies promote equal • Objectivity – “We are objective in forming our professional opinions and the advice we give.” opportunity for all. We do not allow bias, conflict of interest, or undue influence of others to override our professional judgments. • Accountability and Decision-making – “We lead by example, using our We address differences of opinion and handle them constructively and shared values as our foundation.” professionally. We recognise that we are role models and that we set behavioural standards for our professions and each other. • Confidentiality – “We respect the confidentiality of information.” We make decisions based on our shared values and expect our leaders We prohibit disclosure of information to anyone inside or outside our and colleagues to do the same. firms without the legal or professional right to know. We do not misuse information of our clients, our firms, or our people for personal advantage or for the benefit of third parties. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 38 Independence Apart from the BRMS system the National Reputation, Risk and Over the past few years we have seen a number of changes to the rules Independence team are involved in the following other systems to assist all governing the independence of auditors. This has had a profound impact our professional people and the firm on independence matters: on this profession and the way we do business and has affected all partners, directors and professional staff. As a consequence, the firm has introduced • Global Investment Monitoring System (GIMS) National many systems and procedures over the years to govern our independence Independence continually monitor the registration process to ensure that and to ensure that our commitment to full compliance is achieved. all partners and managers are properly registered on GIMS. More recently, the global firm has made amendments to the Deloitte • ContractorSmart Records all contracts with permanent workforce Policy Manual (DPM) affecting the independence rules and has updated contractors. The system includes an independence declaration to be the policies governing conflict checking. We are currently in the process of made by all contractors at the time of employment. updating our systems and processes to cater for these changes. • Conflict Checking System – We performed 4 755 conflict and The firm’s growth initiatives have involved many enquiries and conflict relationship checks in 2011 and 4 976 in 2010 using 14 different checks by service lines contemplating entering into joint ventures with databases. These checks are designed to ensure that no services other parties, merging businesses or simply acquiring businesses. This are rendered to restricted entities that might result in conflict or brings about a number of challenges to ensure that these services, to our independence issues. restricted entity clients, are permissible and that the business relationships we enter into with our audit clients are acceptable in terms of the very • Firm Contribution Tool (FCT) (Family Tree) FCT collects and maintains stringent independence rules relating thereto. client entity tree information for independence and compliance purposes and shares this information across the Deloitte network of member firms. An ongoing project is the BRMS policy to cover the new Deloitte Policy Manual (DPM) rules governing directorships and other similar • Deloitte Entity Search and Compliance (DESC) DESC contains all the appointments and trusteeships and executorships. We have required all listed audit clients globally, including their affiliates which are imported professional staff to resubmit application forms for approval for their through the firm Contribution Tool. “other” directorships and for all trusteeships held. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 39 All of these systems have formalised learning facilities which include an Tip-offs Anonymous helps business root out corruption associated e-learning module which has recently been developed using a The firm’s commitment to ethical and professional business conduct Southern African platform. was extended within Deloitte in 1999 through the Tip-offs Anonymous confidential reporting service, which offered all staff an opportunity to Other independence presentations and training is provided throughout the report behaviours that did not accord with the Deloitte approach to the year to professional staff and partners/directors to keep them up to date integrity of its brand, products and services. and informed. Independence Tips are also included in “The Daily Planet”, which includes constant reminders to partners/directors and professional In 2010, the Tip-offs Anonymous reporting service received three tip-offs staff of the rules and cover frequently asked questions. across Deloitte Southern Africa, and in 2011, four tip-offs were logged. Due process was followed on these tip-offs with each being escalated There is constant monitoring of partners/directors and professional staff and managed through the appropriate channels and forwarded to Chief through independence inspection and testing and through the annual Operating Officer, Allen Swiegers, who dealt with each matter. independence declaration process. All our partners and senior managers in National Reputation, Risk and Independence are available to be consulted The Tip-offs Anonymous hotline has been extended to external clients on difficult and complex independence issues. and is now being used by more than 280 Deloitte clients, including corporations, retail organisations, parastatals and public sector organisations within Southern Africa and across the world. Built solidly on the principles of confidentiality, anonymity and providing protection to anyone who makes contact, Tip-offs Anonymous has proved that it has an unassailable place in corporate life as a mechanism to fight ‘white collar crime’ and identify inappropriate behaviour in the workplace. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 40 Magnet for Top Talent Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 41 Our people To this end we will continue to provide world-class learning and career All the elements of business practices at Deloitte that encompass corporate development for all our people, thereby ensuring that they, our clients citizenship, our brand, our values and our principles, are embedded in our and the market benefit as a result. For Deloitte the goal is to help foster a talent recruitment, development and retention strategies. workplace environment that provides our people with what they’re looking for most: meaning, purpose and the special personal connection that they expect from a professional service environment. We want to be “the place “We endeavour to maintain our where the best choose to be”. reputation as an employer of Consequently, our talent management efforts are focused on four main priority areas: choice through the recruitment, • Attracting and recruiting top talent • Retaining top talent development and retention of • Developing top talent the best people and meeting the • Strengthening our culture needs of our firm’s This is accomplished through a myriad of initiatives which are shared further in this report. transformation imperatives.” As a leading professional services firm, we know our ultimate strength relies on the quality of the people we recruit. How they are treated, developed, mentored and grow within our ranks ultimately determines the credibility and strength of the Deloitte brand. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 42 Our Ideal Deloitte In 2004, the partners and directors of Deloitte contributed towards the Our Ideal Deloitte development of a vision statement, defining what their ideal firm would look and feel like, in essence defining our culture. We are proud to work for a firm where our brand is synonymous with uncompromised integrity, ethical practice Over 800 vision statements were collated and summarised. The partners and quality, and where we are the undisputed leaders in and directors adopted and launched their collective vision statement for professional service. We leverage our multidisciplinary approach the Southern African firm, known widely as “The Ideal Deloitte”. to the distinct advantage of our stakeholders. We continually aspire to create an environment where our people can Our firm is truly transformed. experience our employee value proposition which forms an integral part of our vision in creating ‘Our Ideal Deloitte’. We are our firm’s greatest assets and we work with people of exceptional talent and skill. Our leaders trust, respect and listen to us. We are given the opportunity to develop and excel in our work, and are encouraged to have fun. We are motivated to perform at our best. We try to get it right better, faster and more often than anyone else. We work hard to build value for our clients and exceed expectations. We work for the best firm in Southern Africa. That firm is Deloitte. Our Deloitte. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 43 Workforce composition The Talent Board 2011 saw a steady increase in our workforce of 4.8% The Talent & Transformation strategies have been integrated under (3 528: 2010; 3 696: 2011). the executive leadership of Justine Mazzocco. Justine reports to Chief Operating Officer Allen Swiegers on Talent and to CEO-elect Lwazi Bam on Transformation. The Talent and Transformation Boards have thus also been aligned to form the Talent & Transformation Board. This Board is accountable for setting clear direction and signing off on key strategic decisions pertaining to Talent & Transformation on a firmwide basis. It also provides oversight and governance over all aspects of the Talent & Transformation strategy including talent acquisition, onboarding, assessment and partner admissions, people development and mentoring, performance management, reward, transformation, diversity and employee brand both internally and externally. It monitors and provides input into the successful implementation of the Talent & Transformation strategy. The Board meets three times a year and comprises the executive committee, Philip Grobler (head of HR Operational excellence), Diane The average length of service at Deloitte is six years. Schneider (head of Strategic Talent & Transformation) and Bonga Nyembe (Transformation representative on the Deloitte Board). Justine Mazzocco is Region Average Tenure (Years) the chairman. Botswana 5 Johannesburg 6 KwaZulu-Natal 8 Cape Town 7 Namibia 5 Pretoria 7 Port Elizabeth 8 Total 6 * Excludes AMS Germany, contractors, trainee accountants and learners. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 44 myJourneyCentre Make YOUR mark myJourneyCentre Learning and development of talent In 2009, Deloitte launched myJourneyCentre, which was designed to Over the last two years, the guiding principle in Learning was to ensure “the provide trainee accountants with the opportunity to experience life outside right people attended the right programme for the right reason, at the right of Audit through secondments into other business units, and possibly even time.” To achieve the level of focus required for this, business units were to clients. allocated their own dedicated Learning staff member, known as “Business Improvement Consultants” (BICs), who will be present in the business for Since its launch, myJourneyCentre has grown significantly. Our current much of their time. Audit trainee accountants have been on a total of 389 expeditions to business units other than Audit and two trainee accountants have been The purpose of the BIC is to advise the business in terms of matching seconded to Deutsche Bank for a period of 10 months to experience work development needs arising from the performance management process with in the front office banking environment. learning solutions on offer. This will mean that learning solutions are focused on actual individual development requirements, resulting in cost saving and In 2012, myJourneyCentre extended its offering to include talented more accurate budgeting. professionals from all areas of Deloitte. myJourneyCentre now encompasses the following programmes: Certain learning programmes were consolidated or streamlined, resulting in fewer programmes on offer. New focus areas are in place, namely: Industry Talent Mobility Pilot Programme learning, Professional learning, Leadership, and Business Unit specific The Talent Mobility Pilot Programme mobilises our talented professionals technical learning (which is owned by the business). to build networks, gain a better understanding of other service areas, increase their business acumen and identify areas of possible collaboration. There has been a renewal of the learning approach in Consulting, with a This programme involves coaching conversations as well expeditions to new core curriculum being put in place and two new programmes rolled out other business units. with a specific focus on winning business and improving client relationships. My Personal Discovery A popular programme for senior managers, Foundations of Leadership My Personal Discovery provides information and structure to conversations (FOL), was redesigned and successfully rolled out. The objective of FOL with your mentor and leverages off established training programmes. It is to develop the leadership skills of the firm’s senior managers so that also enables our future leaders to connect the dots between their current Deloitte can continue to grow and empower a leadership pipeline for the performance, personal growth, learning and their dream career. future in order to deliver its global and local strategies and improve its market position. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 45 Topics discussed range from strategy, personal leadership, effective To ensure that these opportunities are available, Deloitte Global Talent career management, and change. The programme is also tailored to the has been working on programmes that have the potential to attract high candidate’s individual development areas identified in 360 degree feedback calibre entrants to the firm. as well as the manager assessment and development centre (MADC). It is also an instrumental programme for preparing future leaders for the Talent Referral Programme leadership assessment and development centre (LADC). The Talent Referral Programme is based on the principle that employee referral programmes produce high-volumes of talented people joining an Due to the continued success in the development of the talent through the organisation. In addition to the quality of referrals, the costs of sourcing abovementioned assessment centres in Southern Africa, we were recently new talent are reduced and average retention rates are higher. invited by some of our member offices in Africa and Russia to implement these initiatives in those countries. The Deloitte programme encourages people within the firm to identify potential staff drawn from their circle of acquaintances and professional Graduate Recruitment interactions. The programme has become a steadily growing source for The recruitment of graduates as audit trainees is undertaken nationally, quality recruitment and it is hoped that during 2012, about 45% of all new including Namibia, on an annual basis. recruits will be derived from this source. The intake for 2012 reflected the standing of Deloitte in the financial community, with the firm attracting 300 full-time audit trainee accountants. This meant that, once again, Deloitte was able to achieve a higher than 100% intake. This was achieved against a background in which competition was very demanding. The competition for talent was particularly intense in the search to find black recruits who had achieved the CTA rating. In 2012, Deloitte recruited 45% of Black CTA graduates. The top echelons of students are becoming more aware of the value of international exposure as part of their personal development. Therefore, being able to offer career exposure outside South Africa is becoming increasingly important. Audit Graduate Recruitment Where do you see yourself? Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 46 Reasons to love working at Deloitte • Comprehensive medical scheme to accommodate the diverse needs of employees • Retirement funding through a Pension and Provident Fund with flexible member choice contribution levels Taking care • 24 hour disability and life cover for the members • Security cards with the contact details of the Security Office and ISOS Medical Emergency Services • Travel advisory alerts • Concierge services: in-house travel services, ATM, DVD rental services, Time2 employee concierge services (for Consulting) • Special discounts on different items through Weekly Deals • Car wash services (in Woodlands) In-house services • Muslim prayer room (in Woodlands and Cape Town) • Christian fellowship group • Blood donation clinics • Free shuttles to and from the Gautrain station (only The Woodlands) • In-house learning programmes • E-Learning and Books 24x7 is available to all staff • Financial study assistance and bursaries for staff Brain train • Exam and study leave • Trainee board support • Unrestricted use of knowledge management resources • myJourneyCentre and myBusinessSchool for trainees • Paid office closure in December • Fully paid maternity leave Time out • Generous paternity leave • Family responsibility leave • Month end drinks Social events • Sports days, company hospitality at large sports events • Subsidised uniforms for Receptionists and Beverage Assistants Dress for success • Business casual dress code • Annual IMPACT Day (one full day of voluntary community service) Caring for others • Helping Hands voluntary giving scheme • Deloitte Foundation • Onsite wellness days and events • Access to 24 hour counselling through ICAS for all employees and for their immediate families. Employee Wellness • Debt management services through ICAS (provided by Summit) Programme • Financial and Loans expertise through Interface • Online information through e-Care (http://deloitte.healthinsite.net) Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 47 Deloitte Security Office Travel security The Deloitte Security Office is responsible for the development, • Deloitte can successfully track employees on international business implementation and oversight of policies and procedures that are designed provided that flights are booked though Rennies Travel. This is possible to minimise the risk of the firm’s employees, partners and directors, and through a global agreement with Rennies and the Global Security Office physical assets from harm, loss and/or compromise as a result of dishonest, providing booking and accommodation information for security purposes. criminal and/or inappropriate acts. • Deloitte has implemented travel security cards to all employees while on international business. This provides employees with medical and More specifically the Deloitte Security Office is responsible for the following security assistance 24-hours-a-day and in cases relating to the emergency security initiatives: evacuation in life threatening circumstances. • Physical security • Deloitte currently provides employees with local and international travel • Information Technology security security advice on potentially dangerous situations. • Occupational Health and Safety • Deloitte also provides its employees with guidance and learning in several • Business Continuity Management Protecting our greatest assetssecurity categories. • Travel security Brought to you by Deloitte Security Office During the course of the last financial year Deloitte has invested a great deal of time and effort in order to ensure the safety and security of our employees. Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) • All Deloitte Buildings are compliant in terms of the Occupational Health & Safety Act • Relevant fire, medical and evacuation personnel are trained on an annual basis To report security related incidents • Emergency evacuation plans and processes are clearly defined and implemented email: zasecureyourworld@deloitte.co.za • Plans are tested annually Previous | Next Security Cards 2.indd 1 04/02/2011 08:36 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 48 Business Continuity Management (BCM) is important for the • Business Continuity Management (BCM) The element of BCM which following reasons: deals specifically with the resumption of specific tasks necessary to recover • The first priority is the safety and well-being of staff, clients and other critical functions/processes in the event of a disaster, including personnel, individuals conducting business at Deloitte premises essential records, equipment supplies, work space, communication • The second priority is the wellbeing of the environment and society in facilities, work stations, fax, copy machines, and mail services. which the organisation operates • Business Continuity Plans (BCP) Activities and programmes designed to • The third priority is the recovery of critical business processes which are return the information technology services, which support the business required to sustain operations operations, to an acceptable condition. Deloitte has recognised the potential human, financial and operational Information Security Management Office losses associated with a service interruption and the importance of The Information Security Management Office ensures that systems and maintaining viable crisis management, emergency response and business infrastructures are secure and free from intrusion through the use of continuity strategies. various technologies and tools. In addition, annual awareness programmes are run with staff to ensure that they are kept up-to-date with changes in Our BCM programme is intended to provide a framework for developing risks to information security. plans to ensure the safety of employees and the resumption of time sensitive operations and services in the event of an emergency such as fire, Physical security power or communications blackout, flood, civil disturbance or any type of personnel absenteeism. Physical security refers to the safety and security of our physical premises. It ensures that Deloitte can respond quickly to incidents that affect aspects Deloitte will maintain the following sets of plans in order to relating to our people, buildings and assets. ensure an effective BCM Programme • Emergency Response Policy (ERP) – Procedures that address the initial reaction and activities to ensure the safety of all personnel as well as to work with emergency personnel to minimise or contain the current situation. • Crisis Management Plan (CMP) – Procedures that address the roles and responsibilities around specific incidents and coordinates the decisions and communications throughout the crisis event. Included in these would be public relations and crisis communication activities. These procedures should also address activation requirements for the BCM Programme. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 49 Retention of top talent Maintaining its approach to reflecting the diversity of South Africa at all Transformation levels amongst its ranks, Deloitte has worked diligently over the years to consolidate its approach to transformation, favouring an approach of meaningful change where fairness, trust and respect have bolstered the “The firm is a Level 2 Contributor (125% right of individuals to rise in business as far as individual, personal abilities recognition level) and Value Adding Enterprise will allow. which means that our clients can multiply The firm’s continual drive to achieving transformation rests with the CEO their spend by 1.25 and claim 156.25% of any and the Board, where, with senior leaders from within the business, they develop the formal transformation strategy for Deloitte Southern Africa. services procured from Deloitte & Touche as Assisting the process is the long-held Deloitte strategic intent, which BBBEE spend.” dictates that it is preferable to drive people processes and identify and grow talent from within the firm’s ranks. Today, the success of this policy Transformation remains a key strategic imperative at Deloitte. We are can be measured by the fact that at least 80% of all the black Deloitte committed to sustainable transformation and our primary objective is to partners/directors came up through the rank from junior professional level. grow our talent from within. Our BBBEE scorecard is therefore regarded as an output rather than a Being a magnet for talent requires that we provide opportunities for all, target, with the ‘right things’ combining to effectively achieve objectives while remaining mindful of the transformation imperative, which is critical through the combined efforts of people dedicated to the ideals of to the success of our country and of our firm. The Talent & Transformation transformation. Board takes a holistic view of Talent, ensuring that Deloitte provides world-class learning and development opportunities for all, while We are proud of being recognised by the Association of Black Accountants ensuring that out Black Economic Empowerment targets are addressed. in South Africa (ABASA) for our contribution towards producing the most Transformation, aimed at redressing the inequalities of the past, and Black Chartered Accountants in the 2010 qualifying examination in the Black Economic Empowerment, therefore remain of primary concern TIPP category. within Deloitte. Deloitte has over a period of more than 20 years built a reputation for creating equal opportunities in the workplace for all South Our other achievements include Deloitte having produced 20% of all Africans. In its pioneering role as one of the first firms in the country newly qualified African Black CAs (audit elective) in the market in 2011 and to promote the rights of all, Deloitte laid the foundation for future 23% over the last 11 years. recognition by many black professionals as the firm that offered them ‘a start’ in the competitive world of business. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 50 One of the most significant, on-going concerns is the advancement of women within the organisation. Female partners/directors currently make up 24%, which places South Africa in the top tier among the Deloitte member firms worldwide. Women “Our track record is underpinned are well represented below partner/director level, with 45% at senior manager level and over 50% from manager to support staff. by substance, sustainability and The Women in Leadership (WIL) initiative has recently appointed a new chairperson, Anthea Scholtz (a director in Tax, Cape Town). The WIL team sincere intent.” has four key strategic focus areas: 1. To increase the number of women at partner/director and leadership Grant Gelink, Chief Executive levels 2. To work in collaboration with the firm’s Talent and Transformation strategies to attract, develop and retain talented women 3. To ensure appropriate support is provided for challenges faced by women in balancing their careers and home life 4. To build brand eminence for our firm with key female clients and targets The vision of the WIL is to ‘create an environment that is enabling and a culture that embraces gender diversity, where talented women feel that they have equal opportunities to grow and develop to their full potential.’ One of the successes of the firm’s Transformation strategy, which includes gender transformation, is the appointment of two black female members to the executive committee, Justine Mazzocco (Executive leader of Talent & Transformation) and Nazrien Kader (Service Line leader of Taxation Services). This brings the black representation on our executive committee to 44% and the female representation to 22%. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 51 Transformation targets for 2012 Employee Engagement Survey 2011 These comprehensive transformation targets for 2012 are: Targets Set • 30% Black representation at partner/director level The firm is committed to participating in regular people engagement • 30% Black representation at senior management level surveys as a means of measuring employees engagement levels and • 45% Black representation at middle management level incorporate views and recommendations on how the firm is doing across a • 55% Black representation at junior management broad spectrum of focus areas. • 47% of all professional staff The second quarter of 2011 saw the release of the most recent survey Our Transformation strategy is due to be reviewed on 1 June 2012 with themed ‘Our People Survey – Connect. Build. Grow.’ and included our new targets being set for 2016. The three key areas that we will be member firms in Southern Africa. focusing on in this strategy are: • To increase the number of black and female partners/directors Over the past few years a number of significant milestones have been • To focus on the recruitment of people with disabilities achieved arising from the opportunities identified as a result of prior survey • To maintain a Level 2 status on the CA Charter results. Some of these are the launch of: • Deloitte Way initiative • Working Differently programme • Formation of a dedicated Reward team • Alignment to our global Performance Management Approach With the release of the 2011 survey results Deloitte intends to continue identifying innovative ways to maintain our identified areas of strength, and to seek opportunities to improve on development areas. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 52 Key Achievements • Managerial Effectiveness There was an outstanding participation rate of 87% which reflects a Managerial Effectiveness measures the degree to which managers and keen interest from individuals in the firm to share their views. This was leaders contribute significantly to the perceived quality of the work a particularly pleasing result in light of a significant improvement in environment and engagement of employees. participation levels from the prior survey conducted during 2008 (72%). At an index score of 61 which is higher than the comparative external The overall results of the survey were positive reflecting a workforce that is norms provided for the EMEA region, this index score has been identified engaged and willing to work with and contribute towards making Deloitte as an opportunity to further develop our leadership skills and directs us the best professional services firm in Southern Africa. on where we need to focus and support our manager and leadership bodies so that they can be outstanding leaders. This particular survey measured three key indices: • Employee Engagement Employee engagement is defined as a combination of perceptions that have a positive impact on behaviour. These perceptions include satisfaction, commitment, pride, loyalty, a strong sense of responsibility and a willingness to advocate for the organisation. The engagement results for the Southern Africa firm were very encouraging with an overall employee engagement index of 72. This means that 72% of respondents are proud and extremely satisfied working at Deloitte. • Performance Excellence The index score obtained for this particular area reflected a 74% favourable response from those who participated in the survey. Through measuring Performance Excellence our employees believe the firm is committed to high levels of client service and quality. A strength in performance excellence also indicates that employees have what they need to do their jobs successfully. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 53 The summarised results of the 16 dimensions the survey measured are reflected below 100 % 90 F a 80 79 79 78 v 75 73 72 72 o 70 68 68 68 70 67 r 63 62 a 61 b 60 l e 50 45 40 30 20 10 0 There is exciting work in the pipeline around the development of various We are also passionate about sharing our results and best practice of initiatives to further grow our managerial and leadership skills within the appropriate interventions with our other member offices. firm. We recognise that managerial and leadership effectiveness has a direct impact on employee satisfaction and are committed to ensuring that we are able to retain our talent. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 54 Strengthening our culture The strategy is focused on building value for our clients and making Embedding our values through the Deloitte Way Deloitte a magnet for top talent, attracting and retaining people. The The Deloitte Way programme was launched in 2005 to embody the firm’s strategic drivers of the Deloitte Way programme and the behaviours it culture and values, and encourage staff to incorporate these values in their encourages are listed below: everyday behaviours, which were aligned to the firm’s strategy. • I am consciously aware that my actions directly impact our performance • I build a network of productive relationships founded on trust A cutting edge system was built to enable every Southern African Deloitte • I ensure that everything I do is my best possible effort employee to access the Deloitte Way staff engagement and recognition • I make a personal difference by embracing diversity programme as well as to nominate anyone in the firm they felt was • I stand for and stand up for Deloitte proudly living the Deloitte Way. • I take initiative in driving continuous improvement • I treat everyone with respect and appreciation Our Deloitte Way staff engagement and recognition programme enables each member of Deloitte Southern Africa to nominate any of their colleagues across the Southern African firm. Each nomination requires a motivation which acts as feedback and initial recognition to the person being nominated. 20 860 nominations were made in 2010 and 21 579 in 2011. In addition to recognising our staff, the Deloitte Way programme also enables the firms’ leaders to engage with all staff, and staff to engage with the firm’s leadership, on strategic issues. Top Achievers Banquet February 2012 Overall top achievers in External Client facing: Sherice Walker and Internal Clinet facing: Ryno Dekker Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 55 Deloitte Way Portal The firm successfully launched the new Deloitte Way site on 1 September 2011. The new site was simultaneously launched with a Deloitte Way Talent competition. The end result from the Talent competition was the recording of our own Deloitte Way song, which was written by a Deloitte employee and sung by our own Deloitte employees from across Southern Africa a first ever for Deloitte. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 56 Environmental Sustainability Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 57 Deloitte and the environment Realising our responsibility towards the environment A focused environmental policy As an organisation involved in the economic fabric of Southern Africa, As a Deloitte focus area, our environmental policy has been developed and serving clients from the entire commercial spectrum, Deloitte experiences formalised. Key attributes of this policy are: first hand the challenges facing the environment. • A commitment to complying with the letter and spirit of regulations and statutory requirements regarding the environment For us climate change is a major issue. It is a concern that demands action. • Following the precepts of the United Nations Global Compact principles Every corporate citizen, regardless of their sphere of activity, must play their on environmental sustainability part in ensuring a sustainable future. • Incorporating measures aimed at saving and promoting energy efficiency in all areas of our business The Deloitte commitment to environmental sustainability is firmly • Introducing waste reduction measures, re-use and recycling programmes embedded in the ethos of the firm through our Shared Values and the wherever we can Deloitte Way. • Reducing our need for travel, and where journeys must be undertaken, making choices that minimise the impact on the environment We recognise that it is our responsibility to minimise the impact of our • Promoting staff awareness on environmental issues through workplace buildings, our operations and our services on the environment. We programmes believe that making this commitment work requires that we follow a fully • Selecting suppliers and products on the basis of the impact that their integrated approach to environmental management. services and products may have on the environment • Seeking to improve the environmental performance of our clients Beginning the journey to sustainability through our offerings. We have begun the journey by examining how we consume energy and other resources in our daily activities. Taking a leadership stance on the environment requires that everyone at Deloitte is committed to contributing to a sustainable environment. Our support began at Board level, where the former Sustainability Committee of the Board approved environmental sustainability as one of the firms’ 10 corporate citizenship focus areas. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 58 Practical steps towards environmental sustainability The Polar Race is a test of endurance, a race of passion and a challenge of Our stated objective is to measure our carbon footprint every year and inner strength. Known as “probably the world’s toughest race”, it starts ensure that our impact on the evironment is reduced. Practically, the use from Resolute Bay in the former North West Territories of Canada. It takes of electricity has been reduced through the installation of motion light the contestants some 650 km, by ski or foot, across some of the most detectors, and air conditioners in some offices have been fitted with cut-out desolate terrain in the world, until these brave explorers reach the finish timers. We have set out to achieve our goal by gaining the support of line, namely the 1996 certified position of the Magnetic North Pole. everyone at Deloitte for various activities. On 28 April, after 22 days of walking, Lee reached the Magnetic North Pole. These include: • Engaging the support of all our people by promoting environmental awareness in the workplace on an ongoing basis • Video-conferencing facilities are used to reduce staff air travel “Right from the beginning, I believed strongly that this was • International awareness days are utilised to promote and educate staff the way to help focus the minds of clients and staff on my on environmental issues • We use IMPACT Day as an opportunity to get involved in various professional passion: the need for regulatory certainty around greening activities in the schools and communities we support sustainability and climate change so that business can respond. • The Deloitte Johannesburg, Durban and Cape Town offices have implemented waste recycling initiatives I also wanted to use my personal growth journey to raise • Keeping international air travel to a minimum funds for the Leap Science and Maths School. It was a Lee Swan Leave only footprints once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for me.” Lee Swan’s professional passion may be sustainability and climate change, but few would go to the lengths she recently did to prove her commitment. In 2011, she became the first African-born woman to win With the United Nations Conference of the Parties (COP17) held in the Polar Race, literally walking the talk of our firm’s Sustainability and Durban in November 2011, Lee’s success in this race truly demonstrated Climate Change practice. our brand is Always One Step Ahead.” Returning triumphantly from the biggest challenge of her life, Lee, a manager in our Sustainability and Climate Change team, says her experience has made her more determined than ever to help make South African business understand the opportunities and risks in sustainability and climate change. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 59 Seeing if we measure up The total carbon inventory for Deloitte was calculated to be 18 718 tons The Deloitte Sustainability and Climate Change unit calculated the CO2e for the 2011 financial year. carbon inventory for Deloitte for the 2011 financial year, which ran from 1 June 2010 to 31 May 2011. In line with international best practice, the Of this total: calculation of a carbon inventory was undertaken in accordance with the • Gauteng recorded 14 560 tons CO2e GHG Protocol Corporate Standard. • KwaZulu-Natal recorded 2 380 tons CO2e • Cape Town recorded 1 319 tons CO2e Deloitte included the following emission sources under each scope of • Port Elizabeth recorded 168 tons CO2e emissions: • East London recorded 44 tons CO2e • Fuel consumed in company-owned vehicles. • Fuel used in on-site generators for the production of electricity during Some key facts included: power outages from the national electricity grid. In addition, fuel • Electricity consumption accounted for 64% of the organisation’s carbon consumption in on-site generators for maintenance of the generators. inventory • Electricity consumption (purchased from Eskom). • Business travel was the second largest contributor to the carbon footprint • Business travel (road and air travel by employees). • The Johannesburg office has the largest carbon inventory of all the • Accommodation for business trips by employees. offices, contributing 61% of the total emissions • Paper consumption. • The Johannesburg office has the highest electricity consumption and the highest emissions from business travel. It also has the highest number of staff and floor space • Overall the 2011 carbon inventory is 24% lower than the baseline carbon inventory of 2008 We would like to see a 10% reduction in our carbon emissions by 2020. * (Detailed chart following) Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 60 The data collected for the 2011 carbon inventory is displayed in the table below: OFFICE SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 No. of Employees Floor Space Claimed Fuel Electricity Air Travel Car Hire 1 Paper Procured km FTE employees Short Haul Long Haul FTE employees & Audit Diesel Petrol Flights Flights trainees [<1600km] [>1600km] [litre] [litre] [kWh] [km] [km] [km] [km] [ton] [m²] Woodlands 2 066 16 864 6 219 685 8 471 997 18 368 467 5 965 444 59 1 827 2 382 38 218 Pretoria 1 271 2 660 484 933 091 723 444 869 393 14 295 408 7 901 Durban 1 714 088 797 615 612 471 1 025 522 9 177 290 6 313 Cape Town 1 327 729 270 2 103 771 833 133 448 448 9 227 377 4 720 Cannot be Cannot be PE 20 135 074 120 962 1 26 60 1 150 split out 2 split out 3 PMB 86 241 15 303 18 141 56 581 0 6 16 291 Cannot be Cannot be East London 40 360 1 8 8 425 split out 4 split out 5 RB 25 766 9 106 42 435 7 3 12 180 TOTAL 2 086 19 461 11 610 968 12 330 883 20 555 656 205 565 8 528 785 100 2 569 3 553 64 923 1 We cannot divide car hire into offices as it has not been captured in this manner. This should be done in future. 2 Recorded with Johannesburg data 3 Recorded with Johannesburg data 4 Recorded with Johannesburg data 5 Recorded with Johannesburg data Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 61 Commitment to Society Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 62 Corporate Social Investment As part of a global network of professionals, Deloitte Southern Africa also adheres to global best practice by adhering to the principles espoused “We have moved beyond cheque book charity by the Deloitte Global Corporate Responsibility (CR) Council. This Council and encourage staff to volunteer in various requires that each member firm must adopt and follow the corporate responsibility policy, whilst identifying local priorities and planning initiatives. The greatest impact our firm can accordingly. have on society is by sharing our deep knowledge and expertise. We are indeed Deloitte Southern Africa, in implementing its plans, has recognised that sub-Saharan Africa requires a unique programme driven in part, by a making an impact and ensuring that we have changing regulatory environment and on-going pressures to contribute contributed towards sustainable development.” towards national development goals. Sam Payne, Corporate Citizenship, Deloitte Because of our unique business model our CSI programmes have become increasingly aligned with our core business objectives and imperatives. This In a country where major socio-economic disparities are a fact of life, it is has resulted in the firm concentrating on a smaller number of impactful crucial that individuals and companies alike play a role in helping to address projects that are focused on our key themes of education, job creation and inequalities and build sustainable communities in which quality of life, the enterprise development. dignity of all and the right to opportunities are respected and encouraged. Our enterprise development initiatives include the support of economic Recognising this imperative as a requirement of doing business, Deloitte transformation initiatives that promote meaningful and sustainable access has incorporated Corporate Social Investment (CSI) into the fabric of its and participation in the economy for previously disadvantaged people. corporate strategy by ensuring that involvement begins at Board level and Support from Deloitte ranges from financial assistance to pro-bono services permeates downwards through all levels of the firm. and mentoring and coaching of economic transformation initiatives. CSI is therefore more than an obligation to Deloitte; it is an opportunity The African Children’s Feeding Scheme (ACFS) is a Deloitte CSI project. for the firm to meaningfully participate in the upliftment of communities Supported by the firm for more than 20 years, it has become a tradition in which we do business. In the spirit of this involvement our participation for serving Deloitte CEOs to assume the chairmanship of the ACFS and in projects goes far beyond ‘chequebook philanthropy’, extending into ensure that the ACFS receives the finance, accounting and taxation volunteerism, using our skills, provision of services on a pro bono basis, assistance required of an organisation of its size. sponsorships and donations. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 63 True to tradition, CEO-elect, Lwazi Bam, has already assumed the Believing that providing food on an indefinite basis creates dependency, chairmanship this year and will serve for the duration of his term as the ACFS also: chief executive of Deloitte. • Provides health education programmes • Assists with the establishment of food gardens to create food security Supported by major corporations such as Tiger Brands, who supply the • Offers skills development programmes to ensure that families exit the nutritious foodstuffs to children and families in dire need, the scheme has feeding programme grown to the point where 31 000 children a day are fed. The children • A malnutrition rehabilitation programme come from the Gauteng townships of Soweto, the East and West Rand • A ‘love thy neighbour’ Ubuntu campaign targeted on HIV awareness and and are also drawn from the informal settlements scattered across these education areas. Supplementing this primary need, 1 200 families receive food • A Care-for-Children programme for orphans and child-headed parcels on a monthly basis. households. The statistics speak for themselves. Each child receives peanut butter With its broad range of activities and deep community involvement the sandwiches, the basis of which involves using 263 tubs of peanut butter, ACFS epitomises what can be achieved through the support of concerned each weighing in at 20 kgs from Tiger Brands a month. The company also corporate citizens and individuals. provides 50 446 loaves of bread a month. Pioneer Foods donates the milk required to supplement the sandwiches, while many leading organisations provide donations or contributions ‘in-kind’ that sustain the organisation. Operating in the Gauteng area since 1945, when it was established in Soweto by Anglican Bishop, Trevor Huddleston, today the ACFS operates through nine formal feeding centres in strategic locations. As with most organisations of its type, the ACFS has expanded to meet the growing needs of impoverished communities and now supports education, skills development, aids orphans and child-headed families. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 64 The Deloitte IMPACT Day programme IMPACT Day is a firm wide initiative that brings Deloitte staff closer to local In contrast to the defined ACFS involvement, Deloitte has its internal communities. It is an enriching experience for all involved Deloitte staff to programme called IMPACT Day. This global initiative is designed to personally make a difference in the lives of the impoverished communities bring Deloitte staff closer to local communities. On this designated day, where we do business. The various organisations that we work with during Deloitte professionals around the world set aside their normal business IMPACT Day are organisations that we either have or intend to have an commitments to visit and add value to the communities within which on-going relationship and interventions with. Our IMPACT Day activities they operate. have a mixture of traditional volunteerism; skills based volunteerism and probono work. Some of the initiatives undertaken in South Africa include organised visits to schools, crèches and various organisations to carry out repairs, plant Most of the activities that took place involved most business units trees and, vegetable gardens. Professional skills are utilised by providing concentrating on our global strategy and national strategy of education career guidance and skills training to learners and the teachers, tutor and and skills building. share general life skills and running business classes for entrepreneurs. • Deloitte staff took part in IMPACT Day, with 100% of activities focused on education and skills building. IMPACT Week 5 – 9 September 2011 Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 65 A list of the projects: Office/business unit Types of activities planned Focus area Charity/Project/School name Champion Woodlands • Completing the volleyball/netball court that Risk Advisory was started last year Education JS Mpanza Primary School Shan Naidoo • Setting up a soccer field • Setting up a library and cataloguing books • Designing posters for the new library • Reading to groups of small children • Assisting with writing skills Mveledzandivho Primary Clients & Markets • Training teachers on e-learning for Education Daniela Vaglietti School children software • Training teachers on basic computer admin skills • Establish a vegetable garden • Building a storage room • Gardening • Erecting a jungle gym • Fixing a fence and other various small things at the school • Fire brigade show and cheetah show Olievenhoutbosch Primary Tax and Legal Education Gerda Badenhorst • SAPS K9 show School & Urban Life Church • Teaching soccer and dance • Various children’s activities (smaller children) such as colouring, hoola hoop, face painting etc. • Showing a movie Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 66 Office/business unit Types of activities planned Focus area Charity/Project/School name Champion Woodlands • Installing of shelves for books, toys and other accessories Ratanang Group for • Repairing the offices and the storage Children with disabilities • Installing new windows and blinds/curtains Johannesburg Audit: • Installing a geyser Education Phillip Van Huyssteen Omega Group and Talent • Collecting stationery, school clothes and accessories for the children Uncedolwabantu projects • Installing tables and chairs for the children and health centre • Improving the vegetable garden • Facilitating training to caregivers • Collecting material and stationery Johannesburg Audit: ACFS Community Education • Establish a food garden Education Marlize Hedder Beta Group and Feeding scheme • Establish a playground • Organise a cultural day for staff • Fixing up the vegetable garden • Cleaning and painting the jungle gyms Johannesburg Audit: • Placing a roof over the toilet facilities Thuto ke Lesedi Day Care Education Keegan Scorgie Sigma Group • Planting grass for the playground Centre • Making a tyre trail and a hop scotch playground • Setting up libraries at Yeoville and Mzimhlophe Arc including shelving, painting and installing books sourced from the Rotary club NOAH • Decorating the libraries Johannesburg Audit: • Career guidance, CV preparations and job Yeoville Arc Education Riaan Jacobs Zeta Group seeking skills for Mzimhlophe learners Mzimhlophe Arc • Basic life skills including budgeting, opening Mimi Arc a bank account and saving for Mzimhlophe learners • Sports and fun activities for younger kids • Revitalise the vegetable garden at Mimi Arc Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 67 Office/business unit Types of activities planned Focus area Charity/Project/School name Champion Woodlands • Replenish the garden • Plant more seedlings in the garden and nourish the soil with compost Epworth Children’s village • Reading to the children in the afternoon • Assisting the children with their homework • Purchasing books and educational items Johannesburg Audit: • Covering all books with protective plastic Education Grant Howroyd Delta Group • Maintenance work of replacing shower heads, fixing shelving, replacing door Dorah’s Ark handles, hanging of wooden sliding door, providing a shower curtain • Donating toiletries, food and stationery and clothing collected from staff • Improving on the existing vegetable garden and assisting with the creation of the wellness room while the children are at SSG school Education NOAH Yeoville Marianna Gavriel • Providing wellness room accessories and gardening tools • Entertainment the children • Cataloguing books that have been donated to the school • Launching three books for groups 2, 3 and Auditing & Accounting 5 Education Igugulethu Primary School Cara Botha • Three book quizzes for groups 1, 2 and 4 • Introducing e-learning for children to the learners Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 68 Office/business unit Types of activities planned Focus area Charity/Project/School name Champion Woodlands • Handover stationery for each classroom • Supply and wall mount three whiteboards • Remove old carpets from all classrooms and fit in new carpets • Place approximately seven thin mattresses in the classroom for the children’s afternoon naps GIS • Supply and wall mount six heaters Education Thuthukani Creche Deva Naidoo • Place educational toys in classrooms donated by GIS staff and also purchase new toys • Revitalise the vegetable garden • Entertainment for the children – magic show, singing and balloon sculpturing • Supply two desktops and a printer • Career guidance for grade 10 – 12 learners • Motivational talk for grade 10 – 12 learners GAS Education Eden Park High School Chantelle Stoffels • Vegetable gardening • Donating paper • Painting of classrooms (inside and outside) • Carpeting of classrooms • Providing and giving out food parcels in the community Africa Tikkun • Painting of netball court Wings of Life Centre in Capital Markets • Planting of grass in playground Education Cheryl Bernstein Diepsloot • Planting of trees • Providing an additional classroom for extra lessons • Chess tournament • Rugby games Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 69 Office/business unit Types of activities planned Focus area Charity/Project/School name Champion Woodlands • Career guidance for older kids • Basic life skills for older kids • HIV Aids education in partnership with Risk Management/PSR/JIT/ LoveLife Education Ubuhle Bezwe Child Centre Bongi Ngxishe Transformation • Storytelling and reading for younger kids • Donating all that was collected during the staff collection drive • Green team – revamping the garden and play area • Bookworm team 1 – setting up reading corners in classrooms with theme related paintings on the walls and painting the bookshelves AIS Sparrows Yashoda Ram • Bookworm team 2 covering books in the library and reading to children • Techno team – Revamping the PC centre, painting tables and setting up computers • Vleis team – preparing lunch • Giving out hygiene packs to the children • Teaching the learners to use the e-learning tool for kids • Engaging learners in quizzes and puzzles FIST • Reading to the learners Education Emelang Primary Nokuthula Mtetwa • Painting and cleaning the school • Refurbishing the courtyard • Donating books sourced from the Rotary Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 70 Office/business unit Types of activities planned Focus area Charity/Project/School name Champion Woodlands • Creating a filing and administration system for the school and training the administrators • Donating filing stationery • Painting of the library Corporate Finance • Donating books to be sourced from Rotary Education Alex High School Marjorie Migwalla • Support and create internships opportunities in the long run for the learners • Financial donations from fundraising activities Regional offices • Making over the kitchen at the home • Repairing the ceilings Port Elizabeth • Painting Education EP Children's Home Carin Langner • Supplying the home with essential home-ware Iso Lezwe • Render skills development workshop to community workers at Deloitte • Source container to be used as an office In conjunction with LEAP Realistic Science and Maths school: • Painting murals in the administration block after it has been partitioned. Cape Town Education Izo Lezwe Tania Valentine Realistic Langa Study Centre • Repairing the roof Langa Study Centre • Cleaning of premises to prepare for a vegetable garden • Painting the container • Attending to minor paving repairs • Shelving in the offices/server room Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 71 Office/business unit Types of activities planned Focus area Charity/Project/School name Champion • Designing the new library • Implement a proper library cataloguing Pretoria Education Reitumetse school Rezana Aboo system • Refurbishing the netball courts • Vegetable garden • Planting trees • Painting of kitchen • Painting of boardroom • Painting of jungle gym • Laying and sticking of carpets in office KwaZulu-Natal Sethani Community Centre • Installation of signage at entrance (Durban, Richards Bay, Education Slangspruit Primary School Pratisha Lalla • Installation of T-poles for washing line Pietermaritzburg) Bonisanani Orphanage • Washing of walls • Clean up of play area • Set up library • Creche: sandbox and jungle gym, shoe and bag rack • Leaner interaction and refreshments team Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 72 Investments in the community 2. Jala Greater alignments of our CSI spend with our CSI framework has led to us Jala Capital is an investment holding company operating in the spheres of concentrating on a smaller number of impactful projects that are focused mergers and acquisitions and financing. It assists enterprises by offering on our key themes of education and job creation/enterprise development. them financial engineering and strategic insight expertise. Deloitte has Our enterprise development initiatives include the support of economic previously provided discounts to Jala Capital on professional and support transformation initiatives that promote meaningful and sustainable access services. and participation of previously disadvantaged people into the economy. TEACH Learners Classroom 3. Endeavour Support from Deloitte ranges from financial assistance to pro-bono services Endeavour is a non-profit organisation that identifies and supports as well as ongoing mentoring and coaching of economic transformation innovative, high-growth entrepreneurs in emerging markets around the initiatives. Most of these projects are based on information submitted for world. Deloitte entered into a strategic partnership with Endeavour to our CA Charter verification in 2011. enhance the support and growth of a wide spectrum of promising and established South African enterprises, with a special focus on the inclusion Besides its involvement with the ACFS, Deloitte supports enterprise of entrepreneurs in previously disadvantaged communities in South Africa. development projects which include: Through this partnership, Stoned Cherrie, Stitch Wise and Lere Shoe TEACH Ambassador and learner Shine have benefitted from services provided by the Consulting Strategy & 1. The Succeed Programme Innovation team during the last two years. The services included strategic Working in partnership with the Business Women’s Association (BWA) and assessments, growth opportunities, sales and marketing strategies and Business Partners, Deloitte is involved with assisting female small business expansion planning for the three companies. entrepreneurs to increase the percentage of sustainable businesses. The programme uses business advisory skills from senior leaders from 4. Hope Factory Deloitte in finance, sales, marketing, operations, human resources, legal Hope Factory is a non-profit company focussed on developing, equipping and information technology. and supporting previously disadvantaged South Africans to establish Umthombo and grow businesses through a 15-week training programme. Deloitte Through the Succeed programme, ten business women to date have contributes financially to the Hope Factory to enable it to reach more benefitted from the professional support and development of critical beneficiaries. business skills and the interactions with the business partners involved in the programme. During the last 12 months, more than 120 unemployed people have been empowered through the Hope Factory training and development programme, bringing the total to 800 beneficiaries in the last ten years. Adopt-A-School Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 73 ADT 5. Sonke Skills Solutions Educational support Sonke is a partnership between Consulting, Yvonne Mhinga and The Education is a cornerstone to achieving economic growth in South Africa. Learning Alliance Trust. It focuses on mentoring, coaching and supporting Deloitte supports broad-based programmes that range from support learners on learnership initiatives. Services include support relating to for education facilities, through to programmes at pre-primary, primary, formal training, workplace training, advice and support relating to career secondary and tertiary education level. development, study assistance and guidance, special attention to disabled learners in the workplace environment and counselling. Backing from Deloitte includes mentoring students, refurbishing schools as Afrika Tikkun well as providing educational resources. Some of the projects supported Deloitte provides professional services to Sonke at a discounted rate, and include: offers office space, furniture and the use of the office equipment at no cost. 1. Adopt-A-School Foundation Adopt-A-School Foundation assists schools in need to access basic facilities to create an environment conducive to quality learning and teaching, mainly in poorly resourced rural schools. The Deloitte Foundation made a financial contribution to the Adopt-A-School-Foundation to introduce Bokamoso a literacy programme for learners and teachers at Ivory Park Secondary School. The programme included language competency skills, building confidence and dealing with learning barriers for both learners and teachers. 70% of the matric learners who participated on the programme passed matric in 2011. 2. Project Siyakhula Botshabelo Project Siyakhula is a programme run by Deloitte trainee accountants across South Africa. Volunteers assist more than 400 pupils annually with the key subjects of Mathematics and Accounting. Working closely with the teachers, volunteers from Deloitte tutor Mathematics and Accounting and also undertake life skills activities and offer career guidance to grade 10, 11 and 12 learners from previously disadvantaged schools during weekends and school holidays. Educare Ushaka Execursion Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 74 E-learning for kids 3. Leap Maths and Science School 6. Afrika Tikkun LEAP is a school for exceptional, but disadvantaged, high school pupils from Afrika Tikkun is an NGO concentrating on education programmes, skilling Cape Town‘s townships. The school’s objective is to help the students gain programmes, care of the aged and caring programmes. The programmes access to tertiary study opportunities by graduating from the school with a embarked upon in the different communities are determined by specific university exemption, particularly with Science and Maths on higher grade. needs. Deloitte provided financial support to Afrika Tikkun for the Deloitte has provided Leap with a financial grant over the years and our education and food gardening projects at the Afrika Tikkun Orange Farm Cape Town office staff volunteer in various projects throughout the year. AreKopaneng Community Centre. Last year, the project benefitted 960 Future Leaders people who were involved in the early childhood development, learning 4. Artist Proof Studio (APS) support and food garden programme supported by Deloitte. APS is an Art Education Centre that specialises in printmaking through a variety of diverse partnerships with young artists, established professionals, 7. Junior Achievement South Africa community groups, patrons, and funders. APSs educational mission is to Junior Achievement offers education programmes on the benefits of the develop capacities that equip ‘artists-as-citizens’ to engage productively free enterprise system and entrepreneurship to children and teenagers, so with society through a three-year intensive training programme. they are prepared for life after school. LEAP The Risk Advisory team assisted APS with identifying and managing risks Deloitte supported JASA financially to enable Project Siyakhula learners to and ascertaining sufficient controls in the areas of finance, education, participate and benefit from the entrepreneurial programme in the Durban administration, special projects, professional spacing and the art gallery. region. 5. Botshabelo 8. People Upliftment Programme Botshabelo is a non-governmental organisation committed to providing People Upliftment Programme (POPUP) is a non-profit organisation with a critical support and resources for the community of Olievenhoutbosch. holistic approach to the upliftment of under-privileged communities, and ML Sultan Blackburn School It focuses on Early Childhood Development (ECD) programmes, offers skills development and training programmes, job placement, social community-based child care and home-based care. Deloitte has supported support and medical services. Botshabelo with funding for the training and upliftment of early childhood development practitioners and learners. Deloitte staff voluntarily support the programme financially. The firm then matches the donations with corporate funds. In addition, Deloitte Pretoria ran personal financial management training sessions for the learners at POPUP. The beneficiaries are now better equipped with skills that will assist them in running and managing their finances. POPUP Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 75 9. President’s Award for Youth Empowerment The 12 month programme is designed to go beyond work readiness to The President’s Award for Youth Empowerment is a registered non-profit provide long-term employment opportunities to a number of graduates organisation that empowers young people between the ages of 14 and within Deloitte annually. This includes all graduates being assigned a 25 through self-development programmes, enabling them to become mentor to provide on-going feedback and to assist the graduates with responsible active citizens within their communities. integration into Deloitte. During this time, the graduates are given meaningful work experience, challenging assignments, intensive training Deloitte conducts the annual audit of the President’s Award for Youth and access to e-learning courses and classroom training programmes. POPUP Empowerment at no cost to the organisation. 12. TEACH SA 10. Imperial and Ukhamba Community Development Trust TEACH SA recruits young graduates and leverages their talents to act Ukhamba’s mission is to form partnerships with local and international as educators within rural and urban disadvantaged schools. Selected companies wanting to make meaningful contributions to the advancement graduates (TEACH Ambassadors) commit to a minimum of two years of of people from previously disadvantaged groups. Their priority projects service to the programme and school they are placed in. include the upliftment and upgrading of Grade R classrooms, libraries, media centres and curriculum development. Deloitte staff have been involved in the programme since conception and Siyakhula continue to provide on-going support to the project specifically as advisors Deloitte assisted the Ukhamba Trust to develop the Grade R section of and with the recruitment process of the TEACH Ambassadors.advisors and Rekgutlile Primary School in Vlakfontein and also to purchase books with the recruitment process of the TEACH Ambassadors. and educational toys. In addition, Deloitte provided a financial grant to complete the library at Finetown Primary School. 13. Jumpstart Jumpstart is an innovative career guidance and life skills booklet targeted 11. Future Leaders Development Programme (FLDP) at Grade 9 to Grade 12 learners in schools countywide. Jumpstart Siyakhula This programme was established to actively facilitate the employment of educates, empowers and uplifts the learners and the educators/facilitators, unemployed graduates in the country. The FLDP entails the recruitment, by disseminating crucial information relating to self-knowledge, skills formal training and provision of workplace experience to a selected group development, entrepreneurship, health awareness, career guidance and of graduates, recruited from the Thusanani Workplace Readiness project, other topics that are relevant to society. In the past, Deloitte provided two sponsored by the Financial and Advisory Services Sector Education and financial grants to Jumpstart which enabled the project to expand the Training Authority (FASSET). distribution of the booklets. Afrika Tikkun Wings of Life Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 76 Charities Aid Foundation of Southern Africa (CAFSA) Deloitte also partners with the Charities Aid Foundation of Southern Africa (CAFSA) which helps administer the Helping Hands payroll “I recently got my matric results and I giving programme. Helping Hands is the Deloitte staff voluntary giving programme through which staff contributes to charitable causes of their received 6 distinctions with 93% in choice. Deloitte matches the donations on a ‘rand-for-rand’ basis, thereby doubling individual efforts and enabling staff to make more of an impact. Accounting. I believe I owe this to Deloitte. As a firm we have also made other important contributions to meet Not only did you teach us Accounting but global needs, such as relief efforts after natural disasters. We have made meaningful contributions towards the Pakistan floods relief efforts, as well also inspired us to realise our full potential. as to the relief efforts of the earthquakes in Japan. Thank you very much... and I hope to join Some key highlights: • Deloitte achieved full marks for Socio Economic Development (SED) and you soon as a CA.” enterprise development in our latest BBBEE CA Charter report • Deloitte spent a total of 10 510 hours of staff time on various corporate Siphumele Dlomo, Umlazi Comtech Grade 12 learner 2011, responsibility projects • A total of 1 692 Deloitte staff are actively engaged in corporate Project Siyakhula, Durban Office responsibility projects • Over 400 learners successfully participated in Project Siyakhula in all our regions in 2010. It is pleasing to note that the Grade 12 pass rate improved by 7.2%, thereby giving learners access to study Accounting at university. Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 77 United Nations Global Compact United Nations Global Compact Disclosure Deloitte has committed itself to the ten principles on human rights, labour, Deloitte’s global Shared Values and Ethical Principles are the basis for environment and anti-corruption. The ten principles are closely aligned our interaction with our clients, our people and the public — and are with our commitment to responsible business and our shared values of aligned with the principles of international Human Rights. A commitment integrity, outstanding value to clients and markets, commitment to each to human rights is deeply embedded in the Deloitte Ethical Principles; other and strength from cultural diversity. specifically Respect and Fair Treatment where “we treat all our colleagues with respect, courtesy and fairness”. We seek to comply not only with the Human Rights letter but also with the spirit of the law and have programs in place that The human rights principles of the Global Compact arise out of the support Human Rights in our workplace as well as in our interaction with Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the UN General key stakeholders. Assembly in 1948. As a firm, we recognise our responsibility to uphold human rights both Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of in the workplace and more broadly within our sphere of influence. We internationally proclaimed human rights and address human rights in firm policy by embedding it in the core values and culture of Deloitte, thus infusing a common respect for each other Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that their own operations are not in our approach. In the workplace human rights takes the form of complicit in human rights abuses non-discrimination and diversity in personnel practices. Our recruiting and retaining activities reflect the commitment to our employees. We protect human rights in the community through our corporate social investments in education and enterprise development/job creation. See pages 31 42 Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 78 Labour Environment The Global Compact Principles relating to labour rights are taken from the The environmental principles of the Global Compact are based on the Rio 1998 ILO Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Declaration on Environment and Development (also known as Agenda 21) that was adopted in 1982. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Principle 6 Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Disclosure Deloitte aims to make a positive contribution in protecting the Disclosure environment. We formulate initiatives at a local level, taking global At Deloitte our people are our most important asset and we are committed developments into account. We recognise our responsibility to minimise to building sustainable relationships with them. We believe that attracting the impact of our operations and services on the environment, and we are and, engaging and retaining great people is fundamental to becoming making real progress as we work to develop a fully integrated approach the Standard of Excellence. Our ambition is to be a high performance to environmental management. Deloitte recognises that it has an impact organisation with a high performance culture. By attracting top talent we on the environment, both directly through the consumption of energy and are and will be able to service our clients. To strengthen our As One culture other resources in daily business activities as well as indirectly through the we are committed to investing in talent and leadership development. services we offer our clients. See pages 31 42 See pages 43 47 Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 79 Anti-Corruption The 10th Principle of the United Nations Global Compact is based on the United Nations Convention against corruption which was adopted in 2003 Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all of its forms, including extortion and bribery Disclosure At Deloitte we understand it is imperative to maintain high standards of integrity within our organisation. The conduct of DTTL member firms and their people in the marketplace springs from DTTLs shared values and nine ethical principles which, amongst other core business principles, set the expectation that DTTL member firm professionals demonstrate integrity, objectivity, and fair business practices in all their relationships with clients and other stakeholders. See pages 20 30 Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 80 Glossary of Terms and Contacts Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 81 Glossary of Terms ABASA Association for the advancement of Black ECD Early Childhood Development NGO Non-Governmental Organisation Accountants in South Africa EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa OHS Occupational Health and Safety ACFS African Children’s Feeding Scheme ERP Emergency Response Policy POPUP People Upliftment Programme APS Artist Proof Studio Exco Executive Committee RemCo Remuneration Committee BBBEE Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment FASSET Financial and Advisory Services Sector SAICA South African Institute of Chartered BCM Business Continuity Management Education and Training Authority Accountants BCP Business Continuity Plans FCT Firm Contribution Tool SAP ERP Systems, Applications and Products BEE Black Economic Empowerment FLDP Future Leaders Development Programme Enterprise Resource Planning BICs Business Improvement Consultants FoL Foundations of Leadership SARS South African Revenue Service BRMS Business Relationship Management System FSI Financial Services Industry SED Socio Economic Development BWA Business Women’s Association FTE Full-time employees SETA Sector Education and Training Authorities CA Chartered Accountant FY Financial Year SED Socio Economic Development CAFSA Charities Aid Foundation of Southern Africa GHG Greenhouse Gas SETA Sector Education and Training Authorities CEO Chief Executive Officer GIMS Global Investment Monitoring System TIPP Training Into Practice Project CMP Crisis Management Plan HIV Human Immunodeficiency Virus TR Thompson Reuters COO Chief Operational Officer ICAS Independent Counselling and Advisory WIL Women in Leadership Services COP Communications on Progress IFAC International Federation of Accountants COP17 Conference of the Parties IRBA Independent Regulatory Board of Auditors CR Corporate Responsibility ISOS International Organisation for CSI Corporate Social Investment Standardisation CTA Certificate in Theory of Accounting JASA Junior Achievement South Africa DTT Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu JSE Johannesburg Stock Exchange DTTL Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited LADC Leadership Assessment and Development DESC Deloitte Entity Search and Compliance Centre DPM Deloitte Policy Manual MADC Manager Assessment and Development DTI Department of Trade and Industry Centre Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 82 Contacts Editorial Team The 2012 Stakeholder Report has been produced and published by the Managing Editor Corporate Citizenship team on behalf of the Deloitte Board of Partners Kerry Naidoo and Directors. Senior manager: Internal Communication Markets The report forms part of the commitment by Deloitte to open dialogue with its broad range of stakeholders. Content Development Samuel Payne We welcome and encourage feedback and comments on this report. Manager: Corporate Citizenship Clients Please direct your comments to: • Postal: Design and Layout Deloitte Ryno Dekker Corporate Citizenship Graphic Designer Private Bag X6 Markets Gallo Manor, 2052 South Africa Queries: • Deloitte South Africa Blog Email: sustainability@deloitte.co.za • Twitter • Facebook Follow Deloitte on: • Twitter • Deloitte South Africa Blog • Facebook • Deloitte South Africa Video Blog Tel: +27 (0)11 806 5000 Website: http://stakeholderreport.deloitte.co.za Email: sustainability@deloitte.co.za Previous | Next 2012 Stakeholder Report Deloitte Southern Africa 83 Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee, and its network of member firms, each of which is a legally separate and independent entity. Please see www.deloitte.com/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited and its member firms. “Deloitte” is the brand under which tens of thousands of dedicated professionals in independent firms throughout the world collaborate to provide audit, consulting, financial advisory, risk management, and tax services to selected clients. These firms are members of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL), a UK private company limited by guarantee. Each member firm provides services in a particular geographic area and is subject to the laws and professional regulations of the particular country or countries in which it operates. DTTL does not itself provide services to clients. DTTL and each DTTL member firm are separate and distinct legal entities, which cannot obligate each other. DTTL and each DTTL member firm are liable only for their own acts or omissions and not those of each other. Each DTTL member firm is structured differently in accordance with national laws, regulations, customary practice, and other factors, and may secure the provision of professional services in its territory through subsidiaries, affiliates, and/or other entities. © 2012 Deloitte & Touche. All rights reserved. Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited Designed and produced by Creative Solutions at Deloitte, Johannesburg. (ryd) Previous |
