UN Global Compact Report Reporting period: July 2010 – June 2011 Futureye is a ten year old Melbourne-based management consulting firm specialising in corporate communications and social licence to operate. As one of Australia’s leading management consultancies, we align stakeholder expectations with company performance to protect organisations from the uncertain outcomes of community concern and public outrage. We work with a range of stakeholders to help businesses address the political and regulatory risks that come with a negative reputation. Our major contribution to the UN Global Compact Principles is to assist our clients to recognise, adopt and implement systems to fully comply and to promote the adoption of the UN Global Compact. Our operation does have a small negative impact on the environment and we believe in doing all we can to minimise our negative impacts and enhance our positive contribution. Our operation has a positive impact on the society through the nature of the business, the jobs it creates and projects it undertakes. Futureye is delighted to have been a part of the establishment of the Australian Local Country Network of the UN Global Compact. We are no longer on the steering group, but remain active members of the network. I have also enjoyed participating as a facilitator and speaker at previous Leadership Summits. Katherine Teh-White Managing Director Futureye Pty Ltd About Futureye Core Business Activities 3 Our Client Work Gaining social acceptance for a local industry Futureye conducted stakeholder engagement for a food processing Our Vision: “Enabling sustainability in company in a metropolitan area after community outrage and media companies, governments and communities coverage about emissions from the plant increased. Futureye conducted to deliver net positive social, environmental initial interviews with concerned stakeholders and implemented a and economic outcomes.” community engagement plan designed to address and reduce community concerns. The plan focused on changing the company’s traditional approach Futureye worked hard to keep sustainability on to dealing with stakeholder issues and developing a more collaborative the agenda during the recent Global Financial and transparent operating environment. Following implementation of the Crisis and believe that organisations that plan, the number of complaints received by the company and local council embrace sustainable development are more reduced substantially, with no negative media articles about the plant resilient and successful over the long term. being reported since. In 2010-11, Futureye undertook a number of significant projects which helped us to achieve Outrage capability training this vision. Examples of how we helped Futureye worked with operational field staff for a major resources company companies achieve the principles of the Global to build their understanding and capability around outrage management Compact include: and effective stakeholder engagement practice in a hostile environment. The staff found the training to be beneficial in showing them a new way Improving stakeholder engagement of engaging with stakeholders and resulted in a substantial reduction in Futureye worked with a resources company antagonism at sites. The end result was increased land approvals and less developing a coal mine and the activist groups project delays. who did not want it to go ahead. We conducted stakeholder consultation to assess industry and Human rights policy framework community views, to clarify key concerns and to Futureye developed a human rights policy audit model for a major oil and identify the gaps that needed to be addressed gas company, recognising the latest development of human rights policy through a new approach. Futureye’s work helped internationally. The model was developed in consultation with Human the company to address community concerns Rights expert, Dr. David Kinley. The audit model was cross checked against and resulted in a substantial reduction in the all of the company’s existing policies and recommendations made on the level of outrage and community activism around basis of the findings. the project. A sustainability framework for industry With the rapid expansion of the resources industry in Australia, Futureye was asked to assist an industry group to develop a program to respond to the challenges faced by the industry. Through conducting research into the resource industry’s current state, Futureye challenged Events and Training the industry to define how it wanted to be The Futureye Members’ Circle continued to be a valuable resource for positioned in the future and how it intends to many corporations and individuals. Members were regularly updated via achieve each outcome. The work encouraged the newsletters on emerging issues and trends affecting their organisations industry to proactively engage with employees, or industry. Futureye also organised regular events, seminars and training government, suppliers and the community to sessions that provided the opportunity to meet and interact with leading resolve concerns. sustainability professionals across business, government and NGO sectors. Our program in 2010 included a number of thought-provoking forums. Some of the speakers and topics of our 2010 program included: • OneSteel Whyalla Working with activists to address concerns a forum bringing together Mark Parry, Chief Executive Whyalla for OneSteel and Eddie Hughes, Chairman of its Environmental Consultative Group, to discuss how they developed environmental improvements through a process of effective consultation and engagement between business and activists; and • The status of greenwashing in Australia and ways companies can avoid it an update on the current state of play delivered by presentation from Sam Osborn from Osborn Consulting. www.futureye.com Futureye reaffirms our 4 commitment to the 10 Principles of the UNGC: Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2:  Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4:  The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6:  The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7:  Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8:  Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9:  Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. These principles are implemented throughout our business and we strive to continuously improve our performance in all of these areas. Futureye recovered well from the recent global downturn and has now doubled its staff size and undertaken some ground-breaking significant work for major industries, including the Australian Banking industry. Now ten years old, Futureye is realising the benefits of continued development of its intellectual capital. The latest example of our futures work is the development of the Wikicurve, a powerful crowd sourcing technology tool to track the maturation of issues in a social policy context. www.futureye.com Our Performance in 2010 and Futureye’s 5 response to the ten principles of the UNGC: Futureye has reviewed performance against the targets we set ourselves for this reporting period. We have largely achieved of goals and provided a good base for further improvements in 2011-12. Some highlights: Green energy: 25% of our energy usage is now from accredited Green procurement: During the year, green power. Futureye actively worked to specify accredited Driving continuous improvement: We implemented a green office and labelled green purchases wherever available. policy, encouraged staff ideas, and adjusted our behaviours to improve our We have also looked for any opportunities to sustainable performance. reduce our overall consumption of resources. This has included re-using some single sided Community involvement: Futureye’s Managing Director, Katherine Tehpaper documents before they are placed in White is an Advisory Board Member at Castan Centre for Human Rights recycling bins. Law and Chairman of the Advisory Board, Bachelor of Arts International Studies at Deakin University. She was also on the steering committee to establish the Australian for the UNGC in. HUMAN RIGHTS Practical Actions Evidence / Measurement of Outcomes Principle 1: Futureye pledges its full support for The UN’s Futureye applies the Universal Declaration Businesses should Universal Declaration of Human Rights. of Human Rights to all applicable business support and respect practices, and also consults client organisations We have developed a ‘code of conduct’ kit that the protection on their human rights policies and practices. specifies our behavioural and ethical standards of internationally This will continue to be a cornerstone of our that all employees of Futureye must adhere to. proclaimed human business model into the future. rights When possible, we source Fairtrade products for We continue our endeavour to purchase office use. Principle 2: Fairtrade products whenever possible, and are Our client work regularly seeks to support and on the lookout for new products and materials Make sure that they respect internationally proclaimed human rights, that adhere to Fairtrade guidelines. are not complicit in and recently has included the development of a human rights abuses human rights policy audit model for a major oil and gas company. Targets for 2011-12: 1. Sponsorship of the Castan Centre for Human Rights Law. 2. Futureye to attend Rio Earth Summit 2012. 3. Further development and trialling of Futureye crowd sourcing technology tool to track the maturation of issues in a social policy context platform (Wikicurve). www.futureye.com LABOUR Practical Actions Evidence / Measurement of Outcomes 6 Principle 3: Futureye recognises all employees’ rights All staff members are free to bargain Businesses should to associate freely and participate in collectively and Futureye does not impinge uphold the freedom collective bargaining. on freedom of association. of association While forced and child labour are not identified Futureye is committed to uphold its opposition and the effective as issues within our business sector, we fully to all forms of forced and child labour and will recognition of the support Principle 4 and 5’s commitment to only deal with other businesses that, to the right to collective eliminate forced and child labour. best of our knowledge, hold themselves to the bargaining same standard. Futureye abides by all relevant minimum age Principle 4: laws and regulations in Australia and overseas. Due to our commitment to Occupational Health The elimination of all and Safety, in a decade of operation, we have Futureye is an Equal Opportunity Employer, and forms of forced and had no noteworthy accidents or incidents abides by the Victorian Equal Opportunity Act of compulsory labour involving our staff members. 2010, which makes it unlawful to discriminate Principle 5: against a person on the basis of such things Futureye will continue to be an equal The effective as disability, sex, sexual orientation, religion, opportunity employer and we will make abolition of child race, political orientation, marital status, constant improvements to our policies labour amongst other criteria. We have in place an related to this area. Equal Opportunity and Harassment Policy which Principle 6: applies to all business activities and outlines The elimination our commitment to creating a diverse and of discrimination harassment-free work environment. in respect of We have a comprehensive Occupational Health employment and & Safety Policy that sets up systems to ensure occupation we provide a safe and secure work environment for all staff. Our People Policy details general staff employment conditions that take into account Principle 3-6 of the UNGC. Targets for 2011-12: 1. To partner with other anti-slavery organisations and raise awareness of the prevalence of slavery, as well as the role businesses already do and can play. 2. To offer employees greater flexibility with their working hours to recognise the importance of work-life balance. www.futureye.com ENVIRONMENT Practical Actions Evidence / Measurement of Outcomes 7 Principle 7: Futureye has in place Green office, clean All paper used in office equipment is 100% Businesses desk and IT policies that provide purchasing, recycled. should support recycling and waste minimisation guidelines. All waste paper, plastics and aluminium is a precautionary In addition, procedures to retain a higher recycled in designated recycle bins. approach to proportion of records in electronic format, environmental Computers are switched off each night, along rather than paper copies, facilitate the challenges with all non-essential lighting. reduction of consumption of paper and other materials. Double sided, black and white We are committed to reducing our energy Principle 8: printing is set as default whenever possible on consumption and are able to demonstrate a Undertake initiatives our office printers. downward trend in energy usage over the last to promote greater few years: environmental The majority of our staff walk, cycle and catch responsibility public transport during their daily commutes. 2006-07: 19,810 kWh We purchase carbon offsets for our company 2007-08: 27,140 kWh Principle 9: Encourage the cars and air travel at the end of each year. Our 2008-09: 24,580 kWh development electricity contract takes advantage of the 2009-10: 23,440 kWh and diffusion of GreenEarth carbon offset programme now available from our supplier. Our company car 2010-11: 18,447 kWh environmentally friendly technologies is a hybrid. Futureye is steadily reducing its annual paper Futureye has Board level representation at waste, despite a temporary increase in 2009 Eco-Buy and is also an associate member of and 2010: the initiative, which has a policy of sourcing 2006: 0.35 tonnes products and services from suppliers who share our commitment to sustainable 2007: 0.32 tonnes development. This includes specifying 2008: 0.30 tonnes products that are biodegradable, recyclable 2009: 0.44 tonnes and environmentally friendly. 2010: 0-43 tonnes Our client work is heavily focussed on all areas of sustainability – which includes sustainability Paper usage increased during the last two years of the environment. as a result of bringing some business printing in-house as part of cost saving measures. Paper usage has also increased due to the recycling of a large volume of archived paper files and reference materials that were no longer required. Due to us changing our electricity contract to take advantage of the GreenEarth carbon offset offered by our electricity supplier, our total greenhouse gas emissions generated was 4.71 tonnes and our greenhouse gas emissions saved was 1.57 tonnes, utilising a 25% green power mix. Targets for 2011-12: 1. To reduce total energy usage and switch to a minimum of 30% 4. To purchase ‘keepcups’ for the office to accredited green power by the end of the year. reduce the amount of waste associated with buying coffee. 2. To introduce policies and processes that facilitates a move to paperless record keeping, communication and reporting. 5. To invest in video-conferencing facilities that reduces Futureye’s need for air travel. 3. To look for further opportunity to review our suppliers and purchases to support properly accredited and labelled biodegradable, recyclable and environmentally friendly products. www.futureye.com ANTI8 CORRUPTION Practical Actions Evidence / Measurement of Outcomes Principle 10: Due to the nature of the industry in which we Futureye has a ‘no tolerance’ policy in regards Businesses should operate, Futureye’s exposure to corruption is to corruption, including extortion and bribery. work against low. However, our employees are guided by our Futureye will continue to be heavily involved corruption in all its ‘code of conduct’, which outlines boundaries of in client work that is focussed on elimination forms, including expected and accepted behaviour. of corruption. extortion and bribery Through our client work, Futureye focuses on assisting organisations on minimising their impacts in this contentious area, via services such as ethics and human rights audits. Target for 2011-12: 1. Implement a purchase order system so that Futureye purchases must go through a formalised system with appropriate checks and balances, to ensure that company funds are being used only for legitimate business purposes. www.futureye.com
