Communication on Progress Report 2012 Content 03 Responsibility as a business principle 04 About Giesecke & Devrient 05 Key progress in 2011/12 06 Our CSR strategy 07 – 08 Responsibility requires dialog 09 – 10 Systems and standards 11 – 13 Human rights 14 – 18 Labor standards 19 – 21 Environmental protection 22 – 24 Anti-corruption 25 Security and society 26 Corporate Citizenship 27 – 29 At a glance – G&D’s CSR program Responsibility as a business principle The past reporting year was categorized by considerable uncertainty in many markets. The main causes were the political upheavals taking place in a number of countries and global economic turmoil. Despite these difficult conditions, we were able to remain focused on innovation for the future and continued to fulfill our corporate responsibility above and beyond our day-to-day operational activities. We work with our employees and partners to ensure that our core corporate values of trust, quality, sustainability, responsibility, and integrity are upheld to the benefit of all of us. Everything we do is based on the belief that active responsibility inspires trust and creates confidence. As a family-owned company, we take a long-term view. Accordingly, ongoing dialog with our stakeholders is not just a gesture; it reflects our awareness of our social responsibility and underpins everything we do. Over the past year, in conjunction with our stakeholders we have evaluated the individual elements of our corporate social responsibility (CSR) strategy and adjusted the weightings. We regard the consistently positive feedback from our stakeholders as confirmation of the strategic direction of our CSR activities. At the same time, we were able to gain insights into new expectations, which we will implement over the coming months and years. Our second progress report addresses these plans and many of our other new and ongoing initiatives. For the first time, we are documenting the progress we have made compared to the first report, specifically in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and the fight against corruption. At the same time, we are renewing our commitment for another year as a participant of the UN Global Compact. Dr. Karsten Ottenberg Chairman of the Management Board, Giesecke & Devrient GmbH Progress Report 2012 3 About Giesecke & Devrient Trust, security, and competence are the but also as tools for authenticating watchwords at Giesecke & Devrient and securing online business transKey figures 2011 (G&D) as an internationally leading actions (Government Solutions busitechnology provider. Innovative, ness unit). • Sales of 1,635 billion euros (of customer-centric products, system which 87 % generated outside solutions, and services make G&D a Research and development have Germany) reliable partner for governments, always been a top priority for G&D. central banks, security printers, The Group now has 1,063 developers • 10,500 employees government agencies, and other working on new products and procompanies. cesses. R&D spending totaled around • 58 subsidiaries, joint ventures, 119 million euros in 2011. G&D and associated companies G&D is a global technology leader in holds some 6,700 patents and patent banknote production and processing applications worldwide. • In 32 countries on all continents (Banknote business unit). A family-owned company with its For more information, see the It supplies banks, mobile network roots in Germany, G&D was founded annual report: www.gi-de.com > operators, local public transit authorby Hermann Giesecke and Alphonse About G&D > Company ities, other companies, and original Devrient in Leipzig – a city with a rich equipment manufacturers (OEMs) printing and publishing heritage – as with end-to-end solutions comprising the “Officin für Geldund Werthpahardware, software, and services for piere” in 1852. This year thus marks mobile security applications, especially its 160th anniversary. in telecommunications and electronic payments (Mobile Security business unit). G&D also provides highly secure travel documents, ID systems, and healthcare cards that serve not only as conventional identification documents, Progress Report 2012 4 Key progress in 2011/12 CSr strategy • CSR issues reviewed, prioritized, and systematized via materiality process, materiality matrix created p. 7/8 • Discussions held with external specialists as part of initial CSR stakeholder dialogs around demographic change, creating a more sustainable value chain, and identity p. 7, p. 15, p. 20, p. 25 Employees • Management Board resolution to increase the proportion of women in management positions, initial measures put in place p. 13 • Health management provision expanded with first pilot projects in Germany p. 15 • Further offerings introduced to enable a better work/life balance p. 16 Environment • Calculation of carbon footprint to establish the environmental impact of our production processes and individual projects p. 20 • CO2 reduction target of ten percent by 2016 compared with reference year 2010 p. 21 • Launch of Green Working Group focusing on resource conservation and a more sustainable supply chain p. 21 Compliance • Code of Conduct revised to take into account social/ecological principles of the UN Global Compact, the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the key principles of the International Labour Organization (ILO), and other standards p. 9 • Almost 100 suppliers audited in recent years with regard to CSR-related issues p. 23 • E-learning training sessions on compliance issues already conducted with 8,000 participants p. 24 Corporate Citizenship • Launch of corporate volunteering program to support employee volunteer work p. 26 Progress Report 2012 5 Our CSR strategy: Creating value As a family-owned company, we are responsibility is a management ago when it began participating in acutely aware of our corporate social function the Compact, and also by G&D’s own responsibility. We therefore seek to formal commitment to corporate resreconcile the commercial, social, and The Chairman of the Management ponsibility, which was adopted by the environmental impact of our business Board is directly responsible for Management Board in early 2010. activities. Doing business in a sustainsupervising the development and able and responsible way is part of our implementation of our CSR strategy. G&D commitment corporate philosophy and fundamenThe Chairman is a member of the www.gi-de.com > About G&D > CSR tal to our value framework. In recent CSR Steering Board, the strategic Strategy and Management years, we have consolidated our entity that manages all CSR activities. existing corporate social responsibility The framework for these activities is (CSR) activities and focused on driving provided by the ten principles of the them forward. UN Global Compact, to which G&D publicly committed itself two years Key aspects of our strategy CSR Steering Board Responsible management of natural as strategic management entity resources and forward-looking HR CSR team with cross-departmental operational function policies are at the heart of our social endeavors along with addressing the impact of technological developments on society. Our CSR strategy is divided Action Area Action Area Action Area Action Area Action Area Key Area into the five action areas of the enEnvironment Employees Procurement/ Compliance Corporate Security and vironment, employees, procurement/ Supply Chain Citizenship Society supply chain, compliance, and corporate citizenship, plus the key area of security and society. Standards and certification, e.g. G&D Code of Conduct, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, Sustainability Management, Compliance Management, etc. G&D’s CSR commitment UN Global Compact Progress Report 2012 6 Responsibility requires dialog • To help prioritize our CSR actiValuable suggestions, new ideas, diftionnaires to experts from civil society, Our corporate claim – “Creating Confidence.” – is also the guiding principle vities, we held a workshop with ferent viewpoints: dialog with stakeacademia, politics, and business of our conduct within wider society. The success of our company depends various stakeholders from politics, holders helps us to develop our CSR (customers and suppliers) in order to on the trust of our stakeholders in our products and in our commercial business, and independent speactivities and improve processes and gain an external perspective to comand social activities. We aim to nurture and strengthen this trust on a daily cial-interest groups. The results concepts while also enabling us to plement the internal view. The data basis by acting responsibly and maintaining an open and transparent dialog. were incorporated in our matincorporate the latest developments collected was then discussed in a eriality matrix. p. 8 and expectations into our business workshop with external stakeholders (From the G&D Management Board’s formal commitment to CSR) activities. We continue to engage and selected internal stakeholders. • We held discussions with internal with our stakeholders and are now Dialog inspires confidence and external experts to examine planning to hold discussions on enviThe results were plotted on a materichallenges arising from demoronmental issues. ality matrix that prioritizes CSR issues G&D’s voluntary commitment to CSR graphic change and invited on the basis of their relevance for includes maintaining an open and critical scrutiny of our planning Prioritizing our CSr activities G&D and for external stakeholders. transparent dialog with society. In in this area. p. 15 It is possible to identify trends by 2012, we engaged in initial discusG&D set forth its CSR priorities by establishing how important these sions with a range of stakeholders: • We discussed the design of a defining the environment and emissues are for G&D currently and in more sustainable shared value ployees as main action areas, the future. The issues with the chain with customers and suptogether with a focus on security and highest relevance are data security, pliers. p. 20 society. It further systematized and data protection, and the security weighted this focus in 2011/12 needs of society. External stakehold• We launched a discussion and via an interactive process involving ers from civil society, academia, and innovation platform called surveys and workshops with empolitics, plus customers and suppliers, “identity – Talk in the Tower®” ployees and external stakeholders. additionally prioritize resource conto stimulate an international, servation and environmental protecinterdisciplinary exchange on the A representative group of G&D emtion, while internal stakeholders see subject of identity. p. 25 ployees from around the world and health and safety as the issue with across all grades and functions comthe next highest priority. pleted a questionnaire to rank the current and future importance of The development of a sustainable Discussion with internal and external stakeholders about the materiality matrix in May 2012 CSR issues. We also circulated quessupply chain, environmental issues, Progress Report 2012 7 very high Data security anti-discrimination, and fighting corruption are also deemed to be very Relevance for stakeholders Data protection important. Health impact of products Security needs Resource conservation of society The results and expectations were Environmentally friendly production processes analyzed and then discussed with the Work/Life Balance Energy efficiency individual departments and the CSR Forced labor Steering Board. They form the basis Sustainable supply chain Occupational health for strategic alignment of our CSR and safety commitment over the coming years. Environmentally Anti-discrimination The core areas identified are also friendly packaging explored in this progress report. Diversity management Climate protection Anti-corruption efforts Energy-neutral/ energy-saving products Family-friendliness Green certification of buildings Cotton Political impact of business activities Child labor Demographic change Materiality matrix: Weak governance zones We asked internal and external stakeholders to rate the imporSocial audits Relevance for G&D high tance of relevant CSR issues for high very high G&D now and in the future. The points plotted on the matrix represent the average of the two ratings (current importance and Human Rights Employment Environment Product Responsibility Market & Society future importance). Progress Report 2012 8 Systems and standards: How we manage CSR Overarching systems Rights. The updated Code of Conat one of our subsidiaries in 2012 to Compliance is particularly successful duct was issued to all employees collect the relevant data. All locations when commitment is personal and Sustainable and consistent manageworldwide in the spring of 2012. will be included from 2013 onwards. explicit. Accordingly, the Statement ment of operations within a global on Business Controls is signed organization requires clear guideCode of Conduct internal compliance annually by the managing director of lines, programs, and management www.gi-de.com > About G&D > CSR each G&D subsidiary and by division systems. Our five corporate values of > Compliance To ensure compliance with the values managers, along with their regional trust, quality, sustainability, responand principles enshrined in the chief financial officer or division sibility, and integrity form the frameCode of Conduct and other guidecontroller. The document contains work for our sustainable activities. Sustainability in a single system lines, we have embedded a Groupdeclarations on combating corrupwide compliance management tion, data protection, labor standThe G&D Code of Conduct reflects We are currently rolling out iSO system into our business processes. ards, human rights, and environthese values as an overarching set 14001 and OHSAS 18001, across Compliance with the law is vital to mental protection. Regional findings of rules that apply to G&D around the Group and all our activities G&D, given the need to ensure the from the accompanying questionthe world – at every location, in relating to protection of the climate, highest security standards and comnaire are incorporated into our every business unit, and in our environment, resources, and health plete confidentiality. For us, integrity risk map, which is also reviewed dealings with business partners and and safety are based on these also includes respecting competition, each year. Based on this and other each other. It also incorporates the management systems. They are comresisting political influence, and information, the risk map indicates ten social and ecological principles plemented by Group-wide standrejecting both active and passive compliance risks in the countries in of the UN Global Compact. We have ards. All major production locations corruption. which we operate. added key aspects of the compliance will be included by 2014. management system established Since the beginning of 2011, our The Compliance Office at our corin recent years and included requireWe have incorporated planning and compliance helpline has provided porate headquarters in Munich ments in accordance with the monitoring of our sustainability activa central point of contact for any submits a report on the compliance OHSAS 18001 occupational health ities into a sustainability manageemployee, customer, or supplier with management system to the Superand safety standard. Furthermore, ment system (previously the Green a question concerning legal requirevisory Board. Individual incidents are our Code of Conduct is now comSustainability/EHS program). Our indiments or company guidelines/policy. notified separately and immediately patible with the core employment cators for the new system are based It is also a simple way of reporting to the Chairman of the Management standards of the International Labor on Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) suspected violations in the strictest Board so that appropriate action Organization (ILO) and the UN’s standards for sustainability reporting. confidence. The helpline can now be can be taken. The effectiveness of Universal Declaration of Human We will be launching a pilot project used from almost all locations. our integrated compliance manageProgress Report 2012 9 ment system is currently undergoing Almost half of our key suppliers have assessment by auditors in accordance answered the Compliance Queswith Assurance Standard 980 of tionnaire to date. We are working the Institute of Public Auditors. This to increase this number by actively verification process will be completapproaching the remaining suppliers. ed by the end of 2012. The Agreement on Business Ethics makes reference to the Supplier External implementation Conduct Principles. These oblige suppliers of the Mobile Security In order to maintain sustainable and business unit to adhere to the same responsible conduct throughout the CSR standards that apply to G&D. entire value chain, we set very high We have set ourselves the target of standards for our suppliers. Potential ensuring that 75 percent of our partners must undergo a multi-stage key suppliers in this area commit selection process covering criteria, to these rules by the end of 2012. such as quality management, proAround 65 percent had already done duction site standards, and CSR-relso by June 2012. Our new Code of ated aspects, as well as their financial Conduct will be used as the benchsituation and product quality. A mark for suppliers to all business Compliance Questionnaire for units in the future. By the end of G&D Business Partners and an 2013, at least 80 percent of our key Agreement on Business Ethics suppliers will be required to have specifically address compliance issues. completed the Compliance QuestionIn accordance with the value we naire and/or the Agreement on place on our relationships with speBusiness Ethics, effectively making cific “key suppliers,” we have issued the G&D Code of Conduct applisuch suppliers with at least one of cable to their operations. the two documents as a binding requirement. Progress Report 2012 10 Human rights: Observing and respecting human rights 1 2 G&D is committed to respecting huP rin ciple Pr i nc i p l e man rights and actively promotes their protection worldwide. Our Code of Conduct, updated in early 2012, states: “We respect the personal dignity, privacy, and rights of Businesses should support and Businesses should make sure every individual. We are opposed to respect the protection of that they are not complicit in discrimination and unequal treatinternationally proclaimed human rights abuses. ment based on gender, ethnic origin, human rights. religion or ideology, disability, sexual orientation, or age.” The Code of Conduct lays down the standards of responsible behavior expected from employees and applies to all organizational units and associated companies in which G&D directly or indirectly holds more than 50 percent of the shares. In order to further embed respect for human rights within the company, we revised the Code of Conduct during the reporting period to take account of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other standards. (p. 9 Overarching systems) Progress Report 2012 11 1 2 Human rights Internal and external by senior managers and signed with Focusing on equal opportunities To raise awareness of these issues, responsibility legally binding effect. (p. 9 Internal managers took part in a pilot workcompliance) For us as a company, one of the most shop on the German General Our senior managers have a special important action areas with regard Equal Treatment Act in Munich at responsibility to ensure compliance In order to help every employee to protecting human rights is the the end of July. with company policies and guidelines worldwide to act in accordance with promotion of equal opportunities worldwide. The comprehensive Statelaws and internal corporate guideand implementing anti-discrimination ment on Business Controls, which lines, we also conduct compulsory measures. Our approach is supported covers human rights and other specific e-learning training sessions on comby our employees and external issues, must be completed annually pliance-related issues. (p. 24 Empstakeholders, who rated this issue loyee anti-corruption training) highly in the materiality process. G&D launched a diversity project in We also expect our business partners 2011 to develop strategies for and suppliers to respect human rights tackling discrimination on the basis as a basic requirement. The Mobile of gender, age, or cultural backSecurity business unit has developed ground. We are working on proextended standards of conduct – grams and activities in these areas Supplier Conduct Principles – specifito ensure equal treatment. cally for its suppliers, which they are required to accept. In the future, new G&D does not tolerate unlawful key suppliers will be required to harassment or discrimination of any accept the revised G&D Code of Conkind. Since September 2011, three duct, which will replace our existing complaints have been made to the qualification process and the Supplier Equal Opportunities Officer in Conduct Principles. New business Germany and all were investigated partners will thus be committing immediately. Two were dealt with themselves to comply with G&D’s and resolved directly; the third comethical principles on the protection of plaint was resolved with the assishuman rights. (p. 10 External impletance of the individual department mentation) involved. Progress Report 2012 12 1 2 Human rights Focusing on equal opportunities mation platform for highly-qualified reporting period. We are continuing for women women, having registered on the to develop our diversity policy and Gender Dax site in late 2011. will add specific measures to cover During the reporting period, we introcultural diversity. duced specific measures to support www.genderdax.de > Large comthe career opportunities and profespanies > G&D sional development of our female employees. The Management Board Women are also at the center of our set forth a strategic objective for development activities to promote G&D to increase the proportion of talented junior employees. We are women in the executive and global seeking to ensure that women make management team (comprising over up at least 28 percent of our Talent 500 managers) to 15 percent by Pool program, which nurtures the 2015. Our long-term aim is for the potential of outstanding employees proportion of female managers to and helps them to become technomatch the proportion of women in logy specialists or managers. We have the G&D workforce in each country. already exceeded this target in our We will look to achieve this through trainee program, where three of the succession planning and placing five participants are women. more women in senior management roles. Progress has already been In addition to gender diversity, we made on supporting women in key are also focusing on promoting positions: a women’s network has equality in relation to age. A strategy been established, a Group-wide leadfor dealing with the impact of demoership training program for women graphic change has been drawn up in middle management positions has in this action area. (p. 15 Demobeen set up, and we are giving highgraphic change) er priority to this issue in our internal communications within the company. G&D will maintain its commitment We also report our progress in detail to protecting human rights in its on the Gender Dax website, an inforsphere of influence over the coming Progress Report 2012 13 Labor standards: Showing appreciation – working together 3 4 In early 2012, we published our reP rin ciple Pr i nc i p l e vised G&D Code of Conduct, which applies across the Group. The revisions included aligning the Code of Conduct with the principles of the International Labour Organization Businesses should uphold the Businesses should uphold the (ILO) and placing greater emphasis freedom of association and elimination of all forms of on fundamental labor standards, the effective recognition of forced and compulsory labor. including freedom of association, the right to collective barnon-use of forced or child labor, and gaining. a discrimination-free workplace. In addition, all employees are assured 5 6 the same career opportunities. This P rin ciple Pr i nc i p l e is safeguarded by our diversity policy, which covers gender, age, and cultural diversity. (p. 12 Focusing on equal opportunities) All G&D employees worldwide have Businesses should uphold the Businesses should uphold the received the new Code of Conduct. effective abolition of child elimination of discrimination The internal audit department (Corlabor. in respect of employment and porate Auditing) assesses compliance occupation. with the Code of Conduct as part of its audits. (p. 9 Overarching systems) Progress Report 2012 14 3 4 5 6 Labor standards Further improving occupational potential risks in their day-to-day ventive measures, and the availability Demographic change safety working life and on their way to and of company physicians. from work. It is also essential to ensure equal opIn the materiality matrix, G&D empThe basis for this is provided by portunities and eliminate discriminaloyees and external stakeholders All our policies and strategies relating OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health tion in relation to age. The significant rated occupational health and safety to environmental protection, health, and Safety Assessment System). All impact that demographic change as the most important sustainability and occupational safety have been production locations in Germany, will have on the workplace of the issue in the employee action area. brought together in our sustainaSlovakia, Barcelona, China, and future is reflected both in our diverWe are already addressing the imporbility management system, formerly Turkey were certified in accordance sity policy’s age-related aspects and tance of this issue by organizing initithe environment, health, and safewith this standard during the rein the materiality matrix: those suratives, such as occupational safety ty (EHS) program. The relevant data porting period. Other locations will veyed see this issue experiencing the days, the first of which took place in from around the world is collected be certified in early 2013. The greatest increase in importance in the Munich in the fourth quarter of 2011. centrally in the system and evaluated. standard will be extended to all future. (p. 8 Materiality matrix) From 2013, we will also record the major production sites by 2014. Some 600 employees attended the type and number of work accidents, G&D aims to respond to the effects event and learned more about first aiders, health programs and preHealth management system of demographic change with holistic HR policies tailored to the different Existing occupational health and safestages of life. We have developed a ty provisions have been expanded demographic strategy to help us do to include preventative measures that this. The strategy brings together our encourage healthy living. During existing measures and strategically the reporting period, G&D ran pilot aligns them with the three pillars of projects in Munich on ergonomics in managing talent, maintaining empthe workplace and inner balance, loyee performance levels, and leaderadding exercise and diet in the ship and professional development. second half of 2012. Findings from Check-ups covering each business the pilot projects in Munich will be area are a key feature of our demoused to adapt provisions to local congraphic strategy. Each business unit ditions and the needs of employees will be analyzed individually with in other locations. regard to the challenges facing it and activities developed to help counter Progress Report 2012 15 3 4 5 6 Labor standards the impact of demographic change. Innovative and flexible working time We also want to further increase the This check-up process has already models allowed the number of partnumber of part-time employees in been piloted in one department. In time positions in Germany to be Germany. Our plans for an improved March 2012, a stakeholder dialog increased and the average length of family-friendly workplace include on demographic change was held in parental leave to be shortened to holding more seminars on work/life which academics, occupational phy14 months. Employees also receive balance, publishing reports on the sicians, and HR strategists exchanged support to help them care for childintranet about combining work and ideas with G&D’s demographics exren and dependent relatives. Concaring responsibilities, and expanding perts and confirmed the strategy’s crete proof of the progress made our childcare provision. We are also direction. G&D will continue to take during the reporting period can be considering introducing a new vacaan active role in positively shaping the seen in the form of the new daycare tion program for children between impact of demographic change on center at the Louisenthal site the ages of 11 and 14. the Group and its employees. (KitaLou) and the new sports hall for the daycare center at Königstein, G&D was once again awarded the Work/life balance as well as free advice on illness and “berufundfamilie” certificate in caring responsibilities at our Munich Germany for its commitment to We want to make it easier for our and Leipzig locations. A highlight for family-friendly working practices. The employees to create a better balance our employees and their families was third re-audit will take place in May between their work and private life. the G&D Family Day in Munich in 2013 in accordance with a new certiWe aim to create a working environJune 2012, which attracted 5,000 fication procedure for long-standing ment in which an employee’s family visitors, including 1,000 children. participants. situation and private needs are not a hindrance. We believe that the performance of our employees depends on more than just the hours they spend at work – committed employees also need to take time out Part-time positions at G&D Germany with the support of their employer. G&D therefore considers a healthy To end of 2010 To end of 2011 Mid-2012 work/life balance and family-friendly 7,4 % 8,4 % 9,2 % policies to be highly relevant. Progress Report 2012 16 3 4 5 6 Labor standards Employee involvement “Value-Based Management at G&D” project, our corporate values are One of the priorities of the G&D maspecifically defined and explored nagement team is to know how staff in discussions with management staff members view their employer and and the challenges of integrating their associated expectations and them into management practice are then to take these views into consiidentified. The project also equips deration in the future. As a result of managers with the skills to incorpothe last global employee satisfaction rate the values into their own behavsurvey, carried out in 2010, a range ior. After the executive management of measures aimed at continuous imteam has completed the workshops, provement of working conditions, middle management will have the promoting collaborative working, and chance to take part. A corresponding boosting equal opportunities were value-based leadership training introduced across the Group, many concept was successfully launched of which are still being implemented. as a pilot project in Sweden during The next worldwide employee satisthe reporting period. Going forward, faction survey will take place in 2013. the program will be implemented worldwide. Developing managerial competence Our fourth 360-degree appraisal exercise for managers is also due to In order to establish a value-based take place at the end of 2012. The management culture and make our previous survey in 2009 had a particiWe also plan to introduce a global corporate values a long-term compopation rate of 85 percent. The feedGroup-wide process for evaluating nent of our global management and back process, which is mandatory managerial staff in relation to specific talent development program, we are for all managers, will now take the tasks and objectives. We are currentparticipating in the “Verantwortung form of a revised questionnaire ly working on a new concept for this unternehmen” (“Taking responunderpinned by the concept of valueprocess. sibility”) initiative run by the Eberhard based leadership. von Kuenheim Foundation. In the Progress Report 2012 17 3 4 5 6 Labor standards Selected activities in the action area employees Focusing on health and safety • Value-based leadership pilot project in Sweden • Job sharing in Australia, India, Louisenthal, and Munich • Part-time managers in Australia, Munich, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and Scott O‘Hara is not only HR director of G&D Australasia (GDAA), he is also responsible for health and safety at our in the USA Australian production sites in Melbourne and Sydney. As a safety officer, he has been implementing guidelines and • Mentoring programs in Germany, India, Mexico, and the UK measures based on international standards since 2002. He has set his sights on reducing health and safety risks at • Informal network for women in Munich GDAA to a minimum. • On-site daycare in Munich and Louisenthal • Non-discrimination policy at all major locations In addition to new traffic management guidelines for production sites and regular safety training for departmental • Safety representative at all major locations managers, O’Hara’s team has introduced an online platform that restructures all health and safety and HR docu• Company physician at German, Mexican, Spanish, and UK locations ments. “By sharing key information via the new document management system, we ensure compliant behavior and are able to disseminate important standards across the whole company.” The new platform enables GDAA to systematically provide its employees with documents relating to 20 relevant guidelines and 15 sets of instructions. These cover topics, such as emergency procedures or dealing with risks and injuries. If a document is relevant to an employee – and the majority are – the employee has to confirm they have read it. O’Hara has also introduced free health check-ups at GDAA based on a government program. “Half of our employees have already taken part since last year and had their blood pressure and cholesterol levels checked and been tested for diabetes. They have also received information about a balanced diet and healthier lifestyle.” The program is set to continue in the future. Progress Report 2012 18 Environmental protection: Considering generations to come 7 8 Responsible use of resources and P rin ciple Pr i nc i p l e protection of our climate and the environment are core CSR elements and therefore a key action area of G&D’s CSR policy. The G&D Code of Conduct includes a binding commitBusinesses should support a Businesses should undertake ment to the fundamental principles precautionary approach to initiatives to promote greater of environmental protection. When environmental challenges environmental responsibility. prioritizing sustainability issues for our materiality matrix, all of those surveyed rated resource conservation, environmentally friendly production 9 processes, and implementation of P rin ciple a sustainable supply chain as highly important. (p. 8 Materiality matrix) A strong commitment to climate and environmental protection Businesses should encourage The new Group-wide sustainability the development and diffusion management system integrates the of environmentally friendly various worldwide activities and technologies. programs aimed at protecting the environment and climate (“Green Sustainability” and the EHS program “environment, health, and safety”). Progress Report 2012 19 7 8 9 Environmental protection It defines binding principles to move of 2014. Through Group-wide susTo systematically improve our carbon Green products and product the company closer towards our tainability programs, we are also footprint across all areas of our corcarbon footprint objective of a sustainable value chain working on site optimization and porate activity, we have implemented and is based on the certified ISO efficiency gains to boost environa climate protection strategy and are Alongside reduction of CO2 emissions 14001 and OHSAS 18001 managemental and climate protection. cutting our CO2 emissions. Establishat the production sites and throughment systems. Thirteen sites and subing our corporate carbon footprint out all corporate processes, G&D sidiaries are already certified to ISO Global Compact principles as a is an important milestone in this is working on a green product policy, 14001, which means we are on track supplier requirement regard. Accordingly, we calculated which is also a binding element of for all our main production sites to the greenhouse gas emissions at our the G&D Code of Conduct. In prodbe certified to ISO 14001 by the end G&D also expects its business partlargest production sites during the uct development, design, manuners and suppliers to uphold environreporting period. facturing, and packaging, we aim to mental standards and use natural combine outstanding technical resources responsibly. In the future, On the basis of our carbon footprint, quality with efficient use of raw acceptance of the new G&D Code of we have defined objectives and activmaterials and resource conservation. Conduct will be a precondition for ities designed to reduce emissions We are developing “green” products approval as a new key supplier. (p. 10 and ensure resources are used more made of materials that are environExternal implementation) efficiently at our various locations. mentally friendly, durable, and easy We have set ourselves the overall tarto recycle. These include payment Sustainability in the value chain get of cutting CO2 emissions by ten cards made of recycled plastic and percent by 2016 compared with the green SIM cards with a paper body. Issues such as water consumption reference year 2010. We will also puband carbon emissions along the enlish our reduction targets as required We record greenhouse gas emissions tire production and supply chain are by our participation in the Carbon via the product carbon footprint (PCF) set to become increasingly important Disclosure Project. Now that we have to give us a clearer picture of the in the future. That was the consensus established Group-wide corporate emissions released during our prodreached in initial discussions held in carbon footprints, we intend to apply uct manufacturing process, as well as May 2012 between G&D experts and a similar focus to our water footprint. those produced by our suppliers and selected customers, suppliers, and association representatives with the Carbon Disclosure Project aim of making the shared value chain www.cdproject.net more sustainable. Progress Report 2012 20 7 8 9 Environmental protection in the supply chain. Since April 2012, we have been able to calculate Our carbon footprint product-related values for all card products that are manufactured or personalized in four different By the end of 2011, we had put together a comprehensive picture of our locations. overall carbon footprint and included all major production sites in our calculations. Our corporate carbon footprint (CCF) amounted to 334,500 During the reporting period, we also tons of carbon dioxide in 2011. By way of comparison, some 800 million set up a Green Working Group in the tons of carbon dioxide are emitted in Germany every year. Mobile Security business unit with the aim of improving resource conOur direct emissions, released by our own production facilities, for example servation and enhancing the sustain(scope 1), amounted to 39,800 tons of CO2 in 2011. Another 112,048 ability of the supply chain. Comtons of CO2 resulted from the purchase of energy (electricity, district prising employees from G&D head182,642 tons of CO2 heating; scope 2). The largest proportion of emissions came from services from services provided or services quarters and the subsidiaries, the and products acquired, such provided or services and products acquired, such as materials purchased, working group will address “green as materials purchased, or from or from business travel (scope 3). In 2011, this figure totaled 182,642 tons. business travel (scope 3) issues” across all areas of the business – from research, procurement, We have set ourselves the goal of cutting scope 1 and 2 emissions by ten and product management to producpercent by 2016, compared with the reference year 2010 (when we tion and distribution. first recorded our emissions). We will do this by taking the appropriate 112,048 tons of CO2 from the purchase of measures to reduce our carbon footprint and making more efficient use energy from electricity As a member of the International and district heating of energy. (scope 2) Our carbon footprint Card Manufacturing Association in 2011 (ICMA), G&D also participates in the Greening of the Factory working group established in 2010. This group looks at ways to protect the 39,800 tons of CO2 from direct emissions, environment and resources during released by our own production facilities, the production of payment cards and for example (scope 1) SIM cards. Progress Report 2012 21 Anti-corruption: Applying values – respecting rules 10 G&D is committed to fighting corrupPr i nc i p l e tion, including extortion and bribery, and to acting in accordance with all relevant laws. We pursue a policy of zero tolerance. Rule infringements are not tolerated and compliance Businesses should work against violations are penalized accordingly. corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The results of the materiality process support our stance. In the survey, internal and external stakeholders rated combating corruption as one of the most important sustainability issues for G&D. This strengthens our resolve to continue developing existing systems and activities, without losing sight of the need to consider other alternatives to help us reach our goals. We have made significant progress in this area in recent years. Some of the most important milestones achieved are: setting up our compliance management system, comprising a Compliance Office, regional compliance advisors (regional CFOs), and compliance ambassadors (managing directors of subsidiaries), plus a helpline; updating the Code of Progress Report 2012 22 10 Anti-corruption Conduct in the last reporting period; dealings with business partners and all of which turned out to be minor government officials. The aim is that e-learning training sessions for our with each other. The new Code of after detailed scrutiny. by the end of 2013, at least 80 peremployees. (p. 9 Internal compliConduct was published in the spring cent of our key suppliers will have ance) of 2012 following incorporation of The effectiveness of our compliance been analyzed using the Compliance the UN Global Compact principles management system is currently Questionnaire and/or the Agreement Binding anti-corruption and the rules that underpin our being assessed by auditors in accordon Business Ethics. (p. 10 External guidelines compliance management system, ance with Assurance Standard 980 implementation) plus other standards. of the Institute of Public Auditors. The Code of Conduct is a key comVerification will be completed by the We have carried out nearly 100 audits ponent of our zero tolerance policy The compliance helpline now covers end of 2012. on CSR-related issues in recent years and applies at every location, in every nearly all locations. There were to check compliance with our guidebusiness unit, and in our day-to-day three notifications in the past year, The UK Bribery Act came into force lines. over a year ago, setting a tough new benchmark for international companies. In response, we introduced our own ABC (anti-bribery and corruption) policy in July 2011. Anti-corruption guidelines for our suppliers Our business partners are bound by the same standards as those that apply to G&D. All our key suppliers are required to complete a special compliance questionnaire for G&D business partners. This integrated questionnaire is a valuable instrument for examining suppliers with regard to corruption, as well as their relationships and connections with Progress Report 2012 23 10 Anti-corruption Prevention is key corruption policy and ensure every employee worldwide is supported The helpline: reporting problems and obtaining support G&D’s compliance management with regard to acting in accordance system follows a simple principle: with laws and internal corporate prevent, investigate, act. For us, guidelines. Around 8,000 of our The helpline set up in April 2011 is an important part of our corporate prevention is an essential tool for 10,500-strong global workforce have compliance management system. G&D employees can use it to contact avoiding compliance violations. Mantaken part in e-learning seminars on the Compliance Office in Munich with any queries concerning legal or agers of all G&D companies and compliance-related issues to date – company requirements. Violations of legislation or corporate policies and companies in which G&D holds at an increase of 2,500 employees comguidelines can also be reported in this way. All queries are handled in the least a 50-percent stake are required pared with the previous year’s report. strictest confidence. The details of the person providing information are to implement, monitor, and, where We are continuing to conduct trainonly disclosed with their consent. Any essential information that needs necessary, improve internal anti-coring sessions on compliance issues in to be stored is held on a standalone laptop without any connection to ruption rules. Internal monitoring and order to strengthen our compliance internal or external networks. documentation is undertaken using culture. the Statement on Business Controls. “It is standard procedure for the Compliance Office in Munich to investi(p. 9 Internal compliance) Internal reporting gate all calls with the utmost discretion,” says Günther Rubesch, head of the Compliance Office at G&D. “The facts are fully checked and further G&D has also further refined its risk Monitoring is also carried out as part information is sought, if necessary.” If a suspicion is confirmed, the map based on the content of the of the compliance management accused party is informed of the allegation and given the opportunity to Statement on Business Controls, the system to ensure laws and internal explain their position. If a compliance violation or breach of the law is Corruption Perceptions Index comregulations are adhered to with regard indeed deemed to have taken place, the case is handed over internally to piled by Transparency International, to anti-corruption. The Compliance the department responsible. Of the three cases reported to the helpline and the results of reports from G&D Office reports to the Group’s during the past year, none was found to be significant after being subsidiaries. The risk map is updated Management Board on a quarterly thoroughly examined. every year. basis and reports annually to the Supervisory Board on the compliance Employee anti-corruption management system. Individual intraining cidents are reported separately and immediately to the Chairman of the Communication and training sessions Management Board so that approare an important part of G&D’s antipriate action can be taken. Progress Report 2012 24 Security and society: Safeguarding values – shaping the future As an international technology group, symbolizes the detachment from we safeguard transactions and the everyday business required for new authenticity of identities and values. perspectives. In doing so, we aim to address both the technological and the social The discussion platform was launched challenges of our digital world. Data in Berlin on May 11. Selected interprotection and data security are national experts from a variety of highly relevant to our core business fields, including philosophers, lawand also very important on a societal yers, political analysts, IT experts, and level. This was confirmed by the business people, developed an overinternal and external surveys for our view of the various aspects of identity. materiality matrix (p. 8). The group agreed to start with two expert groups – the Tower Task In 2012, we launched our “Identity – Forces – to investigate the most imTalk in the Tower®” discussion platportant issues in greater detail. The form to examine aspects of identity. Task Forces will convene in the fall of International experts tackle a range 2012 to pursue the relevant topics. of issues, including the impact that Their findings will be collated and the technological revolutions of our discussed in a subsequent Tower Talk time are having on us, what cultural in the coming year. norms and values are linked to identity, and who lays down the rules “Identity – Talk in the Tower®” aims for data protection, anonymity, and to contribute to the ongoing discustransparency in our interconnected sion about the future of identity by world. “Identity – Talk in the Tower®” is providing a platform for the internaabout enabling a creative and intertional and interdisciplinary exchange disciplinary dialog that opens up new of ideas. perspectives on the topic of identity. The “Tower” in the initiative’s name www.identity-tower.com Launch of “Identity – Talk in the Tower®” May 11th 2012 Progress Report 2012 25 Corporate citizenship: Taking responsibility – supporting commitment We are very much aware of our remark” (“Lesezeichen”) project, the Support for individual employee sponsibility to the social environment Roland Berger Foundation’s “Fit for commitment in which we operate. We believe that Responsibility” scholarship program all business activity involves acceptfor school students, and the ZEIT G&D set up a corporate volunteering ing and exercising this responsibility. Foundation’s “Making More Immiprogram in early 2012 to encourage We have thus continued to develop grants Teachers” program for young its employees to volunteer. Employees our corporate citizenship activities in people. The G&D Foundation also can register to volunteer on selected 2011/12 within the framework of continued to fund the Museum of projects and can also propose their the Giesecke & Devrient Foundation the Printing Arts in Leipzig and the own projects. If an employee devotes and also launched our corporate “new responsibility foundation” up to two days of their vacation or volunteering program. (“stiftung neue verantwortung”). free time to volunteering, G&D will allow them the same number of worThe G&D Foundation in its first In 2013, the Foundation will organize king days to pursue this activity. full year of operation language and cultural exchange visits for young people from Brazil and The program has been very well reThe G&D Foundation was set up in Mexico and will continue supporting ceived by our employees. All the 2010 to bring together our corporate the “Bookmark” project, the “Fit for volunteer places filled up very quickly citizenship activities in the fields of Responsibility” scholarship program, on the first projects, which included education, culture, and intercultural and the “Making More Immigrants an excursion with refugee families, exchange. The Foundation is endowed Teachers” program. redecorating a classroom, and visitwith 20 million euros. In 2011 – the ing an adventure park with a group Foundation’s first full year of opera�www.gi-de-stiftung.org of children from different cultural tion – it worked with the Goethe �www.druckkunst-museum.de backgrounds. The feedback from parInstitute to organize a language and �www.stiftung-nv.de ticipants was extremely positive. The cultural exchange visit to Germany for next set of projects will include renoa group of young people from India. vating an adventure playground. The visit will be repeated in 2012. The Foundation will also expand its partnership activities with other initiatives in various projects. In 2011, it provided support for the “BookProgress Report 2012 26 At a glance – G&D’s CSR program Systems and measures Progress and outlook Deadline Details Global Compact Support for the UN Global Compact Regular progress report as per the requirements of the UN Global Compact (joined Annually 9/2010, first report 9/2011) Prioritization of CSR issues and action areas Internal and external stakeholders surveyed (2011/12), materiality matrix created and Updated every p. 7/8 results discussed with the individual departments (mid-2012). three years CSR strategy Objective: update in three years Flagship “security and society” project Interdisciplinary and international “Identity – Talk in the Tower®” dialog platform Will be continued p. 25 launched (5/2012) Raising awareness among employees and customers CSR brochure for employees revised, regular updates on the intranet, CSR/sustainOngoing ability area at the G&D Family Day in Munich (6/2012), online information at www.gi-de.com Group-wide Code of Conduct Code of Conduct revised (e.g. to reflect the UN Global Compact principles, internati2012 p. 9 Principles 1–10 onal standards, compliance management, and G&D values), sent to all employees worldwide, Corporate Auditing department assesses compliance with the Code of Conduct as part of its audits Group-wide compliance management system with Audit of compliance management system (IDW PS 980): module 1 successfully com2012 p. 23 Principles 1–10, Action area: Employees Compliance Office in Munich pleted, modules 2 and 3 in progress. especially Objective: complete audit by end of 2012 principle 10 Action area: Compliance / Procurement / Supply Chain Anti-bribery and corruption policy implemented based on the UK Bribery Act (7/2011) 2011 p. 23 Principles 1–10, especially principle 10 Risk map based on the Statement on Business Controls, the Corruptions Perceptions Annually p. 24 Principles 1–10, Index (compiled by Transparency International), and the results of reports from G&D especially subsidiaries; compliance monitoring based on these results has commenced principle 10 Training on compliance issues via international e-learning Courses on compliance basics, Code of Conduct, anti-corruption, antitrust law, data Ongoing p. 24 Principles 1–10 courses protection, and dealing with business partners; 8,000 employees worldwide have participated in e-learning courses. Objective: more training modules and mandatory participation for all employees across the Group Compliance helpline for employees, customers, and service Nearly all locations can access the compliance helpline 2012 p. 23/24 Principles 1–10 providers Statement on Business Controls (declaration concerning Obtained from managing directors of the subsidiaries and division managers along Annually p. 9 Principles 1, 2, 5, corruption, data protection, the environment, labor with their regional finance officers or division controllers 6, 7, 8, 10 standards, and human rights) Regular reports to Management Board and Supervisory Board Reports address compliance violations, required action, and statistical data on compliOngoing p. 24 Principles 1–10 ance Business partner selection process with Compliance QuesCompliance questionnaire is part of the qualification process for key suppliers; preOngoing p. 10 Principles 1–10, tionnaire and Agreement on Business Ethics with reference vious response rate 47%; additional communication of Agreement on Business Ethics especially to Supplier Conduct Principles with reference to Supplier Conduct Principles in the Mobile Security business unit, principle 10 response rate 65%. Objective: going forward all documents refer to the new Code of Conduct, 80% response rate for compliance questionnaire and/or Agreement on Business Ethics by end of 2013 Progress Report 2012 27 At a glance – G&D’s CSR program Systems and measures Progress and outlook Deadline Details Global Compact Regular Group-wide employee satisfaction survey Numerous activities derived from the 2010 employee satisfaction survey and impleOngoing, recurring p. 17 Principle 6 mentation tracked by means of an electronic software tool. every 3 years Objective: next employee satisfaction survey 2013 360-degree feedback for managers worldwide Last survey in 2009 with 85% participation rate. Ongoing p. 17 Principle 6 Objective: next survey planned for 2012; mandatory for all managers Uniform approach to assessing managerial staff (performance Concept design by 2012. 2013 p. 17 Principle 6 management) across the Group Objective: roll-out in first countries from 2013 Action area: Environment Value-based management culture “Value-Based Management at G&D” project (in conjunction with the “Taking respon2012/2013 p. 17 Principle 6 sibility” initiative); value-based leadership training program undertaken by senior management; expansion to include middle management and finally Group-wide implementation Personnel policy for different employee life phases to address Strategy for demographic change with specialist workshops since 2012, stakeholder Ongoing p. 15 Principle 6 demographic change dialog with external participants (3/2012) Action area: Employees Diversity management for age, gender, culture Gradual development of diversity management: Stage 1 Age (see Demographic 2015 p. 12/13 Principle 6 Change), Stage 2 Gender: A women's network has been established to promote women in key roles (Germany), company-wide management training scheme started for women in middle management. Objectives: increase percentage of women in executive and global management roles to 15% by 2015. Long-term objective: percentage of women managers to match percentage of women in each workforce; expansion of diversity management to Stage 3: Cultural Diversity Health management Expansion of occupational and health and safety provisions to include preventative Ongoing p. 15 Principle 6 measures that encourage healthy living; two out of four healthy living pilot projects (2011), remaining projects to take place in 2012. Objectives: certification of all major production sites to OHSAS 18001 by 2014 (see Action area: Environment). Long-term objective: company-wide implementation of health management Action area: Group-wide collection of data on work accidents and Key figures defined based on GRI (part of the sustainability management system); 2013 onwards p. 15 Principle 6 measures that encourage healthy living roll-out from 2013 Corporate Comprehensive measures designed to enable work/life balanFlexible working time models, increase the number of part-time positions in GermaOngoing p. 16 Principle 6 ce for parents ny; new daycare center at the Louisenthal site; G&D Family Day in Munich (6/2012); advice for employees with children or dependent relatives. Objectives: further increase the number of part-time roles in Germany, “berufundfamilie” re-audit in 2013; seminars and reports on the intranet (ePlanet) on work and caring Trainee recruitment and development National and international partnerships with universities expanded, e.g. with dual Ongoing study programs in two universities in Ingolstadt and Munich Progress Report 2012 28 At a glance – G&D’s CSR program Systems and measures Progress and outlook Deadline Details Global Compact Group-wide sustainability program Sustainability manageGreen sustainability and EHS program (environment, health, and safety) transferred to 2012 p. 19 Principles 7, 8 ment system for planning and auditing sustainability activities the sustainability management system with corresponding metrics boost efficiency Group-wide sustainability program to boost efficiency Objective: introduction of programs to optimize standards and boost efficiency from an 2012 onwards p. 20 Principles 7, 8 environmental, health, and safety standpoint, plus greater commercial efficiency Group-wide certification to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 13 locations already certified to ISO 14001: Munich*, Louisenthal*, Königstein*, 2014 p. 15/20 Principles 7, 8 Leipzig*, Barcelona*, Nitra*, Nanchang*, Beijing*, Huangshi*, Itaquaquecetuba, Tokyo, Markham, Mexico City (* = also certified to OHSAS 18001). Objective: certification of all major production sites by 2014 Action area: Environment Corporate carbon footprint Participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (results published 7/2012); corporate 2016 p. 20/21 Principles 7, 8 carbon footprint of the largest production site has been established (carbon footprint published in annual report 4/2012). Objective: CO2 reduction of 10% by 2016 (based on 2010 figures) Product carbon footprint Product-related carbon footprint for card products manufactured or personalized in 2012 p. 21 Principles 7, 8 four different locations (4/2012) Emissions neutrality G&D Family Day run as climate-neutral event (6/2012) in conjunction with the Forest Ongoing Principles 7, 8 Carbon Group Increasing usage of alternative materials and development Green Working Group set up by the Mobile Security business unit; collects and 2014 p. 20 Principles 7–9 of green products, e.g. green SIM cards prioritizes ideas Measures for conserving resources in production and Installation of a new facility at the Malaysia site for lye recovery in banknote printing, 2012 Principles 7–9 processing thereby reducing energy consumption and waste Analysis of additional environmental topic Objective: address issues around water use and assess relevance for G&D 2012 onwards p. 20 Principles 7, 8 Stakeholder dialog on environmental/climate protection Objective: event planned to continue the dialog with stakeholders already started 2012/2013 Principles 7–9 Giesecke & Devrient Foundation Various funding projects, e.g. Museum of the Printing Arts in Leipzig and “new Ongoing p. 26 responsibility foundation” in Berlin (“stiftung neue verantwortung”); priorities for Action area: 2012: Roland Berger Foundation’s “Fit for Responsibility” scholarship program; language and cultural exchange visit to Germany for young people from India Corporate citizenship Corporate volunteering program Started at beginning of 2012 in Germany; first three projects: excursion with refugee Ongoing p. 26 families, redecorating a classroom, and visiting an adventure park with a group of children from AKA (Active for Intercultural Exchange Association) Activities completed in the previous progress report have not been included again here. Progress Report 2012 29 Giesecke & Devrient GmbH Corporate Communications Corporate Social Responsibility Prinzregentenstrasse 159 P. O. Box 80 07 29 81607 Munich GERMANY Phone: +49 (0) 89 41 19-13 86 Telefax: +49 (0) 89 41 19-12 08 csr@gi-de.com www.gi-de.com/responsibility
