OSRAM Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainability Report 2011 TABLE OF CONTENTS 02 Letter of Support 03 Strategy and Profile 08 Economic Performance Indicators 09 Environment Performance Indicators 12 Labor Practices & Decent Work Performance Indicators 14 Human Rights Performance Indicators 15 Society Performance Indicators 16 Product Responsibility Performance Indicators 17 Contact Introduction Actions speak louder than words – following this motto OSRAM is committed to a broad scope of sustainable actions, processes and projects. In order to communicate these sustainability efforts to our stakeholders in a transparent and comprehensible way, OSRAM reports on them on a yearly basis. In doing so, the sustainability report serves as a Communication on Progress (CoP) Report for the UN Global Compact while complying with the G3 Principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). As the report is internet-based, we have prepared this document with the most relevant information and links to the appropriate section of our internet. For the full report please visit our homepage on www.osram.com/sustainability-report. Letter of Dear stakeholders, Support The Brundtland Commission Report of the United Nations defines sustainable development as “development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs”. As a global company, OSRAM has a significant impact in this respect, both externally and internally. We use natural resources responsibly, develop efficient products that save energy and CO2, offering competitive advantages to customers, and influence our suppliers to improve working conditions all over the world. In our own operations, we invest in future-oriented technologies that support profitable growth, live a company ethic that places integrity at the center of business operations, and treat our employees with dignity and respect. This commitment is exemplified by a multitude of measures that we took in the area of acquisitions, technological innovation and international cooperation. Last fiscal year, we took important steps towards strengthening our market position and enhancing our product portfolio. With acquisitions we aim to gain broad market access for complete lighting solutions and a modern range of products in the field of interior and exterior lighting. This applies to conventional energy-saving lighting technology and in particular to LED-based luminaires and systems, where experts are expecting the greatest growth, thus securing the future of OSRAM. Technological innovation allows us to drive the technology shift on the lighting market. Last year OSRAM and its LED-affiliate OSRAM Opto Semiconductors inaugurated a pilot line for organic LED (OLED) in Regensburg, Germany. Our decision to invest in the Regensburg location represents a milestone within an innovation alliance promoting research in the field of organic electronics. This way we are shaping the future of lighting. But the challenges of today require more than just developing new technologies. What is also important is getting these technologies ‘on the ground’. Electricity for lighting accounts for around 19 percent of global electrical power consumption and close to six percent of worldwide greenhouse gas emissions. If a global transition to efficient lighting was realized, these emissions could be reduced by half. As market forces alone are not sufficient, a multistakeholder global partnership is required to accelerate the transition to more efficient lighting technologies. This is why OSRAM was instrumental in founding the UNEP en.lighten initiative which addresses this challenge by developing a global strategy in support of the gradual phase-out of inefficient lighting. To achieve our goals of profitable growth and long-term value creation, we must continue to ensure that all our activities are sustainable. We are continuing on this road following our Global Care program – our sustainability agenda. Beside product innovations which help create competitive advantages for OSRAM throughout the world, environmental management in our factories and a rigid compliance program, we are continuing with a variety of projects such as our off-grid project in Kenya. This project, implemented on the shores of Lake Victoria, aims at replacing kerosene-based lighting with efficient lamps and lighting systems that are recharged with solar energy – thus improving the livelihood of communities in remote areas by providing access to sustainable, environmentally friendly and affordable off-grid lighting. We firmly believe that transparent reporting on such issues is an important component. Accompany us through this report and see how we made progress in a number of areas in fiscal year 2011. Sincerely yours, Wolfgang Dehen – CEO of OSRAM www.osram.com/sustainability-report 2 Strategy and This section contains disclosures that provide a high-level and strategic view of the Profile organization’s relationship to sustainability in order to provide context for subsequent and more detailed reporting against other sections of the GRI Guidelines. Strategy and Analysis Statement from the organization’s most senior decisionmaker 1.1 Letter of Support Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 1.2 Letter of Support Organizational Profile Name of the company 2.1 OSRAM AG Primary brands, products and/or services The company's purpose is to develop, manufacture and distribute electric lamps and products on the basis of optoelectronic semiconductors as well as operating devices, primary products, parts and accessories of such products as well as machines and 2.2 other means of production which are used for their manufacturing. The primary brand is OSRAM. Company Profile Operational structure and major divisions 2.3 Managing Board of OSRAM AG Location of organization's headquarters 2.4 Hellabrunner Straße 1, 81543 München, Germany Number/Names of countries with either major operations or activities specifically relevant to sustainability issues 2.5 OSRAM has 44 production facilities in 16 countries. Nature of ownership 2.6 OSRAM is a 100 percent subsidiary of the SIEMENS AG Markets served 2.7 OSRAM serves customers in about 150 countries worldwide. www.osram.com/sustainability-report 3 Strategy and Profile Scale of the reporting organization This global player has its headquarters in Munich and employs approximately 40 000 people throughout the world. In the 2011 fiscal year (to the end of 2.8 September) sales amounted to 5.0 billion Euro. OSRAM is one of the two largest lighting manufacturers in the world and has 44 factories in 16 countries. Company Profile Significant changes regarding size, structure, or ownership With effect as of 1 July 2011, OSRAM successfully completed the acquisition of 2.9 Siteco Lighting GmbH based in Traunreut, Germany. Press Release Awards received in the reporting period 2.10 Environmental Awards Report Parameters Report Profile Reporting period 3.1 October 1st, 2010 September 30th, 2011 Date of most recent previous report 3.2 July 2nd, 2012 Reporting cycle 3.3 OSRAM publishes its Communication on Progress / Sustainability Report annually. Contact point for questions regarding the report Mr. Christian Merz 3.4 Mail to: c.merz@osram.com Report scope and boundary Processes for defining report content (materiality, priorities, stakeholder identification) 3.5 OSRAM conducts intensive stakeholder engagement to define its report content. Stakeholder Engagement www.osram.com/sustainability-report 4 Strategy and Profile Boundary of report 3.6 The reporting covers the activities of the company's manufacturing and distribution sites as well as relevant sales, administration and research & development centers. Statement on specific limitations concerning the scope of the report In cases where worldwide data is not available, the limitation is clearly marked. 3.7 OSRAM provides the information in this sustainability report in a general matter and does not accept liability for errors or omissions. Basis for the reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries etc. 3.8 Subsidiaries are included. Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations Data was compiled with the controlling systems of the relevant functional departments. A special role is played by the Siemens SESIS System. This web3.9 based Siemens Environmental Safety Information System is the basis for our data on the environment. Data on the environment Explanation of the nature and effect of any restatements of information 3.10 No restatements of information were made. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied 3.11 No significant changes from previous reporting. Table identifying the location of the standard discloses in the report. The OSRAM Sustainability Report G3 Guidelines index table is available on 3.12 Sustainability Report 2011 Assurance external verification of the report 3.13 The OSRAM Sustainability Report 2011 is not externally verified. Governance, Commitments and Engagement Governance Governance structure, including responsibility for sustainability Our corporate responsibility for sustainable development is an integral part of our corporate strategy. We have set up a dedicated corporate function: “Sustainability”. 4.1 This function reports directly to the Chairman of the Managing Board. Sustainability Management www.osram.com/sustainability-report 5 Strategy and Profile Independence of the highest governance body (supervisory board chairperson and members) 4.2 Managing Board of OSRAM AG Number of independent supervisory board members 4.3 Managing Board of OSRAM AG Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to highest governance body 4.4 All employees can make direct recommendations to the highest governance bodies. There is constant communication with our sole shareholder, the SIEMENS AG. Linkage between senior management compensation and achievement of sustainability goals 4.5 OSRAM does not comment on senior management compensation. Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 4.6 Conflicts of interest are covered in the 'Business Conduct Guidelines' in the table below. Expertise of the highest governance body in terms of sustainability issues Expertise in terms of sustainability issues is provided by the functional department 4.7 Sustainability . Sustainability Management Corporate mission, values, and codes of conduct 4.8 The most important set of values are defined in the 'Business Conduct Guidelines' and our 'Code of Conduct' for business partners. Board-level processes for overseeing environmental, economic and social risks and opportunities The board consults with the functional department Sustainability on the relevant 4.9 risks and opportunities. Sustainability Management Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s performance on sustainability matters 4.10 OSRAM does not comment on the evaluation of senior management. www.osram.com/sustainability-report 6 Strategy and Profile Implementation of the precautionary principle The precautionary principle concerning sustainability is implemented by the 4.11 functional department Sustainability . Sustainability Management Externally developed charters, principles or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses OSRAM adheres to the ten principles defined in the Global Compact framework by 4.12 the United Nations. Global Compact Significant memberships in industry and business associations OSRAM participates in various industry and business associations to keep our stakeholder dialog upright and contribute to ecologically-balanced and socially4.13 sound economic development. Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Employees Shareholders Consumers / Customers NGOs 4.14 Suppliers Industry & scientific associations Governments Local communities Stakeholder Engagement Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders to engage 4.15 Stakeholder Engagement Approaches to stakeholder engagement (type/frequency) 4.16 Stakeholder Engagement Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement and response by company 4.17 Stakeholder Engagement www.osram.com/sustainability-report 7 Economic An organization’s economic performance is fundamental to understanding the organization Performance and its basis for sustainability. These disclosures include the organization’s contribution to the sustainability of the economic systems in which the organization operates. Indicators Economic Performance Indicators Indicator Link Sustainability Disclosure on management approach Management Aspect: Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community EC1 Company Profile investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to EC2 Environmental Portfolio climate change. Coverage of the organization’s deﬁned beneﬁt plan EC3 not addressed obligations. Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance received from EC4 not addressed government. Aspect: Market presence Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at signiﬁcant locations of EC6 not addressed operation. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Talent Attraction and management hired from the local community at EC7 Retention signiﬁcant locations of operation. Aspect: Indirect economic impacts Development and impact of infrastructure Off-Grid Lighting investments and services provided primarily for EC8 public beneﬁt through commercial, in-kind, or pro Clean Development bono engagement. Mechanism www.osram.com/sustainability-report 8 Environment The aspects in the environment indicator set are structured to reflect the inputs, outputs, and Performance modes of impact an organization has on the environment. It includes inputs as for example Indicators energy and water, and outputs of environmental significance such as emissions and waste. Environment Performance Indicators Indicator Link Disclosure on management approach Environmental Guidelines Aspect: Materials Materials used by weight or volume. EN1 not addressed Percentage of materials used that are recycled EN2 Packaging input materials. Aspect: Energy Direct energy consumption by primary energy EN3 Energy Balance source. Indirect energy consumption by primary source. EN4 Energy Balance Energy Balance Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency EN5* improvements. Our Factories Off-Grid Lighting Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and services, and Clean Development EN6* reductions in energy requirements as a result of Mechanism these initiatives. Initiative en.lighten Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption EN7* Energy Balance and reductions achieved. Aspect: Water Total water withdrawal by source. EN8 Water Usage Percentage and total volume of water recycled and EN10* Water Management reused. Aspect: Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high EN11 not addressed biodiversity value outside protected areas. www.osram.com/sustainability-report 9 Environment Performance Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected Indicators areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside EN12 Biodiversity protected areas. Strategies, current actions, and future plans for EN14* Biodiversity managing impacts on biodiversity. Aspect: Emissions, effluents, and waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions EN16 Energy Balance by weight. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions EN17 CO2 Ticker by weight. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and EN18* Reduced GHG Emissions reductions achieved. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by EN19 Life Cycle Analysis weight. NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by EN20 Life Cycle Analysis type and weight. Total water discharge by quality and destination. EN21 Water Discharge Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. EN22 Waste Balance Total number and volume of significant spills. EN23 not addressed Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, EN24* not addressed and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Aspect: Products and services Mitigation of Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Environmental Impacts products and services, and extent of impact EN26 mitigation. Initiative en.lighten Percentage of products sold and their packaging EN27 Recycling materials that are reclaimed by category. www.osram.com/sustainability-report 10 Environment Performance Aspect: Compliance Indicators Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with EN28 not addressed environmental laws and regulations. Aspect: Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for EN29* not addressed the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Aspect: Overall Total environmental protection expenditures and EN30* Our Factories investments by type. www.osram.com/sustainability-report 11 Labor The structure of the Labor Indicators reflects the concept of decent work. It includes Practices and disclosures on the scope and diversity of the organization’s workforce, and emphasizes the Decent Work physical protection and well-being of people at work. Efforts to enhance personal skills and Performance potential of employees are also covered by these indicators. Indicators Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators Indicator Link Human Disclosure on management approach Resources Aspect: Employment Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and Our LA1 region. Employees Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, Our LA2 and region. Employees Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Our LA3* temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. Employees Aspect: Labor/ management relations Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining not LA4 agreements. addressed Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational not LA5 changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. addressed Aspect: Occupational health and safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Managing management-worker health and safety committees that help LA6* Health and monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Safety Health and Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, LA7 Safety and total number of work-related fatalities by region. Statistics Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control Managing programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or LA8 Health and community members regarding serious diseases. Safety www.osram.com/sustainability-report 12 Labor Practices and Aspect: Training and education Decent Work Average hours of training per year per employee by LA10 Training Performance employee category. Indicators Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Employee LA12* and career development reviews. Development Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Our Employees employees per category according to gender, age group, LA13 minority group membership, and other indicators of Governance Bodies diversity. Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee LA14 not addressed category. www.osram.com/sustainability-report 13 Human Rights Human Rights Performance Indicators are based on internationally recognized standards, Performance primarily the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO Declaration Indicators on the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of 1998. The performance indicators seek to provide comparable measures of results or outcomes, and therefore focus primarily on incidents relating to core human rights. Human Rights Performance Indicators Indicator Link Sustainability Disclosure on management approach Management Aspect: Investment and procurement practices Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have HR1 not addressed undergone human rights screening. Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have HR2 Suppliers undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. Suppliers Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to HR3* Compliance operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Training Aspect: Non-discrimination Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions HR4 not addressed taken. Aspect: Freedom of association and collective bargaining Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant HR5 not addressed risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Aspect: Child labor Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the HR6 not addressed elimination of child labor. Aspect: Forced and compulsory labor Operations identified as having signifcant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures taken to HR7 not addressed contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. www.osram.com/sustainability-report 14 Society Society Performance Indicators focus on the impacts organizations have on the communities Performance in which they operate, and how the organization’s interactions with other social institutions Indicators are managed and mediated. In particular, information is given on the prevention of bribery and corruption, and involvement in public policy-making. Society Performance Indicators Indicator Link Disclosure on management approach Compliance Aspect: Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of SO1 not addressed operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. Aspect: Corruption Percentage and total number of business units analyzed SO2 Compliance for risks related to corruption. Percentage of employees trained in organization’s antiSO3 Compliance Training corruption policies and procedures. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. SO4 Compliance Aspect: Public policy Public policy positions and participation in public policy Public Policy SO5 development and lobbying. Positions Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws SO8 Compliance and regulations. www.osram.com/sustainability-report 15 Product The Product Responsibility Indicator set addresses the aspects of a reporting organization’s Responsibility products and services that directly affect customers, namely, health and safety, information Performance and labeling, marketing, and privacy. Indicators Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Indicator Link Sustainability Disclosure on management approach Management Aspect: Customer health and safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, PR1 Life Cycle Analysis and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Aspect: Product and service labeling Type of product and service information required by Product and Service procedures, and percentage of significant products and PR3 Labeling services subject to such information requirements. Aspect: Marketing communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, PR6 not addressed including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and PR9 not addressed use of products and services. www.osram.com/sustainability-report 16 Contact Contact Sustainability OSRAM AG Sustainability Office Christian Merz Hellabrunner Strasse 1 81543 Munich Germany Phone +49 89 6213-3211 Mail sustainability@osram.com Internet www.osram.com/sustainability-report General Contact OSRAM AG Represented by Wolfgang Dehen and Dr. Klaus Patzak Hellabrunner Strasse 1 81543 Munich Germany Phone +49 89 6213-0 Fax +49 89 6213-2020 Mail webmaster@osram.com Internet www.osram.com Supervisory Board Chairman: Prof. Dr. Siegfried Russwurm Chairman of the Managing Board: Wolfgang Dehen Responsible according to § 10 Abs. 3 MDStV: Dr. Constantin Birnstiel Head Offices: Munich Commercial Register, Munich Registration Court: HRB 193174 Tax ID number: DE 811148275 www.osram.com/sustainability-report 17
