CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Hightlights 2011 & Outlook 2012 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Activities covering all principles | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Hartmann Guiding principles Communication on Progress Report 2011 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Hightlights 2011 & Outlook 2012 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Activities covering all principles | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Hartmann Guiding principles CEO STATEMENT Excellent results in 2011 The new organisational structure has created a more streamlined Hartmann conducts business in all parts of the World and collaborates Hartmann and lets us prioritise and focus our efforts within sustainwith a vast number of global corporations and retailers. It is therefore ability and other business areas alike. Furthermore, the new setup alcrucial that we take responsibility for the impact of our business aclows for smoother implementation of corporate sustainability standtivities and adhere to internationally accepted standards such as the ards and requirements across the company. We have thus initiated a UN’s Global Compact. We are convinced that integrity and complinumber of Group-wide projects in 2011 focusing on e.g. global social ance is our entry ticket to doing business, and we wish to accentuate responsibility, working environment improvements and supplier evaluthis position by continuing to commit ourselves to the ten principles ation. of Global Compact. To further clarify our stance on sustainability, we have chosen to integrate Hartmann’s sustainability principles adopted Our sustainability work showed excellent results during the year. In in 2003 with Global Compact’s ten principles into one description of 2007, we set an ambitious target of reducing energy consumption by our commitment. This measure has been taken to facilitate internal 20% by the end of 2011. At the end of the year our energy consumpand external communication efforts, and it underlines our sustainability tion had been reduced by an impressive 22% compared to 2007. This commitment. result is a true milestone for Hartmann’s sustainability efforts as it underlines our continuous commitment and contributes to our strategic In 2011, we introduced Hartmann’s new strategy “Competitive edge goal of reducing costs and creating competitive edge. We will continue – driving growth” covering the period 2011-2015. As a cornerstone our work in 2012, and by 2013 we will set a new target for the period of our new strategy, we have implemented a new functional organisa2013-2020. tional structure, which allows us to conduct business more efficiently and act swiftly when facing both opportunities and challenges. Looking back at a year of excellent results, I feel confident that our new organisational setup will contribute greatly to our sustainability work, and I look forward to setting – and reaching – new goals in the coming years. Michael Rohde Pedersen CEO At Hartmann we have adopted a life cycle perspective on our sustainability i­mpacts. This is ­reflected in a broad range of initiatives aimed at strengthening our sustainability profile throughout our sphere of influence. See page 5 for an overview of initiatives in 2011 2 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Hightlights 2011 & Outlook 2012 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Activities covering all principles | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Hartmann Guiding principles Finland Produktion Produktion og salg Salg Denmark Denmark England Poland Germany Germany Canada France Hungary USA Switzerland Croatia Italy Serbia USA USA USA Israel Hartmann at a glance Hartmann is one of the three largest producers of moulded-fibre Customers egg packaging and one of the world’s largest producers of machinHartmann sells egg packaging to egg producers and egg packing ery for producing moulded-fibre packaging. Hartmann’s market businesses and to supermarket chains which are increasingly deposition can be ascribed to its strong technology know-how and manding Hartmann’s expertise in the marketing of eggs. Hartmann’s extensive experience of production of moulded-fibre since 1936. technology and related services are sold to producers of mouldedfibre egg packaging. The group has more than 1,500 customers in Sustainability 50 countries, and most of these customers have long-standing relaSustainability and environmental considerations are integral eltions with Hartmann. ements of Hartmann’s business model and strategy. All of Hartmann’s products are based on recycled paper; a renewable, CO2Organisation neutral and biodegradable resource. Hartmann collaborates closely Hartmann has about 1,500 employees, and its head office is situwith its customers to support the need for sustainable products in ated in Gentofte, Denmark. Production takes place at Hartmann’s the retail trade. own factories. Five of these factories are located in Europe, one is located in Israel and one in Canada. The group has sales offices in Markets twelve countries. Hartmann’s egg packaging is sold globally. The group’s key markets consist of Europe and North America where Hartmann has strong The Hartmann share market positions. Hartmann is the market leader in Europe and has Hartmann’s shares have been listed on NASDAQ OMX Copena small share of the North American market. Hartmann’s technolhagen A/S since 1982. The company has one share class, and each ogy, including machinery and services, is also sold globally outside share carries one vote. its key markets. 3 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Hightlights 2011 & Outlook 2012 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Activities covering all principles | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Hartmann Guiding principles HIGHLIGHTS 2011 OUTLOOK 2012 • 22% reduction in energy consumption since • Identify further energy and CO2 reduction potential 2007 outperforming the target of 20% and set new target for the period 2013-2020 • Social responsibility company assessments • Continue social responsibility company assessments and ­action plans and implement action plans • New anti-corruption policy guideline • Introduce anti-corruption employee training • Minimum standards for working environment • Target of 50% reduction of accidents in ­production compared with 2010 level • Introduce more corporate working ­environment standards 4 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Hightlights 2011 & Outlook 2012 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Activities covering all principles | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Hartmann Guiding principles Progress initiatives Click on each progress initiative below to read more The below colours are used in the report to identify each sustainability theme. For a description of each of the ten principles, see Appendix 1. HUMAN RIGHTS • LABOUR RIGHTS • ENVIRONMENT • ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW OF 2011 PROGRESS ACTIVITIES RELATED TO EACH GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 PROGRESS INITIATIVE New sustainability principles X X X X X X X X X X New supplier evaluation tools X X X X X X X X X X Site in Croatia wins CSR award X X X X X X X X X X One Company game X X X X X X X X X X Working environment – new corporate tools and standards X X New HR standard benefits for all employees X Hungarian site ISO 22000 certified X Consumer safety – expanded test programme X Social responsibility status project (X) (X) X X X X Employee performance review X Wastewater improvements X X Outperforming ambitious energy reduction target X X X CO2 accounting and customer carbon footprint in place X X X Label paper from sustainable forestry X X X Petroleum free inks and colours X X X New IT tool for online meetings X X X New anti-corruption policy guideline X 5 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Hightlights 2011 & Outlook 2012 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Activities covering all principles | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Hartmann Guiding principles Relative business impact of Global Compact themes Our suppliers and customers are mainly located in Europe and we have few suppliers and customers in high-risk countries. If we use suppliers from high-risk countries we ensure that they comply with the ten UN Global Compact principles1. Relative business impact Global Compact theme Environment Labour Rights Human Rights Anti-corruption Business impact At Hartmann, our main focus lies on reducing CO2 emissions by Hartmann’s focus on human rights was also sharpened in 2011 as the ­reducing the energy consumption at our production sites. Life Cycle integration of our sustainability principles with Global Compact’s prinAssessments2 clearly show that this is our most significant environmenciples has clarified that for instance working environment issues are tal impact. part of the human rights principle. See page 7 for a description of the integration of the principles. Due to increased international focus on corruption and the legal development in the field, Hartmann increased its focus on this Global Compact theme in 2011. 1) See Appendix 1 for an overview of the UN Global Compact’s ten sustainability principles and Hartmann’s commitment to these. 2) Source: Danish Environmental Protection Agency, Report no.546, and numerous internal life cycle assessments 6 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Hightlights 2011 & Outlook 2012 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Activities covering all principles | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Hartmann Guiding principles Activities covering all principles New sustainability principles for improvements in different areas. Simultaneously, the suppliers fill In 2003, Hartmann adopted ten sustainability principles, which were out a self-evaluation scheme, and the outcome reveals if the supplisimilar but not identical to the ten UN Global Compact principles. In ers’ own perception matches the outcome of Hartmann’s evaluation. 2011, Hartmann’s sustainability principles were integrated into the ten These evaluations are supported by a systematic audit scheme, which UN Global Compact principles, instead of existing as a separate set of ensures repeated audits depending on the evaluation and strategic principles. Hartmann’s commitment is now clearly stated in one docuimportance of the supplier. A supplier who fails to meet Hartmann’s ment describing our social and environmental initiatives as well as our criteria will be carefully reconsidered. If it is not possible to improve contribution to sustainable development throughout the value chain. the performance of a supplier who continues to fail such evaluations, eventually the contract with the supplier will be terminated. The integration of the principles serves to better facilitate our internal and external communication efforts regarding sustainability. One company game Hartmann’s One Company game challenges employees on their New supplier evaluation tools knowledge about Hartmann and their understanding of Hartmann’s Hartmann is a global business, and so is our network of suppliers. This values. At the beginning of 2011, Hartmann set out to further integrate gives advantages of logistics and costs, but it also adds to the challenges the company’s values into the game. During 2011, management introof ensuring that suppliers meet Hartmann’s ethical demands. duced a new strategy and a new set of Guiding Principles, and further development of the One Company game was therefore postponed. In September 2011, we launched a new supplier evaluation tool consisting of a procedure, a self-evaluation scheme and an audit scheme. Read more about Hartmann’s Guiding Principles in Appendix 2. The tool is used to evaluate suppliers on all parameters relevant to Hartmann, including quality and ethical performance. Each supplier receives a score, which indicates their current status and their potential SITE IN CROATIA WINS CSR AWARD For the second time Hartmann’s production site in Croatia received a CSR Index award for the year 2010. The award was presented on 28 February 2011 in the National and University Library in Zagreb. The CSR Index award was created as a joint initiative of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Business Council for Sustainable Development, with technical and financial support from USAID, UNDP and the Faculty of Economics, University of Zagreb. The CSR Index award assesses the performance of companies within economic sustainability and strategic orientation, corporate and social responsibility, working environment, environmental protection and investment in the community and market relations. 7 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Hightlights 2011 & Outlook 2012 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Activities covering all principles | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Hartmann Guiding principles Human Rights Human rights and labour rights on site level are managed with the standards were adopted by end-2011 and will be fully implemented Hartmann STEP® Human management model, and the production site during the first half of 2012. The standards include: status level did not change in 2011. For an overview of the status, see www.hartmann-packaging.com. • Requirements to Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) • KPIs for comparing production sites • Procedures around accidents Working environment – new • Procedures around near miss situations and other preventive corporate tools and standards ­measures Hartmann is dedicated to continuously improving the working environment at the company’s production sites. The first item on the In 2011, Hartmann reduced reported work accidents by 18% comweekly agenda for production management meetings is the status on pared to 2010. Hartmann has set a short-term target of reducing its work accidents at each production site. If an accident has occurred, accident frequency by 50% in 2013 compared with the 2010 level. however small, the details of the accident are shared within the Group During 2012, additional working environment standards will be preand follow-up on resulting actions is ensured. pared for adoption during 2012 and 2013. Our production sites have very similar equipment and processes ­creating a strong foundation for internal knowledge sharing and develNew HR standard opment of best practices. We have always had dedicated people workbenefits for all employees ing to improve the working environment at our production sites. Our In 2011, we carried out a global mapping of the benefits provided to new organisational structure, combined with a renewed corporate foemployees, and a minimum level has been set for all employees. This cus on working environment, has resulted in the ­development of a set minimum level is gradually being implemented. Examples of already imof Hartmann Group minimum standards in this area. These ­minimum plemented global benefits include that all Hartmann employees now have a retirement pension and insurance against workplace accidents. “It is our ambition to implement and maintain a strong safety culture at Hartmann. Visitors at our production sites should immediately be able to register that this is a safe place where all necessary precautions are taken to prevent accidents from happening. This awareness is essential for us to achieve the ambitious long term goal of zero accidents.” Rauno Kakko, Vice President of Production 8 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Hightlights 2011 & Outlook 2012 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Activities covering all principles | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Hartmann Guiding principles ”There are no undesired effects on eggs due to our moulded fibre packaging” huNgarian site ISO 22000 certified Consumer safety – expanded test programme In April, Hartmann’s production site in Hungary was certified according Due to an increased European focus on consumer safety related to to the international ISO 22000 standard for food safety. The standard recycled paper packaging for food, Hartmann has expanded an already can be used in food production companies and related businesses such extensive testing programme. as packaging for food. With this certificate the production site is certain that hygiene and food safety risks are managed systematically and with We have applied the precautionary principle and documented that precaution. there are no undesired effects on eggs due to our moulded fibre egg packaging. All test results were positive and confirmed that moulded The production process is assessed with regard to risks, including esfibre packaging is safe. tablishing of surveillance and definition of limit values. Furthermore, preventive and corrective actions are defined and verification, reporting and documentation are ensured. Local engagement Easter workshop at orphanage In Croatia, we sponsored an Easter eggs painting workshop for The workshops included blind and visually impaired children and socially disadvantaged children at the Sunrise orphanage. The children of all ages from Sunrise orphanage. workshop was run by local artists, and the Easter eggs were made of moulded-fibre produced manually in tailor-made moulds crafted by Hartmann employees. 9 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Hightlights 2011 & Outlook 2012 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Activities covering all principles | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Hartmann Guiding principles Labour rights Human rights and labour rights on site level are managed with the • to introduce the integrated sustainability principles and train local Hartmann STEP® Human management model, and the production site employees in these, see Appendix 1 status level did not change in 2011. For an overview of the status, see • to create a foundation for defining future corporate priorities within www.hartmann-packaging.com. social responsibility In 2011, our sites in Hungary, Denmark and Croatia were assessed, Social responsibility status project and all remaining sites will be assessed during 2012. Assessments are Hartmann’s STEP® Human management model allows production based on SA8000 requirements, Global Compact principles and ILO sites to implement improvements one step at a time. During 2003 and conventions among others. The assessments take specific national and 2004, company assessments were performed at selected production local risks into account. sites to assess their performance on labour rights and partially also human rights. Another purpose was to lift the local knowledge level The same high labour standards apply throughout the Hartmann and understanding of these issues. Since these assessments were perGroup irrespective of history and national differences. However, formed, a number of improvements have been implemented through­Hartmann Croatia was SA8000 certified some years ago, and during out the organisation, and the sites have moved up the ladder in the the assessment of Hartmann Croatia, the benefits of the SA8000 cerSTEP® Human model. tification became clear. In 2011, Hartmann initiated a Group-wide social responsibility project with the following aims: Employee performance review As part of a new annual employee performance review process, salary • to assess the current status of social responsibility at each producadjustments will be based on a number of predefined parameters. Furtion site (labour rights and certain human rights topics) thermore, all positions will be benchmarked by an external consultant. • to share best practice among sites This will contribute to a fair and equal remuneration system and help • to start implementing of a number of corporate standards and tools, prevent discrimination. which will assist the sites by providing useful systematic work processes aimed at preventing violations of Hartmanns' sustainability principles In Croatia we are seeing the benefits of the SA8000 certification every day. The employees feel more comfortable communicating openly with management about topics that concern their wellbeing in the production Sanda Ivancevic, HR assistant, Croatia 10 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Hightlights 2011 & Outlook 2012 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Activities covering all principles | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Hartmann Guiding principles Environment The site level environmental impacts are managed with the Hartmann This major achievement is a result of a committed effort within the STEP® Environment management model, and the production site stafollowing six focus areas: tus level did not change in 2011. For an overview of the status, see www.hartmann-packaging.com. • Investments in new process technology • Maintenance, improvement and optimization of existing equipment ISO 14000 certificates (environmental management) were maintained • Training of staff or renewed in 2011 for all European production sites. • Knowledge sharing • Developing best practices across the Group • Involving experts Outperforming ambitious energy reduction target Looking ahead, rising energy prices, CO2 emission costs and a continuIn 2007 Hartmann endorsed the United Nations “Caring for Climate” ous strong focus on climate change will retain energy and CO2 reduccharter and set an ambitious target of reducing energy consumption by tions as a key focus area in Hartmann. During 2012 we will continue 20% per kg product by the end of 2011 relative to the 2007 consumpto implement energy improvements while simultaneously investigating tion level. With a 22% reduction we have outperformed that target. the remaining reduction potential. By 2013 we will set a new target for the period 2013-2020. Elements that will be investigated to determine Hartmann’s reduction potential include: • Internal waste reduction potential • Potential for further optimizing current assets • Possible energy reduction investments • Potential to replace fossil energy by renewable energy ENERGY CONSUMPTION Per kg product (%) (End 2007 = 100) 110 100 90 80 70 60 Year 2008 2009 2010 2011  Actual  Target 11 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Hightlights 2011 & Outlook 2012 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Activities covering all principles | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Hartmann Guiding principles ”The carbon footprint of eggs is far greater than that of the egg carton” CO2 accounting and customer Label paper from sustainable forestry carbon footprint in place Hartmann makes efficient use of renewable resources by manufacturDuring 2011, Hartmann’s corporate CO2 accounting scope 1 and ing moulded fibre products from recycled paper. The internationally 2 has been completed in accordance with the GHG Protocol3. This acknowledged forestry certification schemes, FSC6, acknowledges that corporate CO2 accounting strengthens the basis for our climate prirecycled paper is a sustainable resource. orities and goals and allows for greater transparency in the carbon footprint4 calculations performed at Hartmann. We have seen an inSeveral of Hartmann’s packaging products are fitted with paper labels creasing customer demand for carbon footprint screenings as well as made from virgin paper. In June 2011, Hartmann documented that all data for carbon footprints performed by our customers themselves. paper for these labels originate from sustainable forests certified in Hartmann takes pride in supplying transparent and thorough carbon accordance with internationally acknowledged certification schemes. In footprint calculations to assist customers in their efforts to improve this way, Hartmann can be sure that we are not contributing to increasprocesses throughout their value chain and document such improveing deforestation problems in the world. ments. ­Typically, the carbon footprint of eggs within an egg carton is far greater than that of the egg carton itself5. This is one reason why Hartmann keeps a maintains on producing the strongest packaging products providing optimal protection for the contents. Hartmann’s scope 1 and 2 emissions are not fully included in the accounting, but omissions are justified and based on materiality and/or relevance in relation to our influence on the emissions and their strategic importance. Due to the goal and scope, Hartmann’s CO2 accounting has not been assured by a third party. Furthermore, Hartmann does not publish the company’s total CO2 emission figure as this information is not deemed useful to readers of this report. wASTEWATER IMPROVEMENTS The STEP® Environment model focuses on continuous environSince 2007, the wastewater quantities as well as the content of mental improvements, and Hartmann’s efforts have led to a subsulphate and organic material have been reduced by more than stantial improvement and reduction of wastewater emissions 50%. Hartmann’s measures ensure improved use of the local at one of our two largest production sites, located in Tønder, water reserves at the production site by reducing the use of Denmark. additives and by other means. 3) The Greenhouse Gas Protocol is the most widely accepted international standard for accounting for corporate greenhouse gas emissions 4) Carbon footprint is the accounting standard of greenhouse gas emissions from specific products or processes 5) Study at Wageningen University, Prof. Dr. Imke de Boer, Carbon Footprint of the Egg Industry, 2009 6) Forest Stewardship Council, see www.fsc.org 12 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Hightlights 2011 & Outlook 2012 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Activities covering all principles | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Hartmann Guiding principles Petroleum free colours and inks New IT tool for online meetings During 2011 documentation was gathered to establish that all colours More online meetings are held in Hartmann after the introduction of a and inks used in Hartmann are vegetable based. This is the best opnew IT tool, which improves the technical quality and allows employees tion for the environment and the safe choice for consumers, and is to easily share information across functions and locations. With this therefore appropriate for Hartmann’s moulded fibre products, which new tool the difference between physical meetings and online meetare based on natural and renewable raw materials. ings has decreased. Employees are encouraged to use this method whenever it can positively replace travelling, which in turn will reduce pollution from travelling and reduce costs. Educating school children In Hungary, we developed a special program for local school Hartmann’s environmental knowledge improvement program children teaching them about sensible waste collection, recycling will reach 500 children. At Hartmann we believe that such processes and life cycle management. ­company environmental education helps shape children's values, perspectives and understanding of the environment and how to In return, the children shared their own experiences with waste interact with it. collection as well as recycling ideas. The program focused on teaching students how to make a difference when collecting old newspapers and other materials for recycling. 13 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Hightlights 2011 & Outlook 2012 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Activities covering all principles | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Hartmann Guiding principles Anti-corruption New anti-corruption policy This new policy aims to bring complete clarity to the expected behavguideline ior of Hartmann employees with regards to these matters. The policy At Hartmann, we want to be good citizens, and we do not accept corincludes a number of example scenarios, which can help employees ruption or bribery in any form. We want to be good citizens, and if understand what to avoid and how to handle bribery attempts. we cannot do business without corruption, we simply do not do business. The focus on private sector corruption and bribery has increased During 2012, Hartmann will run anti-corruption training programs for sharply in recent years, and Hartmann takes measures to avoid involveall senior and high risk employees to further increase the awareness ment in such cases. and understanding of this issue. The training programs will focus on real life scenarios, and the employees’ understanding of the policy will Hartmann has adopted a new comprehensive policy guideline, which be tested. In addition, the participating employees will be required to covers all types of corruption and bribery – in all parts of the value sign a document, stating that they have understood and will adhere to chain – and also provides guidance on whether or not to give or accept the policy. gifts, gifts of hospitality, meals, entertainment, etc. 14 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Hightlights 2011 & Outlook 2012 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Activities covering all principles | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Hartmann Guiding principles APPENDIX 1 HARTMANN GROUP COMMITMENT TO THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES The original wording of the ten UN Global Compact principles can be found at www.unglobalcompact.org HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES LABOUR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Hartmann will make an effort to promote the conditions outlined in Principle no. 3: each of the human rights principles in companies that are part of the Freedom of association and value chain to which the Group belongs. the right to collective bargaining Hartmann recognizes the right of its employees to be members of a Principle no. 1: trade union and to negotiate pay and working conditions collectively. Human rights – support & respect The Group further recognizes the right to organize and collective Hartmann will support and respect the protection of internationally bargaining in companies forming part of the value chain to which the proclaimed human rights. Hartmann’s commitment includes, but is not Group belongs. limited to, the following: Principle no. 4: Hartmann will endeavor to secure the well-being of employees and Rejection of forced labour their families by means of relevant local initiatives, practices and proHartmann will support the elimination of all forms of forced and comcedures that are in keeping with local traditions, conditions and needs. pulsory labour and does not accept the use of forced labour – neither inside the Group nor in companies forming part of the value chain to Hartmann will endeavor to secure fair wages by means of a wages which the Group belongs. policy, which is consistent with the situation prevailing in other local industrial companies, and which enables the Group to attract and retain Principle no. 5: qualified employees. The effective abolition of child labour Hartmann will not employ persons below the minimum age and the Hartmann will endeavor to secure health and safety in the workplace, Group will apply preventive procedures and practices accordingly. The by means of cleaner technologies, procedures and practices as well as Group will make an effort to promote that similar procedures and by the development of competences and efforts to change attitudes practices are applied by companies forming part of the value chain to among the employees. which the Group belongs. Hartmann will endeavor to secure good relations to the local comPrinciple no. 6: munity by means of active participation in social and business-related Non-discrimination activities at local level and by setting a good example to others. Hartmann will endeavor to prevent discriminatory practices and secure equal opportunities by means of the application of procedures Principle no. 2: and practices to prevent discrimination in connection with recruitment Human rights – abuses or dismissal, career development, training and education, or the grantHartmann will make sure that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. ing of staff benefits. Hartmann will endeavor to promote non-discrimination and equal opportunities for employees in companies forming part of the value chain to which the Group belongs. 15 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Hightlights 2011 & Outlook 2012 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Activities covering all principles | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Hartmann Guiding principles ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE Hartmann will endeavor to protect, respect and safeguard environPrinciple no. 10: mental values by means of the systematic and proactive integration of Refraining from bribery and corruption environmental considerations in its daily business activities, by the deHartmann will work against corruption in all its forms, including extorvelopment of environmentally friendly production methods and prodtion and bribery. ucts, by training its employees in environmental issues, and by influencing the stakeholders in the value chain to which the Group belongs. It will do this by means of openness towards relevant business partners and by setting up a set of guidelines specifying how to avoid bribery Principle no. 7: and corruption. Hartmann will also contribute to minimizing bribery A precautionary approach and corruption in companies forming part of the value chain to which Hartmann will support a precautionary approach to environmental the Group belongs. challenges. Principle no. 8: Environmental responsibility Hartmann will undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle no. 9: Environmentally friendly technologies Hartmann will encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 16 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Hightlights 2011 & Outlook 2012 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Activities covering all principles | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Hartmann Guiding principles APPENDIX 2 Hartmann Guiding Principles Integrity & Compliance Knowledge The entry ticket to doing business! Conduct all affairs lawfully and with Seek and use the best knowledge available, and share your knowlintegrity. Strive for compliance in all aspects, with all employees comedge with others for best practices development while accepting a plying all the time – also when nobody looks! Strive for excellence in constant challenge and improvement process. environmental, safety, and all other areas of compliance. Stop, think and ask, lead by example. Humility Practice humility and intellectual honesty. Call things by their right Value creation name. Seek to understand and constructively deal with reality and chalCreate real long term & sustainable value by economic means; relenge to create value and achieve personal development. Understand member that value creation is our reason for being. Measure profitthe power of positive attitude. Accept challenge as an opportunity. ability wherever practical and eliminate waste wherever you find it. Respect Entrepreneurship Treat others with dignity, respect, honesty, and sensitivity. Listen Understand and demonstrate the sense of urgency, accountability, inithem out and always appreciate the value of diversity. Also speak tiative, economic and critical thinking skills, and the risk-taking mentality up and give open and honest feedback and answers, avoid hidden necessary to generate the greatest contribution to the company. Acagendas­. Encourage and practice teamwork. cept failure as a part of learning. Treat Hartmann as your own company. Accomplishment Customer focus Produce results which create value to the company and to you, deThe customers pay our wages. Understand and develop relationships velop your talent and deliver your full potential. Seek success and sucwith customers to profitably anticipate and satisfy their needs. Make cessful people – and remember to celebrate when appropriate. them successful, be their business partner and preferred supplier! Change Accept & promote change. Imagine what could be, what good looks like, and challenge status quo and drive creative destruction. 17 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Hightlights 2011 & Outlook 2012 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Activities covering all principles | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Hartmann Guiding principles Brødrene Hartmann A/S Ørnegårdsvej 18 DK-2820 Gentofte Denmark Telefon: (+45) 45 97 00 00 Fax: (+45) 45 97 00 01 e-mail: bh@hartmann-packaging.com www.hartmann-packaging.com CVR no. 63 04 96 11 18
