SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011 2012 This is SMEC’s second annual Sustainability Report. SMEC has applied the Global Reporting Initiative The report covers SMEC’s economic, environmental (GRI) G3.1 guidelines to a self-declared Level B. The and social performance from 1 April 2011 to GRI G3.1 guidelines are the world’s most widely used 31 March 2012. sustainability reporting guidelines. By applying these guidelines, SMEC has ensured that this report is in line The information in this report pertains to SMEC’s with global best practice. Australian operations and does not include SMEC’s international operations, international subsidiaries, joint The data in this report has been gathered using ventures or any other controlled entities. standard measurement techniques which conform to national or international guidelines or regulatory SMEC’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policies requirements. Specific calculations are referenced and procedures have recently been approved and are where appropriate. All monetary figures are in being implemented in Australia only. SMEC’s plan is to Australian dollars, unless otherwise stated. expand and strengthen its CSR program throughout Australia, before implementing it across the Company’s For further information, please contact: international operations. sustainabilityreport@smec.com. 2 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Contents Our Chief Executive Officer 4 Our Company 6 Our Divisions 8 Our Corporate Governance 10 Our Board 12 Our Executive Committee 14 Our Stakeholders 16 Our Performance 18 Our Sustainability Strategy 20 People 22 Community 30 Sustainability and Environment 34 Global Reporting Initiative Index 40 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 3 Our Chief Executive Officer SMEC undertook sustainability reporting for the first time and support from SMEC managers’; and ‘feel that last year. Since then, we have focused on integrating communication by managers and the Company has sustainable business practices throughout the Company. improved since 2009’. The Survey also highlighted areas for improvement, we are developing Action Plans to As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact improve in these areas. (UNGC), SMEC is committed to supporting and promoting the UNGC’s ten principles in the four areas of In this reporting period, our focus on employee health human rights, labour, the environment and and safety proved to be successful with Lost Time Injury anti-corruption. This year, SMEC continued to integrate (LTI) frequency rates reduced by 50%, proactive reporting the UNGC’s ten principles in all business operations. targets surpassed by 180% and no reported deaths or permanently disabling injuries. This Sustainability Report highlights SMEC’s commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities. I We also strengthened our employee health and am pleased to report that over the last year, SMEC wellbeing program and developed a range of initiatives. has strengthened its CSR activities, particularly within These included the introduction of new flexible working SMEC’s Australian business. CSR activities within SMEC arrangement policies; improved tertiary study allowances; are structured under three broad categories: People; and significantly better parental leave benefits, including Community; and Sustainability and Environment. an increase of 12 weeks paid parental leave (leave increased from six weeks to 18 weeks). SMEC’s Australian business made progress in each of the three CSR category areas, whilst the most significant SMEC’s focus on gender diversity continued this year progress was made in the People area. At SMEC, we with establishment of a Gender Diversity Steering recognise that our people, and their skills, experience Committee and an operational sub-committee WINS and energy, are the drivers of the Company’s success. (Women In SMEC). A key outcome has been the development of a company-wide Gender Action Plan. I am pleased to report that SMEC’s 2011 Employee This Plan includes a number of initiatives designed to Feedback Survey, highlighted many positives, our people: raise awareness about gender diversity and increase the ‘consider SMEC to be an attractive place to work’; number of talented females in senior positions throughout ‘appreciate and enjoy a substantial level of autonomy the Company. 4 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 I am pleased to report that over the last year, SMEC has strengthened its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities, particularly within SMEC’s Australian business. CSR activities within SMEC are structured under three broad categories: People; Community; and Sustainability and Environment. SMEC’s commitment to community development Carbon offsetting continued throughout the reporting continued with SMEC delivering projects that improved period, with Greenhouse Gas emissions generated living standards in some of the world’s poorest through air travel and printing of annual documents communities. SMEC upheld all aspects of human rights offset by carbon credits invested in a range of renewable including abolition of child labour, promotion of the rights energy projects. of indigenous people and eradication of discrimination. In the year ahead, SMEC will expand and strengthen its Through the SMEC Foundation, SMEC continued CSR program throughout Australia and work towards to provide small-scale grant support to community integrating sustainable business practices throughout groups and development projects throughout Australia the Company’s international business. I fully support and internationally. In this reporting period, the SMEC the implementation of SMEC’s CSR program and look Foundation donated over $90,000 to 16 projects in: forward to the program gaining momentum. Australia, Botswana, Ethiopia, India, Kenya, Lao PDR, Mongolia, Papua New Guinea, Tanzania and Zambia. This year, of funds allocated 51% were donated to Emergency Relief projects, followed by Education (29%), Community Development (10%) and Health (10%). Ross Hitt SMEC continued to provide integrated environmental services and invested in sustainable business practices Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer to achieve long-term prosperity. SMEC commenced the SMEC Holdings Limited data collection of electricity and paper usage across all Australian offices. Plans are in place to use this as baseline data to set measurable targets for the reduction of electricity and paper consumption. SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 5 Our Company 6 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 SMEC is a professional services firm with Australian origins and a global footprint that provides high-quality consultancy services for major infrastructure projects. SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 7 Our Divisions NORTH AMERICA MID AND N SOUTH AMERICA North and South America Middle East and North Africa Africa • Established 2004 • Established 1995 • Established 1974 • 60 employees • 55 employees • 280 employees • 4 offices • 3 offices • 9 offices 8 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 SOUTH ASIA ASIA PACIFIC DLE EAST ORTH AFRICA AFRICA AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND South Asia Asia Pacific Australia and New Zealand • Established 1968 • Established 1962 • Established 1949 • 1,650 employees • 400 employees • 1,300 employees • 14 offices • 10 offices • 17 offices SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 9 Our Corporate Governance Company Structure Board Committees The SMEC Group operates through a number of The Board has three permanent committees which companies under SMEC Holdings Ltd. SMEC’s provide direction on specific areas. Each committee Australian and international operations are conducted has a written terms of reference and is subject to annual through the operating companies of SMEC Australia Pty review by the Board. These committees are: the Audit Ltd and SMEC International Pty Ltd, respectively. The and Risk Committee; the Remuneration Committee; the SMEC Group also includes a number of subsidiaries, Nominations Committee; and the Executive Committee. established or acquired to meet regional requirements and pursue specialised sector activities. Audit and Risk Committee The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board with: financial reporting, accounting policies and internal The Board of Directors control systems; identifying, assessing, monitoring and Although unlisted, SMEC’s Board of Directors has managing SMEC’s material risks; and ensuring that adopted practices in line with the Principles of Good financial information is provided to investors and the Corporate Governance and Best Practice set out by the Board in an accurate and timely manner. The Audit and Australian Stock Exchange (ASX) Corporate Governance Risk Committee must have at least three members, Council. ASX Standards promote ethical decision making consist only of Non-Executive Directors, have a majority and transparency and ensure fair remuneration. of independent Directors and have an independent Chair, who is not the Chair of the Board. SMEC’s Board (the Board) is responsible for formulating the strategic direction of SMEC. The Board acts on behalf Remuneration and Nominations Committee of shareholders and is accountable for SMEC’s financial, The Remuneration and Nominations Committee aims operational and ethical performance. The Board has a is to assist in establishing a Board with an effective written charter which outlines the responsibilities of Board composition, diversity, size and commitment to members and provides a governance framework which is adequately discharge its duties and responsibilities to the in the best interests of shareholders. Company, shareholders and other stakeholders. SMEC’s Board is currently composed of two Executive The Committee also aims to ensure that SMEC: secures, Directors and five Non-Executive Directors. The motivates and retains a highly skilled and diverse composition of the Board is determined using these group of directors and senior executives to ensure the principles: there must be a maximum of eight members, long-term success of the Company and create value with a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors; for shareholders; remunerates its directors and senior the positions of Chair and Managing Director must be executives fairly and responsibly, having regard to the held by separate people; the Chair must be elected by performance of the Company, the performance of the Board; Directors should have different backgrounds; the directors and senior executives and the general and Directors (not including the Managing Director) will remuneration environment; and implements policies and retire at the fourth Annual General Meeting following practices that secure, motivate and retain a highly skilled election and (if eligible) may stand for re-election. and diverse group of employees at all levels of Independence of Non-Executive Directors the Company. An independent Director: is independent of management; The Remuneration and Nominations Committee must is free of any relationships that could interfere with the consist of at least three members, be comprised solely of exercise of independent judgement; and meets the Non-Executive Directors, have a majority of independent criteria for independence in the ASX Standards. SMEC’s Directors and have an independent Chair. Board has four independent Non-Executive Directors. 10 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Risk Management Executive Committee During this reporting period, SMEC’s risk management The Executive Committee monitors SMEC’s operations systems and practices were a key priority. Improved and ensures that strategies and policies set by the processes for the identification of risks and better Board are implemented. The Executive Committee is consultation in managing risks, has led to the responsible for all matters not reserved for the other implementation of (more) targeted risk management permanent Board Committees. The Executive Committee measures, and an overall improvement of SMEC’s risk is responsible for the day-to-day management of SMEC management systems. These measures have reduced and is chaired by the Managing Director and CEO. the likelihood and potential impact of a number of significant risks. In addition, SMEC has focused on fostering a risk management culture. The adoption of Remuneration of Directors this culture has led to greater awareness and improved Non-Executive Directors are paid annual fees, which communication of risks at all levels. in total fall within the fixed amount approved by The Board, through the Audit and Risk Committee, shareholders (currently set at $1,000,000). During the is responsible for ensuring that there are adequate 2010–2011 financial year, remuneration of Non-Executive organisational arrangements for designing, implementing, Directors totalled $645,920. Non-Executive Directors are monitoring, reviewing and continually improving risk not eligible for SMEC’s bonus or incentive schemes and management throughout SMEC. only statutory retirement benefits are payable. Code of Conduct Quality Management SMEC is committed to implementing quality SMEC has a Code of Conduct which must be followed management principles on all projects and has by all employees. The Code requires that all employees developed a Quality Management System (QMS). act with honesty, objectivity and in compliance with the SMEC’s QMS complies with the requirements of law. SMEC’s Code of Conduct encourages employees ISO 9001:2008. to report any unethical practices within SMEC and is regularly reviewed. SMEC’s QMS provides systematic control of business activities to ensure that client expectations are being Company Charter met and, if possible, exceeded. SMEC’s QMS includes processes for planning, documenting, managing and Vision: To be a global leader in high-quality solutions. controlling everyday business needs and activities. Mission: Partner in the economic development of nations The QMS ensures compliance with relevant regulatory by meeting the needs of clients and communities through requirements and includes review processes to monitor professional excellence and innovation. Deliver returns to and measure performance and identify improvements. shareholders and rewarding careers to employees. Effective implementation of the QMS has assisted Values: The SMEC Spirit embodies pride and a ‘can in creating a culture at SMEC that is focused on the do’ approach. The SMEC Spirit is at the core of the provision of high-quality services, technical excellence, Company’s culture and has bred a strong sense of innovative design and the management of environmental identity which drives performance. A sense of the and social risks. These considerations are incorporated Company’s proud traditions and the continuation of its into SMEC’s everyday business decisions. pioneering spirit are key elements of the SMEC Spirit. SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 11 Our Board Peter Busbridge Chairman BE(Civil), AMP Harvard, MAICD Peter joined SMEC in 1974 and has held the positions of Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operations Officer, Executive Director Australia, Manager New South Wales and Chief Engineer Highways and Transportation. In 2009, Peter was appointed Chairman of the Board. Peter holds a Bachelor of Engineering (Civil) from Melbourne University and completed the Advanced Management Program at Harvard University. Peter is a Fellow of the Institution of Engineers Australia and is a Member of the Australian Institute of Company Directors and the Road Engineering Association of Asia and Australasia (REAAA). Ross Hitt Roger Bayliss Managing Director and CEO Non-Executive Director BE(Civil), GradDip(Management), MAICD BSc, MRACI, FAICD Ross joined SMEC in 1980. Ross was appointed Roger was appointed to the Board in 2002. Roger Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of SMEC is a Non-Executive Director of SMEC, Chairman of in 2009, after serving as Managing Director International the Remuneration and Nominations Committee and since 2005. Ross has more than 35 years experience a SMEC Foundation Board member. Roger’s career in engineering, development and infrastructure projects has spanned 44 years and includes management and in Australia and internationally. Ross holds a Bachelor policy development, marketing, international trade and of Engineering (Civil) from Monash University and a investment. Roger was a member of the executive Postgraduate Diploma in Management from Deakin management team at the Australian Trade Commission University. Ross is a Fellow of the Institution of (Austrade). He is a Chartered Chemist, a Member of the Engineers Australia and a Member of the Australian Royal Australian Chemical Institute and a Fellow of the Institute of Company Directors and the Australia India Australian Institute of Company Directors. Roger holds a Business Council. Bachelor of Science from Sydney University. 12 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Alastair McKendrick Bob Scott Director and Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director BBus(Acc), FCPA, MAICD FCA, MAICD Alastair joined SMEC in 1999 as Financial Controller, was Bob was appointed to SMEC’s Board in 1996. He is a appointed Chief Financial Officer in 2000 and Group Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit and Finance Director in 2009. He was elected to the Board as Risk Committee. Bob was Chairman of the Board from an Executive Director in 2001. Alastair has over 30 years 2001 to 2009. Prior to joining SMEC, he was a partner experience in the management of large organisations of Coopers & Lybrand (now PricewaterhouseCoopers) and consulting to small-to-medium sized organisations for 23 years. Bob served as Non-Executive Director in Australia, Hong Kong, New Zealand and the United of McConnell Dowell Ltd (a publicly listed company) Kingdom. Alastair holds a Bachelor of Business from 1996 to 2001. He has a long association with the (Accounting) from Monash University, is a Fellow of engineering and property industries. Bob is a Chartered Certified Public Accountants Australia and a Member of Accountant, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered the Australian Institute of Company Directors. Accountants Australia and a Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland. Kate Spargo Max Findlay Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director BA, LLB(Hons), FAICD BEc, FAICD Kate is a Non-Executive Director of SMEC who was Max was appointed Non-Executive Director of SMEC in appointed to the Board in 2010. Kate is currently a 2010. Max was the Managing Director of Programmed Non-Executive Director on the Boards of UGL Ltd, Maintenance Services for 18 years until his retirement in Sonic Healthcare Ltd, Fletcher Building Ltd, Pacific 2008. Max serves on the Boards of several organisations Hydro Pty Ltd, Investec Bank (Australia) Ltd, Accounting including the Royal Children’s Hospital and Skilled Group Professional and Ethical Standards Board, International Ltd (a publicly listed company). Max is Chairman of the Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, CoInvest Board of EVZ Ltd and Redflex Holdings Ltd. Max holds a Ltd and Suncorp Portfolio Services Ltd. Kate holds a Bachelor of Economics (Politics) from Monash University Bachelor of Law (Honours) and a Bachelor of Arts from and a postgraduate qualification in Accounting from Adelaide University. Kate is a Fellow of the Australian Swinburne University. Max is a Fellow of the Australian Institute of Company Directors. Institute of Company Directors. SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 13 Our Executive Committee Ross Hitt Managing Director and CEO BE(Civil), GradDip(Management), MAICD Ross joined SMEC in 1980. Ross was appointed Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of SMEC in 2009, after serving as Managing Director International since 2005. Ross has more than 35 years experience in engineering, development and infrastructure projects in Australia and internationally. Ross holds a Bachelor of Engineering (Civil) from Monash University and a Postgraduate Diploma in Management from Deakin University. Ross is a Fellow of the Institution of Engineers Australia and a Member of the Australian Institute of Company Directors and the Australia India Business Council. SMEC’s Executive Committee Alastair McKendrick Neil Evans monitors the Director and Group Finance Director Director Strategy and Business Company’s BBus(Acc), FCPA, MAICD Development BSc(Eng), AMP Harvard Alastair joined SMEC in 1999 as operations and Financial Controller, was appointed Chief Financial Officer in 2000 and Neil joined SMEC in 1993 and was appointed Director Strategy and ensures that Group Finance Director in 2009. He was elected to the Board as an Business Development in 2009. Previously, Neil was Managing Director strategies and Executive Director in 2001. Alastair has over 30 years experience in the Australia, and led strategic acquisitions, business planning and delivery of policies set by management of large organisations and consulting to small-to-medium large infrastructure projects. Neil has 40 years experience and has been a sized organisations in Australia, Hong member of project boards and review the Board are Kong, New Zealand and the United groups for major infrastructure projects Kingdom. Alastair holds a Bachelor of within Australia and internationally. implemented. Business (Accounting) from Monash Neil holds a Bachelor of Science (Civil University, is a Fellow of Certified Engineering) from the University of Public Accountants Australia and a New South Wales and has completed Member of the Australian Institute of the Harvard Business School Company Directors. Advanced Management Program. 14 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Barry Norman Hari Poologasundram Manoli Loukas Managing Director International Managing Director Australia Acting Chief Operating Officer GradDip(Civil), EWS(Vic), FIEAust BSc(Hons), MSc, CPEng, MIEAust, Asia Pacific MICE, MIHT GradDip(Business), MBA Barry joined SMEC in 2006 and is Managing Director International. Barry Hari joined SMEC in 1994 and was Manoli joined SMEC in 2005 and was provides leadership in business appointed Managing Director Australia appointed Acting Chief Operating planning, acquisitions and international in 2009. Hari has been a member of Officer Asia Pacific in 2011. Prior to concession projects. Prior to his the SMEC Australia Board since 2004. this appointment, Manoli held the appointment as Managing Director Hari has over 24 years experience in positions of Regional Director Asia International, Barry held the position of planning, design and management of Pacific and Regional Manager India. Regional Director Southern (Australia), infrastructure projects using traditional Manoli is an accomplished senior where he was responsible for Design and Construct, Alliance and executive with a strong background in expanding SMEC’s Victorian and Public Private Partnership methods. operations management and strategy South Australian operations. Barry has He has led successful Alliance teams development. Manoli has over 25 over 40 years engineering experience, and delivered several Pacific Highway years experience in the engineering holds a Diploma in Civil Engineering upgrade projects. Hari holds a Bachelor industry in both the public and private from Deakin University and is a life of Science (Civil Engineering) and a sectors. Manoli holds a Master member (and past National President) Master of Science (Civil Engineering) of Business Administration from of the Australian Water Association. from City University, London. Swinburne University. Siddique A. Jafar Irek Stawiczny Angus Macpherson Acting Chief Operating Officer CEO GMC Global Director Corporate Affairs South Asia BE(Mechanical) BE(Civil), CPEng, MIEAust BE(Civil), MIEB Irek is the founder of GMC Global. He Angus joined SMEC in 1993. He Siddique joined SMEC in 1992 and is a qualified engineer with 17 years was appointed Director Corporate was appointed Acting Chief Operating mining industry experience, working Affairs in 2010. Angus has over 15 Officer South Asia in 2010. He has over in multiple technical and leadership years experience in managing design 35 years experience in structural design, roles. Over the last 10 years, Irek teams and in the development construction supervision, quality control has been involved in a number of and implementation of business and project monitoring for large-scale large-scale maintenance management management systems. Angus projects. He manages the operation improvement programs, and global has experience in a wide range of and direction of SMEC in Bangladesh, enterprise resource planning projects, infrastructure projects for both the India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and the focused on delivering business public and private sectors. Angus Central Asian Republics. Siddique value. Irek joined SMEC’s Executive has expertise in scope control, risk has been instrumental in transforming Committee in 2012, when GMC analysis, financial management, local subsidiaries into successful Global became part of the SMEC design review and the management of commercial ventures. Siddique holds Group. Irek holds a Bachelor of specialist technical input. Angus holds a Bachelor of Engineering (Civil) from Mechanical Engineering from the a Bachelor of Engineering (Civil) from Bangladesh University of Engineering Central Queensland University. the University of Technology, Sydney. and Technology. SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 15 Our Stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement SMEC’s stakeholders are individuals and groups Clients impacted by the Company’s activities or those who SMEC is committed to continuous improvement in can impact SMEC’s development. SMEC aims to stay client service standards. To this end, SMEC actively informed of sensitive issues through effective and regular solicits regular client feedback. SMEC has in place communication with its stakeholders. SMEC has in place Client Relationship Management (CRM) policies and policies and procedures to identify and manage issues procedures as well as an online CRM system (which that may impact stakeholders as well as record significant is currently only in use in Australia). These tools help stakeholder communications. SMEC’s approach to SMEC manage client relationships in an organised and stakeholder engagement is modified to align with each structured manner. SMEC’s CRM system assists SMEC stakeholder’s area of interest. to better services the needs of clients. SMEC’s proactive approach to stakeholder engagement SMEC’s CRM policies include a specific project closure represents the Company’s ongoing commitment procedure to ensure that the highest quality project to working effectively with its stakeholders, learning outcomes have been delivered to the satisfaction of the from past stakeholder engagement experiences and client. During the project closure process, the Project continuing to improve performance. SMEC’s three Manager must: obtain written confirmation from the client major stakeholder groups are employees, clients that the project services are complete; obtain (where the and shareholders. client is willing) an attestation of SMEC’s services from the client; and request that the client provide feedback Employees on SMEC’s performance using SMEC’s Project Service SMEC encourages two-way communication with Questionnaire which includes topics such as quality of employees to promote mutual understanding and service, quality of technical work and value for money. alignment of Company and individual objectives. To enhance two-way communication, SMEC undertook an SMEC is in the process of developing and implementing Employee Feedback Survey in 2011. The objectives of the a new company-wide client feedback tool (and survey were to: understand employee satisfaction levels; associated policies and procedures) which will be linked measure SMEC’s progress in pre-determined areas; to SMEC’s CRM system. compare SMEC’s performance to industry benchmarks; and develop new employee programs aligned to the These soon to be released policies and procedures Company’s Strategic Plan. The results of the survey are will formalise SMEC’s approach to client feedback and outlined on page 22 of this report. encourage all SMEC employees to actively seek more regular client feedback, where possible, face-to-face. SMEC’s Staff Consultative Committee (SCC) is another Client feedback will be sought at various phases mechanism that facilitates two-way communication including: throughout projects; at project closure; and between SMEC employees and management. The SCC general feedback unrelated to a specific project. provides a link to and from the Executive Committee for employees to raise concerns or make suggestions. The SMEC’s new client feedback system will capture and SCC may take on briefs from the Executive Committee analyse client feedback to enable SMEC to continue to or the Human Resources department to investigate, provide excellent service and stay ahead of competitors. report or communicate issues of interest to employees. The SCC is a recognised SMEC Committee, comprising a group of continuing employees partly nominated by management and partly elected by employees. 16 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Shareholders Partner Firms: SMEC has a policy of continuous disclosure and  Membership of key industry association committees communication to shareholders. The Company Secretary  Attendance and sponsorship of industry events is the appointed Officer responsible for communications  Corporate communications (publications) with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission. This Officer is also responsible for ensuring  Website (www.smec.com) compliance with the continuous disclosure requirements Shareholders: of the Corporations Act 2001.  Board and Committee meetings The Board aims to ensure that the shareholders are  Company announcements fully informed of all material information relating to  Annual General Meeting the Company. Communication with shareholders is undertaken through: the annual report and half-yearly  Corporate communications (publications) reports; the Annual General Meeting; media releases and  Website (www.smec.com) other publications included on SMEC’s website (www.smec.com); and periodic mail outs. Government Authorities:  Regular meetings Stakeholder Communication  Written submissions  Membership of key industry association committees SMEC uses a variety of communication methods, tailored to each specific stakeholder group:  Corporate communications (publications)  Website (www.smec.com) Employees:  CEO email announcements Industry Bodies:  Senior management email announcements  Participation on key industry association committees  Staff Consultative Committee  Attendance at industry functions  Monthly internal electronic newsletter (SMEC News)  Sponsorship of industry events  Intranet announcements  Corporate communications (publications)  Corporate events  Website (www.smec.com)  Corporate communications (publications) Banks and Financiers:  Website (www.smec.com)  Health and safety and sustainability reporting Clients, Suppliers and Contractors:  Financial reporting via a third party company (auditor)  Regular progress meetings and reports  Corporate communications (publications)  Post-project client satisfaction surveys  Website (www.smec.com)  Membership of key industry association committees Media:  Attendance and sponsorship of industry events  Media releases  Corporate events  Corporate communications (publications)  Corporate communications (publications)  Website (www.smec.com)  Website (www.smec.com) SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 17 Our Performance Industry Awards Industry Memberships SMEC is consistently ranked amongst the world’s top  Association of Consulting Engineers Malaysia engineering design firms and wins industry awards for  Association of Consulting Surveyors design innovation and the management of environmental (Victoria Division) and social risks. In 2011, Engineering News-Record’s  Association of Land Development Engineers (ENR) annual list of top design firms ranked SMEC at number 67 in the ‘Top 200 International Design Firms’  Australian Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong and number 87 in the ‘Top 150 Global Design Firms’.  Australian Green Infrastructure Council  Australian National Committee on Large Alliance Contracting Dams (ANCOLD)  Excellence in Major and Capital Projects Award:  Australian Water Association (AWA) Wyaralong Dam  British Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong Australian Institute of Project Management  Board of Engineers Malaysia (Queensland)  CIGRE (International Conference on Large High  Engineering Project over $1 million: Wyaralong Dam Voltage Electric Power Systems) Concrete Institute of Australia (Queensland)  Consult Australia  Award for Excellence: Gateway Upgrade Project  Engineers Registration Board Tanzania (pictured above)  International Road Federation Consult Australia Awards for Excellence  Pakistan Engineering Council  Gold Award (Transport and Civil Infrastructure):  Property Council of Australia (South Gateway Upgrade Project Australia Division)  Gold Award (Water): Dandenong Valley Wetlands  Property Council of Australia (Victoria Division)  Gold Award (Planning and Urban Development):  Roads Australia Woodland Waters  Urban Development Institute of Australia  Gold Award (Specialist Services): Ipswich Motorway (Queensland Division) Upgrade (Dinmore to Goodna) Mine Fill Project  Urban Development Institute of Australia (Victoria Division) Engineers Australia (Sydney)  Water Industry Alliance  Environment and Heritage and President’s Award: Nepean Environmental Flows Project (Portion B)  Women’s Planning Network Infrastructure Partnerships Australia  Project of the Year Award: Gateway Upgrade Project Safe Work Australia Awards  Best Workplace Safety System Award: Ballina Bypass Urban Development Institute of Australia (Victoria)  Excellence Award for Residential Development (over 250 lots) and Judges Landscape Award: Woodland Waters 18 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Economic Performance SMEC’s strategic policies ensure economic performance, Government Financial Assistance sustained long-term growth and positive returns for all The Australian Government offers a Research and stakeholders. During the reporting period (1 April 2011 to Development (R&D) Tax Concession for activities which 31 March 2012), revenue in Australia increased by 17% are innovative or have high levels of technical risk. As of to $204.3 million. SMEC’s net operating profit after tax in 1 July 2011, the R&D Tax Concession program provided Australia increased by 34% to $11.6 million. a 40% tax offset; 10 cents on every R&D dollar spent. During the reporting period, SMEC spent $3,080,276 SMEC’s operating costs increased by 33% to $58.3 on R&D activities and received $288,775 as a cashback million, with employee compensation increasing benefit (as displayed in Figure 2). This is a 61% decrease by 13% to $129.2 million. These cost increases are in expenditure on R&D activities as compared to the last attributed, in part, to the acquisition of businesses and reporting period. Many of SMEC’s eligible R&D projects the establishment of new offices. The generation and either scaled down or were completed in 2011. In distribution of SMEC’s economic value is displayed in addition, many of SMEC’s new projects were undertaken Figure 1. via Alliancing which is ineligible for R&D Tax Concessions. Figure 1: Economic Value Generated and Distributed in Australia (all figures are in $’000) Generated VIC & SA NSW & ACT QLD & NT AUSTRALIA Revenue $62,098 $82,158 $60,078 $204,334 Donations and Community Investments Net Operating Profit After Tax N/A N/A N/A $11,692 Distributed VIC & SA NSW & ACT QLD & NT AUSTRALIA Operating Costs $17,720 $23,445 $17,144 ($58,309) Employee Compensation $39,294 $51,987 $38,016 ($129,297) Payments to Providers of Capital Dividend N/A N/A N/A ($3,213) Government (Tax) N/A N/A N/A ($10,464) TOTAL ($201,283) Figure 2: Financial Assistance Received from the Australian Government Claimed in 2011 Tax Claimed in 2011 ITR Estimate Claim TOTAL Deduction at 125% Tax Deduction at Tax Offset at 40% (1/4/11–31/3/12) (1/4/11–30/6/11) 150% (1/4/11–30/6/11) (1/7/11–31/3/12) R&D Expenditure $770,069 $2,310,207 $3,080,276 Before Tax Cash Benefit $192,517 $770,069 $962,586 After Tax Cash Benefit $57,755 $231,020 $288,775 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 19 Our Sustainability Strategy 20 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 SMEC’s Corporate Social Responsibility activities are structured under three broad focus areas: People; Community; and Environment and Sustainability. SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 21 People Employee Demographics As a consulting organisation, SMEC believes its people Analysis of employee turnover indicated that the primary are its most important asset. SMEC employees are declared reason for resignation was a lack of career critical to the Company’s continued success and development, followed by dissatisfaction with salary. sustained growth. SMEC invests in strategies to attract, SMEC is developing Action Plans to improve these areas. retain and develop skilled and enthusiastic employees. During the reporting period, SMEC updated the exit SMEC is committed to achieving equal opportunities interview process, amended cessation forms, ensured for all employees in the workplace and ensuring that the that position descriptions of all Human Resources workplace is free from discrimination and harassment. Managers include exit interviews as a responsibility and SMEC has implemented workplace policies, practices investigated automation of the exit interview process. and behaviours that are fair and do not disadvantage employees on the basis of gender, age, ethnicity, religion or any other indicators of diversity. Employee Feedback Survey SMEC conducted an Employee Feedback Survey (the SMEC aims to enhance employee career progression Survey) in 2011. The objectives of the Survey were to: through professional development and career planning. gain insight into employee satisfaction levels; measure SMEC also has in place a variety of programs that assist SMEC’s progress since the 2009 survey; compare employee wellbeing and work-life balance. SMEC’s performance to industry benchmarks; and develop new employee programs aligned to SMEC’s At the close of the reporting period, SMEC had a total Strategic Plan. of 1,291 employees across Australia (as displayed in Figure 3). This is an 8% increase on total employees In Australia, 1,230 employees received the Survey, from the previous reporting period. This increase can be whilst 927 employees responded, representing a 75% attributed, in part, to the opening of new offices in the participation rate. This is the highest participation rate in Sunshine Coast and Newcastle, and the acquisition of a SMEC employee survey by Australian employees. In Lean and Hayward (an urban development consultancy 2009, there was a 56% response rate in Australia. firm) and GMC Global (a consulting services provider to the resources industry). The Survey found that 72% of SMEC’s Australian-based employees were satisfied with their job (as displayed in The majority of SMEC employees (84.5%) are contracted Figure 5). Employees felt that: on a full-time basis, 10% are casual, 3.5% are part-time  SMEC’s working environment is very open and and 1.5% are fixed-term employees. New South Wales accepting of individual differences and the Australian Capital Territory are home to the majority of employees (42%), followed by Victoria and  They have an appropriate level of autonomy to make South Australia (32%), then Queensland and the Northern decisions and take action in their day-to-day work Territory (25%).  SMEC is an attractive place to work Turnover The report also highlighted areas for improvement: The average turnover of all Australian employees in 2011  Sharing of information across sectors and offices was 26%; for permanent employees only, it was 15%.  The way in which change is managed The demographic profile of this turnover is consistent with  Professional development and career opportunities the cultural and legislative environment in which SMEC operates. A breakdown of employee turnover in 2011 by SMEC is developing Action Plans to improve these areas. gender and age group is displayed in Figure 4. 22 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Cultural Diversity Diversity is a source of strength for SMEC’s clients, Figure 3: Employee Numbers in Australia partners and the communities in which SMEC operates. Region Full Part Casual Fixed Total SMEC’s employees come from a variety of ethnic Time Time Term backgrounds. According to the 2011 Employee Feedback VIC & SA 343 15 46 6 410 Survey, the majority of SMEC employees were born in Australia followed by the United Kingdom, New Zealand NSW & ACT 475 19 48 10 552 and China. In Australia, an average of 41% of employees QLD & NT 275 12 38 4 329 speak languages other English. AUSTRALIA 1,093 46 132 20 1,291 SMEC’s Diversity Policy states that valuing and managing diversity means that SMEC will aim to:  Create an inclusive workplace culture Figure 4: Employee Turnover by Gender and Age  Facilitate equal employment opportunities based on relative ability, performance and potential 80  Help build a safe working environment by taking Male action against inappropriate behaviour that does not 70 value diversity including discrimination, harassment, Female bullying, victimisation and vilification 60 Number of Employees  Review succession plans to ensure an appropriate 50 focus on diversity  Identify specific factors during the recruitment and 40 selection process to encourage employee diversity 30  Develop flexible work practices to meet the differing needs of employees and assist them to balance their 20 work and family commitments 10  Ensure that all employees have access to benefits and services in an equitable manner 0  Consult stakeholders to ensure positive outcomes 15–24 25–34 35–44 45–54 55–64 65+  Attract and retain a skilled and diverse workforce Age  Enhance market reputation through a workforce that reflects the diversity of the community it services Figure 5: Overall Employee Job Satisfaction % Very Satisfied 13 Satisfied59 Dissatisfied 7 Very Dissatisfied  1 Undecided20 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 23 People (continued) Gender Diversity SMEC is committed to promoting gender diversity and Women In SMEC (WINS) understands that achieving a gender balance throughout In 2011, WINS (Women In SMEC) was established to help the Company is a business imperative. During this increase the level of participation of women in leadership reporting period, 30.6% of all new employees and 19.5% in SMEC. WINS is comprised of employees from each of graduate employees who joined SMEC in Australia of the major Australian offices. Activities undertaken by were female. A total of 25% of all SMEC employees were WINS include: female; there has been no change in this figure since the  Identifying strategies that address career issues last reporting period.  Identifying external networking opportunities These figures are significantly higher than the industry  Raising awareness about gender diversity standard. According to Engineers Australia, 14% of  Facilitating internal networking and Australian engineers are female and 16.3% of Australian graduate engineers are female. knowledge sharing  Identifying strategies to enhance personal and The majority of SMEC’s female employees are aged professional development between 25 and 34. A breakdown of SMEC’s employees by gender and age group is displayed in Figure 6. SMEC Gender Diversity Awareness classifies employees into three employment types: SMEC understands that one of the difficulties in achieving  Professional: degree qualified employees including a gender balance is the lack of awareness around engineers, scientists and corporate services gender issues. As such, SMEC undertook a number of  Technical: employees who are not degree qualified activities during the reporting period designed to increase but have technical skills employee gender diversity awareness.  Administration: employees in administrative roles A SMEC intranet site, ‘Diversity’ was launched in 2011. including executive assistants and receptionists The site includes: SMEC’s diversity statement; a calendar of events; links to diversity policies; a discussion board; A breakdown of SMEC’s employees by gender and information about WINS; and a copy of SMEC’s annual employment type is displayed in Figure 7; the majority Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency of SMEC’s female employees are classified as (EOWA) report. Professional (54%), followed by Administration (34%), then Technical (12%). SMEC celebrated International Women’s Day (IWD) on 8 March 2012. IWD recognises the economic, political and Gender Diversity Steering Committee social achievements of women. IWD events were twofold; SMEC is committed to increasing the number of females to celebrate IWD and to raise awareness of the gender in senior positions. To address this issue, a Gender diversity challenges that exist. IWD events were held in Diversity Steering Committee, chaired by SMEC’s Chief most Australian offices and certain international offices. Executive Officer was established in 2011. The role of the Committee is to monitor the implementation of SMEC’s SMEC submits an annual report to the EOWA. The Gender Action Plan to ensure that SMEC achieves its EOWA is a statutory authority within the Australian gender diversity objectives. Commonwealth Department of Employment and Workplace Relations. SMEC achieved compliance with the Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Act 1999 for the 2010–2011 financial year. 24 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Remuneration SMEC endeavours to ensure employees receive Figure 6: Employees by Gender and Age competitive salaries, taking into consideration market conditions as well as an individual’s performance, 300 education and experience. To ensure SMEC employee Male salaries are in line with the market, SMEC conducts 250 annual salary reviews and compares these to analysis of industry benchmarks. SMEC’s minimum wage levels Female Number of Employees exceed legal requirements and employment contracts 200 conform to the relevant industrial requirements. 150 During this reporting period, the average male entry level salary was $64,315 and the average female entry level salary was $64,215. This is a significant improvement 100 on the last reporting period, whereby males received an average of $6,000 more per annum than females. 50 The average overall male salary was $108,393 and the average overall female salary was $73,212. The largest 0 15–24 25–34 35–44 45–54 55–64 65+ salary difference between males and females was in the professional band of employees; on average males were Age paid $105,596 while females were paid $76,520. SMEC recognises that male employees are, on average, Figure 7: Employees by Gender and Employment Type currently being paid higher salaries than their female counterparts. This difference may be attributed to the 800 type of roles that female and male employees occupy Male within SMEC as there is a much higher representation of 700 females in lower paying administration roles. Female 600 Number of Employees 500 400 300 200 100 0 Professional Technical Administration Employment Type SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 25 People (continued) Career Development SMEC understands that career development can help Career Recognition employees have a stronger sense of purpose, achieve SMEC recognises the outstanding contribution made greater fulfilment and have higher levels of satisfaction. by employees throughout the Company for technical SMEC seeks to attain the highest possible standards excellence and project management, as well as in the management and training of employees and is contributions to the wider engineering industry. SMEC committed to employee development. SMEC develops launched a Career Recognition procedure during the the skills and expertise of employees and broadens the reporting period to formalise this process. Each year, experience of employees through a range of initiatives. employees who achieve a career milestone of between Professional Development Program five and 40 years (at five year intervals) are acknowledged for their commitment to the Company. SMEC maintains an active Professional Development Program (PDP). The PDP is administered internally and Annually, SMEC recognises the contributions of developed in association with Engineers Australia’s employees through the SMEC Awards. Three award structured education and training program. The PDP categories are presented: the Project of the Year Award; assists both graduates and emerging professionals the SMEC Medal; and the Young Professional of the with career planning. During the reporting period, there Year Award. were 43 employees registered in the PDP; 83% were graduates and 23% were female employees. Training SMEC offers employees training in technical and Some Australian offices have Young Professional Groups. management areas as required. During the reporting These groups assist graduate employees to obtain period, the average hours of training per employee in professional association qualifications and give graduates Victoria and South Australia was 21 hours. In New South the opportunity to improve member representation within Wales and the Australian Capital Territory it was 25 hours. the Company. Training data for Queensland and the Northern Territory Performance Appraisals was not available. SMEC will introduce reporting systems for training within the next year to capture detailed data. SMEC conducts annual performance appraisals for all employees using CareerTrac, an in-house performance SMEC has increased its investment in training for the and development appraisal system. The CareerTrac year ahead as part of SMEC’s Career Development process allows employees and their manager to: discuss Framework and Succession Planning Program. The achievements; discuss issues and challenges and objective of the Career Development Framework is to agree actions to resolve these; identify learning and provide employees with clear career paths within SMEC’s development needs; and develop a performance and global business. The Framework emphasises SMEC’s development plan. At the time of this report, completion commitment to employees, by providing a workplace rate data was not yet available for the 2012 performance with targeted learning and development programs and an appraisal process; the timing of the cycle was changed to equitable reward and recognition framework. conclude in May (previously April). A Succession Planning Program is currently being developed. This program is designed for employees two management levels below the Chief Executive Officer. The program includes a framework for objective, merit-based nomination and assessment of candidates. The program will be launched in 2012. 26 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 During the reporting period, SMEC developed and includes options to vary hours of work, part-time implemented a revised onboarding and induction working arrangements, job sharing, working from home process which included training, orientation and and gradual re-entry and exit arrangements. SMEC e-learning components for all Australian offices. has made available a range of toolkits and resources on the Company intranet to assist employees to Skills Management establish flexible working arrangements. During the SMEC provides a range of in-house programs (as well as reporting period, 21 employees utilised SMEC’s flexible financial assistance for external training) which develop working arrangements; 76% were female. The majority lifelong learning and support continued employability. of employees who used SMEC’s flexible working Programs include time-management courses, training in arrangements either reduced their employment from Microsoft Office and retirement preparation workshops. full-time to part-time hours or worked from home. Tertiary Education Assistance Employee Benefits SMEC provides Tertiary Education Assistance to any SMEC understands that performance, motivation, continuing employee who has been employed by the productivity and longevity of employees rely on the Company for a minimum of 12 months. SMEC provides Company’s ability to provide a positive, flexible and up to 50% of course fees, capped at $10,000 per annum, rewarding working environment. SMEC offers a range and study leave for the purpose of exams or assignment of benefits that contribute to the wellbeing of Australian preparation. In April 2011, SMEC doubled the amount of employees. SMEC recognises that by providing a range assistance available to employees. During the reporting of benefits and programs that this will improve the lifestyle period, six employees accessed this assistance. of its valued employees, which is likely to positively affect job satisfaction. Employee Assistance Program SMEC’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP) program Parental Leave is provided by Davidson Trahaire. SMEC’s EAP aims to SMEC revised and significantly increased its parental improve the wellbeing of employees and their immediate leave entitlements during the reporting period. Employees dependents whose lives and work performance may be who have been with SMEC for 12 months, and are the affected by personal or work-related problems. Through primary care giver, can apply for 52 weeks of unpaid the EAP, employees can access short-term confidential parental leave and are now entitled to 18 weeks paid counselling, online counselling and MoneyAssist (financial leave on a full-time basis (comprised of the statutory paid advice). SMEC’s EAP includes a Manager Assistance leave and topped up to the normal salary level by SMEC). Program which deals with difficult people-management During the last reporting period, the entitlement was only situations. In 2011, 11 managers used the Manager six weeks paid leave. Employees who are the secondary Assistance Program and 36 employees used the EAP. care giver can apply for five business days at the time of the birth. During this reporting period, 29 employees Corporate Health Plan utilised SMEC’s parental leave benefits; 93% were female SMEC offers all employees a corporate health plan employees and 7% were male employees. through BUPA (formerly HBA, MBF and Mutual Community). The benefits include discounted insurance Flexible Working Arrangements rates and waived waiting periods. At the time of this SMEC is committed to helping employees achieve report, 109 SMEC employees were BUPA members. greater work-life balance. In 2011, SMEC introduced a Flexible Working Arrangement procedure which SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 27 People (continued) Health and Safety Principles SMEC is committed to promoting and maintaining a SMEC had a total of 120 reported incidents in 2011. This culture and working environment in which risk to health is more than double the number of reported incidents and safety is unacceptable. To meet this commitment, in the last reporting period. This is a positive sign SMEC (as far as is reasonably practicable) provides that the implementation of SMEC’s online health and healthy and safe working conditions for all people safety system is improving the way in which hazards associated with the Company including employees, are recorded. There is now a much greater focus on contractors, visitors and the general public. proactive reporting which (over time) should reduce the number of injuries reported. In order to meet these responsibilities, SMEC:  Develops safety awareness throughout the Company ‘Near Misses’ accounted for 33% of all reported incidents through initial and ongoing education and training in 2011, followed by External Events (17%) and Drills and Inspections (13%). Figures 8a and 8b display a breakdown  Takes all practicable steps to eliminate hazards of reported incidents by region and profession. within the workplace through risk identification, assessment, control, reporting and monitoring SMEC significantly reduced its Lost Time Injury (LTI)  Sets business specific standards of health and safety frequency rate per million hours worked in 2011. In 2010, for all employees to follow SMEC’s LTI frequency rate per million hours worked was,  Ensures all managers, supervisors and employees on average, 2.9 per month. In 2011, this was reduced by are aware of and accept their responsibility to 50% to 1.45 per month. provide a safe work environment  Strives to continuously improve health and safety Health and Safety Objectives for 2012 management by setting objectives, plans and SMEC actively monitors and reviews Company performance measures and by regularly reviewing performance in the area of health and safety to ensure progress against targets all objectives are met. SMEC takes all reasonable steps  Ensures all incidents are accurately reported, to improve work safety conditions and strives to uphold recorded and root causes identified the Company’s core values of safety, knowledge, integrity  Assists employees to achieve full recovery through and leadership in order to achieve the goal of zero harm. prompt treatment and active rehabilitation SMEC has set a number of targets for the year ahead. Health and Safety Performance Training In 2011, SMEC changed the way its health and safety SMEC will create a training matrix for workplace health hazards were recorded by implementing an online and safety training, specific to functional groups, field system. SMEC set an initial target of 20 recorded work and working overseas. ‘proactive alerts’ using this new system. Proactive alerts involve routine, planned testing, inspection and As a result of changes to health and safety laws in identification of possible hazards before an incident Australia, SMEC will implement a range of new workplace occurs. SMEC surpassed its target in 2011, with a health and safety training initiatives in 2012 including: total of 56 proactive alerts recorded. SMEC has set the  A revised online training module target for 2012 at 48 proactive alerts. Proactive  ‘Safety in Design’ briefing sessions for project and reporting accounted for 46% of all health safety reporting design managers in 2011, followed by reactive reporting (32%) and injury  Bullying, sexual harassment and psychological injury reporting (22%). prevention courses 28 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012  Briefing sessions for senior management outlining Figure 8a: Reported Incidents by Profession general duties under the new legislation 24  Refresher courses for workplace health and 22 safety representatives 20 Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment 18 Number of Incidents In 2012, SMEC will increase its focus on hazard 16 identification and risk assessment procedures including: 14  Creation of Job Safety Analysis and Safe Work 12 Method Statements for typical project types 10  Progressive assessment of offices for ‘Ready for 8 Safety Certification’ 6  Provision of medical assessments for functional 4 groups that are ‘high-risk’ (such as field staff) at the 2 commencement of (and during) employment 0 Administration Engineers Surveyors Safety Audits Profession In conjunction with SMEC’s increased focus on proactive health and safety reporting, safety auditing will be Figure 8b: Reported Incidents by Region improved in 2012. Office Managers and Workplace Health and Safety Representatives will complete 20 comprehensive workplace inspections. SMEC will also 18 continue to undertake gap analysis against new codes 16 and legislation as they become available. 14 Number of Incidents Safety Committees and Communication 12 SMEC understands that to improve workplace health and safety, employee communication is vital. SMEC 10 will improve health and safety communication between 8 offices, regions and committees in 2012. Detailed reports 6 will be delivered to all levels of management to raise awareness of hazards, incidents and proactive reporting. 4 2 Sub-Contractor and Sub-Consultant Management 0 SMEC will seek to ensure that sub-contractors and QLD & NT VIC & SA NSW & ACT sub-consultants conform to high levels of workplace Region health and safety requirements. In 2012, SMEC will   investigate an online system and database to record Lost Time Injury  Motor Vehicle Accident and keep up-to-date workplace health and safety Medical Treatment  External Event documentation for all sub-contractors and sub-consultants including WorkCover Certificates of Currency as well as First Aid Drill or Inspection Public Indemnity and Public Liability insurance certificates. Property Damage Near Miss SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 29 Community Community Engagement SMEC aims to partner in the economic development Indigenous Rights of nations by meeting the needs of diverse clients and SMEC works closely with clients to ensure that the rights communities through professional excellence. SMEC and heritage of Australia’s indigenous population are operates in a manner which promotes community protected. Where required, SMEC includes Indigenous engagement and sustainability. Through the adoption of Heritage Assessments and Management Plans as a a localisation model, SMEC invests in local communities component of Environmental Impact Assessments. and nurtures local talent. This improves the skills of Wherever possible, SMEC ensures active participation, people in the communities in which SMEC operates and skill development and increased long-term employment increases SMEC’s capacity to deliver local projects. opportunities for indigenous populations. Human Rights SMEC Foundation SMEC supports and respects the protection of The SMEC Foundation was established in 2001 and internationally proclaimed human rights and ensures that provides small-scale grant support to community groups the Company is not complicit in human rights abuses and development projects in countries where SMEC through its operations. operates. The aim of the SMEC Foundation is to deliver SMEC has policies in place to ensure that the Company the best possible social and development outcomes for does not violate human rights. In the year ahead, SMEC disadvantaged individuals and communities in Australia will review standard commercial agreement templates and internationally. The SMEC Foundation’s principal to include anti-corruption, anti-bribery and human focus areas are: Health, Education, Environment, rights protection provisions. SMEC will also review the Community Development and Emergency Relief. operations of suppliers, contractors and clients to help The SMEC Foundation has four key objectives: keep human rights violations to a minimum.  To provide small-scale grant assistance to Child Protection Policy community groups and development projects in Australia and in countries where SMEC has SMEC maintains a zero-tolerance policy in relation a presence to child abuse. Child abuse includes unacceptable behaviour directly involving children or observed by  To consolidate links between SMEC and the children. Child Protection Policy training is a mandatory communities in which the Company operates requirement for all employees. During this reporting  To create a more systematic process for SMEC’s period, 79% of all new employees completed the Child traditional corporate social responsibilities, ensuring Protection Policy training within their first three months. the best possible social and developmental impact  To create partnerships with non-government Forced and Compulsory Labour organisations and community groups addressing SMEC’s Code of Conduct, along with a variety of other poverty, social disadvantage and environmental policies and procedures, seeks to ensure that ethical protection employment and labour practices are implemented across the Company. SMEC complies with national The SMEC Foundation is registered as a Prescribed employment legislation throughout Australia and is Private Fund by the Australian Taxation Office (ATO). committed to the elimination of all forms of forced labour Donations are tax deductible for Australian taxpayers and and the abolition of child labour. organisations registered as Deductible Gift Recipients with the ATO. 30 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Year in Review Figure 9: Expenditure by Sector In June 2011, the SMEC Foundation celebrated its tenth anniversary. Over the past ten years, the SMEC 50 Foundation has progressed both in its development as an entity and in relation to the increasing level of funds Expenditure (all figures in $’000) 40 it has donated within Australia and internationally. The SMEC Foundation has donated approximately $700,000 to projects since it was established in 2001. 30 During this reporting period, the SMEC Foundation donated over $90,000 to 16 projects in ten countries: 20 Australia, Botswana, Ethiopia, India, Kenya, Lao PDR, Mongolia, Papua New Guinea, Tanzania and Zambia. Figure 11 displays a breakdown of SMEC Foundation 10 donations. Of funds allocated this year, 51% were donated to 0 Emergency Relief projects, followed by Education (29%), Community Education Health Emergency Community Development (10%) and Health (10%) as Development Relief displayed in Figure 9. Sector During this reporting period, 56% of funds were donated to projects in Australia, followed by projects in Figure 10: Expenditure by Division Africa (22%), Asia Pacific (16%) and South Asia (6%) as displayed in Figure 10. 60 In September 2011, East Africa experienced the worst drought in 60 years. More than 12.4 million people were 50 Expenditure (all figures in $’000) affected across Somalia, Ethiopia and Kenya. The United Nations declared a famine in two regions of southern 40 Somalia. Due to the famine and ongoing instability in Somalia, many refugees fled to Kenya, where the northern part of the country was facing a humanitarian 30 crisis. Urgent medical and food supplies were required across the region. The SMEC Foundation, together with 20 SMEC’s Nairobi office, launched the East African Drought Relief Appeal which raised over $1,800. These funds 10 were donated to the Australian Red Cross. 0 Africa Asia Pacific Australia South Asia Division SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 31 Community (continued) SMEC Foundation Project Profiles Maunatala Combined Junior Secondary School Australian Doctors International Botswana Papua New Guinea The SMEC Foundation donated $5,000 to the Maunatala Founded in 2000, Australian Doctors International (ADI) Combined Junior Secondary School for the purchase of is a not-for-profit, non-government health care and new uniforms for 12 girls and boys sporting teams. The development aid organisation working in remote regions school is a large co-educational facility with over 450 of Papua New Guinea (PNG). In 2011, ADI commenced students in Botswana. The school fields teams in softball, operations in the New Ireland Province of PNG where volleyball, netball, table tennis, badminton and soccer there are only seven doctors for over 160,000 people. in both regional and national competitions. Maunatala The SMEC Foundation donated $5,000 to ADI for the village is adjacent to the Lotsane Dam project. SMEC is purchase of life jackets and safety equipment. This part of a joint venture which is managing the construction equipment is used onboard boats that ADI uses to of the dam. transport supplies to the New Ireland Province. Rio Tinto Ride to Conquer Cancer Gunawirra Breakfast Program Queensland, Australia New South Wales, Australia The SMEC Foundation donated $1,250 to Kevin Gunawirra is a not-for-profit organisation that provides Golding, a Civil Drafter in SMEC’s Brisbane office, who services for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children participated in the 2011 Rio Tinto Ride to Conquer from birth to adulthood. The organisation undertakes Cancer. The event raised funds for the Queensland many projects in the Australian outback and believes it is Institute of Medical Research, a world leader in cancer every child’s right to a sound education, a loving family research and one of the largest and most successful and a secure and safe community in which to grow. The medical research institutes in Australia. The 240km SMEC Foundation donated $2,000 to Gunawirra to fund bicycle ride through south-east Queensland took place a breakfast program for indigenous pre-school children over two days. Kevin’s team of four cyclists raised in Gunnedah. The objective of the program is to promote approximately $12,000 and the event raised $4.7 million. good nutrition. 32 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Figure 11: SMEC Foundation Donations in 2011–2012 Project Location Sector Amount University of Queensland, Margaret Cribb Queensland, Australia Emergency Relief $32,000 Childcare Centre Cardwell State School Queensland, Australia Emergency Relief $11,000 Jeshi la Wananchi wa Tanzania Camp Tanzania Emergency Relief $2,001 Australian Red Cross – East Africa Drought Kenya Emergency Relief $1,800 Relief Appeal Donation Maunatala Combined Junior Secondary Botswana Education $5,000 School – Purchase of Sports Uniforms The Anganwadi Project India Education $5,000 World Vision Australia – Construction of Lao PDR Education $5,000 Primary School Chipua Institute for Social Transformation Tanzania Education $5,000 ‘Girls In Crisis’ Project Our Rainbow House Orphanage Zambia Education $4,000 Gunawirra Breakfast Program for Indigenous New South Wales, Australia Education $2,000 Students Snowy Monaro Arts Council – Purchase of New South Wales, Australia Community Development $5,000 Piano in Memory of John Laught Mongolian Quilting Centre Mongolia Community Development $2,500 Botaura Raiders Rugby League Club Papua New Guinea Community Development $2,000 Sponsorship Australian Doctors International – Integrated Papua New Guinea Health $5,000 Health Patrols Friends of interPART – Wheelchair Project Ethiopia Health $2,500 Ride to Conquer Cancer Queensland, Australia Health $1,250 TOTAL $91,051 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 33 Sustainability & Environment Environment Management Principles SMEC provides environmentally responsible, innovative  Preventing pollution and practical project outcomes to clients and conducts  Providing environmentally responsible, sustainable all activities in an environmentally responsible manner to and practical options to clients minimise adverse impacts on the environment.  Monitoring, reviewing and auditing SMEC’s Since 1999, SMEC has had a Corporate Environmental environmental performance Policy Statement and an Environmental Management Environmental Aspect Identification and Assessment System (EMS). The EMS outlines SMEC’s commitment to both its environmental responsibility and continuous There are two main types of environmental aspects improvement on all projects and across all offices. for which SMEC has controls in place to manage and SMEC’s EMS complies with the requirements of the (wherever possible) reduce potential environmental International Standard ISO 14001:2004. SMEC has impacts: environmental aspects of projects; and been certified to ISO 14001 since 1999 by SAI Global environmental aspects of office activities. (Certificate No C10080). Project Managers and Regional Managers are SMEC’s EMS is used to identify, manage and (where responsible for determining the potential consequences possible) reduce SMEC’s impact on the environment. The of environmental impacts, using SMEC’s Environmental EMS provides a systematic and methodical approach Impact Assessment Scale, as displayed in Figure 13. to planning, implementing and reviewing SMEC’s Where the environmental impact rating is above environmental performance. Effective implementation of eight, SMEC employees are required to develop the EMS has assisted in creating a culture that is focused appropriate risk treatments, objectives and targets in on sustainable practices that are explicitly incorporated an Environmental Management Plan. Where risk ratings into SMEC’s everyday business decisions. are above 15, the hazard is assigned to executive level Environmental Management Policy management for review, who ensure that the risk is managed in a holistic manner across the Company. SMEC has a detailed Environmental Management Policy which is reviewed annually by the Company’s Training and Competency Executive Committee. SMEC is committed to promoting All SMEC employees complete mandatory environmental environmentally responsible behaviour through: awareness training during induction and on an ongoing  Implementing and continually improving its project basis as required. Specialised training is provided to fulfil and office environmental management systems, job roles and comply with regulatory requirements as conforming to ISO 14001 required including: environmental auditor training and  Complying with legal requirements native fauna trapping training. This training ensures all  Implementing environmental management programs employees have the necessary knowledge and skills to to achieve environmental objectives and targets effectively implement SMEC’s EMS.  Conducting all activities in an environmentally responsible manner to minimise adverse environmental impacts  Enhancing beneficial environmental impacts of any SMEC activities to improve the quality of the environment for future generations 34 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Carbon Management Initiatives SMEC’s long-term carbon management objective is Figure 12: Emissions and Monthly Domestic Air Travel twofold: to assess Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions for all offices; and to establish a GHG emissions baseline. 600 250 Based on this, SMEC will implement a company-wide Domestic Air Travel (km) Distance (km) 500 Energy Management Framework to improve energy Emission (tCO2) 200 efficiency and reduce GHG emissions. 400 150 As of 1 January 2012, SMEC commenced data collection 300 tCO2 100 of electricity and paper usage across all Australian 200 offices. Based on these results (over 12 months) SMEC 50 will assess baseline usage and set measurable targets for 100 reduction of both resources. 0 0 Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Carbon Offsetting GHG emissions generated by SMEC through air travel within Australia were offset by high-grade Voluntary Figure 13: Environmental Impact Assessment Scale Carbon Standard carbon credits at a rate of $7.62 per tonne. Perenia (a firm which supports companies looking to proactively respond to the challenges associated Impact with climate change) calculated domestic flight GHG 1 2 3 4 5 emissions using certified industry emissions coefficients; Insignificant Minor Moderate Major, but Catastrophic reversible an average of 115 tonnes CO2e per month (as displayed in Figure 12). In 2011, Perenia retired 1,502 Voluntary Almost 5 Certain 5 10 15 20 25 Carbon Units (under the international Voluntary Carbon Above Standard) on behalf of SMEC at a cost of $11,445. This 4 Average 4 8 12 16 20 Likelihood offset 5,102,000km travelled by SMEC employees. 3 Moderate 3 6 9 12 15 These credits were provided to a biogas and bagasse cogeneration project in Kinauni, India. The project 2 Rare 2 4 6 8 10 involves the construction and operation of an anaerobic Very digester for wastewater from a distillery in Uttar Pradesh. 1 Rare 1 2 3 4 5 The project created jobs for local unskilled labourers during construction. Rating Treatment In 2011, SMEC’s printing company measured and offset a 1–6 Manage aspects via safe operating procedure. carbon footprint of 4,245kg for the production of SMEC’s annual publications at a cost of $103. The retired carbon Process decisions and treatments or controls are credits were invested in Climate Friendly, a carbon 8 – 12 assigned specific responsibilities within the process. management organisation which invests in renewable Process decisions and treatments or controls are energy projects such as wind, solar, hydropower or 15 – 16 escalated to senior management for review. renewable biomass generated power. Process decisions and treatments or controls are 20 – 25 escalated to executive level management for review. SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 35 Sustainability & Environment Environmentally Sustainable Offices Environmental Management Plans Environmental Office Survey SMEC’s Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane offices SMEC’s Adelaide office undertook an Employee have Environmental Management Plans in place. The Environmental Survey to gain a better understanding plans describe the processes that SMEC will follow to of employee perspectives on SMEC’s existing minimise harm to the environment as well as improve and environmental initiatives and areas for improvement. record progress in this area. Initiatives that have been As a result, the Green Star Award was implemented. undertaken as part of these plans include: Employees were asked a series of questions to assess  Purchasing at least 70% recycled (from their environmental footprint while at work. Survey post-consumer waste) or plantation paper questions included: Do you turn your computer monitor off at the end of each day? Do you read documents  Purchasing biodegradable plates and cups electronically or print them? The responses were graded  Purchasing green power in offices (10% in the and if employees achieved a score greater than 80% Melbourne office) they were awarded a Green Star. Employees who  Providing employees with recycled alternatives to scored below 80% were required to attend a workshop work books (unused print-outs are stapled together to educate them on how to integrate environmentally to form a booklet and left in stationery cupboards) sustainable initiatives into their work day.  Defaulting all the printers to double-sided printing Paperless Board and Committee Meetings  Recycling all printer toner cartridges Historically, SMEC’s board papers were distributed in  Recycling all paper, glass and plastic a hard-copy format, using approximately 8,000 sheets  Installing water saving devices in office bathrooms of paper each month. According to the Environmental and kitchens Protection Authority of Victoria, the GHG emissions  Educating employees about teleconferencing created by this office paper consumption equates to facilities to minimise the use of domestic air travel approximately 85kg CO2e per month. In 2011, SMEC  Using electronic modules in employee training (rather implemented paperless Board papers, via electronic than printing hard-copy material) distribution to Apple i-Pads.  Encouraging employees to use public transport, Australian Green Infrastructure Council rather than taxis SMEC Australia is an organisational member of the  Encouraging employees to fill petrol tanks Australian Green Infrastructure Council (AGIC). The of company cars with E-10 petrol (a more AGIC is a not-for-profit organisation formed to develop environmentally friendly petrol product) a national sustainability rating scheme for the design,  Participating in Earth Hour construction and operation of Australian infrastructure.  Enabling the ‘power saver’ function on all printers SMEC is actively involved in the AGIC’s Technical Support Working Group. AGIC represents over 70 Australian corporations and government departments which employ over 57,000 people. Through AGIC’s work, seven categories and 27 sub-categories have been identified to measure sustainability across social, economic and environmental aspects of infrastructure project delivery and operation. 36 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 (continued) Environmentally Sustainable Services Natural Resources and Environment SMEC has significant capability in the area of SMEC is committed to managing risks that may environmental monitoring and evaluation. SMEC employs adversely impact the environment. SMEC provides highly skilled Geographic Information System and flood socially and environmentally responsible advice for its modellers that examine and report on the benefits of clients and develops project outcomes that best meet environmental flows released into river systems. sustainability objectives. SMEC provides sustainable In a changing climate, pest species are potentially a major frameworks for land developments, infrastructure beneficiary. SMEC has employees skilled in terrestrial and projects, mineral and natural resources projects. aquatic pest species monitoring and management; and SMEC’s services include Environmental Impact the interaction between exotic pests and predators and Assessments and permitting studies, climate change threatened species and their habitats. adaptation, water resource studies, strategic policy Of key importance is the communication of the science advice on natural resources, sustainable waste behind climate change adaption and impact minimisation management, pollution control, ecological assessment, responses. SMEC’s employees are experienced in conservation management, engineered solutions to stakeholder liaison and bridge the gap between science environmental problems (such as fish passages) and and engineering and the public interest. SMEC contamination assessment and remediation. maintains a balance of academic and technical SMEC has a strong capability in fauna crossings, wetland employees in the area of climate change adaption to rehabilitation, habitat restoration and the delivery of ensure responsiveness. offset strategies. A critical part of SMEC’s success in this Renewable Energy area is the Company’s ability to integrate environmental considerations across all disciplines and take a holistic SMEC is at the forefront of the renewable energy approach to the resolution of local issues. sector, implementing projects that work towards replacing diminishing fossil fuel resources and cutting Climate Change Adaption carbon emissions. SMEC has experienced engineers Climate change adaption involves implementing undertaking research into the most efficient and strategies to build resilience into landscapes so that cost-effective ways to implement renewable future climate changes can be accommodated while energy projects. mitigation efforts take effect. SMEC is building its SMEC’s areas of specialisation include geothermal, ecological knowledge base in the area of climate change photovoltaic and solar thermal, wind, biomass, adaption, particularly in habitat connectivity, pest species bio-fuels, mini and micro-hydro technologies and energy management, offset and reserve establishment, water efficient strategies. re-use and wetland and waterway rehabilitation. SMEC is Australia’s market leader in fish passage construction and re-establishment. Soft treatments such as artificial wetlands and vegetated drains for stormwater runoff are increasingly being used in the urban setting as an effective means to treat and re-use water. SMEC is at the forefront of this environmental innovation. SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 37 Sustainability & Environment Natural Resources and Environment Project Profiles Clayton Retarding Basin and Wetland Camden Valley Way Upgrade Victoria, Australia New South Wales, Australia Located approximately 20km south-east of Melbourne, The New South Wales Roads and Maritime Service is the wetland will: reduce the 100 year Average Recurrence planning to upgrade Camden Valley Way in Sydney. Interval flood level by removing the west levee bank; SMEC deployed a Geographic Information System (GIS) extend the basin into Namatjira Park; and lower the to provide a single point of access to over 130 layers remaining embankments. The wetland will remove of spatial information including cadastre, geophysical, 1,850kg of nitrogen per annum and produce up to 92ML environmental and heritage constraints and aerial site of treated stormwater for irrigation. SMEC is providing photos. All designers are able to use the GIS to check landscape architecture, detailed design, surveying and significant environmental constraints, facilitating efficient ecology services. The project is being undertaken on issue resolution, improved risk management and a behalf of the Melbourne Water Waterways Alliance. design which minimises adverse environmental impacts. Climate Change Vulnerability of Fisheries North Tuncurry Development Project Pacific Islands New South Wales, Australia SMEC collaborated with a team of over 80 international SMEC (in partnership with Landcom) is undertaking scientists to assess the vulnerability of freshwater and a project delivery agreement for the North Tuncurry estuarine habitats as well as oceanic and coastal fisheries Development Project, a proposed major land rezoning to climate change in the Pacific. The project was led by and subdivision. SMEC is providing: Coastal Hazard the Secretariat of the Pacific Community and produced Definition Study; River Flood Study; Hydrogeologic a resource book for Pacific governments and the Assessment; and a Surface Water Management Plan Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The project including water sensitive urban design and water and identified habitats that are likely to be enhanced by wastewater servicing strategies. These studies will increased rainfall and river flows (due to climate change) address key risks and provide a sound scientific basis for and have potential for increased fisheries production. mitigation measures as required for project approvals. 38 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 (continued) Renewable Energy Project Profiles Kogan Creek Solar Pre-Heat Project Yandera Power Options Study Queensland, Australia Papua New Guinea The project includes design of a 44MW solar thermal SMEC is undertaking a Power System Study on behalf of addition to the existing 750MW Kogan Creek Power Marengo Mining Ltd to identify power supply options and Station in south-west Queensland. The addition will recommend the most technically viable and cost effective augment Kogan Creek Power Station’s feedwater option for the Yandera Cu-Mo-Au Mine project. The system, increasing electrical output and fuel efficiency. mine is in a remote mountainous region of the Madang The project scope includes: modelling of a solar field Province. SMEC assessed a variety of power options to accommodate 14 solar steam generators; footing including: thermal (open-cycle gas turbine generators, designs; a stormwater management plan; and lightning gas reciprocating engine generators, diesel and dual fuel protection. SMEC is undertaking detailed designs for the systems), hydropower, renewable (biomass, geothermal, civil, environmental and mechanical components. wind and solar) and transmission and distribution. Mufindi and Kilombero Rural Electrification Projects Municipal Street Lighting Tanzania Sri Lanka SMEC is undertaking a review of various electricity supply The project aims to improve poorly maintained street project proposals in Mufindi and Kilombero in Tanzania. lighting and provide technical support to Ceylon Green Resources planned to build a 15MW Combined Electricity Board (CEB) and Lanka Electric Company Heat Power plant, while the Tanzania Electric Supply (LECO). SMEC is designing and implementing two pilot Company proposed development of transmission lines projects to address existing street lighting deficiencies. and rural electrification. SMEC’s services include: an The successful pilot project will then be implemented electrification plan to reduce electrification costs to rural and funded by the Climate Change Fund for widespread areas; detailed designs; capacity assessment of the implementation. SMEC is also developing a Demandproposed electricity grid; review of hydropower options; Side Management program to help CEB and LECO risk assessment; and stakeholder consultation. reduce electricity demands and minimise energy waste. SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 39 GRI Index This report applies the Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Guidelines to a self-assessed Level B. Core Performance Indicators (PI) are in bold. GRI Page PI Description Comments Indicator Number 1.1 Statement from the CEO. 4–5 Strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. 4–5, 21 2.1 Name of the organisation. SMEC Holdings Limited 2.2 Primary brands, products and services. Feasibility studies, detailed design, 6–9 tender and contract management, construction supervision, operation and maintenance, training and project management. 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation. 6–11 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. 220–226 Sharp Street Cooma NSW 2630, Australia 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates. 30+ 6–9 Profile 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 6–9 2.7 Markets served. Transport; Water; Geotechnical, Mining 6–9 and Tunnelling; Natural Resources and Environment; Energy and Renewables; Urban Development; Social Development; Government and Advisory Services. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. 6–9, 22 2.9 Significant changes to size, structure or ownership Nil. during the reporting period. 2.10 Awards. 18 3.1 Reporting period. 1 April 2011 – 31 March 2012 2 3.2 Date of most recent report. April 2011 2 3.3 Reporting cycle. Annual. 2 3.4 Contact point for report. sustainabilityreport@smec.com 2 3.5 Process for defining report content. 2 Report Parameters 3.6 Boundary of the report. 2 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 2 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures and other entities. 2 3.9 Data measurement techniques. 2 3.10 Explanation of restatements. Nil. 3.11 Significant changes in scope and boundary during the Nil. reporting period. 3.12 Table identifying location of standard disclosures. GRI Table. 40–43 3.13 External assurance. SMEC has not used external assurance for the report. 40 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 GRI Page PI Description Comments Indicator Number 4.1 Governance structure. 10–15 4.2 Chair of the highest governing body. 10–15 4.3 Independent and non-executive board members. 10–15 4.4 Mechanisms to provide recommendations to the 10–15 highest governing body. 4.5 Compensation and performance. 10–15 4.6 Processes to avoid conflicts of interests. 10–15 4.7 Process for determining qualifications and expertise. 10–15 4.8 Mission, values and code of conduct. 11 Governance 4.9 Processes for management of company performance. 10–15 4.10 Processes for evaluating the performance of the 10–15 highest governing body. 4.11 Precautionary principle addressed. 4–5, 11 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and 4–5, 18, social charters. 36 4.13 Memberships in associations. 18 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 16–17 organisation. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders. 16–17 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. 16–17 4.17 Key stakeholder topics and concerns. 16–17 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 19 EC2 Financial implications, risks and opportunities due 34–39 Economic to climate change. EC4 Financial assistance received from government. 19 EC5 Entry level wage compared to local minimum wage. 25 EC9 Indirect economic impacts. 30–33 EN3 Direct energy consumption. 34–37 EN4 Indirect energy consumption. 34–37 EN5 Energy savings. 34–37 Environmental EN6 Energy-efficient or renewable energy services. 37–39 EN7 Reductions in indirect energy consumption. 34–39 EN12 Impact on areas of high biodiversity value. 37–39 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 37–39 EN16 Greenhouse Gas emissions by weight. 35 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 41 GRI Index (continued) GRI Page PI Description Comments Indicator Number EN18 Greenhouse Gas reduction initiatives. 34–36 EN19 Ozone depleting substances by weight. 35 Environmental EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Nil. EN24 Weight of transported waste. Nil. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts. 34–39 EN28 Non-compliance with environmental laws. Nil. LA1 Workforce by type, contract, region and gender. 22–23 LA2 Employee turnover. 22 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees. The same benefits are provided to all 26–27 Labour Practices and Decent Work employees (part-time on a pro-rata basis). LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Nil. bargaining agreements. LA7 Rates of injury and lost days. 28–29 LA8 Programs to assist with serious diseases. 27–29 LA10 Average hours of training per employee. 26 LA11 Skills management and lifelong learning programs. 26–29 LA12 Regular performance reviews. 26 LA13 Workforce diversity. 22–24 LA14 Basic salary of men to women. 25 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination. Nil. Human Rights HR5 Risks to freedom of association. All employees can join unions. HR6 Risks to child labour. 30 HR9 Incidents involving indigenous people. Nil. SO1 Programs that assess and manage the impacts of 30–33 operations on communities. Society SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour. Nil. SO8 Non-compliance with laws and regulations. Nil. PR1 Health and safety impacts of services. 28–29 Product Responsibility PR2 Non-compliance with health and safety laws. Nil. PR4 Non-compliance with information laws. Nil. PR5 Practices related to client satisfaction. 16–17 PR7 Non-compliance with marketing laws. Nil. PR8 Breaches of client privacy. Nil. PR9 Fines for non-compliance. Nil. 42 SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012
