Global Compact Communication on additional actions 08-2012 Global Compact THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Mersen additional actions: At the Saint-Loup / Provins plant: Provins signs this type of declaration and commitment regularly, whenever a main customer requests it. 2/11 Global Compact Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Mersen additional actions: 3/11 Global Compact LABOUR Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Mersen additional actions: At the La Mure plant: Continued Works Council and OHS committee meetings. At the Saint-Loup / Provins plant: We launched quarterly OHS committee meetings ; Monthly meetings of the Works Council; Elected employee representatives since July 2012. 4/11 Global Compact Principle 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Mersen additional actions: Update of the supplier guidelines and of the purchasing ethics guidelines V.2012, available within our company in the Quality system In Lotus Notes and sent to all our suppliers. At the Eldre plant: Deployment of Group commitments during the purchasing Integration plan. 5/11 Global Compact Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Mersen additional actions: Update of the supplier guidelines and of the purchasing ethics guidelines V.2012, available within our company in the Quality system In Lotus Notes and sent to all our suppliers. At the Eldre plant: Deployment of Group commitments during the purchasing Integration plan. 6/11 Global Compact Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Mersen additional actions: In 2011, creation of a working group on gender diversity. Continuation In 2012. In 2011, salary agreement including a budget to reduce income gap between men and women: some increases are reserved to correcting income gaps, including, but not restricted to, those between men and women. Continuation In 2012. Psychosocial risks prevention actions. Update of the supplier guidelines and of the purchasing ethics guidelines V.2012, available within our company in the Quality system In Lotus Notes and sent to all our suppliers. At the Eldre plant: Alignment of the company agreements with Group agreements (older workers, gender diversity, incentive schemes, etc.); Deployment of Group commitments during the purchasing Integration plan. At the Saint-Loup / Provins plant: In calculating any merit pay, HR pay special attention to make sure Employee Representatives are not discriminated against. 7/11 Global Compact ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Mersen additional actions: At the Saint Bonnet de Mure plant: With the creation of an Energy and Environment Management System, Mersen did an environmental analysis of the plant and developed an HSEE alert procedure In case of emergency, incident or accident. At the Saint-Loup / Provins plant: The new SLN surface treatment line, started up again at the end of 2011, is totally effluent-free; Use of components with Cr VI, Be and Cd Is forbidden. 8/11 Global Compact Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Mersen additional actions: Update of the supplier guidelines and of the purchasing ethics guidelines V.2012, available within our company in the Quality system In Lotus Notes and sent to all our suppliers. At the Eldre plant: Deployment of Group commitments during the purchasing Integration plan. At the Saint Bonnet de Mure plant: Regular communication about environmental protection; ISO 14001 and EN 16001 certifications at our Saint Bonnet de Mure plant; Organization of waste sorting and collection at our Saint Bonnet de Mure plant. At the Saint-Loup / Provins plant: Organization of waste sorting. 9/11 Global Compact Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Mersen additional actions: Deployment of the position to manage work around the REACH directive in Europe created In 2011, It permits us to ensure we are in compliance and track all the developments around that directive. Product Environmental Profile (PEP) and Life Cycle analysis (LCA) integrated into all new development projects. Creation of an organisational instruction for PEP and LCA. 12 PEP and 12 LCA done in 2011. Participation in the PEP ecopassport environmental statement program, with the goal of establishing an international reference framework for writing Product Environmental Profiles (PEP). A study on sustainable development has been Initiated. At the Saint-Loup / Provins plant: The new SLN surface treatment line, started up again at the end of 2011, Is totally effluent-free. 10/11 Global Compact ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Mersen additional actions: Update of the supplier guidelines and of the purchasing ethics guidelines V.2012, available within our company in the Quality system In Lotus Notes and sent to all our suppliers. At the Eldre plant: Deployment of Group commitments during the purchasing Integration plan. 11/11
