SELF-ASSESSMENT  Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption  Includes a measurement of outcomes  Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer  Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. 30th October 2012 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that MAKA Engineering Pte Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this Communication On Progress, we describe our action to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principle into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. As a company, MAKA’s mission is to set the foundations for a sustainable and socially-responsible society via the creation of dynamic, innovative and transparent initiatives, all while ensuring its own corporate practices fall in line with the principles and ethical culture nurtured by the UN Global Compact. Sincerely Yours, Wong Ken General Manager. HUMAN RIGHTS  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. As per the statement of support, MAKA remains a strong supporter of all principles including human rights.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. We actively adhere to the Malaysian Laws on Human Rights issues.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Periodic review of Human Rights adherence by senior management. LABOUR  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rightsrelated risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. There is no forced or compulsory labor in MAKA. We do not retain employee documents or money, and we do not use hidden bonds.  Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. MAKA will not use or support the use of any type of forced or bonded labor, including slavery, prison labor that is required from prisoners without pay or to complete their sentence, labor as a punishment for expressing political views, or labor demanded of workers because of their debt to the company. All workers are free to leave the workplace at the end of the working day.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. There have been no reported instances of forced or compulsory labor in the history of MAKA. ENVIRONMENT  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Conserving and preserving the environment is also a main concern at MAKA.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. In accordance to principles 7 and 8 of the UNGC, we try and keep to a sustainable practice as to reduce, reuse and recycle as much as we can. We often make double sided prints on recycled paper, switch off the lights in the office during lunch breaks and save up on water as best we can.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. At the moment we are embarking on a new phase of our efforts to develop green energy in Malaysia, which when realized, will be a big step towards our goal of encouraging and developing environmentally friendly technologies (Principle 9). ANTI-CORRUPTION  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. MAKA have committed and agree with this principle and will not tolerate any kind of corruption in all employees personal life as well as business activity. Employee Hand Book has expressly prohibited any kind of immortal conduct whereas have specified the fiscal limits for transactions at various level position and all procurement are subject to internal and external audit process.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. MAKA socialized the company regulation regarding the corruption policies to all employees and vendor.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. There have been no such incident involved employees and related vendors so far.
