UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 2012 WE SUPPORT THE GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX ITEM SUBJECT PAGE 1 Statement of Continued Support & Commitments 3 2 Further Actions 4 2.1 Butek Supports Human Rights’ Principles 4 2.2 Butek Supports Labours’ Principles 5 2.3 Butek Supports Environments’ Principle 6 2.4 Butek Supports Anti-Corruptions’ Principle 7 2 WE SUPPORT THE GLOBAL COMPACT 1. Statement of Continued Support & Commitments The United Nations Global Compact was instituted to give better understanding social and ecological standards in a world of a globalization. BUTEK is pleased to see UN GLOBAL COMPACT’s increasing positive impacts on other companies and stakeholders since 2006. BUTEK strongly continues its commitments to the ten principles of UN Global Compact and its relations with shareholders. Our customers’ satisfaction is our top priority. In addition, as an active member of society, we feel an obligation toward many other stakeholders as well. Through our active commitment to society, we want to help and support people. Namık Kemal MEMIS CEO 3 WE SUPPORT THE GLOBAL COMPACT 2. Further Actions 2.1. BUTEK Supports Human Rights Principles Butek observes European, international law and is bound to protect human rights and the Turkish Basic Rights. With this statement we’re providing ethical guidelines binding on all employees, together with a safe, health and fair work environment. Butek as a company, without limitation and utmost importance to all individuals, is committed to universal human rights which are declared in The Universal Declaration of Human Rights. To provide a safe, health and fair work environment, all our employees participate in Occupational Safety and Health Education to practice safety regulations in the company every year. Butek pays attention to the health of employees. Therefore the employees get medical examination in February and March every year. In addition, to provide an ergonomic working environment, all furniture’s changed to new one. From September 2011, under the Women’s Empowerment Principles a woman employee was employed. You can see the changes in the number of female employees since 2008 in the chart below. 14 12 10 8 Women 6 Men 4 2 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Table 1: Changes in the number of female employees 4 WE SUPPORT THE GLOBAL COMPACT As mentioned each year, education is an effective way to ensure human rights. According to the employees’ qualifications and positions, Butek continue its employees to ensure the educations. Some of them are listed below:  Executive Coaching Training Program  R&D and Innovation Training Program  Project Management Training Program 2.2. Butek Supports Labour Principles As mentioned each year, BUTEK’s working terms and conditions are transparent and clear. The employment policies codify our support for a fair and safe workplace. We’re ensuring non-discrimination. Given all employees a work environment that is free from harassment and free from discrimination including that of race, color, national origin, ancestry, religion, marital, age or gender, we are seeking of full integration of our employees. All employees are accorded equal opportunities to develop the knowledge, skills and competence that are relevant to their job. Foundation of the Turkish Machinery Promotion Group and Tıkır Tıkır” (can be translated as Operating like clockwork ) project were just few projects in which Butek assumed responsibility. In order to support the professional competence of students in technical high schools Butek accepts interns and support them in financially and personally. Butek is against child labour and is very sensitive regarding this topic. Because of this reason Butek avoids to work with companies which use child labor. It is very important for Butek that all white and blue collar workers get their salaries on time. 5 WE SUPPORT THE GLOBAL COMPACT 2.3. BUTEK Supports Environments’ Principles Since 2008, there are rapid developments related to the recycling sector in Turkey. Being a pioneer in recycling industry, our company provides consultancy services to other companies voluntarily in this regard. Projects developed within the scope of the recycling industry, were entitled to be offered TÜBİTAK’s (The Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey) Success Stories Sharing Days. Figure 1: TUBITAK Success Stories As Butek mentions every year, the protection of natural resources and the fulfillment of our commitment to the environment is the basis of the activities of Butek’s machine. Butek has new developments about recycling sector. These activities will primarily aim at the field of energy and industrial waste recycling. In the context of recycling, Butek’s R&D department’s working on RDF (Refuse Derived Fuel) and MRF (Material Recovery Facility) which are already projected. These are very important for Turkey and Butek is glad to contribute with such projects. 6 WE SUPPORT THE GLOBAL COMPACT Also Butek pays maximum attention to use environmentally friendly materials in our machine and in our office. 2.4. BUTEK Supports Anti-Corruption Principle Butek is against the corruption in all forms including extortion and bribery. By making our social and environmental operations public, we’re increasing our openness and transparency with our stakeholders. If our company detects any official or unofficial misconduct in any subjects, takes the necessary steps in legal way. 7
