building a betTer future 2010 sustainable development report table of contents 2 About CEMEX 6 Message from Our Chairman and CEO 8 Progress Highlights 10 Performance Summary in detail 12 Sustainability Vision and Model 14 Sustainability Priorities and Progress 16 Lead in Sustainable Construction 24 Low-Income Housing and Infrastructure 30 Enhance our Carbon Strategy 36 Excellence in Environmental and Biodiversity Management 46 High Priority to Health and Safety 54 Strengthen Local Communities 62 Partnership with Key Stakeholders 74 Performance Data in Detail 80 Corporate Governance, Policies and Ethics 87 Reporting Advisory Panel 90 Assurance Statement 92 GRI APPLICATION LEVEL STATEMENT 93 Awards and Recognitions 94 ABOUT THIS REPORT Contact Information OUR COVER Our cover shows the project “El Acantilado – Hábitat CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. Ecológico”, a CEMEX Building Awards sustainable Corporate Communications and Public Affairs construction project. Photo: Pedro Truyol Av. Ricardo Margáin Zozaya 325 San Pedro Garza García, NL. CP 66265 Mexico Tel: +52 (81) 8888-8888 www.cemex.com/sustainability sd@cemex.com GRI A+ Score We applied the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines to produce this report, which meets an application level of A+ for the third consecutive year. We provide a GRI index and an index of United Nations CONNECT: Global Compact disclosures on our website at www.cemex. com/sustainability www.facebook.com/cemex www.twitter.com/cemex www.flickr.com/cemex www.youtube.com/cemex CEMEX’s SUSTAINABILITY model focuses on seven PRIORITIES 16 LEAD in sustainable construction 24 LOW-INCOME housing and infrastrucutre 36 EXCELLENCE in environmental and biodiversity management 46 HIGH PRIORITY to health and safety 30 ENHANCE our carbon strategy 54 STRENGTHEN local communities 62 PARTNERSHIP with key stakeholders CEMEX, a trusted global brand 2 — about CEMEX is an established brand that represents our whole organization as well as the bulk aggregates, ready-mix concrete, and cement we distribute in the different markets we serve. In many CEMEX markets, we also have individual brands for our local bagged cement and some of our special concrete products. We help our customers solve CEMEX is a global building materials company that provides products of consistently high quality and reliable service to customers their building challenges and communities across the world. We advance the well-being of those we serve through our relentless focus on continuous improvement and our efforts to promote a sustainable future. Our company was founded in Mexico in 1906, and we have grown from a local player to one of the top global companies in our industry, with close to 46,500 employees worldwide. Today we are strategically positioned in the Americas, Europe, Africa, the Middle East, and Asia. Our operations network produces, distributes, and markets cement, ready-mix concrete, aggregates, and related building materials to customers in over 50 countries, and we maintain trade relationships in approximately 100 nations. Quick Facts (as of December 31, 2010) n CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V., (NYSE: CX / BMV: CEMEX), a holding company, is a public stock corporation with variable capital (S.A.B. de C.V.) organized under the laws of the United Mexican States (Mexico) n Founded in Mexico in 1906 n World’s leading supplier of ready-mix concrete, a leading cement and aggregates producer, one of the world’s largest producers of White Portland Cement, and one of the top cement and clinker traders in the world. n Presence in more than 50 countries and trade relationships in approximately 100 nations n Close to 46,500 employees worldwide n Annual production capacity of 96 million metric tons of cement n Annual production levels of approximately 51 million cubic meters of ready-mix concrete and more than 158 million metric tons of aggregates n 62 cement plants, close to 2,000 ready-mix concrete facilities, and a minority participation in 12 cement plants n 376 aggregate quarries, 223 land-distribution centers, and 71 marine terminals n Our customers range from global construction firms to individuals building their homes Sales distribution by product Sales GEOGRAPHIC distribution WORKFORCE GEOGRAPHIC distribution percentage percentage percentage 3 4 7 14 8 25 l MEXICO 8 25 l MEXICO l UNITED STATES l UNITED STATES CEMENT 11 3 l l EUROPE 9 l EUROPE l READY-MIX l SOUTH/ CENTRAL l SOUTH/ CENTRAL — CONCRETE AMERICA AND AMERICA AND l AGGREGATES CARIBBEAN CARIBBEAN l OTHERS l AFRICA AND l AFRICA, MIDDLE MIDDLE EAST EAST and asia 48 18 19 34 l ASIA l CENTRAL 35 32 2010 Global Operations Cement Production Capacity (million metric tons/year) Europe: 25.7 USA: 17.2 Asia: 5.7 Mexico: 29.3 Africa and Middle East: 5.4 South / Central America and Caribbean: 12.8 TOTAL: 96.1 our Products and SERVICEs Cement In bags and in bulk, CEMEX provides its customers with high-quality branded cement products for their construction needs. These include Gray Ordinary Portland Cement, White Portland Cement, Masonry or Mortar, Oil-well Cement, and Blended Cement. The main ingredient in ready-mix concrete, cement is created by combining finely ground clinker with gypsum and other chemical additives. The clinker results from the calcination at 1,450°C of a mix of limestone, clay, and iron ore. Aggregates Aggregates—comprising materials such as stone, sand, and gravel—are an indispensable ingredient in ready-mix concrete, asphalt, and mortar. They account for approximately 60 to 75 percent of ready-mix concrete’s volume and, therefore, strongly influence concrete’s freshly mixed and hardened properties. Our customers use our aggregates for a wide array of applications: as a key component in the construction and maintenance of highways, walkways, parking lots, airport runways, and railways; for drainage, water filtration, purification, and erosion control; as fill material; sand for golf course bunkers, beaches, playing field surfaces, horse racing tracks, and related ap4 plications; and to build bridges, homes, and schools, among many other applications. — Ready-mix concrete Concrete, made from a mixture of cement, aggregates, water, and admixtures, is quite versatile, can be cast into many different shapes, and is durable. Increasingly, it is also seen as a fundamental component of sustainable construction. We constantly work to develop innovative solutions that advance the sustainability of structures made with concrete. These products include concrete with insulating properties that helps buildings use less energy, concrete that requires less water, and concrete that is made with recycled materials. In this way, our customers can design sustainable buildings that take advantage of the benefits of concrete in a wide range of applications. Our Services We respond to our customers’ needs by offering them not only high-quality and tailor-made products, but also the most reliable and cost-effective service. In each market and locality in which we operate, we do our best to provide our customers with the most compelling integrated building solutions. For example, to solve infrastructure needs in major cities, we not only provide ready-mix concrete, but also help to design the project, identify the best technical solution, propose different financing options, and execute the project in collaboration with local builders. Similarly, we work alongside our neighbors in small, less-affluent communities to help them solve their housing needs and pave their streets and sidewalks. For more information about our products or services, visit our corporate website at www.cemex.com. financial HIGHLIGHTS (in millions of US dollars 1, except per-ADS data) 2009 2010 % Net sales 2 14,544 14,069 (3) Operating income 2 1,165 856 (27) Operating EBITDA 2 2,657 2,314 (13) Controlling interest net income (loss) 104 (1,304) N/A Earnings (loss) per ADS 3 0.11 (1.30) N/A Free cash flow after maintenance capital expenditures 1,215 512 (58) Total assets 44,483 41,675 (6) Total debt plus perpetual notes 19,175 17,729 (8) Stockholders’ equity attributable to controlling interest 16,339 15,710 (4) direct economic IMPACTS (in millions of US dollars) 2008 2009 2010 CUSTOMERS Net sales 4 21,695 14,544 14,069 5 — SUPPLIERS Cost of sales and operating expenses 5 13,824 9,309 9,240 EMPLOYEES AND THEIR FAMILIES Wages and benefits 6 3,512 2,605 2,516 INVESTMENTS CAPEX7 plus working capital 2,028 862 601 CREDITORS Net financial expense 860 914 1,118 GOVERNMENTS Taxes 323 291 335 COMMUNITIES Donations 8 25 19 29 SHAREHOLDERS Dividends 9 21 0 0 OTHERS 62 (261) (156) Free cash flow 10 1,040 805 387 1 For your convenience, nominal Mexican peso results for 2010 and 2009 were translated to US dollars using the average exchange rate of the year of 12.67 MXN/US$ and 13.60 MXN/US$, respectively. For balance sheet accounts, US dollar amounts were calculated by converting the peso amounts at the end of each year using the end-of-year exchange rate of 12.36 MXN/US$ and 13.09 MXN/US$, respectively. 2 Amounts have been adjusted to reflect the effect of the divestment of our Australian operations in 2009. 3 Based on an average of 999.2 and 893.2 million American depositary shares (ADSs) for 2010 and 2009, respectively. 4 Excludes sale of assets. 5 Excludes depreciation and amortization. 6 Costs and expenses related with personnel reported in 2010 were for non-operational and operational employees. 7 Capital Expenditure for Maintenance and Expansion. 8 3.07% of loss before taxes. 9 Dividends paid in cash. 10 Mainly used to reduce debt For more information about our company, brands, and financial performance, please visit our corporate website at www.cemex.com. To our stakeholders: For CEMEX, 2010 was a transitional year, as the global building materials sector continued an uneven recovery from the great recession. We strengthened both our business model and our balance sheet, positioning our company for long-term profitable growth. At the same time, we intensified our commitment to integrating sustainability into all aspects of our world-wide business. Sustainability is central to our business strategy and one of the keys to our future growth. As the largest concrete producer in the world, we have both a responsibility and a great opportunity to help lead the transition to a truly sustainable construction industry. That, in turn, would be a critical element of a low carbon economy. The challenges of building the sustainable housing and infrastructure required by a growing global population are immense. Society needs innovations not only in design, materials, and construction processes, but also in creating access to green housing and infrastructure, especially for those who are in most need. CEMEX is committed to helping stimulate those innovations, while improving the sustainability of our MESSAGE from own operations and increasing our social investment. I am pleased to report that we made progress on all those fronts our chairman 6 last year. — For example, although concrete is the most inherently sustainable and CEO building material, we intensified our work to improve its characteristics. This included developing concretes that improve structural strength, provide extra insulation or allow water to filter through. We also introduced a carbon footprint toolthe first of its kind in the building materials industrythat allows us to measure the greenhouse “Sustainability is central to gas emissions of our cement, ready-mix, and aggregates products. The tool has already been implemented in all of CEMEX’s operating cement our business strategy and plants, and is now being extended across our ready-mix and aggregates operations worldwide. As a result, we will begin to roll out carbon content information for our products during 2011. key to our future growth” We significantly increased the use of lower-carbon alternative fuels in our kilns. In 2010 our alternative-fuel use rose to 20.3 percent of our total fuel mix, almost doubling from the 10.3 percent recorded in 2008. Partly as a result, we are on course to avoid 25 percent of specific net CO2 emissions related to manufacture of cementitious products by 2015 compared to our 1990 baseline. CEMEX has a longstanding and well-documented commitment to biodiversity and wilderness preservation. In concert with this tradition, last year we and our partners at BirdLife International completed a multi-year scoping study on the biodiversity status of our worldwide cement and aggregates operations. We assessed 543 sites and identified 131 sites that overlap with areas of high biodiversity value. We are using this study to develop biodiversity action plans. During 2010, we continued our initiatives to build affordable housing and infrastructure in developing markets. Last year alone, more than 45,000 families were able to improve their homes through our Patrimonio Hoy program, bringing the total to more than 300,000 since we started the program in 1998. The World Business and Development Awards organized by the United Nations Development Program, the International Chamber of Commerce, and the International Business Leader Fund, recognized our contributions towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals through programs such as Centros Productivos de Autoempleo, which we expanded to Colombia in 2010. Last year witnessed a number of extreme weather events and natural disasters that severely affected countries and communities where CEMEX operates. In response, we intensified our disaster relief efforts, providing emergency humanitarian aid and supporting long-term reconstruction efforts. After the 2010 Haiti earthquake, CEMEX raised US$750,000 in company and employee contributions, with donations from more than Lorenzo H. Zambrano 2,500 employees in 29 countries, to help support both emergency Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer relief and reconstruction efforts. Additionally, we provided direct assistance in Haiti itself. After June’s catastrophic flooding in Central Europe, CEMEX focused on Poland and northeastern Hungary, where We have continued to work with a broad range of stakeholders— 7 the damage was greatest. We provided machinery to help drain — the water and clear roads, and donated construction materials to including customers, suppliers, employees, shareholders, neighborreinforce flood banks. In Northern Mexico, Hurricane Alex produced ing communities, NGOs, universities and governments—to develop record-breaking rainfall during early July, creating widespread floodand promote best practices, innovative research and positive policy ing and leaving thousands homeless or without access to water or solutions. electricity. CEMEX and our employees responded with significant donations of time, money and equipment as part of the cleanup, For example, at the 2010 World Economic Forum in Latin America, we relief and reconstruction efforts. proposed a new model for urban development and urged new alliances among key stakeholders to finance housing projects. And, at the An integral part of our sustainability commitment is our continuing, end of the year, CEMEX was an official sponsor of the COP 16 meeting company-wide effort to improve workplace and community safety. in Cancun, Mexico, contributing to the global climate change debate The safety and well-being of our employees, contractors, and other with initiatives that highlighted how existing building and energy third parties involved in our operations is paramount. While we technologies can help the transition to a low carbon world. made significant progress in many health and safety-related areas last year, we are profoundly sorry to report that in 2010 there were Every CEMEX employee recognizes that sustainability requires con46 employee, contractor and third-party fatalities related to our stant effort, innovation and commitment both as individuals and as operations. This is unacceptable to us: we refuse to accept even one a company. We are grateful for the input of the Sustainable Develsuch tragedy as inevitable. opment Reporting Advisory Panel in our ongoing effort to report more transparently on our challenges as well as our successes. Their Zero tolerance for accidents requires constant innovation. In this spirit, guidance is invaluable to this process. At the same time, we invite we have continued to roll out the LEGACY training program globally. feedback from all of our stakeholders and look forward to continually In 2011 we will launch new health and safety policies, implement our improving our performance in the coming years. new Health and Safety Management System, and require greater accountability for safety performance from all our managers. Sincerely, At CEMEX, we know that sustainability is a fundamental—and urgent—requirement of planetary survival, and we are deeply committed to pursuing an aggressive sustainability agenda in our Lorenzo H. Zambrano industry, in our communities and in the countries where we operate. Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer PROGRESS Lead in Sustainable Construction highlights 58% of our total worldwide production has implemented our new CO2 footprint tool in 629 of CEMEX’s sites CEMEX introduced a carbon footprint tool—the first of its kind in the building materials industry—that allows the company to measure the greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) of all of our cement, ready-mix concrete, and aggregates products. It measures emissions from raw-material sourcing to the release of the finished Low-Income Housing & Infrastructure product at the factory gate. 1,502 To further promote the mainstreaming of sustainable construction practices, we partnered with the World Green Building Council to host an event during the 2010 COP16 Meeting in Cancun, Mexico. “Key Challenges for Construction in the 21st Century” was an low-income houses, 170% more than open dialogue during which experts discussed global emerging in 2009, built with support of CEMEX’s sustainable-construction trends. Special emphasis was placed on Vivienda initative, in Mexico concrete’s sustainable attributes and how its proper application can play a significant role in reducing climate change. The Comprehensive Road Rehabilitation Project (PIRE) in Tijuana, Mexico, in which CEMEX participated, was completed. Dur8 ing this two-year project, 126 kilometers of major roadways were — upgraded and rehabilitated, improving traffic flow and air qualEnhance Our Carbon Strategy ity in the region and mitigating the heat-island effect by reducing 20.3% road-surface temperatures by up to 15°C. alternative fuels CEMEX coordinated the environmental certification required for the substitution rate project to obtain more than US$110 million in financing from the North American Development Bank and the Border Environment Cooperation Commission. We have been very successful in replacing fossil fuels with alternative sources of energy. Our fuels substitution rate increased from 16.4% in 2009 to 20.3% in 2010, reducing the usage of an equivalent of 1.4 million In Mexico, our infrastructure program tons of coal and avoiding 1.7 million tons of CO2 emissions. supported the completion of 7 million Our reduction in CO2 specific net emissions keeps us on track to meet our 25% reduction target by 2015. In December 2010 we registered a new Clean Development Mechasquare meters of urban nism project at our Zapotiltic, Mexico, cement plant, which aims to concrete paving and over substitute alternative fuels for petcoke. 3 million square meters of highway concrete paving 20.5% reduction in net CO2 specific emissions vs. 1990 baseline Excellence in Environmental & Strengthen Local Communities Biodiversity Management 45,099 families improved their 543 homes through Patrimonio sites were evaluated for their proximity Hoy in 2010 to high biodiversity value areas totaling 308,311 families and more than We continued our successful partnership with BirdLife Interna1,984,500 m2 of housing since 1998 tional in 2010 and completed a comprehensive, multi-year scoping study on the biodiversity status of CEMEX’s operations worldwide. Through the Centros Productivos de Autoempleo program, particiThe study mapped 543 sites and identified that 131 of them are pants built over one million construction blocks and 5,158 tempolocated in proximity to areas of high biodiversity value. rary jobs were created. CEMEX achieved significant reductions in the number and severAfter Hurricane Alex struck Mexico, we launched the program ity of environmental incidents. Construimos Juntos in each of the 10 damaged municipalities and donated 500 tons of cement and 200 packages of building materials 85% for basic-housing units. of our active cement and aggregates sites have quarry rehabilitation plans in place In September 2010, the United Nations recognized CEMEX for its contributions toward achieving the UN Millennium Development Goals, specifically with regard to the company’s low-income housing. 97% 9 of our operations have — High Priority to Health & Safety community engagement plans We are very sorry to report that a total of 46 employees, contractors, and third parties died in connection with CEMEX activities. Such tragedies are unacceptable. We are redoubling our safety training and incident-prevention measures. Partnerships with Key Stakeholders 83% 2,108 CEMEX line-managers completed the two-day LEGACY CEMEX Safety Leadership Program. The training covers themes employee engagement level such as leading by example, understanding processes and people, and ensuring accountability for safety. In 2010, we developed the We focused our global training efforts on executives and employees CEMEX Health and Safety Management System (HSMS), a riskin higher risk positions and locations. Approximately 840 instructorbased operating system aligned with OHSAS 18001. led training sessions were delivered on compliance topics such as anti-bribery, antitrust, and insider trading and more than 4,000 Our lost-time injury rate decreased to 2.6 per million of hours online courses were taken. These efforts will continue during 2011. worked. This rate slightly exceeds our target of 2.5, but represents significant improvement from 3.2 in 2009. 84% of countries where we operate regularly conducted customer-satisfaction surveys 19% decrease in employee LTI frequency rte in 2010 93% of our purchases were made from locally and nationally based suppliers 84% of countries have a process to screen suppliers in relation to 40% social and environmental aspects decrease in lost work days +19,000 of our employees actively use our learning platform PERFORMANCE summary The following tables provide an overview of our performance indicators and progress toward our companywide sustainability targets. We are committed to improving our performance in all areas and will continue to disclose our achievements and challenges. Unless otherwise specified, the information provided is for the company as a whole. The full list of indicators, broken down by business segments where available, can be found in the Performance in Detail section of this report. This year we have added indicators corresponding to our objective to Enhance our Value creation, specifically in our priority to Lead in Sustainable Construction and focusing on our new CO2 footprint tool. The indicators marked with were subject to an external limited assurance process by PwC. The assurance statement detailing the review work and conclusions can be found on page 91 of this report. Targets Enhance our value creation 2008 2009 2010 2015 Progress Assurance Lead in Sustainable Construction Production covered with the CO2 Footprint Tool (%) (1) --58 100 10 — Cement --100 100 l Aggregates --50 100 Ready-mix concrete --32 100 CO2 footprint Annual average Cement (Kg CO2e per ton cement) --798 Aggregates (Kg CO2e per ton aggregates products) --5.3 Ready-mix (Kg CO2e per m ) 3 --298 Targets Manage our footprint 2008 2009 2010 2015 Progress Assurance Enhance our Carbon Strategy Absolute net CO2 emissions (million metric tons) (2) 48.2 39.7 41.0 Specific net CO2 emissions (kg CO2/metric ton of cementitious product) (2) 654 627 629 602 Reduction in CO2 emissions per ton of cementitious product from 1990 17.4 20.7 20.5 25 baseline (%) Thermal energy efficiency of clinker production (MJ/ton clinker) (2) 3,741 3,693 3,696 Alternative fuels rate (%) (2) 10.3 16.4 20.3 35(5) Alternative fossil fuels rate (%) 8.6 13.2 15.7 Biomass fuels rate (%) 1.7 3.2 4.6 Alternative raw material rate (%) (2) 12.0 12.2 11.8 12 Clinker / cement factor (%) (2) 75.4 75.2 75.9 l We have achieved our target We are currently on track to achieve our target l Extra effort required to achieve target Targets 2008 2009 2010 2015 Progress Assurance Excellence in Environmental and Biodiversity Management Clinker produced with continuous monitoring of major emissions: 44 60 74 100 Dust, NOx and SOx (%) (2) Specific Dust emissions (g/ton clinker) (2) 162 106 89 155(6) l Specific NOx emissions (g/ton clinker) (2) 1,742 1,063 1,134 1,667(6) l Specific SOx emissions (g/ton clinker) (2) 484 410 334 519(6) l Active sites with quarry rehabilitation plans (%) 46 82 85 100 Active quarries within or adjacent to high biodiversity value areas (#) NA 112 105 Active sites with high biodiversity value where biodiversity plans are impleNA 29 38 100 mented (%) Operations with water recycling systems (%) (3) 82 76 85 Environmental investment (US million) (4) $62 $77 $93 Major environmental incidents (#) 19 8 2 Environmental non-compliance cases (#) 67 67 65 Associated fines (US million) 4.1 1.3 1.4 Operations with an Environmental Management System implemented (%) (3) 30 50 76 Targets Engage our stakeholders 2008 2009 2010 2015 Progress Assurance High priority to Health & Safety 11 — Total fatalities, employees, contractors, and third parties (#) 45 33 46 l Fatality rate, employees (per 10,000 employees) 1.16 1.56 0.43 Lost-Time Injuries (LTI), employees (#) 654 360 268 Lost-Time Injuries (LTI), contractors (#) 165 154 123 Lost-Time Injury (LTI) frequency rate, employees (per million hours worked) 4.8 3.2 2.6 0.5(7) Sickness Absence Rate per employee (%) (8) – 5.2 2.5 % Compliance with CSI Driving Safety Recommended Practices (9) – – 64 100 % Compliance with CSI Contractor Safety Recommended Practices (9) – – 63 100 Operations with a Safety Management System implemented (%) (10) 80 98 98 Operations with a Health Management System implemented (%) (10) 52 76 79 Strengthen Local Communities Sites with community engagement plans (%) 88 85 97 Families participating in Patrimonio Hoy in Latin America (# accumulated) (3) 223,745 263,212 308,311 Mexico (3) 218,637 251,828 294,173 Other Latin American Countries (3) 5,108 11,384 14,138 (1) The CO2 Footprint tool was implemented in 2010. All figures are based on 2009 volumes. In October 2010, DNV performed the certification of our carbon footprint calculation methodology based on data from 2009. CEMEX has established a target of 100% implementation by the end of 2011. (2) Only cement operations (3) Historic figures recalculated due to an improvement in measurement, as well as changes in the consolidation perimeter (increase the in number of sites reporting) (4) Include environmental, alternative fuels and cementitious material investments (5) Target and year of compliance updated from 2020 to 2015, given 15% was achieved in 2009. (6) As emission targets for 2015 have been already met, CEMEX is undergoing a thorough analysis of its operations and market developments to set new, challenging targets for 2015. (7) A new target of 0.5 has been established to ensure we continue to work towards our ultimate goal of zero LTIs. (8) We believe that the previous Health Indicator for “% employees participating in annual medical exams” was difficult to progress globally given the difficulty in some countries to legally conduct these exams for workers. A new indicator showing our employee sickness absence rate is universally tracked and was agreed to be a more relevant indicator to measure our progress in health. (9) Having achieved close to 100% of the previous target “% of operations with safety training programs for drivers”, new KPIs to track our progress in complying with the CSI Driving and Contractor standards were introduced. (10) In 2010, the separate Health and Safety Management Systems were combined to create a single HSMS, hence a new KPI tracking implementation progress of this new system was introduced. NA = Data not available Envisioning a sustainable future As a leading company in the global building materials industry, CEMEX is positioned at the convergence of great environmental and social challenges. 12 sustainability vision and model — The world we live in is changing rapidly: The world’s population will grow significantly in the next 40 years and there will be a massive migration of people from rural areas to cities. The general scientific consensus is that climate change cannot be ignored, and that average global temperatures are likely to increase significantly by the end of this century1. These increases in temperatures will mean not only rising sea levels, but also more intense precipitation in some countries, increased risk of drought in others, and adverse effects on agriculture, health, biodiversity, and water resources around the world. The global community must find a way to rapidly grow existing cities and build new ones making a better use of resources and responding to the expectations of local communities of having their living standards improve. To achieve this, “business as usual” cannot continue. As a producer of cement and concrete, CEMEX faces a twofold 2. We firmly believe that concrete must play a major part in any challenge: successful transition towards a sustainable society. Be it the installation of renewable electricity generation, the development of 1. Cement and its end product, concrete, are intrinsically related more efficient infrastructure, the building of new roads, or the to human development, with a direct relationship between construction of more sustainable buildings, all of these activities demand for cement and economic growth. The simple human and others need concrete. aspiration for a decent home with basic infrastructure means that significant amounts of concrete will be needed. However, Given the importance of the sustainability-related challenges the cement industry is a significant emitter of greenhouse gases, that society is facing, CEMEX has integrated sustainability into its with cement manufacturing accounting for approximately five business strategy. With the help of our Sustainability Model, we percent of man-made CO2.2 Therefore, it is our aim to reduce are incorporating sustainability practices into all of our day-to-day our emissions to the lowest levels that are both technically and operations and decision-making processes worldwide. Our model economically feasible. ensures that we concentrate our efforts and resources on the issues of highest relevance to our business and greatest concern to our 1 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Climate Change 2007, Fourth Assessment stakeholders. Report: http://www.ipcc.ch/pdf/assessment-report/ar4/syr/ar4_syr.pdf 2 WBCSD / IEA: Cement Technology Roadmap 2009 – Carbon emissions reductions up to 2050, Geneva / Paris 2009; http://www.iea.org/papers/2009/Cement_Roadmap.pdf 13 — CEMEX’s sustainability model Manage Our Footprint: CEMEX strives to minimize We have three main sustainability objectives: the ecological impacts of its operations on the communities in which we operate. Such impacts are carefully identified and measured so that we can continuously reduce our footprint to the lowest level that is both technically and economiMANAG FOOTP E O cally feasible. We also have a robust pipeline of Enhance Our Value Creation: CEMEX aims to RI U projects that provide carbon offsets to further deliver the innovative, high-performing N R T reduce our net impact. products, services, and solutions that HANCE OUR our resource-constrained society EN E CREAT Engage Our Stakeholders: CEMEX fosters positive, requires in order to create a growing SUSTAINABILITY LU ION AT CEMEX long-term relationships with key stakeholders and profitable low-carbon economy. VA to address the pressing needs and concerns of By fulfilling the needs of the construcsociety. With a highly committed and empowered tion sector in its efforts to adopt more U ER R employee base, CEMEX closely collaborates with sustainable operating practices, we O G E S a broad variety of institutions that allow us to ENG A D aim to create long-lasting competitive OL S TA K E H complement our core competences and enable advantages. us to generate social benefits that contribute to strengthening local communities. We have identified seven priorities in our Sustainability Model. The definition of these priorities has followed a structured process of both internal and external consultations where we have measured the impact that the main sustainability issues have on our stakeholders and on CEMEX operations. For this matter, we have performed a Materiality Analysis which is further explained in our About this Report section. Our seven priorities aligned to each of our three objectives are the focus of our 2010 Sustainable Development Report: CEMEX’s 14 — sustainability PRIORITIES Enhance our Value Creation: n Lead in Sustainable Construction n Low-Income Housing & Infrastructure Manage our Footprint: n Enhance Our Carbon Strategy n Excellence in Environmental & Biodiversity Management Engage our Stakeholders: n High Priority to Health & Safety n Strengthen Local Communities n Partnership with Key Stakeholders “Our sustainability strategy rests on the belief that we generate value for society by helping to meet some of the world’s most important needs. We do this by developing concrete that helps buildings conserve energy; manufacturing processes that reduce carbon emissions and water usage; housing and community infrastructure that is safe and affordable; and high impact social programs that foster community development.” Luis Farías Senior Vice President of Energy and Sustainability at CEMEX By building strong, long-term relationships with our key stakeholders, we increase our responsiveness to their needs and concerns, find new ways to reduce our im15 pacts, contribute to sustainable development worldwide, — and make CEMEX a more competitive and profitable enterprise. Our People We aim to be the employer of choice in our markets. We seek to provide the most attractive opportunities for employees’ personal and professional development. Our Neighbors We are a good neighbor. We participate with communities openly and directly in order to build trust and address their concerns. Our Business Partners We work to be the business partner of choice. We seek to help our suppliers and customers build their businesses and to create enduring value for our shareholders. Our World We are a good global citizen. As a global company, we work to contribute to international efforts to address some of the world’s most complex challenges, including climate change, access to housing and community infrastructure, and the conservation of biodiversity. LEAD in sustainable construction The average CO2 equivalent emissions calculated for CEMEX products is: 16 — 798kg CO2e per ton of cement 298kg CO2e per m for ready-mix concrete products 3 5.3kg CO2e per ton for aggregates products Hercules Towers, located in the Bay of Algeciras, Spain CEMEX aims to lead in sustainable construction by developing building products and solutions that have significant positive sustainability attributes and contribute to the transformation of the construction sector. In 2010, we introduced the first carbon footprint tool in the industry 58% 17 of our total worldwide production has — implemented the tool Building materials for a growing world Concrete is humanity’s primary building material. It literally provides the foundation, structural support, floors, and walls for much of the infrastructure of modern civilization: from homes, offices, and factories to bridges and runways, dams, and power plants. That infrastructure must and will continue to grow. By 2050, world population is expected to increase from today’s 6.9 billion to more than 9 billion.1 Also by 2050, some 70 percent of earth’s population will live in cities, up from 47 percent in 2000.2 Concrete will be fundamental to providing this burgeoning urban population with housing, energy, transportation, and the many other necessities and enjoyments of life. At current growth rates, CEMEX forecasts that by 2050, global annual concrete consumption will be at least double the estimated 7.5 billion cubic meters produced in 2006. 1 EEB report “Energy Efficiency in Buildings – Transforming the Markets”: http://www.wbcsd.org/ DocRoot/rVDgBRKvPngUrqivMHNM/91719_EEBReport_WEB.pdf 2 United Nations, World Urbanization Prospects: The 2006 & 2007 Revisions With growth, we see opportunity— and responsibility As the largest producer of concrete in the world, CEMEX sees an enormous opportunity in the future growth of the global construction industry as. However, along with this opportunity, comes a corresponding responsibility. We believe that the successful transition to a truly sustainable civilization will require the development of new building products and solutions that use resources more efficiently, perform better, and last longer. CEMEX is rising to the challenge with a three-part strategy to: n Develop better building products and solutions that can be more sustainably produced, facilitate more efficient construction processes, and contribute to the overall sustainability of buildings and other infrastructure. 18 — In 2010, we became the first n Support the design and renovation of buildings to consume significantly less energy, water, and other resources in their use, cement company in the world to maintenance, renovation, and disassembly. n Promote and enable sustainable urban planning policies and practices, including regulatory policy and designs that anticipate provide certified carbon labels the main challenges cities will face in the future. for our cement in the United Developing better building products and solutions Kingdom, using the UK Carbon Led by our Global Center for Technology and Innovation (GCTI) in Switzerland, CEMEX technology centers around the world are creatTrust’s Carbon Reduction Label ing a range of innovative concrete products to meet the construction industry’s growing demand for high-performance, low-carbon building solutions. Some of our most noteworthy offerings within our growing product portfolio are: Specially designed high-performance concrete with enhanced resistance to demanding environments, such as concrete pipes for potable water, sewage, and wastewater systems, and high acidresistance concrete for use in cooling towers and various industrial processes. Self-compacting concrete that imStructural thermal insulation conproves the structural strength, durabilcrete that reduces the thermal bridges ity, and life of buildings while reducing and increases its insulation performance, both energy consumption and noise making homes and buildings more caused by concrete vibration. energy-efficient and comfortable. Insulating concrete forms, made primarily from polystyrene and filled with concrete, which help keep heat out in hot climates and retain it in cold weather. 19 — Low CO2 footprint-self compacting and easy compacting concrete, with all the advantages of the conventional versions, but based on special mix designs that allow for low cement content High-strength concrete, that enables and embedded energy. the use of less concrete with no loss of strength or structural integrity. Impervious concrete (Impercem®), which reduces water absorption by buildings while maintaining normal setting times for reliable strength and performance—ideal for landscaped roofs and water transport systems. Permeable concrete that allows rainwater to filter through, reducing both heat build-up and flood risk. New CO2 footprint tool measures CEMEX’s footprint tool has been implemented at 629 of sites worldwide, representing 58% greenhouse gas emissions of our of production (1) (percentage of production covered) (1) building materials n cement n ready-mix n aggregates 100 100 100 97 In 2010, CEMEX introduced a carbon footprint tool. The first of its kind in the building materials industry, it is certified in accordance with international protocols by Det Norske Veritas (DNV), one of the 64 world’s leading independent certification entities. The tool measures 51 emissions from “cradle-to-gate”—from raw material sourcing to the 41 release of the finished product at the factory gate—which allows 33 CEMEX to track the greenhouse gas emissions of all of its cement, 20 ready-mix concrete, and aggregates products. We developed the carbon footprint methodology with the following objectives: EUROPE AMERICAS ASIA / ME (1) All figures are based on 2009 volumes. In Octon Quantify and communicate the CO2e emissions from the producber 2010, DNV performed the certification of our carbon footprint calculation methodology based on tion of our products to help our customers calculate the footprint data from 2009. of their projects. 20 n Perform a benchmark of company facilities with the goal of con— tinually reducing our CO2 footprint. CEMEX’s initial greenhouse gas emissions n Collaborate with our clients in the design phase of their projfootprint (1) ects and in the selection of materials that will help reduce CO2 n raw materials n energy, fuel & others n transportation n direct emissions emissions. The tool has already been implemented at 629 CEMEX cement, ready881 8.0 329 323 AMERICAS 809 mix concrete, and aggregates sites, corresponding to 58 percent of ASIA / ME ASIA / ME 714 total production. During 2011, CEMEX will begin publishing product 261 5.8 AMERICAS specific carbon content for its products in selected operations, in a EUROPE rollout schedule that will be driven by market requirements. ASIA / ME EUROPE 3.5 AMERICAS CEMEX unveiled its CO2 footprint tool at the COP16 Meeting in CanEUROPE cun, Mexico in December 2010 during a round-table discussion the company hosted along with the World Green Building Council. CEMENT READY-MIX AGGREGATES Kg CO2e/ton Kg CO2e/m3 Kg CO2e/ton (1) Calculated CO2e for CEMEX operations, based on sites already implemented, using 2009 data. In addition to the DNV certification standards, we considered the still-developing requirements of the draft versions of ISO 14067 and the WBCSD/WRI GHG protocol “Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard” Review Draft for Stakeholder Advisory Group November 2009. Supporting the design and renovation of buildings Sustainable Development (WBCSD). This initiative is setting Buildings play a crucial role as they account for approximately 40 new standards for the use of energy in buildings. The goal is to percent of global energy consumption. Typically, manufacturing and transform the market for commercial buildings worldwide and transportation of building materials and actual construction account achieve significant carbon emission reductions by sharing and for only around 10 percent of a building’s total energy consumption. promoting best practices. In contrast, nearly 90 percent is used for operation, maintenance, and n In the US, CEMEX has been actively involved with other industry renovation during the building’s lifespan.1 Given this equation, we players in the establishment of the Concrete Sustainability Hub have the challenge to develop not only sustainable building materiat the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). In 2010, als, but also more sustainable buildings—more energyand waterMIT released preliminary research findings that will help set a new efficient in their construction, operation, and maintenance. standard in lifecycle assessment (LCA) modeling (see sidebar). MIT is set to release a follow-up study in 2011 to examine and quantify We have taken a leadership role in several partnerships and policy the benefits and savings from better use of concrete in buildings organizations focused on sustainable building and development. and pavements, from a total lifecycle cost perspective (environn We are a Core Group member of the Energy Efficiency in Buildmental and economic). ings (EEB) initiative within the World Business Council for 21 — Skyline of Panama City The Environmental Expectations of Our Modern Society The environmental expectations of modern society are beginning to transform our conception of buildings, from their construction to how we inhabit them. Two lines of action are necessary, which in the end are simply two distinct faces of the same coin. On one side is the lengthening of materials’ lifetimes in order to reduce their emissions. This transition requires a profound shift from the traditional perspective of a building as a single object to an understanding of a building as an assemblage of separately manufactured and recyclable components. Felipe Pich-Aguilera On the other side of the coin are the thermal properties of materials, which can stabilize temAdvisory Panel Member peratures inside buildings and, used properly, substantially reduce energy consumption. A new architecture is emerging as an expression of the technological, economic, and ideological achievements of this new shared ideal; this architecture will become our voice in time. Within this context, CEMEX can have a decisive role both in minimizing the environmental impacts of cement production and supporting the transformation of the construction and architectural sectors. Understanding the lifecycle impacts of our products The Concrete Sustainability Hub at MIT is conducting studies to quantify the cradle-to-grave environmental impacts of paving and building materials. Ultimately, this will create the most comprehensive concrete lifecycle analysis model produced to date. Initial findings in the Buildings LCA have shown that more than 90 percent of the lifecycle carbon emissions from residential buildings are due to the use or operational phase. The study also showed that in residential structures, the use of insulating concrete forms instead of codecompliant, wood-framed construction can produce operational energy savings of 20 percent or more, with the highest energy savings occurring in colder climates. The Highway Pavement LCA showed that for high-volume roads, the use phase of the lifecycle can account for up to 85 percent of total carbon emissions. We are encouraged by this first report and expect more information on the sustainability attributes of concrete, as well as technical innovations that will result in additional benefits to the industry and society at large. 22 — Jorge Tadeo Lozano University in Bogotá, Colombia To further promote the mainstreaming of sustainable construction as private sector participation can help unlock opportunities and practices, we partnered with the World Green Building Council to develop the practical, cross-cutting solutions needed to create host an event during the 2010 COP16 Meeting in Cancun, Mexico. sustainable cities. “Key Challenges for Construction in the 21st Century” was an open dialogue during which experts discussed global emerging sustainEnvisioning the City of the Future able construction trends. During the COP16’s Green Solutions Expo, CEMEX presented “a vision of the city of the future”. Our exhibit showcased how conPromoting sustainable urban planning practices crete’s properties make it an ideal material for building sustainSustainable development, especially the planning and development able cities. of more sustainable cities, may present the greatest challenge of the 21st century—one that will only be met if multiple stakeholders n Clean energy: Concrete, as a technically versatile product, can work together. Business, industry, and government must collaborate be used in many structural applications, including those that on integrated solutions based on systems thinking and collaboration allow alternative energy sources to replace fossil fuels. For across nations and industrial sectors. example, concrete is required for foundations of large photovoltaic energy installations and for high-performance onshore and With this in mind, we have taken the first steps toward this coloffshore wind towers. laboration by participating as co-chair in the Urban Infrastructure n Transportation and mobility: Concrete’s durability makes it a great Initiative (UII) created by the World Business Council for Sustainchoice for transportation infrastructure projects that reduce fuel able Development (WBCSD) with the goal to show that business use, including track beds for trains, light rail, and trams; guided should be involved early on in cities’ strategic planning discussions, bus lanes; and bicycle lanes. Ecological Interpretative Center in “El Cielo” Biosphere Reserve in Mexico Recognizing sustainability innovation and leadership Established in 1991, the CEMEX Building Awards recognize outstanding construction projects and the talented individuals who contribute to their creation. Along with providing recognition for construction excellence, the awards encourage a culture of continuous innovation. In keeping with the spirit of constant evolution, we added Sustainable Development as a separate award category since 2002. 23 — The 2010 first-place winners in the sustainable construction category were the Split University Library in Croatia and the Ecological Interpretive Center in “El Cielo” Biosphere Reserve in Mexico. For more information about this awards program, please visit www.cemexbuildingaward.com n Energy efficient residential and non-residential buildings: Concrete’s For more information about CEMEX’s City of the Future, please thermal mass reduces heating and cooling requirements, while its visit our corporate website. durability minimizes building maintenance. In addition, it provides fire resistance, sound insulation, flood resilience, and air tightness. n Sustainable urban design and infrastructure: Concrete is used to build infrastructure that reduces the consumption of natural resources, thereby contributing to communities’ sustainability. For example, concrete is widely used in water management infrastructure. n Industrial ecology (systems in which companies in different industries exchange materials so the waste of one industry becomes the feedstock for another): Concrete manufacturers play an essential role in industrial ecologies by building on current practices, such as using fly ash and blast furnace slag as cementitious materials, and using alternative fuels, predominantly waste or by-products from industrial, domestic, agricultural, and forestry processes. In addition, during its lifetime and demolition, concrete captures meaningful amounts of CO2 that remain embedded in recycled aggregates and can then be incorporated into newly 1 EEB report “Energy Efficiency in Buildings – Transforming the Markets”: http://www.wbcsd.org/ built concrete structures. DocRoot/rVDgBRKvPngUrqivMHNM/91719_EEBReport_WEB.pdf low-income Housing and infrastructure 1,502 low-income houses—170% more than 24 in 2009—built with support of CEMEX — Vivienda initiative, in Mexico CEMEX supports social and economic progress, especially in the developing countries where we operate. In Mexico, our infrastructure program supported the completion of 25 7 million square meters of urban concrete paving and over 3 million — square meters of concrete highway paving. We believe that we can make a tremendous difference by helping to build affordable housing and better, more modern, and durable community infrastructure such as roads and sidewalks, schools, hospitals, parks, and other public spaces. The world’s need for housing is urgent and unrelenting. According to the United Nations:1 n Worldwide, an estimated 1.1 billion people in urban areas alone live in inadequate housing. n Between 2000 and 2030, urban areas in developing countries will absorb 95 percent of the world’s population growth. n During the last decade, the annual need for housing in developing countries’ urban areas was an estimated 35 million units. n Nearly 95,000 new urban housing units must be constructed each day in developing countries in order to relieve overcrowding and substandard living conditions. 1 UN-HABITAT, http://www.unhabitat.org/content.asp?typeid=19&catid=282&cid=789 Working together with communities, we focus on: n organizing and teaching communities to build walls and roofs, n consolidating alternative models to provide access to housing, and n building more quickly efficiently while reducing costs through innovative solutions. Reducing housing deficits CEMEX’s housing strategy is designed to address the significant housing deficits in developing countries, chiefly Mexico and the countries of South and Central America, the Caribbean, and Asia. Our goal is to demolish building and development paradigms that limit the affordability of home ownership for low-income families by establishing cooperative relationships among lowincome communities, government agencies, developers, and the financial sector. 26 — Housing project in Dominican Republic “Alleviating the housing deficit that preWorking with communities vails in Latin America requires a joint effort CEMEX’s low-income housing strategy is based on the notion that between the public and private sectors as lower-income people are capable of paying for their own homes. well as NGOs. We must build new alliances Through our financing programs, including private microfinance, we enable low-income individuals and communities to buy buildbetween governments, developers, financial ing materials on favorable terms as a step toward homeownership. entities, and communities to develop signifiCEMEX then provides training programs, equipment, technology, cant housing projects.” and our own expertise to help customers build homes, businesses, Jesús González and stronger communities. President of CEMEX in Central America Patrimonio Hoy, an initiative started in Mexico and now successfully replicated in Colombia, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, and the Dominican Republic, offers micro-financing to low-income families so that they can build, expand, or remodel their homes. Through our Patrimonio Hoy program we have proven that, with the right assistance and advice, families and entire communities can put aside the necessary funds to meet their payment commitments. For more information on Patrimonio Hoy and its achievements during 2010, please see “Strengthen Local Communities” on page 57. Developing prototypes for low-income housing Starting with a model for semi-urban living in San Marcos, Mexico, CEMEX housing experts have developed several prototypes for affordable housing in various types of communities. The San Marcos prototype, consisting of a living room, two bedrooms, kitchen, and bathroom, offers 35 square meters of living space, expandable to 42, 68, and up to 84 square meters. It comes complete with doors, windows, bathroom fixtures, water tank with base, in-wall water, and electrical and sanitary systems. During autumn 2010, the San Marcos prototype was tested as part of the Nuevo León Reconstruction Program for victims of Hurricane Alex. For the San Marcos and other low-cost housing prototypes developed by CEMEX, we bring our expertise and experience with advanced building materials and techniques to bear on the challenges of housing a growing world population. Designs based on precast concrete forms make the structures sound and sustainable as well as fast and economical to build. The use of special products such as 27 our sealing and water proofing Impercem® and Hidratium® — and our antibacterial concrete add to the soundness and safety of these structures. Semi-urban housing San Marcos project: housing basic unit 35 m2 Working with developers CEMEX works hand-in-hand with private developers to bring needed resources, technology, and know-how to the development of lowincome housing. Where public policies facilitate financing to lowincome home buyers—such as Mexico and Colombia—developers have shown avid interest in the low-income segment of the housing market. Their support has helped to significantly boost the supply of housing. More financing is needed, however, in order for small and medium-sized developers to make further progress. To encourage developers to build more and better housing, we provide support through the CEMEX Vivenda initiative. Through this partnership we provide assessment, expertise, and introduce construction systems and financial programs that benefit both the developer and the end-user, promoting the building of more sustainable communities and more affordable housing that offer a higher quality of life. In Mexico, the CEMEX Vivienda initiative supported developers’ construction of 1,502 homes in 2010—170 percent more than in 2009. Housing unit in Puerto Rico Attracting private investment CEMEX believes that private investment has an essential role to play in alleviating the housing deficits that prevail in Latin America. AlliRebuilding infrastructure ances and joint efforts between financial institutions, governments, NGOs, developers, and communities can develop significant housing in Tijuana projects that provide a step towards homeownership and a decent standard of living for low-income people. CEMEX was a moving force in the recently completed Comprehensive Road Rehabilitation Project or PIRE (Programa Integral de We aim to maintain the interest of all involved stakeholders in order to Repavimentación) in Tijuana, Mexico. Despite a significant annual convert this process into a virtuous cycle—one that improves quality of allocation of public-works funds for road maintenance and repair, life and facilitates wellness—which in turn will help developing counthe city’s primary roadway system was unable to handle traffic tries and communities become more productive and competitive. demands because of severe deterioration due to age, heavy use, erosion, and other factors. Providing affordable, durable building materials to low-income communities PIRE was a key component in a two-year effort to rehabilitate and During 2010 we supported several housing projects in Mexico upgrade some 126 kilometers of Tijuana’s urban roadways. Old through which over 700 homes are being built and will be finasphalt paving was overlaid with a hydraulic concrete layer, thus reducing the environmental impact of disposing of old paving in landfills. Additional work included the rebuilding of storm drains, construction or reconstruction of curbs and sidewalks, and restoration of the landscaping adjacent to roadways in some areas. By improving traffic flow on the city’s roadways, the project has improved air quality in the region, mitigated the heat-island effect 28 by reducing road surface temperatures almost 15°C, and reduced — energy consumption for street lighting due to the concrete surfaces’ high reflectivity (up to five times that of asphalt surfaces). At a total cost of nearly US$125 million, the project also delivered enormous economic benefits for the community by creating more than 5,500 jobs during the construction phase. The project was financed through an innovative irrevocable trust that administers and guarantees payments. CEMEX coordinated the environmental certiished during 2011, totaling more than 25,000 square meters of fication required for the project to obtain more than US$110 million construction: in financing from the North American Development Bank and the Border Environment Cooperation Commission (two US-Mexico n In Nuevo León, a northern Mexican state that was one of the most binational institutions created under the auspices of the North affected by flooding during hurricane Alex in 2010, we launched a American Free Trade Agreement to address environmental issues in program to build 239 houses in the municipality of Anáhuac and 103 the border region). The financing of the project became the largest homes in Monterrey. These houses will be finished by June 2011. loan in the North American Development Bank’s 15-year history. n In southern Mexico, we launched a similar 394-house project in the state of Campeche. This is a pilot project of a new financial scheme by SHF (Mexican Housing Bank), called the Assisted Self-Construction Program in which a loan will be given to the customer. The goal is to have the 394 homes built by June 2011. n In the state of Sinaloa in northern Mexico, we participated in the construction of a prototype house. Built in just 10 days, the house was used as a showcase by the Governor to inaugurate the State Housing Program, which will aim to build 5,000 homes during a six-year period and contribute to the reduction of the housing deficit in the area. We also initiated participation in housing projects in Central and “Financing the building needs of the 21st South America in 2010: century will require new partnerships between the public and private sectors, as well n In cooperation with local and national governments, CEMEX as new economic models. We will have to be launched in November 2010 a low-income housing project in San as innovative in our financial engineering as Rafael del Sur, Nicaragua, a community near one of our cement we are in our civil engineering.” plants. Precast products are being used for the housing units’ exteriors and interiors. The project will be finalized by mid-2011 Gabriel I. García and will benefit 143 families. Infrastructure Projects, Innovation Initiative Leader n In Colombia, CEMEX spearheaded a four-phase housing initiative in the city of Barranquilla in 2010 to build over 800 houses for low-income families. Through a strategic alliance with the local developer MARVAL, CEMEX will launch the project in 2011 and build 202 houses during the year as part of the first phase of the project. Infrastructure project in Colombia 29 — Partnering to make high-scale infrastructure We partner with local construction companies that might not qualify a reality to participate on their own, often arranging innovative financing CEMEX works with governments and local authorities to identify, comechanisms that include these local subcontractors. By making ordinate, and develop infrastructure projects. Over the past 15 years, them investors in larger-scale developments, we help these compawe have participated in 70 concrete road-building projects that have nies grow and promote their involvement in future projects while created 10,000 lane-kilometers of pavement surface for highways also diminishing long-term risks for all parties. In Mexico we supalone. The use of concrete rather than asphalt provides a more susported the completion of 7 million square meters of urban concrete tainable solution, as concrete allows for greater durability, safety, and paving and over 3 million square meters of highway concrete paving light reflection, lower fuel consumption and temperatures, as well as in 2010 through our infrastructure program. lower lifecycle costs. By becoming fully involved in each project, we develop closer relaIn addition to our building materials, technical expertise, and tionships with our publicand private-sector clients. Ultimately, we equipment, we also bring turnkey solutions to high-scale infraprovide greater value for them—offering the cost-effective, comprestructure projects such as concrete paving, asphalt pavement hensive solutions they need—while creating a competitive advanrehabilitation with cement, and concrete pavement rehabilitatage and generating new market opportunities for CEMEX. tion. Our involvement in these projects spans the entire lifecycle: from originating new projects and helping to secure and structure financing through third-party financial institutions, to executing and managing construction—and in some cases maintenance and toll-road operation. enhance our carbon STRATEGY 30 — 20.5% reduction in net CO2 specific emissions, compared to our 1990 baseline Our comprehensive carbon strategy is a key component of our sustainability model because it allows us to reduce our environmental footprint and foster the development of a low-carbon economy. We have long been engaged in a multi-pronged approach to reducing the overall carbon footprint of our operations, chiefly by: n replacing traditional fossil fuels with lower-emission alternatives, n by reducing the clinker content in cement, 31 — n increasing our use of renewable energy and the energy efficiency of our operations n exploring new carbon-reduction options and policies. Transitioning to a low-carbon economy Climate change is caused by increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases, primarily CO2, in the Earth’s atmosphere. It is widely believed that this phenomenon is the result of human activity, including the burning of fossils fuels for energy and also emissions derived from a variety of agricultural and industrial processes. Minimizing climate change and its consequences is a critical global challenge. The global cement industry produces about five percent of all manmade CO2 emissions.1 This greenhouse gas is generated chiefly in the production of clinker (the main ingredient in cement). Clinker is produced in large rotary kilns by processing limestone, clay, and other minerals under very high temperatures (>1,400 °C or 2,500 °F). CO2 results from the fuel combustion required to achieve such high temperatures and from the chemical decomposition of limestone into lime and CO2. Compared to these emissions, other sources, mainly the transport of raw materials and final products and emissions related to the generation of electricity that CEMEX consumes, are very small, but still offer an opportunity to reduce our total footprint. (1) WBCSD / IEA: Cement Technology Roadmap 2009 – Carbon emissions reductions up to 2050, Geneva/ Paris 2009; http://www.iea.org/papers/2009/Cement_Roadmap.pdf On target to meet our carbon reduction goals Key Performance Indicators 2015 Targets 2010 Progress Reduction in CO2 emissions per ton of Reduce emissions per ton of cementitious625 kg CO2/ton, a 20.5% reduction vs. 1990 cementitious product from 1990 baseline product by 25% to 602kg CO2/ton levels, keeping us on track to meet our 2015 target. Alternative fuels substitution rate Changed target from 15% to 35% We have redefined our goal to set a more ambitious target and continue to have the fastest increase rate in the industry. Alternative raw materials rate Substitute use of natural raw materials by We achieved an 11.8% alternative raw ma12%* terials rate in 2010, an improvement that almost meets our 2015 target. *We have a target of 15% by 2020, currently under review 32 — CEMEX’s Beckum Cement Plant in Germany For an energy-intensive company with worldwide operations like CEMEX, addressing climate change must be of the highest priority. It has been gratifying to see the progress that CEMEX has achieved in this regard, from increasing energy efficiency and its use of alternative fuels, alternative materials, and renewable energy to reducing the levels of emissions and particulates. This improvement process must now go into high gear to achieve the goals that CEMEX has set for itself, as it will become harder and harder to achieve continued efficiencies. It has also been gratifying to see the support CEMEX has given to the building industry as a whole through the Cement Sustainability Initiative of the WBCSD, as well as in its interaction with the Government of Mexico and the 16th Conference of the Parties Antonio Vives to the United Nations Framework Convention Climate Change (COP16) in Cancun. Advisory Panel Member CEMEX has developed a carbon strategy—the application of company knowledge, skills, technologies, and ingenuity to reduce CO2 emissions. Record alternative fuel rates in We have long been engaged in a multi-pronged approach to reducEurope ing the overall carbon footprint of our operations, chiefly by: Our use of alternative fuels is highest in Europe, where we have n replacing traditional fossil fuels with lower-emission alternatives made significant investments in retrofitting our facilities. n reducing the clinker content in cement n increasing our use of renewable electricity and the energy efCEMEX Germany has worked for many years to reduce the conficiency of our operations n exploring new carbon-reduction technologies and policies sumption of fossil fuels by replacing them with alternative fuels. In 2010, the average substitution rate for our operating kilns at Our CO2 emissions per ton of cementitious products have dropped our Rüdersdorf and Kollenbach cement plants was 74 percent. by 20.5 percent compared to our 1990 baseline, and we are on track This means that both plants burned more than 414,000 tons of to meet our 25 percent reduction target by 2015. alternative fuels, resulting in a net reduction of 337,000 tons of CO2. With this result, CEMEX Germany is number one among CEMEX operations worldwide in the use of alternative fuels. In addition to the most popular RDF (refuse derived fuels), several other alternative fuels are being used, such as tire chips, dried sewage sludge, and animal meal. In 2011, a sophisticated project will start in the 20.3% Kollenbach plant in order to ensure a smoother kiln operation due to better homogeneity of the ground fuels. This will further reduce CO2 emissions and save natural resources. CEMEX Poland has also been investing in reducing the amount 33 of fossil fuels consumed by its operating kilns by replacing them — with alternative fuels derived from waste. In 2010 the average level alternative fuels of substitution at our Polish cement plants reached almost 70 substitution rate percent, with 76 percent at Chelm. In the old long kilns in Rudniki with a 47 percent alternative fuels rate we have almost reached the technical limit of substitution in terms of quantity. Combined, the plants disposed of more than 300,000 tons of waste last year, recovering energy from the material that would otherwise be landUsing alternative fuels to reduce emissions filled. CEMEX Poland is not only the leader in the use of alternative The use of alternative fuels is a key pillar of our carbon strategy. By fuels in the domestic market; it also ranks second among CEMEX replacing traditional fossil fuels with alternative fuels that are less operations worldwide. It has responded to the developing market CO2 intensive or that recover energy from waste, we are measurably opportunities with numerous investments. In addition to RDF other reducing both our CO2 emissions and our fuel costs. kinds of alternative fuels are being utilized, such as tires, sewage sludge, and liquid fuels, as well as agricultural biomass wastes in We have quadrupled our use of alternative fuels since 2005. In 2010 the form of locally sourced straw. Our goal is for the share of alteralone, the share of alternative fuels in our total fuel mix reached 20.3 native fuels to increase again in 2011, due in part to the planned percent compared to 16.4 percent in 2009. Our target is to reach an installation of an animal meal facility in Chelm. alternative fuels substitution rate of 35 percent by 2015. In 2010, alternative fuels supplied as much as 40 percent of the fuel Addressing community concerns needs at our plant in Buñol, Spain and, in Rugby, England, we have To ensure the environmentally and socially responsible use of alterreplaced 47 percent of fossil fuels with alternative fuels including native fuels in our kilns, CEMEX has established corporate guideClimafuel®, a solid, non-hazardous fuel derived from household lines that reflect best practices in our industry. We also engage with waste. communities to address to their concerns and explain how the use of cement kilns for waste disposal is an environmentally friendly solution that mitigates potential harm by avoiding the land use and hygienic challenges of landfills. We further meet with regulators to For further information about our use of alternative fuels, please ensure that our use of alternative fuels is fully compliant with all apread CEMEX’s position paper on alternative fuels which is availplicable local, regional, and national policies and regulations. able for download in our website. Reducing our clinker factor providing electricity to our neighboring cement plant. We will continue to cut emissions to expand our use of renewable electricity wherever possible. We continue our efforts to reduce CO2 emissions by increasing the State-of-the-art equipment boosts energy efficiency use of alternative cementitious By replacing older equipment with state-of-the-art kilns, mills, and materials and reducing the other equipment, we increase thermal energy efficiency and reduce content of clinker in cement (the power consumption significantly. The recently installed dry kiln at clinker factor). For example, we are our plant in Broceni, Latvia, for example, requires just about half as increasingly using fly ash, a by-prodmuch thermal energy to produce clinker as the wet kiln it replaced. uct of coal-fired power stations, blast In the English port of Tilbury, our new cement grinding and blending furnace slag, a by-product of the steel indusplant employs a vertical cement mill—the first of its kind in the UK— try, and naturally occurring pozzolanic materials as that consumes up to 40 percent less energy than a conventional mill. cementitious materials. In 1990, clinker comprised 84 percent of our cement; by 2010, we had reduced the clinker content of We are also redefining our logistics networks and processes to optimize our cement to 76 percent. our transport methods in order to reduce fuel consumption. We purchase from locally based suppliers and use rail, sea, and inland waterways to optimize the delivery of our products. The distance raw materials travel is marginal as our cement kilns are located near quarries. Exploring new carbon reduction TECHNOLOGIES and policies Much remains to be done to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to the levels that science calls for. CEMEX is committed to leadership in both the research and policy development that will drive effective 34 climate management by the cement industry. — For example, we are engaged in research on carbon capture and storage (CCS) solutions—such as solid sorbent technologies, biological capture using algae, and geological sequestration—that can be integrated into cement production. In late 2009, the US Department of Energy’s National Energy Technology Laboratory granted CEMEX funding to conduct groundwork for the development and demonstration of a commercial-scale CCS project at Increasing renewable electricity use and CEMEX’s Odessa cement plant in Texas. operational efficiency The production of cement requires significant amounts of both This study, completed in 2010 jointly with other industrial partners, fuels and electricity. For example, electricity is used for grinding raw concluded that commercial-scale CCS in the cement industry is not materials and the final product, ventilation of the kiln system, or yet ready for deployment. Significant research and development, transport of materials in the plant. Although CEMEX does not control public-private cooperation, and funding, as well as policy changes, emissions related to the generation of electricity by public utilities, will be required in order for CCS to realize its potential. With a grant we can reduce them by optimizing the power consumption of our from CEMEX, Imperial College in the UK is carrying out additional plants and sourcing electricity from renewable sources. fundamental research on the subject. Developing renewable energy sources For additional information on these and other initiatives, please CEMEX is committed to securing renewable electricity sources by either read our position paper on Carbon Capture and Storage availcontracting for power from existing providers or developing new renewable for download in our website able energy projects ourselves, such as EURUS. About 25 percent of the total electricity consumed by our Mexican cement operations comes Using market incentives to reduce CO2 from EURUS, a 250-megawatt wind farm developed jointly by CEMEX The Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) of the United Nations and ACCIONA, the world’s largest independent (nonutility) renewable Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) is a marketenergy developer and owner. Our cement plant in Panama consumes based initiative that allows emission-reduction projects in developonly electricity sourced from a hydropower plant. Moreover, in Rüdersing countries to earn certified emission-reduction credits that can be dorf, Germany, a waste-to-energy plant was built for the sole purpose of sold on the open market. n Getting the Numbers Right (GNR) is a sector-wide global information database developed through the WBCSD’s CSI. Covering more than 800 cement facilities in more than 100 countries, GNR provides accurate, verified data on the cement industry’s CO2 emissions and energy performance. We have provided data to GNR since 2007. The first report summarizing the industry’s CO2 emissions, released in June of 2008, showed that while cement production by participating companies increased by 53 percent from 1990 to 2006, absolute net CO2 emissions increased by only 35 percent. n The Steering Committee of the UN Caring for Climate Initiative is a government body through which business leaders and Disposing of community waste government decision-makers discuss practical climate-change solutions. in cement kilns With the high temperatures they attain, cement kilns are ideal CEMEX’s Chelm Cement Plant in Poland for safely disposing of waste materials while capturing the recoverable energy in them—energy that might not otherwise be recovered at all. Using it as a fuel also avoids landfilling of waste, where its decomposition produces methane—a greenhouse gas 25 times more damaging to the atmosphere than CO2. 35 CEMEX disposes of waste and by-products from industrial, — domestic, agricultural, and forestry processes, including used tires, spent solvents and waste oils, processed municipal solid waste, and biomass such as rice and coffee husks, animal meal, and sewage sludge. CEMEX has successfully registered four CDM projects, for a total n The Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders’ Group on Climate reduction of 850,000 tons of CO2 per year. Achieved in December Change (CLG) is a cross-sectorial group of business leaders 2010, the latest UNFCCC approval is for a project at our Zapotiltic, participating at the highest levels of policy debate surrounding Mexico, cement plant where alternative fuels will be used to substiclimate change. tute petcoke. CEMEX has a pipeline of more than a dozen additional n The Carbon Disclosure Project is a voluntary initiative that reCDM projects under development that could significantly decrease quests annual information on climate-change risk management our total CO2 emissions. and performance. Partnerships and disclosure are essential For additional information on these and other initiatives, please We believe that industry must work with government, NGOs and read our position paper on market mechanisms for mitigating peers to develop policies and practices that address a wide range of climate change available for download in our website. environmental and related sustainability issues. CEMEX is a leading participant in the following initiatives, among others: n The World Business Council for Sustainable Development Cement Sustainability Initiative is a voluntary global effort through which cement companies work together to find solutions to the sustainability issues that are most important to the cement industry. CEMEX chairs its Communications Task Force and Concrete Sustainability Task Force. excellence in ENVIRONMENTAL & BIODIVERSITY management 76% of our operations have an Environmental 36 Management System in place, 18% have — an ISO 14001 certification We are committed to responsible stewardship of the land we use and manage and to conducting our operations in a sustainable manner. We are implementing company-wide guidelines, business practices, and monitoring systems to enable us to better understand and manage our most significant impacts. 543 sites were evaluated for their proximity to high biodiversity value areas 37 — 85% of our active cement and aggregate sites have quarry rehabilitation plans in place Facing global environmental challenges The global scientific consensus, drawing on research such as the Millennium Ecosystems Assessment and the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Assessment Report, is that human activity is degrading the planet’s environmental health and its ability to sustain current and future generations of life. Global drivers for ecosystem decline include human population growth, the need for improved living standards across the developing world, increased consumption of goods, and trade flows associated with that consumption. These factors are creating severe stress across global ecosystems, impacting atmospheric balance, water and land availability, and biodiversity. For example: n 60 percent of ecosystems services—including water purification, medicinal supply from plants, crop pollination, and carbon sequestration—are already in decline1 n two-thirds of the world’s people will likely experience water stress by 20252 1 Millennium Ecosystems Assessment, United Nations Environment Programme, 2007 2 Global Environment Outlook (GEO4), United Nations Environment Programme, 2007 n driven by land degradation and climate change, 11 percent of tern ensure compliance with CEMEX’s standards and guidelines restrial species may be lost by 20503 n drive continuous performance improvement and common reporting But signs of environmental improvement can also be found. These successes demonstrate that with adequate awareness, resources, and One early achievement has been the restatement of incident definipolitical will, good practices can be widely implemented and replicattions so that they are clearer and more objective. These clarifications ed. Business can and should play a critical role in leading this change. enhance the comparability of incident reports and the insights from CEMEX accepts this responsibility. root-cause analyses. Independently and in partnership with other businesses and leading EMS Goals Target NGOs, such as the World Business Council for Sustainable DevelopPilot implementation of EMS in selected countries 2011 ment (WBCSD) and its Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI), we are working to minimize the environmental impacts caused by our operations and create environmental benefits whenever possible. Full implementation and compliance with CEMEX EMS 2015 As pledged in the CEMEX Environmental Policy, we are more fully integrating management of these issues into business strategy, setting US$93 meaningful performance indicators, developing measurement protomillion in environmental capital cols, identifying best practices, and providing training and supervision expenditure in 2010 in order to drive continuous improvement. CEMEX’s Rudniki Cement Plant in Poland Addressing all our environmental impacts CEMEX uses a systematic approach to manage environmental issues. Our global environmental strategy addresses all the environmental impacts of our plants, quarries, and logistics, including emissions to air, land, and water. We focus on these challenges not only to help 38 preserve the long-term health of people and ecosystems, but also — to build strong positive relationships with local communities and preserve our social license to operate. Regional representatives who are responsible for environmental performance work together as an environmental council to coordinate the alignment of local, regional, and global activities. The council has guided adoption of the company’s environmental strategy, promulgation of the environmental governance framework, and in 2011, will assist in the implementation of CEMEX’s new global Environmental Achieving air emissions targets ahead of schedule Management System (EMS). We have made a significant investment to effectively monitor air emissions from our cement production facilities. Major emissions Implementing a customized EMS globally include dust, nitrogen oxides (NOx), and sulfur compounds (SOx). Managing environmental issues consistently and well across all our Other pollutants, such as dioxins, furans, volatile organic compounds, quarries and cement, ready-mix, and aggregates locations is a comand heavy metals (including mercury), are usually found in very small plex undertaking. Currently, 76 percent of our operations have an EMS quantities. By controlling and monitoring emissions, while complyin place, 18 percent have an ISO 14001 certification. Over the past ing with all applicable national and local laws and regulations, we year, a team of experienced, multinational CEMEX professionals has have achieved significant reductions ahead of our 2015 target date. worked to develop a customized global EMS that is compatible with Our efforts include: ISO 14001. Pilot implementation of the new EMS will begin during 2011 with global rollout in 2012. n investing in equipment to reduce major emissions (dust, NOx, SOx) n establishing the “status analysis” for minor emissions at cement The global EMS will set a standard approach for managing air quality, kilns (evaluating the emissions “fingerprint” of each kiln to deterbiodiversity, water use, waste management, environmental disturmine if additional controls are needed) bances, and environmental incidents. CEMEX will use it to: n developing guidelines for handling fuels and emissions n ensure legal compliance n participating in industry-based efforts and multi-stakeholder n identify environmental issues and their impacts dialogues to develop methods for addressing mercury and dioxin n establish objectives, targets, and corresponding action plans emissions n reporting emissions in accordance with the CSI reporting protocol 3 The Economics of Ecosystems and Biodiversity Report, TEEB, 2010 Achieving air emissions targets ahead of schedule Air Emissions Goals Target 2010 Progress Clinker produced with continuous monitoring of Monitor 50% of clinker production by 2010 2010 target achieved; 74% of clinker promajor emissions (dust, NOX, and SOX) (%) Monitor 100% of production by 2015 duced with monitoring. On track to meet 2015 goal. Reduce dust emissions per ton of clinker from 2005 50x% by 2015 Target achieved with a 60% reduction baseline (cement operations only) Reduce NOx emissions per ton of clinker from 2005 15% by 2015 Target achieved with a 19% reduction baseline (cement operations only) Reduce SOx emissions per ton of clinker from 2005 10% by 2015 Target achieved with a 25% reduction baseline (cement operations only) 74% or our clinker produced with continuous monitoring of major emissions 16% reduction of dust emissions per ton of clinker produced from 2009 39 — 7% increase of NOx emissions per ton of clinker produced from 2009 19% reduction of SOx emissions per ton of clinker produced from 2009 Water Management Access to sufficient quantities of clean water—a necessity for all life—is becoming an increasingly urgent global concern. In many Fresh Water: The Essence of Life parts of the world, freshwater resources are under pressure and acIn 2010 we published Fresh Water: The Essence of Life, the cess to water is already constrained by competing priorities. 18th title in the CEMEX Conservation Book Series. This book focuses on Earth’s freshwater supplies and ecosystems, showWater scarcity will lead to various social and business challenges that ing how they are essential for human survival and that they can affect CEMEX operations, among them: are in rapid decline. It also offers realistic solutions and actions n higher water costs to be implemented now to protect them. limited availability of clean water The autho rs understan have contribut n groundbr Conservat backgrou nds ding the eaking such topic provide a bread 1971 issues; ion Inter Ramsar Conv national ed chap from explo ters impo ring and entio freshwate n on Wetlands the rtant to applauding r initiative, , to s tems, the as aquatic ecos th of knowledge their varie Begun in 1993, The CEMEX Conservation services ystems, in cove d stronger regulations regarding access to land, water withdrawals, protected prov threats ring areas, and ided by fresh to such ecosysn of their the futur wate relation to huma e of not r ecosystems, nity and only fresh its It is withi the wate rs, but generatio n our grasp ns to come created to adap . and to t to window mitig ate our the condition of impact our humi opportunity on the s we have Book Series program is an editorial partlity in relat is closi future, ng. Now but and wastewater treatment resurrect ionship is the time the NATU RE / ENVIR an to the with these understanding Earth’s to recla ONME The NTAL ecosystem of how fresh im interdepe water and to s. esse CEMEX ndent we are nce years of is a globa l comp of l building experienc e prod any with more than ife Fresh Wate mate ucing, distr one hund r: the Essen less comm rials in more ibuting, red starkly nership with the International League of itment than fifty and depic ce of Life has been to a more countries marketing freshwate ted look at is a b competition with other users, including local communities a tions and leader in its effor a sustainable . In its relentr ecosystem the current dozens n improved ts to prod future, of the s. A varie impacts CEMEX world’s ty on efficiencie uce indus tells us a story most acco of along with biodiversity at s. In addit try innov Earth’s we mpli its own ion to afreshwate may feel unco initiatives its partners, in sites, CEM managing the We may r supply mfor . Publishing a numb EX inves carry on and syste a forum for this Cons er of offsite ts, so is at our as if it was ms strategies communicating ervation conservat ion detriment own risk—and “business and advan Book Series Conservation Photographers and other in the realm of the will lead These of cons cing globa provides generatio cer publicatio ervation l needs ns to follow NGOs ns and dona are written in awarenes s. and This lates t publicatio u research ted to partnershi Series n in the institution unive rsities, p with will alert raising leading readers CEMEX and outre s, and non-profi government water: its resou to key Con with a ach. CEM t organ agencies, With preci rces, its issues host EX izations uses conc Wetlands of leading cons is proud to for fundLife prese se, scien tific analy (and abus es), a ervation partn The Internatio nts a detai Internatio nal, organizatio er once again issues, led and ses, Fresh Water: nal to prod Nature Serve and leading conservation organizations. Its ns, inclu thoughtfu uce Fresh and ding As in The goes on to prov l expla Water:The Conservation tion, Fresh Wealth of Natu ide poss n Essence re, ible resol esse of Life. resources Water make CEM EX’s most u and capit s a statement rec resilient al: concernin Bishop throughou Although the Cree humanity t millennia, ecosystem California k in autumn, nce has radic s . –Justin Inyo Natio the point ally destr in the last few Black nal Fore of alarm oyed fresh ge st, Sierr . water a Neva ISBN: eco main objective is to further environda, 978-0-98 Through 41686-2-0 the page of l challenged s of this to not volume, orating only unde the reade ife fresh wate rstand r port in rs, but the signifi will political, will cance biogeograp also be moti hical, and vated to CE ME Series conservat r X CO editor Cristina ion fo NS ERVATIO ly gathe red Mittermei Beginning distinguished er has mental and cultural conservation N BO with a authors once again OK SER IES MAVA Foun Foreword by Luc from a range suc (President dation and Hoffmann, of disci of Cons led by found Dr. Russ butions from some ervation ell A. Mitte er o Internatio biologists of nal)along rmeie and scien the most know with con Brooks tists in (Nature the field ledgeable fresh Rus sell tional), Serve), today wate Seri es Ian Harr Tracy Farre , including A. Mitt Edit or: Upgren ison ll Thoma (Conserva (Conservation (Conservation through photography. erm eier • Cris tina Trac y A. Goe ttsc in deve loping tion Inter Internatio Intern Farr ell h Mitt natio national) nal), • Ian J. erm eier species taxonomy nal regulation have speci and Amy Har rison research and data s for fresh alized Forewor • Am y and deve compilatio water systems, d by Luc J. Upg conservat lopment, n, wildl Hof fman ren • ion actio ornitholo ife trade n Tho mas ns. gy, biodi , M. Bro versity, oks and Jacke t US Fresh Water (ROG 1003001)175 L CMYK PMS 8203C Developing a comprehensive approach to water management Water is of paramount importance within CEMEX everyday operations and a key input in the production process. Additionally, water is a primary component of concrete, representing an average of 15 percent of the mixture. It is also used for cooling and preparing slurry for cement, washing aggregates, and cleaning plants and equipment, including concrete delivery trucks. In our operations, therefore, we seek to increase water efficiency and recycling and to carefully control our water emissions, such as hydrocarbons and suspended solids. Additionally, some of our quarries are in contact with aquifers and can cause changes in ground water levels. However, quarry rehabilitation can also contribute to the conservation and restoration of wetlands and watersheds and can offer water storage solutions and help mitigate floods. 7% less water consumed per ton of cement produced from 2009 40 6% less water consumed per cubic meter of concrete produced from 2009 — 9% more water consumed per ton of aggregates produced from 2009* 85% of our operations have water recycling systems *Part of the increase is due to more complete reporting In 2010, we began a three-year partnership with the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) to strengthen our approach to water issues. IUCN is the world’s oldest and largest global environmental network. In this partnership, we will develop a strategy to minimize CEMEX’s impacts on water availability and quality and take better advantage of our water-related opportunities by effective water policies and management systems. The partnership will also develop the tools— operating standards and guidelines, measurement protocols and key indicators, best practices, and training materials—we need to implement the strategy. In the first phase, to be completed in 2011, we will: n more precisely assess CEMEX’s global water footprint n map operational sites against key water issues and identify CEMEX’s most sensitive sites n analyze water trends and stakeholders’ expectations with regard to water issues n explore the role of business in working with stakeholders at the local level to develop sustainable solutions to watershed management n identify the highest priority issues and begin developing approaches to address them Beyond 2011, the partnership will continue in order to develop and adopt a corporate water strategy and provide our operations with the appropriate tools and standards to manage water impacts. Achieving significant reductions in waste disposal At CEMEX, we have adopted a manifold waste-reduction strategy 11% reduction in total disposed based on the philosophy of monitor, minimize, reuse, and recycle. In hazardous waste compared 2010, this strategy enabled us to reduce, compared to 2009, hazardous waste by 11 percent to 74,553 tons, and non-hazardous waste by to 2009 9 percent to 215,788 tons, saving significant resources and money. Our processes generate waste that is disposed of according to our own 9% reduction in total disposed standards and the requirements of the law. In terms of operational non-hazardous waste wastes, cement kiln dust represents the largest amount of waste we produce. We now reuse it in the production process and other processes. As we follow the waste hierarchy, we seek to monitor, minimize, reuse, and recycle our wastes. The actions we undertake in this area include: 41 — n monitoring of hazardous and non-hazardous waste generation in Traffic calming To minimize traffic congestion, and as part of our susall our operations tainable transport approach, we look for non-truck ways to move raw materials and products. Many sites use conveyor belts to move raw n replacing primary aggregates with other discarded materials (e.g. materials from the quarry, and whenever feasible we use multimodal glass and demolished concrete) systems comprising road, rail, and water to transport products. We n reusing and recycling, insofar as possible, the fresh concrete operate and maintain our vehicle fleets to ensure community safety returned from construction sites and, by the use of strategic route planning, avoid unnecessary truck traffic during peak travel hours. These efforts reduce noise, vibrations, Environmental Performance Management and congestion, as well as energy use, CO2 emissions, and costs. CEMEX has achieved significant reductions in the number and severity of environmental incidents. By combining technology and Dust minimization We use dust collection systems at our operacareful planning, we minimize disturbances such as noise, vibration, tions and dust-suppression methods in roads, crushers, and conveyor vehicular traffic, unsightly aesthetics, and fugitive dust. belt systems. In addition, we maintain trees and other vegetation on and around our operations to prevent erosion, improve area aesthetNoise reduction We mitigate the noise associated with our operaics, and create a noise barrier. tions through operational controls and measures such as noise suppression, isolation of noise sources, and careful scheduling of Striving towards zero environmental incidents blasting activities. To the degree it is possible, we avoid working at Our goal—zero environmental incidents such as spills or uncontrolled night in our quarry operations and coordinate our blasting schedemissions—is a priority throughout CEMEX and a responsibility that ule to minimize disturbance. extends from our top management team to each individual operator. However, we recognize that, despite our best efforts, occasional inciLearning from past events to prevent future environmental dents can ocur. Therefore, we maintain the capacity to respond to any problems emergency, natural or manmade, that poses a potential threat to our As important as preventing and immediately responding to the neighbors, host communities, or operations. We start with a foundaeffects of incidents are our efforts to learn from them in order to tion of using quality equipment and technology and applying best opprevent future occurrences. Incident reports and trends are reerating practices and safety standards. We then work with our neighviewed at every level of our company, including our top managebors, regulatory authorities, public agencies, and other stakeholders ment team. to develop contingency plans at each site. We also have Emergency Response Teams that are specifically trained to address environmenWe have developed company-wide standards and definitions to tal incidents; to ensure their preparedness, they complete annual report and record incidents consistently and accurately using an onemergency drills. Furthermore, we constantly monitor our operations line tool. This standardization enables us to identify the root causes to receive early warnings and detect incidents as soon as possible. Our of incidents, develop solutions, and disseminate corrective action tracking of environmental indicators, such as emissions and water use, plans based on best practices. To reinforce the integrity of reporting can provide early warnings of potential problems before they become procedures, CEMEX business unit leaders train operations managers actual spills or unexpected emissions. In 2010, we reduced the number at the country level; the managers, in turn, train their own teams. of Category 1 incidents to only 2, from 8 incidents in 2009.* We are also developing standardized analytical tools and sharing best practices to increase the utility and transparency of our incident reporting systems. Biodiversity Management At CEMEX, we recognize the importance of conserving biodiversity 2 Category 1 incidents in 2010, and ecosystems—for their own intrinsic value and because they are necessary for the sustainability of our society and the planet. Healthy compared to 8 in 2009* ecosystems provide food, fibers, medicines, natural regulation of 42 climate variability and water flows; they also support climate change — adaptation and mitigation and help to moderate extreme weather * Category 1 incidents are defined as major uncontrolled spills or releases beyond events, among other “ecosystem services”. site boundary in breach of internal control procedures that might result in legal action and threat to operating license. Part of this reduction is due to the reduction in the number of sites operating during 2010 as a result of temporary site CEMEX’s operations can potentially affect habitats and species, closures and divestment from our Australia operations. especially through land clearance for quarrying and emissions to air and water. The opening, operation, and closing of our cement and aggregates sites, in particular, can potentially affect biodiversity and ecosystem health through habitat degradation, species disturbance, changes in groundwater levels, discharges to water bodies, and dust emissions. CEMEX, however, can also contribute to biodiversity conservation by providing valuable habitat for specific species. For these reasons, we are committed to being a responsible steward of the land we manage and to conducting our operations in a sustainable manner, and thereby protect the biodiversity within our operations and maximize our contribution to nature conservation. Prioritizing sites with high biodiversity value and enhancement potential In 2010, CEMEX completed a multi-year scoping study on the biodiversity status of our worldwide operations. This study was undertaken as part of our ten-year partnership with BirdLife International. The Biodiversity Scoping Study prioritizes 543 CEMEX cement and aggregates operations worldwide in terms of biodiversity sensitivity and opportunities, based on both their proximity to areas of importance for biodiversity and their current biodiversity management practices. It represents a significant milestone in the CEMEXBirdLife partnership and provides a solid basis for developing our corporate biodiversity strategy. 543 CEMEX sites evaluated for their Of the 543 CEMEX sites assessed, 131 overlap with an area of high proximity to high biodiversity value areas biodiversity value such as international and national protected and biodiversity enhancement potential areas, important bird areas, key biodiversity areas, and Natura 2000 sites. The study further differentiates the 131 sites according to their national, regional, or global relevance: 109 are of national or regional importance and 22 sites have a global relevance. Among 131 sites within, containing, or the 22 globally important sites, 10 have already implemented adjacent to high biodiversity value areas voluntary conservation projects, often with assistance from local 38% of sites with high biodiversity BirdLife Partners or other conservation organizations. The other 12 sites have the potential to enhance biodiversity management and require further investigation to ensure that impacts on biodiversity are appropriately considered. They were identified as priority sites value have implemented biodiversity and will be given highest priority for conservation efforts. Please see results of the study in graphs below. management plans 43 — CEMEX SITES ASSESSED The practical outputs of the study are maps and databases that provide detailed information on the biodiversity characteristics of each operational site. This knowledge will enhance site-level land 412 management decision making. 109 131 22 The scoping study provides the baseline analysis from which the strategy is to progressively implement biodiversity action plans (BAPs) for all the sites that overlap with important biodiversity areas, starting with the 12 priority sites. Ultimately, CEMEX’s objective is for 10 12 100 percent of these 131 sites to have a BAP in place by 2015. l OVERLAP WITH HIGH l NATIONAL OR REGIONAL l ALREADY IMPLEMENTED BIODIVERSITY VALUE AREAS1 RELEVANCE VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION To help this process, we are currently working with BirdLife to l NO OVERLAP WITH HIGH l GLOBAL RELEVANCE PROJECTS2 develop a BAP standard and projects have been started at 2 priorBIODIVERSITY VALUE AREAS1 l POTENIAL TO ENHANCE BIODIVERSITY MGMT.3 ity sites in Spain and the UK. The standard will guide the operations on how to: assess the biodiversity context and potential impacts of sites, set conservation objectives and actions, monitor and report the 1 Such as international and national protected areas, Important Bird Areas (IBA), Key Biodiversity Areas (KBA), and Natura 2000 sites. progress against targets, and engage with stakeholders. Wherever 2 3 Often with assistance from local BirdLife Partners or other conservation organizations. Require further investigation to ensure that impacts on biodiversity are appropriately considered. They were possible, local BirdLife Partner organizations will assist CEMEX operaidentified as priority sites and should be given highest priority for conservation efforts. tions in the development and implementation of such plans. Cemex biodiversity policy In 2010, we adopted a new Biodiversity Policy to guide our actions in the field of biodiversity conservation. Through this statement, we renew our commitment to being a responsible steward of the land we manage and to conducting our operations in a sustainable manner. More specifically, we will: n Ensure compliance with all relevant legislation and align our biodiversity initiatives with our business model so that biodiversity is considered in our decision making processes and management systems, throughout the lifecycle of sites. n Assess, prevent wherever possible and reduce the biodiversity impacts of our operations and seek opportunities for biodiversity enhancement initiatives that contribute to local, national and global conservation priorities. n Prioritize our operational sites for their biodiversity value and adopt a systematic management approach for sites with high biodiversity potential. n Establish constructive relationships with local, national and international stakeholders to generate synergies and contribute to knowledge and best practices development. n Provide instruction and training to encourage greater awareness among our employees and other stakeholders. n Monitor and review our performance against measurable targets and industry best practices to drive continuous improvement and report on the results achieved. The full CEMEX Biodiversity Policy can be found on www.cemex.com The recently completed CEMEX-BirdLife Biodiversity Scoping Study is an ideal platform from which CEMEX can build effective biodiversity management and conservation work across its operations. I hope that CEMEX can now move quickly to develop and imple44 ment a focused biodiversity strategy as part of the wider Sustainability Vision, with a — clear overall goal and explicit targets and measures referring to the baselines in the Scoping Study. This strategy would consolidate CEMEX’s commitment to biodiversity conservation and further raise the standard of the company’s sustainability reporting. It Leon Bennun would also be a fitting way to mark the start of the UN Decade of Biodiversity in 2011. Advisory Panel Member MAKING Progress towards our quarry rehabilitation Successful quarry rehabilitation concludes with donation of Quarry rehabilitation aims to turn quarried land into a restored, 6,000 acres in Colombia stable and safe site, compatible with its natural environment and In 2010 we donated 6,000 acres of land to Chingaza National Natural suitable for the future use of the land, which can be as varied as Park in central Colombia. The donation of the land to the country’s agriculture, forestry, nature reserves, commercial and residential depark service was the final step of the quarry’s restoration and an opvelopment and recreation facilities. Thus, our quarry rehabilitation portunity for CEMEX to give back to the central Colombian commuwork aims to create sustainable quarries, simultaneously minimizing nity. Chingaza Park is located an hour from the capital city of Bogota negative impact and contributing to local development. and is a crucial part of the country’s ecosystem. It provides drinking water for nearly 11 million people in central Colombia and is home We are committed to implement quarry rehabilitation plans at all to numerous rare plant and animal species. of our operating sites by 2015. At year-end 2010, 85 percent of our sites had such plans in place. In addition, we continue to work with For more information on this and examples of successful rehaour industry peers in the Cement Sustainability Initiative to estabbilitation projects, visit www.cemex.com/sustainability lish Quarry Rehabilitation Guidelines and help raise the standard of rehabilitation projects. 85% of our sites have quarry rehabilitation plans in place “Through the donation of the land to Chingaza National Natural Park, CEMEX conveys a message of commitment to the environment and sustainable development. The responsible and controlled use of land resources guarantees respect for nature and, in turn, community development. This is an example that other companies should follow.” Beatriz Uribe, Colombian Minister of Environment, Housing, and Land Development. Chingaza National Natural Park in Colombia El Carmen serves as a new generation conservation model Established in 2000, our El Carmen Initiative helps protect and conserve approximately 200,000 hectares of ecologically significant land along the United States–Mexico border through a progressive partnership between CEMEX, other private landowners, governments, NGOs, and universities. 45 — Owned by CEMEX and other private landowners, El Carmen is home to more than 500 species of plants, 289 species of birds, 80 species of mammals, 65 kinds of reptiles and amphibians, and149 species of butterflies. The initiative uses scientific research and proven habitat and wildlife management practices to restore and protect the landscape, native grasslands, and wildlife species. El Carmen staff also provides guidance on habitat and wildlife restoration to our partners and interested adjacent landowners. Solar and wind-power generator systems are used to provide renewable energy to the facilities at El Carmen. Over the past ten years, El Carmen has averaged two research projects per year, with an average of two scientific papers published annually. The table below shows the strong response to wildlife restoration in El Carmen thus far, as well as the projection for the next five years. Please note the highlighted large mammal species, which were extinct in the region for more than 50 years and required complete reintroduction. Species (estimated) 2000 2010 2015 White-tailed deer 300 1500 2000 Mule deer 40 700 1500 Elk 0 200 300 Desert Bighorn Sheep 0 250 350 Pronghorn 0 100 300 Javelina 100 1000 2000 Wild Turkey 30 250 500 Black Bear 25 300 400 Total 495 4300 7350 For more information on El Carmen, please visit www.cemex.com/sustainability Desert Bighorn sheep high priority to HEALTH and SAFETY 46 — We are committed to making CEMEX a safe workplace and to supporting all aspects of the health and well-being of our employees, contractors, and third parties. To further this commitment, we are implementing new standards, increasing accountability, and providing more training and information. 19% decrease in employee LTI frequency rate in 2010 47 — 40% decrease in lost work days in 2010 Creating a continually safer, healthier CEMEX The safety, health, and well-being of our employees, contractors, and the third parties affected by our operations are CEMEX’s highest priority. That is why we have introduced industry-leading safety systems to identify and address risks, innovative employee health initiatives to promote well-being, and line-manager ownership of health and safety to ensure that programs are implemented and led as effectively as possible. Despite our commitment, fatalities increased last year. Such tragedies are unacceptable, and we must learn from the findings of our investigations. We are redoubling our safety training and incidentprevention measures. In 2011, we are radically changing our approach to safety. Leaders at all levels of the company will be held personally accountable for improving the safety performance of their operations. In addition, we will launch new health and safety policies and implement our new Health and Safety Management System. Prioritizing Health and Safety throughout our taking a systematic approach to managing health and operations safety performance While health and safety programs are, by necessity, implemented at As part of our continuous effort to strengthen ownership and acthe country and site level, the chain of responsibility and monitoring countability for health and safety by line management, we develextends from CEMEX’s top management team and Board of Direcoped the CEMEX Health and Safety Management System (HSMS) in tors. Line management, supported by health and safety specialists in 2010. Aligned with OHSAS 18001, the risk-based HSMS clearly sets the country, implement programs by communicating standards, proout the company’s expectations of managers in terms of health and viding appropriate equipment and training, conducting risk assesssafety performance. The HSMS includes performance requirements ments and monitoring compliance. Line management is responsible and supporting guidance and tools for managers to help them and accountable for implementing initiatives, investigating incidents, implement our health and safety strategies through: and demonstrating correct safety behaviors. In other words, country n risk assessments and business unit leaders ensure that our actions meet CEMEX’s n system audits and site inspections commitments and objectives. Oversight, review, and guidance conn health and safety training and development tinue all the way up through regional and company-wide levels to n performance monitoring and tracking the Sustainability Committee, which reports progress and challenges n emergency preparedness to the top management team. n incident investigation n identification and sharing of lessons learned and best practices 48 — CEMEX SAFETY ORGANIZATION AND Board of COMMUNICATION STRUCTURE Directors Chairman & CEO MANAGEMENT TEAM EVP Planning EVP Administration President EMEAA President Americas &Finance VP Technology Sustainability Regional and & Procurement Committee Country Presidents Corporate H&S HSMS framework Americas and EMEAA Director MANAGEM REVIEW ENT Sustainability Coordinators G KIN EC ect. Audits, inspous CH & continu t Leadership improvemen est. & v t in g accountabilit y ent den rtin Inci repo ntion em & ve Ris Em pre ma k nag man ergency 14 1 2 lation agem ent 13 Regu ies PLANNING polic 11 12 Sustainability Country E R AT I O N S 3 4 10 Operation Driving control safety oper atin Std. edures g 9 6 5 Cont Man ractor agem Operations OP proc 8 7 ent He alt Do Commu & g con cum h trainin & consulnication People, urs N tro ent O l & behavio I AT tation NT ME IMPLE It also provides the foundation for the HSMS Framework, which deCEMEX’s new Health and Safety scribes the 14 elements that comprise our comprehensive approach to managing risk and improving safety and well-being at CEMEX. We Management System set for begin with leadership and accountability: we expect everyone at CEMEX to comply with our policies, and we hold managers accountable for pilot testing in 2011 the safety of their operations. We then plan the needed initiatives and support, execute the plans, and track and monitor our progress and During 2010 we developed a practical, risk-based Health challenges. In an ongoing process, the performance metrics are used to and Safety Management System (HSMS) that will be rolled reinforce leadership and accountability and to develop new initiatives. out globally in 2011. The new system is aligned with OHSAS 18001:2007, an international occupational health The CEMEX HSMS will be used to support sites and businesses across and safety management system specification created via the company globally with the objective to: concerted effort from a number of the world’s leading nan identify and reduce risks to all persons tional standards bodies, certification bodies, and specialist n develop supporting standards and guidelines consultancies. n share best health and safety practices throughout the company n continually improve the health, safety, reliability, and efficiency of operations 98% operations with a safety management system in 2010 (unchanged from 2009) 49 — 79% operations with a health management system in 2010 (+4% from 2009) HSMS Management System Framework The HSMS framework outlines CEMEX’s commitment to Health and Safety and the requirements of top management for the effective management of health and safety, as well as incident prevention. MANAGEM REVIEW ENT G KIN EC spect. Audits, in ous CH & continu ent Leadersh accountabip & improvem est. inv ility nt g ent ide rtin Inc repo ntion em & eve Ri ma sk Em pr nag man ergency 14 1 2 ulat ion agem ent 13 Reg icies PLANNING po l The 14 Elements of the 11 1 2 E R AT I O N S Operation 3 4 Driving CEMEX H&S Management control safety System Framework 10 5 g Con ratin Man tractor ope 6 Std. cedures 9 agem OP pro 8 7 al ent He Do Commu training & th con cum & consu nication People, viours N tro ent O l I ltation b e h a AT & EN T M IMPLE We are launching this system and conducting pilot audits in 2011, The course complements other behavior-based safety programs and it will be fully implemented in all operations over the course of previously established in certain company operations, such as Visible the next five years. Felt Leadership and 365. Applying root-cause analysis to learn from incidents We will continue implementing LEGACY in 2011. We will begin Over the past two years, we have steadily improved our use of training in the countries that do not yet have it, and in countries that root-cause investigation tools and methodologies to understand have completed the first phase, we will expand the training to topwhy incidents happen in our operations. In 2010 root-cause level managers who did not yet complete it. In 2010, we completed investigations involving line leadership and technical and safety LEGACY training for 2,108 CEMEX supervisors and managers. Our specialists were completed for every fatal incident (both CEMEX goal is for all individuals in leadership roles to have completed the culpable and non-culpable incidents), and corrective and preventraining by 2015. tive action plans were implemented. Despite this effort, we recognize that there are opportunities to further improve the skills Improving safety throughout our operations of investigation teams and their understanding of the root-cause CEMEX has steadily reduced on-site employee injuries and fatal analysis process. To further our performance, we have developed incidents, but significant improvement is still needed with regard to a training program that will not only enable us to better undertransport activities and contract drivers, which represent a majorstand underlying causes of safety incidents, but also identify asity of the 2010 fatalities. In 2010, there were two on-site employee 50 — pects of our safety management system that we must strengthen fatalities and zero employee or contractor fatalities from working to prevent future injuries. at height. However, we must significantly improve our transport activities and management of contract drivers. We deeply regret the Training our leaders to focus on safe production deaths of 46 employees, contractors, and third parties in connection We are striving to make CEMEX safer by implementing robust safety with CEMEX activities in 2010. The majority of these fatalities resulted systems and standards, and by strengthening safety leadership capafrom one incident in September 2010 involving a CEMEX truck and a bilities to create a safety culture focused on achieving zero incidents. public bus in which 12 bus passengers died. The foundation of these efforts is LEGACY. Reducing lost-time injuries in 2010 Developed in 2009, LEGACY is our company’s in-house flagship In 2010, we had a lost-time injury (LTI) rate of 2.6 and lost the safety leadership program designed to help us achieve our goal equivalent of approximately 15,600 work days. While this rate slightly of zero incidents. One of its chief objectives is to shift manageexceeds our target of 2.5 for 2010, it marks a significant improvement ment focus from “production” to “safe production.” When fully over 2009 with a 19 percent decrease. This progress reflects that implemented, LEGACY will equip managers at all levels with the fewer people were injured, their injuries were less severe, and they tools, skills, and behavioral standards required to lead safer, more were able to return to work more quickly. efficient operations. We will continue to address the risks that cause incidents and injuLEGACY, which is organized around the seven behaviors of effecries. In 2011 we will focus on improving near-miss reporting to better tive safety leadership, covers themes such as leading by example, identify the root and system causes of incidents that typically result understanding processes and people, and ensuring accountability. in lost-time injuries. Safety Goals Targets Eliminate employee, contractor, and third-party fatalities 0 fatalities Reduce employee lost-time injuries (LTI rate) 0.5 by 2015 Full compliance with CSI Driving and Contractor Safety Recommended Practices December 2014 Full compliance with CEMEX Health and Safety Management System (through risk2015 based governance audits) 100% top management trained in LEGACY (CEMEX Safety Leadership Program) 2015 2,108 CEMEX supervisors and managers 51 completed LEGACY training in 2010 — Meeting the greatest challenge: driving and contractor safety Driving-related incidents involving our employees, contractors, and the public represent the majority of fatalities in our company and the industry. Furthermore, approximately 60 percent of all fatalities in the CSI database are related to contractor activities. In 2009, we led the CSI Driving Safety Working Group in its development of industry-wide standards to address driving risks and incidents and to measure progress in reducing incidents and injuries. The CSI Recommended Good Practice for Driving Safety outlines practices for drivers, their managers, and transport management contractors. Similarly, the Recommended Good Practice for Contractor Safety outlines performance standards and requirements for contractors and contractor managers. Implementing the CSI safety recommendations All 21 CSI member companies approved these practices in October 2009 and are expected to fully implement them in their operations by 2014. In 2010, we immediately began implementation by conducting a baseline gap analysis across all of the countries in which Focusing on ensuring greater driving safety we operate to determine the level of compliance with the CSI RecIt is clear that more work must be done to ensure driving safety. We ommended Practices. On average, we achieved 64 percent complioperate in geographies where road infrastructure is poorly develance with the driving standards and 63 percent compliance with the oped and road safety culture is still maturing. CEMEX will continue contractor safety standards. Each country will now implement action to advocate for stricter driving regulations and enforcement in these plans and track and report progress in order to achieve 100 percent regions. Meanwhile, we will continue to improve our management compliance by the end of 2014. of those factors we can control, such as training and selection of drivers, journey planning and risk assessment, vehicle specification, In addition to the CSI-related efforts, we incorporated driving safety and site safety. We are also increasing accountability at all levels for and contractor safety as high-priority elements in the CEMEX HSMS. driving safety performance. We believe these efforts will not only The majority of our operations already have a driving certification reduce the risks to CEMEX but also make the communities in which program that individuals must complete before they can drive CEwe live and work safer. MEX vehicles as well as systems for addressing poor driver behaviors. Under the HSMS, management will be audited against the requireInvesting in occupational and preventive health care ments of the Driving and Contactor Safety elements to advance the We are empowering employees to improve their personal health company’s leadership in these areas. by raising awareness, providing information, and offering assistance. Based on the work of our global health council and other 52 — CEMEX Global Safety Awards Since 2000, the annual CEMEX Global Safety Awards have recognized business units and country-level operations that have built and continually improved their safety culture to achieve superior safety performance. Businesses and countries are judged based on six criteria: safety performance and continual improvement, safety leadership, innovative practices to reduce risk, incident investigation, analysis, and follow-up and near-miss reporting. SECTOR BEST SAFETY PERFORMANCE MOST IMPROVED SAFETY PERFORMANCE Cement Patarra Plant (Costa Rica) San Pedro de Macoris Plant (Dominican Republic) Chelm Plant (Poland) Ready Mix Concrete Country Concrete Operations (Ireland) Monterrey Concrete Plant (Mexico) Aggregates South Region (UK) Rhein-Main-Donau Region (Germany) Logistics Aggregates West and Southwest Region (UK) Colombia Ireland Other lines of business Terminals and Warehouses (Spain) Indianapolis Pipe Plant (USA) Country Awards Ireland Austria stakeholder feedback, in 2008 we established the global Health Essentials initiative to address the 12 most important occupational 54% of employees participated in and preventive health issues our people face every day, such as heart disease and stress, on-the-job ergonomics, and vaccines. Our annual medical exams, a 23% increase goal is to improve each employee’s health by offering beneficial from 2009 occupational and preventive health programs. All of our health programs—whether voluntary or required by local law—are designed according to four basic principles that we have 52% reduction in absenteeism rate integrated into our Health and Safety Management System: from 2009 96% of operations have a qualified n Information and promotion of health topics Better-informed employees can prevent or reduce health-related risks; therefore, we make information on a range of health topics readily accessible. health professional on site or have access n Vaccinations We have a permanent program that provides our employees, and in some cases their families, with vaccines. to an external health provider Helping employees reduce and manage their stress CEMEX is applying 12 years of research on various 53 aspects of stress to help employees reduce and — manage their stress levels. We offer seminars, a stress-diagnosis tool, and an online course for stress management. n Timely diagnosis Prevention and early detection of health issues are critical; therefore, at 96 percent of our operations, we have a qualified health professional on site or offer access to an external health provider. n Rehabilitation We help employees identify the best recuperation and rehabilitation options following illness or incident. An essential component of Health Essentials is communication. Each month we provide materials—presentations, brochures, flyers, posters, self-evaluation tests, and recommended actions—related to that month’s featured topic. Some essentials, such as Lung Power and Safeguard Your Back, reflect the risks that many employees face during their daily work at CEMEX. Others, such as Healthy Heart, Vaccines, and Prevent Stress, focus on preventive care and improved daily habits (e.g., healthful eating, regular exercise, and annual exams). By unifying health efforts in all our operations and promoting a culture of well-being at CEMEX, we promote improved employee health and quality of life; reduce incidents, sick days, and healthcare costs; and build trust. strengthen local COMMUNITIES 54 — 45,099 families improved their homes through Patrimonio Hoy CEMEX’s operations are often an important part of local communities. We employ community members, work with local suppliers, and contribute to the community through tax payments, social investments, and on-the-ground programs. 97% of our operations have community engagement plans, a 14% increase from 2009 55 — 41% of our operations have employee volunteering programs Our goal is to always be a good neighbor and trusted member of the community. Making a positive impact in every community we serve Although we are a global company, the impacts of our operations— both positive and negative— are felt locally. Accordingly, we seek to develop strong long-term relationships with local community members. We engage with the communities where we live and work to more fully understand their needs and concerns. We collaborate with community members, local and regional organizations, and governments to develop and implement social-investment programs that yield positive economic and environmental returns, promote citizenship, empower people, and help build a foundation for long-term wellbeing. And where possible, we seek to realize business benefits from these programs. Increasingly, we also join national and international policy discussions so that the positive impacts of our contributions can be magnified. grams conducted through partnerships with stakeholders, cash and Building trust through open dialogue in-kind donations, and employee volunteer efforts. Community relations are managed at the country level so that they can be tailored to the particular circumstances of each locale. Before Using business strengths and resources to facilitate we open, close, or change local operations, we talk with our neighsocioeconomic development bors in order to improve our mutual understanding of needs and CEMEX leverages its core business strengths—institutional knowlconcerns. Approximately 97 percent of our operations have commuedge and experience, employees’ talent and time, and capital—to nity engagement plans, which help us to identify the communities support the social and economic development of communities in near our operations, our impacts on them, and their needs; and then ways that foster self-reliance and empowerment. Our efforts include develop and implement effective, site-specific social programs. Our the following: new Environmental Management System will also include a requirement that all business units consider community concerns when n promoting access to affordable housing and improved infrastrucidentifying the potential effects of our operations. Though details ture for low-income families in developing countries are determined locally, the community plans must be in accordance n supporting education and training opportunities in schools and with CEMEX’s social-investment guidelines. These internal guidelines universities, including funding cultural and sporting activities provide a common framework for the planning and execution of all n promoting self-employment and the development of microbusiof our social-investment strategies: programs we run directly, pronesses within local communities 56 — Woman participates in the concrete block production process in a CPA in Mexico Learning from our neighbors In Colombia, we have three formalized mechanisms for community engagement: neighbor committees, a complaint management system, and social responsibility programs. During meetings with the public, the neighbor committee listens to the community’s concerns and follows up on previously raised issues. Individuals can also communicate concerns and receive timely responses through our complaint management system. Promoting and participating in social responsibility programs related to housing, education, and environmental issues give us the opportunity to spend time in the communities with our neighbors and support their development. Our programs in Mexico focus on continuous dialogue with our neighboring communities. Through these conversations, we learn about community needs and work together to address them in a sustainable way. In addition, our internally developed Responsible Operations Guidelines inform our actions throughout the business cycle: while searching for land and installing operations, during operational launch and ongoing operations, and as we wrap up operations and rehabilitate the site. Patrimonio Hoy in 2010 n fostering local environmental awareness n encouraging employee volunteering 45,099 families assisted n contributing to disaster relief 1,984,500+ square meters built Promoting access to BUILDING MATERIALS AND SERVICES One of the most important ways in which CEMEX helps to reduce through 2010 global poverty is by providing low-income customers access to building materials and services. We do this by creating programs that align the values and commercial objectives of our business with the needs of the communities we serve—generating long-term benefits Lazos Familiares in 2010 for all. In addition, we advocate policies and financing models that 6 projects completed will enable countries around the world to adopt development plans based on our programs. +3,000 square meters built or CEMEX has several initiatives that help families and communities to build and renovate homes and construct and renovate commurenovated nity infrastructure and buildings. The programs also provide social 700 individuals benefited benefits such as job and skills training for community members and volunteer opportunities for CEMEX employees. Patrimonio Hoy: much more than a house Mejora tu Calle: Our premiere achievement in low-income housing is our award7,000 families assisted winning Patrimonio Hoy program, a self-sustaining social enterprise with more than 100 offices in Latin America, that enables families to build or improve their homes more quickly, more efficiently, and with 57 through 2010 better materials—concrete, cement blocks, and steel—than would — +35,000 microloans provided otherwise be possible within their means. Since 1998, Patrimonio Hoy has provided affordable building through 2010 materials and services and US$169 million in microfinancing to 400,000 m paving completed 2 more than 300,000 families in five countries. In 2010 alone, 45,099 families benefited from the program. Sixty percent of participants through 2010 in 12 municipalities in Mexico say they would not have been able to build their home without the program. In addition, Patrimonio Hoy promotes local economic development Centros Productivos de Autoempleo and creates jobs for local masons and other workers. In particular, it 22 CPAs operating provides opportunities for meaningful work for women. Most local Patrimonio Hoy “promoters”—the individuals who sell and admin5,158 temporary jobs created ister the loans—are women, half of whom had no work experience prior to joining the program. Through Patrimonio Hoy they receive 1,290 families assisted through 2010 Recognizing Patrimonio Hoy’s ConstruApoyo success 28,000 individuals benefited 2006 Wins the World Business Award through 2010 2007 Receives the Corporate Citizen of the Americas Award 2009 – Honored with the United Nations HABITAT Business Award in the category of accessible housing solutions Lazos Familiares: building community institutions New partners Since 2005, Lazos Familiares has helped communities build and PATRIMONIO HOY Partners added in 2010 renovate local institutions and public facilities such as health centers, hospitals, orphanages, and schools. CEMEX and more than 625 of Mexico 294,173 42,345 its clients and distributors donate materials and building assistance. Working alongside individuals from the communities, employee Latin America 14,138 2,754 volunteers help communities complete the work more quickly and efficiently. In 2010, six projects were completed representing more Dominincan Republic 134 134 than 3,000 square meters of built or renovated infrastructure, benefiting close to 700 people. To date, individuals have completed more Nicaragua 4,561 561 than 45 projects representing a total of 15,037 square meters of built or renovated community infrastructure, benefiting more than 33,600 Costa Rica 430 67 people. Colombia 9,013 1,992 Mejora tu Calle: facilitating community movement This CEMEX initiative helps communities and governments work toTOTAL 308,311 45,099 gether to improve neighborhoods by using microloans from CEMEX CEMEX again honored at the World Business and Development Awards The World Business and Development Awards are international awards organized by the United Nations Development Program, the International Chamber of Commerce, and the International Business Leader Fund. In 2010 58 the Awards recognized CEMEX for its contributions to achieving the Millennium Development Goals through — programs that foster and facilitate development, including Centros Productivos de Autoempleo. This is the third time in four years that CEMEX was recognized by the United Nations for offering viable, innovative solutions for low-income families to improve their quality of life. training, experience, an opportunity to earn a meaningful income, to pay for the concrete paving of streets and sidewalks. By comand an esteemed position within their communities. bining community contributions with government funding, most projects are completed in just 70 weeks—much faster than the 10 We are currently developing an initiative similar to Patrimonio Hoy years it often takes low-income neighborhoods to complete these in the Philippines: a comprehensive community development plan projects. The results: easier travel, safer neighborhoods, improved for low-income communities using housing as a core driver. The proaccess to public services, and increased income and property values gram will provide microfinancing for those who need to build new in the communities served. houses, as well as those who need to rehabilitate homes that were severely damaged by Typhoon Ondoy. Since the program began in 2005, more than 35,000 microloans have financed 400,000 square meters of paving in 12 municipalities, ConstruApoyo: a model for disaster response and benefiting 7,000 low-income families. We are seeking to replicate long-term relief the Mejora tu Calle model in more Mexican municipalities; as the Begun in 2005 to provide disaster relief to the survivors of Hurricanes program continues to succeed in Mexico, we will replicate it in other Stan and Wilma in Mexico, this program has since been used in countries in Latin America. other government-subsidized housing and community infrastructure initiatives because it is both efficient and transparent. Regional Centros Productivos de Autoempleo (CPA): pursuing do-itgovernments identify beneficiaries and provide funds for building or yourself construction rebuilding, which CEMEX distributes in the form of debit cards. We In this program, CEMEX partners with municipal or state authorimake results available online to government officials. In 2010, apties, as well as NGO’s and communities, to establish community proximately 28,000 individuals benefited from ConstruApoyo. centers where low-income families can temporarily work. ParticiCEMEX´s investment in local communities is aligned with its values and business objectives. Through innovative market-based solutions like Patrimonio Hoy and Mejora tu Calle, CEMEX addresses the housing needs of low-income families and paving of streets and sidewalks. Through its community centers, CEMEX provides self-employment programs that contribute to the economic and social development of the communities. CEMEX also assists communities in times of great need and devastation by providing assistance for community rebuilding. Notwithstanding the results achieved to date, CEMEX faces challenges in replicating its social enterprise success model in other countries. The company also needs to improve the development and measurement of key performance indicators, verified by independent institutions, which show the impact of their CSR programs on the well being of the communities. 59 — Irma Gómez Advisory panel member pants produce concrete blocks and other precast products, half Advocating new models of affordable housing of which they can use to build, repair, or expand their homes. development Municipal or state governments purchase the other half for infraCEMEX is expanding its affordable-housing efforts to policy discusstructure development. The resulting proceeds are reinvested in sions. At the 2010 World Economic Forum in Latin America, CEMEX the centers to make them self-sustaining. In 2010, we used CPAs proposed a new model for developing affordable housing. The model to assist the victims of Hurricane Alex in northern Mexico (see promotes lease-to-own and cooperative-based ownership options, as page 61 for more information). well as rental alternatives. Emphasizing the business opportunities that affordable housing projects present, we also urged the development Also in 2010, we expanded the CPA program to Colombia, where it is of new alliances between governments, developers, financial entities, called Bloqueras Solidarias, through a partnership with the Interand communities to alleviate the housing deficits. American Development Bank (IADB). This collaboration, through which the IADB is providing 35 percent of the financing for the first For more information about our progress in 2010 on these housing 18 months, allows CEMEX to leverage its investment to help more projects, refer to the Low-income Housing and Infrastructure section families and, by extension, their communities. The program not only on page 24 of this report. improves housing conditions but also empowers the community as a whole through the development of relationships with participating Supporting education and training opportunities local NGOs and government agencies. We partner with educational institutions and programs to nurture future talent. We support a variety of efforts that, together, help to In 2010, through our 22 CPAs operating, 5,158 temporary jobs were educate the individuals who will serve the global economy in a variety created and approximately 1,290 families were assisted. of capacities. For example, CEMEX is a vigorous supporter of the Tec de Monterrey, university where CEMEX’s Chairman and CEO has served as The following are some examples of our programs and activities Chairman of the Board since 1998. In 2010, we completed the CEMEXin 2010: Tec Center for Sustainable Community Development, a program that n In the Philippines, as part of the Adopt-a-Wildlife Species program seeks to promote collaboration between the public, private, and acacreated to actively work on biodiversity conservation in the redemic sectors in order to support innovative solutions to challenges in gion, in partnership with Batas Kalikasan (Law of Nature) Foundathis field. tion, CEMEX provided assistance in 2010 in building the “Sailing of the Seas”. This floating training facility provides interactive learning In addition, several of CEMEX’s country operations granted scholaron marine ecosystems, conservation, and environmental educaships and supported educational chairs at local universities in the areas tion. As a mobile program, it will be able to reach more communiof architecture, sustainable construction, and corporate responsibility. ties and educate people about conservation. Promoting self-employment and microbusinesses n During 2010, events for employees and local communities As part of our efforts to improve local communities and promote selfwere organized in the UK, France, Latvia, Poland, and the US sufficiency, we provide resources and advice for motivated individuals where participants—employees, their families, and community to start locally based microbusinesses. For example, at the Community members—learned about local bird species and how to identify Center of our cement plant in Torreón, Mexico, 20 students enrolled in them, as well as the characteristics of the birds’ habitats. For the sewing and dressmaking course have made and sold more than example in Latvia, over 1,000 CEMEX employees, their families, 60 — 3,000 uniforms for workers at the cement plant. Now, they are beginning and other invitees participated in over 20 activities in support to produce uniforms for local schools and have applied for a loan from of CEMEX Bird Days, organized in cooperation with the Latvian a government-run development bank; they will use the funds to form a Ornithological Society, a non-governmental organization that business entity and continue their growth. has represented BirdLife International in Latvia since 1994.The participants went on bird-watching excursions along with orniMoreover, in Colombia, 80 women and men who have participated in thologists (specialists in the study of birds) and participated in our educational programs have become CEMEX suppliers, providing constructing approximately 500 bird homes to help protect the environmental and maintenance services, performing work at height avian biodiversity in the region. and in pre-blasting preparations, and selling uniforms and industrial n In 2010, we launched our first CEMEX-BirdLife Nature Photo safety clothing. Competition in honor of the UN International Year of Biodiversity. The objective of this photo competition for our employees was Fostering local environmental awareness to let them illustrate their appreciation for nature’s extraordinary We invest in local environmental projects related to issues such as biodiversity—and show off their photographic skills. Over 500 environmental awareness, conservation, biodiversity preservation, entries were received from employees in 31 different CEMEX and reforestation. These programs improve our understanding of countries. unique ecosystem characteristics in a particular location, enable us to better address local environmental challenges, provide opEncouraging employees to volunteer in their portunities for individuals to learn more about their community’s communities environment, and also create volunteer opportunities for CEMEX In 41 percent of our operations, we have employee volunteering employees. programs, and many of the social projects we support depend on their participation. For example, on Mexico’s “Day of the Tree”, we organize reforestation brigades in all of our operations nationwide that have greenhouses. In 2010, employee volunteers and local community members planted more than 45,000 trees. Overall, employees in Mexico dedicated more than 22,000 hours of volunteer work during the year. Most projects are organized at the country level in accord with local needs and resources. CEMEX Mexico has also instituted a countrywide “Volunteer Day” during which all employees are encouraged to participate in local volunteer work. Contributing to disaster relief Our disaster relief efforts support employees and global communities during times of great need and devastation. We took immediate action to support our 115 Haitian employees, their families, and neighboring communities after the January 2010 earthquake by donating money, food, medicines, and heavy machinery to the relief efforts. We delivered shipments of basic goods from Mexico and the Dominican Republic; made heavy machinery available to assist relief teams; and used our vessel “Marianela” to deliver an additional 90 tons of direct aid from Mexico that had been gathered by the CEMEX community and its customers. CEMEX and its employees 41% of our operations have also donated approximately US$750 thousand, from joint contributions of the company and more than 2,500 employees in 29 countries. employee volunteering programs 61 CEMEX has also started the construction of a housing project for our — employees in the country who were left homeless. The project in its initial stage consists of building around 30 houses. 22,000+ hours of volunteer work dedicated by employees in Mexico In Mexico, we provided recovery assistance to several communities in the wake of floods in Oaxaca and Veracruz; an earthquake in Baja California and Sonora; and Hurricane Alex in Nuevo León, Tamaulipas, and Coahuila. Following Hurricane Alex, we were able to use established programs to provide emergency disaster relief and rebuilding. Our nated 1,205 tons of cement. In addition, 192 employees donated first response was to distribute 250 tons of humanitarian aid, includUS$12,000. ing food and clothing, and provide trucks and heavy machinery to assist in cleanup efforts in the affected areas. To help residents repair In Europe, CEMEX provided Hungary’s Central Disaster Recovery and rebuild damaged homes, CEMEX also launched the Construimos Office with machinery, including plunger pumps, a power genJuntos program, which consists in setting up Centros Productivos erator, and a wheel loader, to help drain water and clear roads. de Autoempleo in each of the 10 damaged municipalities. As part CEMEX volunteers then donated their services to operate the of this program, CEMEX donated 500 tons of cement and 200 packequipment. CEMEX offered special discount prices on all materials ages of building materials for the production of cement blocks, as needed for recovery work, such as washed sand and gravel, claswell as equipment and training. The municipal governments assigned sified gravel, ready-mix concrete, and paving stones. Furthermore, parcels of land for the centers, selected families to participate, and in Poland, CEMEX donated materials to reinforce the flood banks took charge of providing professionals to supervise the construction in the Dobrzykow area and a mobile plant to reinforce flood process. We have established partnerships with more than 10 institubanks in Warsaw. tions interested in helping to rebuild these communities. More than 7,000 individuals have benefitted from this assistance. CEMEX is proud to have participated in the efforts to mitigate the unfortunate effects of these devastating events, highlighting its In addition, we helped local communities in Colombia, Poland, global commitment to foster the well-being of local communities and Hungary following severe flooding in each of those countries. around CEMEX operations. Through the national program Colombia Humanitaria, CEMEX Colombia supported national and local governments and dopartnership with KEY stakeholders 62 — We continuously interact with a wide variety of stakeholders to discuss and address society’s most pressing needs. We have defined four core stakeholder groups: n our people 63 n our neighbors — n our business partners, and n our world. We engage in continuous communications with stakeholders We have adopted the following periodic communication channels Our Business Partners (including customers, suppliers, investors, for each of our stakeholder groups: and analysts): monthly and/or quarterly: financial updates; annually: financial and sustainable development reports, commercial events, Our People: monthly: newsletters; quarterly: internal magazines, CEMEX Day, customer-satisfaction surveys; ongoing: website updates site visits/ dialogue sessions with management; annually: surveys; and press releases, customer service centers and help lines, capacityongoing: leadership engagement and communications, CEMEXPlaza building programs (ie. Supplier portal) (intranet), email and on-site message boards, training programs Our World (including academic institutions, communities, NGOs, Our Neighbors: monthly: community meetings; quarterly: advisory policy-makers, and governments): monthly: conferences; annually: panels, dialogue sessions; annually: open house days; ongoing: site sustainable development report and conservation books; ongoing: visits, local partnerships, social programs, volunteer work public policy discussions, long-term partnerships with NGOs, position papers, educational programs with universities and schools Aiming to be an employer of choice, strengthening employee engagement Our people are the key to CEMEX’s success. Their talent, energy, and vision make us what we are: a world leader in building materials with a proud past, a strong reputation, and a bright future. Employee dedication leads to company success We know that employee engagement is critical for the successful implementation of our business strategy. Loyal, involved employees go above and beyond what’s required to satisfy customers and achieve business goals. Therefore, we continuously invest in identifying, recruiting, and retaining top talent by making CEMEX a safe, healthy, ethical place to work and to develop professionally. We constantly monitor our business needs, strengths, weaknesses, and stakeholder feedback regarding employee engagement. Then We seek to attract, hire, and retain key talent by offering a value proposition that includes: n interesting, challenging and innovative work n a variety of career choices and opportunities 64 — n skills training for current position n programs and services that support work-life balance and employee health n competitive compensation packages n international perspective we devise strategies to address gaps and improve our performance. We are continuously implementing initiatives that support our employees’ professional and personal lives. At the end of 2010, CEMEX had 46,533 employees and approximately 14,790 contractors. These numbers reflect voluntary turnover of six percent. Unfortunately, we also had involuntary turnover of nine percent. The decision to reduce headcount was difficult, but necessary to ensure our continued competitiveness. All restructuring efforts were performed in accordance with local employment laws and applicable employment agreements. When significant operational changes required a notice period, we complied with local employment laws and collective agreements and provided an average of 30 days’ notice. In some business units, we also offered support services to help affected employees, including financial and recruiting advice and job-placement services. Our global workforce BREAKDOWN BY TYPE OF CONTRACT BREAKDOWN BY LEVEL BREAKDOWN BY AGE percentage percentage percentage 1 5 22 19 36 99 32 59 27 l FULL TIME l PART TIME l EXECUTIVE l NON-EXECUTIVE l OPERATIONAL l UNDER 30 l 31-40 l 41-50 l OVER 50 BREAKDOWN BY SENIORITY BREAKDOWN BY GENDER percentage percentage 14 13 38 29 87 65 — 19 l <1 YEAR l 1-5 YEARS l MALE l 5-10 YEARS l OVER 10 YEARS l FEMALE Listening to our employees We ask for our colleagues’ feedback—on topics ranging from ethics to innovation to operations— through mechanisms that include the CEMEX Survey, town-hall meetings, global webcasts, and team briefings. In addition, Employee Councils are consulted on major organizational topics when their input is appropriate. Other types of engagement initiatives are tailored to meet the needs of particular operations. For example, meetings with country managers or department managers are held to address particular issues. Since 2006, we have conducted the CEMEX Employee Survey. This survey measures the degree to which employees feel motivated by their job, supervisors, and team, as well as their commitment to stay with the company and contribute to its success. In 2010, the Employee Survey showed an 83 percent employee engagement(1) level. Guided by these results, which are reported by business unit and functional areas, we develop action plans and, in 2010, we had 674 initiatives implemented or ongoing based on employee input. Tailored to the needs of each location, initiatives include reguTo encourage diverse candidates to apply for positions, CEMEX’s larly scheduled meetings and interactions between line workers hiring procedures seek candidates from a variety of sources. and managers, open dialogues with leaders, training programs We promote that open positions are publicly posted in our job to improve leadership communication and managerial skills, posting site, which is available to both internal and external expanded health insurance coverage, salary surveys to ensure candidates; we ask employees to make referrals; and we look for market-appropriate remuneration, picnics and sporting events qualified candidates at local universities and through job-search for employees and their families, as well as an employee product websites and social media. After reviewing the candidates’ files, purchase policy. we generally interview two to five people before selecting the individual to hire. During 2010 we also launched Shift, a social networking platform designed to make the company more innovative, efficient, and As part of CEMEX’s broader commitment to ethical conduct, employagile by building strong relationships among employees. Shift ees are encouraged to report violations of CEMEX’s non-discriminaenables employees worldwide to easily collaborate on projects and tion policy. They can report violations to the local Ethics Committee share their experiences, insights, information resources, and best or through ETHOSline, a secure, confidential website. A phone-based practices. ETHOS hotline is also available for about 50 percent of employees; we are working to make it available to all employees. 83% employee 66 — engagement level(1) Employees deserve—and receive—equal Supporting diversity at CEMEX opportunities at CEMEX We are working to increase diversity throughout our workforce, in Fairness is a fundamental value at CEMEX, and treating people fairly particular with regard to gender. As women comprise 13 percent of begins at the level of individual interactions. That’s why we design CEMEX’s workforce, we have implemented initiatives to encourage our organizational structures and choose and train our managers more women to join the company, such as formal work-life balance with great care. We develop leaders who have not just the knowlprograms in some of our operations (e.g., Corporate, Mexico, Dominiedge and skills to keep CEMEX competitive, but the people skills to can Republic, Czech Republic and Ireland). bring out the best in the employees who work for them. At the management level, we are succeeding in our diversity aims. Our Equal Opportunity Employment Policy Over 30 nationalities are represented in senior management and apAs formalized in our Equal Opportunity Employment Policy, CEMEX proximately 60 percent of senior management positions at signifihires, develops, and promotes all employees on an equal-opportunicant CEMEX operations are local hires. This mix reflects a balancing ty basis—that is, without regard to race, gender, sexual orientation, of several CEMEX commitments: to promote local development; religion, appearance, age, national origin, and/or physical disability. to place our employees in the right role at the right time; and to And we are uncompromising in maintaining a civil, pleasant working encourage employees to take challenging assignments in order to environment free of harassment, intimidation, and discrimination enhance their growth, facilitate the exchange of best practices, and toward anyone. strengthen our shared corporate culture. (1) Engagement level is calculated as an average of the answers to a set of questions. It could vary from 0-100%. Performance Evaluation Over 20 percent of our executives and employees have access to a formal online system to register evaluations, and 700+ online courses available 97 percent of these employees reported receiving feedback in 2010. The remainder of our employees and operators through CEMEX Learning also receive regular performance evaluations with their individual managers, though the process is not registered in a global tool. 19,000+ employees with access to CEMEX Learning platform 67 — Upholding employees’ right to freedom OF ASSOCIATION employees opportunities to apply for positions that will afford them We recognize the right to freedom of association and collective barprofessional growth. We help our employees succeed in each posigaining among our workers. We negotiate collective bargaining in tion by providing comprehensive support in the form of personal good faith, balancing our business needs with our employees’ needs. career guidance from their supervisor, department head, and Human We also use these union interactions as another opportunity to learn Resources, as well as training. valuable information regarding employee needs and ideas. In 2010, 54 percent of CEMEX employees were members of an independent CEMEX’s human resources processes allow supervisors to effectively union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. provide feedback and coaching to their colleagues through direct interactions and performance reviews. CEMEX’s Talent Review is a Helping all employees to learn, grow, and advance dialogue-based employee-development process through which the At CEMEX, we promote a culture of consistent high performance employee’s performance and potential are assessed collectively by worldwide. To help our employees meet this standard, we provide the employee’s direct supervisor and peers, as well as the area leader. them with work experiences, tools, and guidance that allow them to improve their professional skills and interact effectively. Through At the supervisory level, Talent Reviews open a forum for discusCEMEX Learning, over 700 courses are accessible and available to sions about our people, build a common language to evaluate and approximately 19,000 employees worldwide. identify talent, and empower the organization to actively participate in employee development. They also help CEMEX address two ongoSince we consider experience the cornerstone for growth, we ening challenges: the identification of talent gaps in specific operations courage employees to seek advancement opportunities throughout and the development of strategies to fill those gaps. the company. Our Job Posting Policy supports this goal by giving Supporting skills development and lifelong learning We also encourage CEMEX employees to contribute to sustainability Our employee engagement efforts identified a need for training on in their own way and in their own backyards by giving their time and specific skills tailored to the needs of different functional areas. To adtalents to local community programs. We lend company support to dress that need, CEMEX offers and is continually developing an array of many social projects in which CEMEX employees participate. instructor-led and online courses. Several of these programs are aimed at strengthening the skills and competencies of people already in leadTotal rewards to attract and help retain the best talent ership positions and individuals rising to those levels. These courses give CEMEX’s reward package is intended to both motivate employees our future leaders the opportunity to learn about decision-making modand recognize their performance. Our goal is to provide all employels, business trends, and strategy; strengthen interpersonal skills; build a ees with a competitive compensation package for their position strong international network that promotes knowledge and best-pracand level of responsibility. As a global company operating in diverse tice sharing; and experience working in virtual and multicultural teams. markets, however, we are challenged in our effort to design a globIn 2010 we developed a Manager Training Program that focuses on ally consistent compensation package. To ensure that our offerings providing basic management tools for collaboration; we will now offer it are appropriate, we consider the following: to colleagues with collaborators at operations around the world. n the total compensation provided by comparable companies n the labor markets in which a given CEMEX business unit comTo complement our onsite training efforts, we have a state-of-thepetes for talent art online learning management system, CEMEX Learning, through n data compiled from independent, professional, third-party surveys 68 — 69% of our operations have work-life balance programs which our employees can design and pursue their individual development plans. Course subjects range from interpersonal skills and project management to specific business issues, such as our CO2 emissions challenge, use of alternative materials in products, and technology strategy. In addition, during 2010 more than 350 employees received support to complete university courses and degrees. Supporting employees’ lives outside of work We value and support our employees as individuals, family members, and citizens of their communities. To help them balance all their roles, CEMEX offers employees flexible work arrangements as tailored to their particular culture and business unit needs; 69 percent of our operations have work-life balance programs, including dependent care, child care, elderly care, sabbaticals, parental leave, or other flexible benefits. In Spain, for example, we have two voluntary programs: “Banco de días,” which grants employees up to 10 compensation days in exchange for accumulated work hours; and a work-reduction program in which employees voluntarily reduce both their hours and compensation. We always comply with the applicable local laws of the countries where we operate, including pension plan and health and safety benefits reFocusing on customer needs quirements. Indeed, we provide additional health and insurance benefits Loyalty happens by design, not by chance. That’s why we intensely at different levels in over 90 percent of our operations and additional focus on every customer, whether a construction giant building a pension benefits in approximately 45 percent of our operations. skyscraper or an individual building his family’s first home. Moreover, we are committed to paying the same wages to men and We work with our customers to identify and implement effective women who perform similar jobs at the same level of experience, as ways to create more value for them. Because commercial needs evidenced by our male-to-female salary ratio of 1.02—with seniority and building practices vary greatly from region to region, we are accounting for the slight difference. careful to respond to market challenges in locally specific ways. In some regions, we have launched new value-added cement and Continuous investment ready-mix products that streamline the construction of housing and We make significant investments to help our employees develop other infrastructure. In other areas, we have helped develop financial their skills and be more effective at executing our business strategy. mechanisms that enable local governments to build roads and other We have set the following objectives to address issues of immediate infrastructure and partner with developers to produce low-income priority to our colleagues and the company and to build a strong housing. In the wake of the worldwide recession, the public sector foundation for the future: has become the most important customer in many markets, and we are developing new skills and solutions to best serve its needs. We are continuously improving our processes to make them more customer-friendly and are launching new technology-based tools to help our customers execute and manage their projects. Our “24/7 Load” delivery service allows customers to receive products whenever they need them, thus optimizing delivery schedules to fit the needs of their projects. In the same vein, “Mobile Solutions” sends 69 automated SMS messages to the customer each time an order of — cement or ready-mix concrete is ready for delivery. This free service keeps customers up-to-date on project logistics and lets them plan for the arrival of the materials. In addition, with just a single call to our one-stop Service Centers, customers can place orders, make inquiries, review the status of orders, or request technical assistance. In addition, we work hard to ensure that our products are safe to use and that customers use them properly. All of our production proShort-Term Objectives cesses are certified locally and many of our cement plants are certin Retain key talent and recruit highly qualified individuals who have fied to ISO 9000, an internationally recognized quality management the competencies CEMEX needs standard. We also offer local training programs to help our customers n Continue to develop career planning alternatives improve their construction skills and better manage their businesses. n Continue providing leaders with communication and leadership training Medium-Term Objectives Listening to our customers n Develop organizational capabilities to support our strategy n Implement a redesigned leadership development program that is We use customer surveys, including end-of-project satisfacaligned with talent management tion surveys, and ongoing dialogue to gain a clear undern Continue to build a solid talent pipeline in critical areas standing of our customers’ needs and preferences. Then we n Ensure the availability of growth and development opportunities collaborate with them to develop efficient, effective building solutions that fit their budgets. In 2010, 84 percent of the countries in which we operate regularly conducted customer-satisfaction surveys, up from 78 percent in 2009. Learn more about our products and service online. Fostering supply chain Fulfilling our global sustainability commitments We recognize that our responsibility for sustainable business practices CEMEX is the only building materials company that parextends to the farthest reaches of our supply chain. Our customers and ticipates in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) other stakeholders hold us just as accountable for the sustainability of Advisory Group on Supply Chain Sustainability. We collaboour sourcing and procurement practices as for the sustainability of our rated with other members of the Advisory Group to produce products and services. Thus, our success in part relies on the support the UNGC’s Supply Chain Sustainability: A Practical Guide and participation of our suppliers, who provide valuable local perspecfor Continuous Improvement, which was published in June tives, expertise, and practices and whom we view as partners. 2010. As we do every year, we attended the UNGC’s annual meeting in Oslo, Norway, in January 2010, and will attend the We help create sustainable communities through 2011 meeting, to be held in Mexico. local sourcing We believe that local sourcing is in and of itself a sustainable business practice: it creates jobs, which in turn stimulate local economies while developing new skills among local workers. Whenever feasible, 93% of our purchases were made from locally and nationally based suppliers 70 — 84% of the countries in which we operate have a process to screen suppliers’ social and environmental practices we support small and locally based suppliers everywhere we opern ensure that all current and potential new suppliers are qualified ate; in fact, in 2010, 93 percent of our purchases were made from and evaluated thoroughly, fairly, and at regular intervals on the locally and nationally based suppliers. Our procurement teams parsustainability of their own business practices ticipate regularly in events to identify new, local suppliers, in particun enable main CEMEX suppliers to adopt and develop more suslar small-to-medium-sized enterprises. We also provide training and tainable practices and empower them to assist us to do the same development programs to help suppliers strengthen their business n extend sustainable procurement practices beyond the procurepractices and integrate sustainability into their business processes. ment area to include all departments that use suppliers In addition, we are now developing basic training materials for all n strengthen the lines of communication between CEMEX and our CEMEX employees who deal with suppliers—as well as the suppliers suppliers in order to facilitate collaboration themselves—to help everyone better understand the many sustainTo launch the first phase, we developed a supplier survey to assess ability aspects of the supply chain process. the sustainability practices and performance of current suppliers. That survey was sent to a selected number of suppliers in Mexico, ColomResponsible sourcing for a better world In 2010, CEMEX started the first phase of a new Sustainable Procurebia, the Dominican Republic, and the Philippines; it will be distributed ment Program that will systemize and expand the various sustainin other countries in 2011. CEMEX offices in some countries have sepaable sourcing practices that have been used for several years. In brief, rately conducted similar surveys of their local suppliers. To complete the program’s objectives are to: the first phase of the program, we will consolidate information from n inform all employees and main suppliers about CEMEX’s commitall the surveys to build a global picture of the company’s supply chain ment to sustainable sourcing policies and practices, and what we sustainability. By 2010, 84 percent of the countries in which we operate expect from them had processes to screen suppliers’ social and environmental practices. In the second phase, CEMEX will communicate to all of its suppliers Communication is fundamental its philosophy of and commitment to sustainable sourcing, as well as Just as our suppliers, both current and prospective, need to know what it expects of its suppliers. We will incorporate basic sustainabilwhat we expect of them, we must understand their sustainability ity clauses into all our purchase orders and contracts during the third challenges and achievements in order to help them move toward phase. We have already drafted and are reviewing the language for more sustainable business practices. As we continue to roll out the these clauses, which is based on the UNGC principles regarding huSustainability Procurement Program in 2011 and beyond, a fundaman rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. In the fourth mental goal is to better communicate it worldwide. and last phase, we will develop a supplier sustainability scorecard and roll it out as appropriate in each country. We have long had a Supplier Portal that is unique in our industry (www.cemexsuppliers.com). In the coming year, the portal will be While we expect to complete the first three phases of the Sustaincompletely redesigned to function as a more friendly and useful ability Procurement Program in many of the countries in which we website, enabling greater interaction with suppliers through online operate in 2011, CEMEX offices in each country will determine the courses and training, newsletters, and best-practice forums. The appropriate pace for implementation based on local circumstances. goal is to build a network of close collaboration with and among With their more mature supply chain and sustainability management our suppliers so that we can share experiences, know-how, and best environments, Spain and Croatia have already implemented all four practices to improve our businesses and the communities in which phases of the Sustainability Procurement Program. we operate. 71 — Sustainable supply chain management is a continuous process n Concentrate on a selected group of suppliers Include other areas dealing with supplieers n n Focus on Procurement and Corporate functions Increment the communication strategy n personnel Increase on a widers group of suppliers 1 n n Sustainable products and services MANA FOOTGE O 2 Exploit the Innovation Program for supplier n n Require to suppliers what our customers PR IR U T requiere from CEMEX N HANCE OU EN UE CREAT R SUSTAINABILITY L I ON AT CEMEX VA n This process is continuous Measure a wider group of suppliers n R R U Continue searching for sustainable EO S Establish the sustainable policy n ENGAG LDE n STAKEHO suppliers, products and services for suppliers 4 3 n Suppliers Sustainability program aligned Reinforce the sustainability in the n to the Sustainable Corporate Strategy supply commitments to internal personnel Our partnerships Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change. This group, brought together by the Prince of Wales and managed by the University of Cambridge Programme for We leverage our knowledge and resources through global partSustainability Leadership, gathers leaders from a cross-sector of nerships and memberships. CEMEX maintains more than 300 influential European and international companies, governments, partnerships and memberships with global and local organizaand NGOs to build their capacity to meet the needs of society tions, including NGOs, trade associations, educational institutions, and address global challenges. CEMEX participates in the policy and intergovernmental organizations such as the United Nations. debates regarding climate change that are happening at the Among them are the following: highest levels. BirdLife International. In 2007, CEMEX established a ten-year United Nations Environment Program’s Sustainable Building global partnership with BirdLife International, the largest network and Climate Initiative (SBCI). We are a member of this initiative, of independent conservation organizations in the world. This which promotes sustainable building practices worldwide. Through partnership helps us build on our efforts to protect biodiversity and this initiative we foster networking with SBCI participants that are create healthy, natural habitats in and around our sites. For more key in the sustainable building and construction market, to identify information, www.birdlife.org and/or generate new opportunities for CEMEX. www.unepsbci.org 72 — Conservation International (CI). We collaborate with CI to supUnited Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The UNGC is a volunport global biodiversity conservation efforts and raise awareness. tary initiative that promotes good corporate practices in human We have worked with them to publish several of our conservation and labor rights, the environment, and anti-corruption. We are books. For more information www.conservation.org committed to its ten principles which are fully integrated into our Code of Ethics, our policies, and our sustainability approach. For International League of Conservation Photographers (ILCP). more information www.globalcompact.org We work in partnership with ILCP for the production of books that inspire and raise awareness for the conservation of nature. In 2010 World Business Council for Sustainable Development we published our 18th book in this series titled “Fresh Water: the (WBSCD). As member of the WBCSD, a CEO-led, global associaessence of life”. For more information, www.ilcp.org tion that serves as a platform for companies to explore sustainable development, share knowledge, experiences, and best practices, International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). In we were one of the companies to found the Cement Sustainabil2010, we began a three-year partnership with IUCN to strengthen ity Initiatives (CSI). We are also members of the WBCSD’s Energy our approach to water issues. With more than 1,000 government Efficiency in Buildings (EEB) project, and we co-chair the Urban and NGO members and almost 11,000 volunteer scientists in more Infrastructure Initiative (UII), another WBCSD project. For more than 160 countries, IUCN is the world’s oldest and largest global eninformation. www.wbcsdcement.org vironmental network. For more information, www.iucn.org To see a full list of partnerships and memberships, visit www.cemex.com/sustainability CEMEX plays a leadership role at COP 16 CEMEX took an active role both behind the scenes and on stage at COP 16 (the sixteenth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) held in Cancun, Mexico November 29 through December 10, 2010. CEMEX hosted a series of events that showcased the company’s own efforts at reducing GHG emissions and protecting biodiversity and also demonstrated the significant role ready-mix concrete can play in a low-carbon world. At the Green Solutions Expo, CEMEX used an innovative interactive platform to present “concrete solutions” for the prototype low carbon footprint city of the future, including ready-mix concrete applications in urban design, mobility, clean energy, and efficient buildings. The Climate Change Village provided a space for public participation and collaboration at COP16 through conferences, exhibits, and cultural events. 73 In addition, CEMEX’s Vice President of Energy and Sustain— ability participated in the meeting’s plenary sessions—the first time that private sector representatives were included. Off-stage, CEMEX sponsorship helped to offset the conference’s carbon emissions and support the Mexico-based Top: Round-table “Key Challenges for Construction in the 21st SEMARNAT Environmental Leadership for Competitiveness Century-Open Dialogue with Experts on Sustainable ConstrucProgram. The offsetting of 10,000 tons of CO2 emissions, tion,” hosted by CEMEX and the World Green Building Council equivalent to approximately 25% of the conference’s total Bottom left: Cristina Mittermeier, Executive Director of the emissions, is being completed through the reforestation International League of Conservation Photographers (ILCP) at the and maintenance of 1,300 hectares of land in Oaxaca, Conservation Book Presentation “Fresh Water: The Essence of Life” Mexico. The funds donated to the Environmental LeaderBottom right: Sustainable concrete products in display at the ship and Competitiveness Program will provide resources CEMEX stand at the Climate Change Village to small and medium-size companies to help them implement environmentally responsible practices. our PERFORMANCE in detail Our Performance in Detail section presents our global performance indicators in full, broken down by business segment when available. Unless otherwise specified, the information provided is for the company as a whole, all monetary amounts are reported in US dollars, and tons are metric tons. Furthermore, “operations” refers to country business units by segments: cement, ready-mix concrete, and aggregates; “countries” refers to the markets covered by the SDR Survey, and “sites” refers to the total number of operations locations for the different business segments in the countries covered. The indicators marked with were subject to an external limited assurance process by PwC. The assurance statement detailing the review work and conclusions can be found on page 91 of this report. For more information about our reporting methodology, view section About this Report on page 94. Enhance Our Value Creation 2008 2009 2010 Assurance Lead in Sustainable Construction Production covered with CEMEX CO2 footprinting tool implemented (%) 58 Cement 100 74 Aggregates 50 — Ready-mix 32 Sites covered with CEMEX CO2 footprinting tool implemented (%) 29 Cement 100 Aggregates 42 Ready-mix 22 CO2 footprint Annual average Cement (Kg CO2e per ton cement) 798 Aggregates (Kg CO2e per ton aggregates products) 5.3 Ready-mix (Kg CO2e per m ) 3 298 Manage Our Footprint 2008 2009 2010 Assurance Carbon Strategy (1) Absolute gross CO2 emissions (million metric tons) 49.6 41.7 43.5 Absolute net CO2 emissions (million metric tons) 48.2 39.7 41.0 Specific gross CO2 emissions (kg CO2/metric ton of cementitious product) 672 658 667 Specific net CO2 emissions (kg CO2/metric ton of cementitious product) 654 627 629 Thermal energy efficiency of clinker production (MJ/ton clinker) 3,741 3,693 3,696 Fuel mix (%) (1) Total alternative fuels 10.3 16.4 20.3 Coal 34.3 26.1 25.4 Petroleum coke 46.1 46.8 45.0 Fuel oil 8.7 10.1 8.8 Natural gas 0.6 0.6 0.6 See footnotes on page 76 2008 2009 2010 Assurance Alternative fuels rate (1) 10.3 16.4 20.3 Alternative fossil fuels rate 8.6 13.2 15.7 Biomass fuels rate 1.7 3.2 4.6 Waste types used as alternative fuels (%) Industrial and household waste 60 64 61 Tires 23 17 16 Animal meal 9 6 4 Agricultural organic waste 6 11 14 Other biomass 2 2 4 Alternative raw material rate (1) 12.0 12.2 11.8 Clinker / cement factor (%) (1) 75 75 76 Indirect Energy Consumption (GWh) (1) 8,000 6,887 7,108 Specific energy consumption, cement sector (Kwh/ton cement) 117 115 118 Specific energy consumption, ready-mix concrete (Kwh/cubic meter) (2) NA 3.1 3.3 Specific energy consumption, aggregates (Kwh/ton) (2) NA 6.2 6.0 Environmental & Biodiversity Management 2008 2009 2010 Assurance Air Quality (1) Absolute dust emissions (tons/year) 9,070 5,052 4,421 75 Specific dust emissions (g/ton clinker) 162 106 89 — Absolute NOx emissions (tons/year) 97,294 50,562 56,239 Specific NOx emissions (g/ton clinker) 1,742 1,063 1,134 Absolute SOx emissions (tons/year) 27,050 19,499 16,556 Specific SOx emissions (g/ton clinker) 484 410 334 Clinker produced with continuous monitoring of major emissions (Dust, NOx 44 60 74 and SOx) (%) Clinker produced with monitoring of major and minor emissions (Dust, NOx, 39 47 69 SOx, Hg, Cd, Tl, VOC, PCDD/F) (%) Water Consumption (3) Cement (l/ton)(2) NA 315 293 Ready-mix (l/cubic meter) (2) NA 211 199 Aggregates (l/ton)(2) NA 145 158 Operations with water recycling systems (%)(2) 82 76 85 Cement (4) 86 85 88 Ready-mix (4) 87 78 86 Aggregates (4) 73 64 78 Waste Management Total disposed hazardous waste (tons) NA 83,920 74,553 Cement(2) NA 25,209 38,000 Ready-mix (2) NA 3,060 1,249 Aggregates (2) NA 55,652 35,304 See footnotes on page 76 Waste Management (continued) 2008 2009 2010 Assurance Total disposed non-hazardous waste (tons) NA 238,144 215,788 Cement (2) NA 67,309 65,936 Ready-mix (2) NA 142,128 141,054 Aggregates (2) NA 28,707 8,798 Volume of returned ready-mix concrete material from total delivered % NA 0.78 0.73 Cubic meters NA 323,963 279,909 Secondary and recycled aggregates used as a direct replacement of primary aggregates (tons) % NA 0.20 0.25 Tons NA 261,800 284,356 Biodiversity Management Active sites with quarry rehabilitation plans (%) (5) 46 82 85 Cement (6)(7) 94 79 82 Aggregates (7) 37 83 86 Number of active quarries within or adjacent to high biodiversity value areas (8)(9) NA 112 105 Cement NA 11 12 Aggregates NA 101 93 Active sites with high biodiversity value where biodiversity management NA 29 38 plans are actively implemented (%) (8)(10) 76 Cement NA 45 58 — Aggregates NA 28 35 Environmental Management Operations with an Environmental Management System implemented (%)(11) 30 50 76 Operations with ISO 14001 Certifications (12) NA NA 367 Operations with ISO 14001 Certification (%) (12) NA NA 18 Environmental investment (US million) (13) 62 77 93 Major environmental incidents (#) (14) 19 8 2 Environmental non-compliance cases (#) 67 67 65 Associated fines (US million) 4.1 1.3 1.4 (1) Only cement operations. (2) 2009 data was adjusted due to changes in the reporting process. (3) New in 2009. (4) Changes in the indicator reflect an increase in the number of sites reporting. (5) For cement quarries, 2009 data was adjusted due to changes in the reporting process. Changes from 2008 to 2009 reflect an increase in the number of sites reporting. (6) Decrease is due to changes in the consolidation perimeter. (7) The change from 2008 to 2009 reflects an increase in the number of sites reporting. (8) In 2009, the Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI) adopted new biodiversity indicators with the aim to increase the materiality, objectivity, and comparability of the efforts conducted by CSI members. Given the change, the 2009 results cannot be compared with past years. (9) The previous indictor was “% of active sites operating in environmentally senstive areas”. (10) The previous indictor was “% of active sites where biodiversity issues are addressed”. (11) Historical data recalculated due to an improvement in measurement, as well as changes in the consolidation perimeter. (12) New in 2010. (13) Refers to environmental CAPEX in all business segments. In 2009 we recalculated the historic figures to include environmental investments in alternative fuels and cementitious materials, hence the increase. (14) Refers to incidents—either internal or external to site boundaries—reportable under country legislation and resulting in a significant emission release to air, land or water. NA = Data not available Engage Our Stakeholders 2008 2009 2010 Assurance Health and Safety Total fatalities 45 33 46 Employees, total 7 8 2 Employees, cement 1 2 2 Employees, ready-mix 4 3 0 (8) Employees, aggregates 0 2 0 (8) Employees, other businesses (1) 2 1 0 Health and Safety (continued) 2008 2009 2010 Assurance Contractors, total 20 11 15 Contractors, cement 10 5 7 Contractors, ready-mix 3 3 7 Contractors, aggregates 4 3 1 Contractors, other businesses (1) 3 0 0 Third parties, total 18 14 29 Third parties, cement 6 2 7 Third parties, ready-mix 4 9 7 Third parties, aggregates 3 0 0 Third parties, other businesses (1) 5 3 15 Fatality rate, employees (per 10,000 employed) 1.16 1.56 0.43 Cement 0.73 1.68 1.71 Ready-mix 1.77 1.81 0.00 (8) Aggregates 0 3.54 0.00 (8) Other businesses (1) 1.16 0.58 0.00 Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) 2008 2009 2010 Assurance Employees, total 654 360 268 Employees, cement 119 61 52 Employees, ready-mix 321 151 125 (8) Employees, aggregates 49 41 18 (8) 77 — Employees, other businesses (1) 165 107 73 Contractors, total 165 154 123 Contractors, cement 66 50 32 Contractors, ready-mix 36 36 27 Contractors, aggregates 19 24 12 Contractors, other businesses (1) 44 44 52 Lost-time injury (LTI) frequency rate, employees (per million hours worked) 4.8 3.2 2.6 Cement 3.9 2.4 2.1 Ready-mix 6.2 4.0 3.3 (8) Aggregates 3.3 3.3 1.7 (8) Others (1) 4.2 2.9 2.4 Compliance with CSI Driving Safety Recommended Practices (%) (2) NA NA 64 Compliance with CSI Contractor Safety Recommended Practices (%) (2) NA NA 63 Operations with a Safety Management System implemented (%) 80 98 98 Cement 82 95 98 Ready-mix 94 99 99 Aggregates 69 95 97 Operations certified with OSHAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and NA NA 9 Safety Management System) (%)(2) Cement NA NA 32 Ready-mix NA NA 7 Aggregates NA NA 16 Employees trained in our CEMEX LEGACY Safety Leadership Program (#) NA 533 2,108 See footnotes on page 79 Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) (continued) 2008 2009 2010 Assurance Employees trained in the CEMEX Root Cause Analysis incident investigation NA 956 623 methodology (#) Sickness Absence Rate (%) NA 5.2 2.5 Operations with a Health Management System implemented (%) 52 76 79 Operations with a qualified health professional onsite or with access to an NA 96 96 external health provider Corporate Governance Reports of alleged breaches to the Code of Ethics received by local ethics 266 216 184 committees (#) Reports related to employee relations 84 70 31 Reports related to a form of harassment 32 14 46 Reports related to discrimination 22 9 11 Disciplinary actions taken as a result of reports of non-compliance with the NA 92 77 Code of Ethics, other policies or the law (#)(3) Countries with local mechanisms to promote employee awareness of procedures 90 90 90 to identify and report incidences of internal fraud, kick-backs, among others(%) Investigated incidents reported and found to be true related to internal fraud, NA 10 0 kick-backs, among others (#)(3) Partnership with Key Stakeholders 78 Workforce 56,791 47,624 46,533 — Mexico 11,969 10,663 11,409 United States 12,487 10,065 8,860 Europe 18,660 15,786 15,054 South/Central America and Caribbean 4,530 4,226 4,317 Africa, Middle East and Asia 5,909 3,976 3,646 Others (including Corporate) 3,236 2,908 3,247 Breakdown of workforce by type of contract (%)(3) Full time (3) NA 86 99 Part time NA 14 1 Breakdown of workforce by level (%) Executive positions 6 6 5 Non-executive positions 40 32 36 Operational positions 54 62 59 Breakdown of workforce by age (%)(3) Under 30 NA 19 19 31-40 NA 32 32 41-50 NA 28 27 Over 50 NA 21 22 Breakdown of workforce by gender (%) Male 87 88 87 Female 13 12 13 Female employees by level (%) (4) Executive 19 13 13 Non-executive 28 28 24 Operational 2 3 6 See footnotes on page 79 Partnership with Key Stakeholders (continued) 2008 2009 2010 Assurance Male to female wage ratio 1.08 1.09 1.02 Engagement level NA 88 83 Participation rate in engagement survey (%) NA 77 NA Employee turnover rate (%) 8 5 6 Employees represented by an independent union or covered by a collective 43 51 54 bargaining agreement (%) Notice to employees regarding operational changes (average days) 24 30 30 Countries with policies to promote local hiring (%) 75 76 76 Training provided by operations (average hours) Executive (face to face and online) NA 33 20 Non-executive and operational (face to face) 21 24 22 Online courses through CEMEX Learning (#) 600 683 1,036 Employees with access to CEMEX Learning (#) 16,000 15,621 19,002 Partnership with Key Stakeholders 2008 2009 2010 Assurance Sites conducting social impact assessments (%)(5) 66 67 67 Cement (6) 66 75 75 Ready-mix (6) 64 61 61 Aggregates (6) 66 67 67 Sites with community engagement plans (%) (7) 88 85 97 Cement 88 88 96 Aggregates 88 86 97 79 — Operations with employee volunteering programs (%)(3) NA 41 41 Countries that conduct regular customer satisfaction surveys (%) 60 78 84 Purchases sourced from locally-based suppliers (%) 94 93 93 Countries with a process to screen suppliers in relation to social and environ77 84 84 mental aspects (%) Cement 85 86 86 Ready-mix 77 80 80 Aggregates 76 86 86 Low Income Housing and Infrastructure Families participating in Patrimonio Hoy in Latin America (# accumulated) (9) 223,745 263,212 308,311 Mexico (9) 218,637 251,828 294,173 Other Latin American Countries (9) 5,108 11,384 14,138 (1) Other businesses include: Logistics, Building Products, Asphalt, and Offices. (2) New in 2010. (3) New in 2009. (4) The basis for these percentages is the total number of female employees per level, hence the numbers do not add to 100%. (5) Social impact assessments are generally conducted in sites where an operational change (raw material extraction, plant upgrades, and new production projects) ocurred. (6) 2008 data recalculated due to an improvement in measurements, as well as changes in the consolidation perimeter. (7) Decrease from 2008 to 2009 reflects a change from reporting at a country to a site level starting 2009. (8) Logistics data for ready-mix concrete and aggregates are included for first time inside each sector in this report, according to the “Safety in the cement industry: Guidelines for measuring and reporting” CSI document, October 2008 version, and where pre-assured by PwC for their inclusion in the 2011 review. (9) Historic figures recalculated due to improvement in measurement as well as changes in the consolidation parameter. NA = Data not available corporate Committed to the highest standards of corporate governance The Board of Directors is responsible for supervising the overall opGOVERNANCE, eration of our company. Chaired by our CEO Lorenzo H. Zambrano, the board consists of 13 directors, seven of which qualify as independent directors1. policies, and Our corporate by-laws contemplate the existence of an Audit Committee and a Corporate Practices Committee to help the Board of ETHICS Directors in the performance of its duties. A Finance Committee has also been incorporated for the same purpose. CEMEX shares are listed on the Mexican Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). We therefore abide by both Mexican corporate regulations and NYSE and US Securities and Exchange Commission requirements for foreign issuers, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX). We are in compliance with SOX 80 — section 404 and our Code of Ethics incorporates SOX requirements. In addition, we have in place the systems and processes required by SOX, including: n A formal internal process to verify the information included in periodic reports to the US Securities and Exchange Commission that are certified by our Chief Executive Officer and our Executive Vice President of Planning and Finance n A system to ensure that relevant information reaches senior management in a timely manner n A system for anonymously and confidentially communicating complaints and concerns regarding accounting and audit issues to the Audit Committee n A process for anonymously and confidentially submitting complaints related to unethical conduct and misuse of assets n A task force that ensures we follow corporate governance legal requirements and best practices and, when appropriate, proposes further improvements 1 Independent Directors according to criteria specified under Mexican Securities Law In addition, CEMEX voluntarily complies with the Mexican Code of for Planning and Finance delegates the sustainability functions to Best Corporate Practices issued by a committee established by the the Senior Vice President of Energy and Sustainability. Every quarter, Consejo Coordinador Empresarial (Mexican Corporate Coordination these two executives provide CEMEX’s Board of Directors with an Council). The Code of Best Corporate Practices advises on best corupdate on the progress achieved in the main sustainability key perporate governance practices for listed companies in Mexico. These formance indicators and on the company’s main global sustainability recommendations complement the rules and obligations included initiatives. in Mexican securities and corporate laws and have been endorsed by the Mexican Banking and Securities Commission. In parallel to the functional responsibility for sustainability, CEMEX has created a global coordination structure that ensures that best Responsibility for Sustainability at CEMEX practices are continuously shared and that the main global initiatives We conduct our business with integrity and act as stewards not are implemented in all geographies. The Sustainability Committee, only of our shareholders’ assets, but also of the health and wella body formed by 19 top executives that report to various members being of the environment, our employees, local communities, and of the CEMEX management team, meets on a quarterly basis to society at large. analyze, discuss and provide guidance on the sustainability program at CEMEX. Through their work, sustainability priorities are defined Responsibility for sustainability at CEMEX starts at our Board of Direcand resources are allocated to those initiatives that have the highest tors and flows all the way through our company to our local operaimpact and provide the largest improvement opportunities. tions. Within the management team, the Executive Vice President CEMEX Global Sustainability Coordination Scheme Board of > Supervises CEMEX’s operations Directors Audit Committee > Led by unitary Board Chairman and CEO Lorenzo H. Zambrano 81 Corporate Practices > 13 directors, 7 qualify as independent directors — under Mexican securities law* (3 have served Committee on the Board for more than 10 years) > Elected for a one-year term > Board evaluation: The Board presents reports to Finance Committee shareholders during annual meeting; the Chairman & CEO shareholders then vote on whether to accept the reports. > 4 directors, all independent under Mexican law > Responsible for evaluating internal controls MANAGEMENT TEAM and procedures to ensure compliance with CEMEX’s accounting guidelines and policies > Receives quarterly report from Process EVP Planning EVP Administration President EMEA&A President Americas Assessment Vice President &Finance > Reviews risk assessment results for issues that include internal controls and SOX compliance > Receives employee reports of accounting and Senior Vice President auditing concerns on a confidential (and Sustainability Regional and Energy and optionally anonymous) basis Committee Country Presidents Sustainability > 4 directors, all independent under Mexican law > Oversees the hiring, removal, evaluation, and Sustainability compensation of the CEO Corporate Director Americas and EMEA&A Model > Reviews hiring and compensation policies for of Sustainability Sustainability Coordinators executive officers MANA FOOTGE O > Reviews and authorizes related-party and PR IR U T unusual transactions, as well as policies N regarding the use of corporate assets and HANCE OU Sustainability Country EN UE CREAT R Corporate SUSTAINABILITY waivers granted to directors and executives in Sustainability Team L IO AT CEMEX Operations cases of conflict of interest VA N RS R U EO ENGAG LDE > 4 directors, one is independent STAKEHO > Evaluates CEMEX’s financial plans > Reviews the financial strategy and its implementation > Analyzes risks related to financial structure, interest rate, currency volatility, and debt refinancing * A detailed explanation of the differences between our practices and those followed by U.S. companies under NYSE standards is available in theCorporate Governance section of the CEMEX Investor Center in our website. More information about the Board of Directors is available at the Investor Center webpage. Decisions made by the Sustainability Committee and validated by n Sponsorship of and participation in international dialogues the CEO, the management team and the Board of Directors are (e.g., COP16 summit) swiftly executed with the support of the two regional Presidents, n Discussions with regulators, such as regional policy discussions in through their regional teams and the individual country operations. North America, in which we highlight the importance of cement and concrete in sustainable construction Company Policies At CEMEX, in addition to our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, n Engagement through trade associations and industry forums, we communicate our expectations and set global standards through including the European Cement Association (CEMBUREAU), several company-wide policies, covering: EU Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change, the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, the Cement n Code of Ethics Sustainability Initiative, and the United States Portland Cement n Health and Safety Association n Environmental n Biodiversity n Dialogues and partnerships with non-governmental organizan Anti-bribery tions (NGOs), think tanks, and academic institutions, including n Antitrust BirdLife International and IUCN Taking a public stance on important issues We published six position papers in 2010, all of which are available on our website, which explain CEMEX’s stance on: 82 82 — Alternative Fuels Capture and Storage Climate Change Environmental Management & Biodiversity Market Mechanisms Sustainable Construction Public policy activities Personal political activity We actively follow public policy developments in many of the counAs detailed in the CEMEX Code of Ethics, we respect the right of our tries and regions in which we operate, and advocate in support of employees to participate in political activities of their own choosing. our business and sustainability priorities. Current priorities include: Their participation must be on a personal basis, however, and must not interfere with their work duties or obligations. Employees cannot n Environmental protection use company facilities or assets for political purposes, nor imply in n Climate change any way that CEMEX endorses or supports their positions. n Carbon markets n Sustainable construction n Economic policies and financing models to encourage investLaying the foundation for ethical, responsible ment in sustainable infrastructure business In 1999, representatives from all of our operational areas participated in the development of the CEMEX Code of Ethics and Business ConCEMEX’s Chairman and CEO and the top management team deduct, which was unveiled by Lorenzo H. Zambrano, Chairman of the termine the company’s priorities and public positions on issues. Board and Chief Executive Officer, on April 13, 2000. Our Vice President for Corporate Communications and Public Affairs then works with regional managers to devise an appropriate In all of our interactions, in every part of the world in which we strategy for each region, depending on which issues are of highwork, we endeavor to act lawfully and with integrity. Our Code est priority for the operations and what forms of engagement are of Ethics and Business Conduct—inspired by our core values of available in each country. The following are some examples of the collaboration, integrity, and leadership—ensures that all employways in which we contribute to public debate and the developees understand CEMEX’s high standards of conduct. As such, new ment of solutions: employees are required to sign the code as part of their orientation and it is always available on our internet site, and intranet. Our Respecting and protecting code has been translated to over 20 languages. human rights The code governs our relationships with all of our stakeholders and We are committed to supporting and respecting the protecencompasses such areas as: tion of internationally proclaimed human rights, as well as n non-discrimination and fair treatment of employees, customers, ensuring we are not complicit in any human rights abuse. and suppliers n government and community relations In addition, several sections in CEMEX’s Code of Business Ethn political activities and contributions ics and Conduct—including Employee Relations, Customer Relations and Fair Dealing, Supplier Relations and Fair Dealing, n workplace safety Government Relations, and Political Contributions and Activn compliance with laws and policies ities—clearly communicate our expectation that employees n environmental responsibility will conduct themselves in a way that respects and protects n conflicts of interest human rights. This obligation is reinforced by our public n financial controls pledge as a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact n confidential information to align our business practices with the 10 UN Global Compact principles (which address human rights, labor relations, environmental protection, and anticorruption practices), and our membership in Foro Soria 21—an international organization focused on social ethics and values. Pursuant to these commitments, we do more than just comply with local employment laws; we forbid all forms of discrimination, we do not use child or forced labor, and we guarantee 83 the right to freedom of association. We have implemented — company procedures to prevent inadvertent violations of these policies: we have delineated hiring processes, we do not hire people under 18 years old, and in more than 90 percent of our operations, we have adopted local overtime policies. We provide ongoing communication and training around human rights issues to further raise employee awareness about their rights and obligations. For example, we make clips and training materials available to our employees through our inInstructor-led Online TOTAL tranet, and promote our Code of Ethics and make it available training courses on our intranet and internet. Code of Ethics and 183 183 Business Conduct Strengthening our systems to uphold human rights Compliance 380 380 Based on stakeholder concerns and CEMEX’s greater understanding of the human rights risks the company may be Anti-bribery 382 768 1150 exposed to, we are taking steps to ensure that human rights Insider Trading 28 28 are respected not only across all of our company’s operations but also to the full extent of our influence. Among other Antitrust 51 2,949 3,000 measures, we are: Conflict of Interests 15 15 n updating our Code of Ethics, Sarbanes-Oxley 13 13 n including explicit references to the Code of Ethics and Protecting Confidential our human rights commitments in vendor and supplier 150 150 Information contracts, and n enhancing the systems we use to screen suppliers’ social Harassment 18 18 and environmental performance. TOTAL 841 4,096 4,937 Learn more about 10 UN Global Compact Principles at Training efforts were supported by a robust global communication www.unglobalcompact.org campaign on topics such as giving/receiving gifts, antitrust, antiLearn more about Foro Soria 21 at www.forodesoria.org bribery, and harassment. Topic-specific policies provide more detailed guidance on complex issues such as anti-bribery, insider trading, and antitrust. 184 reports of alleged violations Managing ethics and compliance issues through ETHOS received in 2010 ETHOS is a company-wide effort to raise awareness of ethics and compliance issues and improve and more fully integrate procedures to detect, manage, and reduce ethics and compliance risks. It includes 88% allegations that have been training for individuals, employee perception surveys, communication investigated and resolved campaigns on specific topics, ETHOS@Plaza (the company’s employee intranet), and the ETHOSline reporting channel. Training, which is (12% of the allegations are currently being investigated) tailored according to employees’ responsibilities and specific circum77 disciplinary actions implemented stances, includes in-person and online courses on the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and other topics for all employees. ETHOS@Plaza is hosted on our intranet and allows all employees to access a range of resources, including: n Global and local CEMEX policies 48% allegations found to have merit n Guidance on ethics, compliance, and governance topics 84 — n Courses related to ethics and compliance (e.g., antitrust, anti-corruplocal Ethics Committee, local Human Resources Department, or tion, conflicts of interest, the Sarbanes-Oxley law, confidential informaimmediate supervisors. Where permitted by law, concerns can also tion, intercultural relations, and workplace harassment) be anonymously reported via ETHOSline, a confidential and secure n Advice and tools to help employees manage ethical dilemmas, incommunications channel through which any employee can seek cluding “Ethos Clips”— 30 mini-courses that illustrate the behaviors advice or report a violation. Retaliation against any employee for expected of employees reporting a concern or violation in good faith is strictly forbidden. n Explanations of the business and personal implications of misconduct n ETHOSline, a confidential channel to ask questions and report violaDepending on the type of issue, the individuals involved, and the tions related to ethics, compliance, and governance topics severity of the conduct, the appropriate internal authority will investigate and address the reported issue. All allegations are thoroughly During 2010 we focused our global training efforts on executives and investigated, and when found true, disciplinary actions are taken to employees in higher risk positions and locations. Approximately 840 prevent further misconduct. These disciplinary actions can range instructor-led training sessions were delivered on compliance topfrom a written warning to dismissal, and may involve legal action, ics such as anti-bribery, antitrust, and insider trading and more than depending on the type and severity of the violation. 4,000 online courses were taken, as detailed below. These efforts will continue during 2011. The ethics committees received 184 reports during 2010; 88 percent have been investigated and resolved. Of the 11 cases related Responding to reported concerns to discrimination, 10 are closed. Only four were found to have been Reports of violations of our Code or policies can be made directly to substantiated, and appropriate disciplinary action—from warning the Audit Committee, Global Ethics Committee, Legal Department, letters to employee termination—has been carried out in each case. Main sustainability-related risks able to climate change may impact any manufacturing sector in terms of direct costs (e.g., property damage and disruption to and how we address them operations) and indirect costs (e.g., disruption to customers and suppliers, higher insurance premiums). We do not believe that any such impacts on our operations would significantly differ from A multitude of risks can affect CEMEX, its assets and employees, as those to other sectors and the public at large. well as our neighbors. Accordingly, we use risk management systems and tools to gather information from a range of sources, anaHigher energy and fuel costs may have a material adverse lyze the data, identify and assess potential risks, and then respond effect on our operating results to them. Since 2007, these processes have included an evaluation Our operations consume significant amounts of energy and fuel, of environmental, health, and safety risks. the cost of which has significantly increased worldwide in recent years. To mitigate high energy and fuel costs and volatility, we have We have several processes that test the robustness of our systems, implemented the use of alternative fuels such as tires, biomass, evaluate compliance across all business units, and encourage conand household waste, which has resulted in less vulnerability to tinuous improvements. These processes include compliance trainprice spikes. We have also implemented technical improvements ing for employees, periodic reviews of our policies and procedures, in several facilities and entered into long-term supply contracts of and regular internal audits. petcoke and electricity to mitigate price volatility. Despite these measures, our operations would be materially adversely affected in Our operations are subject to environmental and the future if energy and fuel costs increase. health and safety laws and regulations Our operations are subject to a broad range of environmental and Securing the supply of raw materials is a key element in our health and safety laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions production processes in which we operate. These laws and regulations impose increasDue to the nature of our business, we have a high degree of ingly stringent environmental protection standards regarding, integration into the mining and sourcing of the key raw materials among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the required in our production processes. Failure to maintain the land 85 use and handling of hazardous waste or materials, waste disposal and mining rights in our sites could have a materially adverse effect — practices, the remediation of environmental damage or contamion the continuity of our operations and potentially increase the nation and health and safety of employees and contractors. These cost of some of those raw materials. standards expose us to the risk of substantial environmental, health and safety costs and liabilities, including liabilities associated with Our operations are subject to antitrust and anti-bribery divested assets and past activities, even conducted by prior owners regulations or operators and, in some jurisdictions, without regard to fault or Antitrust laws seek to prevent monopolies, collusions, and other the lawfulness of the original activity. anti-competitive behaviors, based on the principle that competition benefits consumers and promotes economic growth. GovernEfforts to address climate change through domestic federal, state ments across the world are increasingly active in enforcing antitrust and regional laws and regulations, as well as through international and competition laws, and are cooperating with each other to agreements and the laws and regulations of other countries, to prevent anti-competitive behavior. Furthermore, local laws are reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) can create risks converging on basic antitrust principles and concepts. CEMEX as a and uncertainties for our business. This is because the cement global company operating in many different countries is exposed manufacturing process requires the combustion of large amounts to different civil and/or criminal penalties that can have a signifiof fuel and creates carbon dioxide (CO2) as a byproduct of the cant impact on our profitability. calcination process. Such risks could include costs to purchase allowances or credits to meet GHG emission caps, costs required to Under applicable laws in the United States, Europe, and other provide equipment to reduce emissions to comply with GHG limits places where CEMEX does business, it is a crime for CEMEX directly, or required technological standards, or decreased profits or losses or through an intermediary, to offer, pay, or promise to pay, a bribe arising from decreased demand for goods or higher production or anything of value to a government official (including employcosts resulting directly or indirectly from the imposition of legislaees of state-owned enterprises and officers of public international tive or regulatory controls. organizations) for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The term “anything of value” includes both monetary and nonOur operations can be affected by some of the associated monetary gifts and bribes, and can include favors and other types effects of climate change of consideration. The civil and/or criminal penalties for violating the In addition to the risks identified above arising from actual or different local and international anti-bribery laws can be severe. potential statutory and regulatory controls, severe weather, rising seas, higher temperatures and other effects that may be attributCEMEX’s risk management The company’s sustainability-related risks are addressed by our Enterprise Risk Management System, which is ultimately supervised by our Board of Directors and the management team. The day-to-day responsibility for risk management at CEMEX has been delegated to the Executive Vice President of Planning and Finance, under which tasks and activities have been distributed to the functional departments that have the relevant skills and expertise: n The Executive Vice President of Planning and Finance addresses risk management (including sustainability-related risks): Periodically identifies, analyzes, maps and communicates enterprise risks using risk assessment methodologies. Provides early warning on emerging risks that could affect the company’s business model. Proposes actions and preventive measures to mitigate these risks. Determines and implements a Business Continuity Program across the company. n The Process Assessment Vice President, as mandated by our Audit Committee, carries out: A conventional internal audit approach to detect risks and protect the company’s assets, A certification system that: a) identifies strengths and weaknesses in every process, b) evaluates the degree of compliance with policies and procedures and the risk level of every reviewed process, c) establishes a reference that promotes a healthy environment of internal competition, maintenance of the standardization and the continuous improvement among business units, integrated areas and countries. A continuous improvement process to support to all operations through the initiative of sharing best practices identified around the globe and submitting them bi-annually worldwide. 86 — n The Internal Control Vice President carries out: Design and implementation of adequate controls and procedures (including SOX-mandated controls and procedures). Strict monitoring of critical controls and procedures. Regular monitoring of control compliance and participation in special reviews, as required or requested by business units/areas. Follow-up of remediation measures for weaknesses identified by internal or external auditors. Roll-forward reviews of operating units not included in Process Assessment’s audit plans. Design and management of the Company’s Global Policy Center. Cooperation with other areas of the Company in investigating violations of policies and procedures. n The ETHOS Committee (directly or through delegation to our Compliance, HR, Legal, Security, Comptrollership, and Communications functions)carries out: Periodic risk assessment and mapping of ethics and compliance issues. Annual work plans to implement and continuously improve an effective ethics and compliance program. Global and targeted training and communication campaigns. Evaluation of the effectiveness of our ethics committees and our case management systems, and recommendations of improvements to senior management and our Audit Committee. Risk-based audits and reviews throughout the company on ethics and compliance topics. Design and review of quantitative and qualitative mechanisms to identify trends and developments on ethics and compliance issues, and presentation of suggestions for improvement or remediation to senior management and our Audit Committee. CEMEX’s Our efforts benefit considerably from the knowledge, perspective, criticism, and advice of experienced professionals who work in varisustainability ous fields related to sustainability. For this reason, in 2008 we assembled a group of independent reporting sustainability experts to advise us on our efforts. CEMEX’s Sustainable Development Reporting Advisory Panel provides feedback on our sustainability reporting and encourages us to continue improving it. For the 2009 reporting period, while we have not been able to immediately respond to all the concerns raised in the last year’s report, we have made progress on a number of fronts and will continue to ADVISORY panel improve our performance and reporting in the coming year. To read CEMEX’s response to the 2009 Sustainable Development Reporting Advisory Panel’s recommendations, please refer to our website at www.cemex.com/sustainability For the 2010 reporting period, CEMEX invited new experts to take part in the Advisory Panel. The new panel first met with CEMEX’s sustainability team in December 2010 in Cancun, Mexico, while attending the events and exhibits in which CEMEX participated during the 16th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 16). In addition, the panel members and CEMEX’s sustainability team met in a private session during which CEMEX shared its Sustainability Model and its progress 87 in the implementation of its most relevant initiatives. — In January 2011, panel members reviewed the outline for this 2010 report and provided recommendations that we have incorporated into the report development. This marks the first time we involved panel members at the beginning of the reporting process; we found their perspective very helpful. For example, based on their feedback, we crafted the introductory sections such that they can be used as a stand-alone summary of the entire report. With this structure, readers who read only the introduction will still gain a balanced understandIn 2008 we assembled a group of independent sustainability ing of our priorities, the progress we’ve made in achieving them, and where we need to improve. We have also incorporated key performance indicators into each priority section—in addition to including a consolidated data section at the end of the report—and have experts to advise us on our more fully explained our efforts to protect biodiversity and develop a comprehensive water-management strategy. efforts. We thank the panel members for their time and efforts and look forward to more productive—and challenging—discussions with them throughout the year. Felipe Pich-Aguilera n PhD in Architecture, Polytechnic University of Catalonia, Spain n Professor of architecture and sustainability, Superior School of Architecture of the International University of Catalonia ESARQ/UIC (2008 – present) n Director of environmental and industrialization investigation area, Superior School of Architecture of the International University of Catalonia ESARQ/UIC (2010-present) Mr. Pich-Aguilera currently serves as president of the Green Building Council in Spain, where he actively promotes sustainability in the construction sector. He has been instrumental in promoting social and environmental responsibility in the architecture sector in Spain and abroad. He is a Founding Member of the Superior School of Architecture of the International University of Catalonia ESARQ/UIC and “AuS” (Architecture and Sustainability) group at the Catalonia Association of Architects. Leon Bennun n MA in Natural Sciences, Cambridge University, England; DPhil in Zoology, Oxford University, England n Director of Science, Policy, and Information, BirdLife International (2002 – present) n Head of Ornithology, National Museums of Kenya and Chairman of Nature Kenya (BirdLife in Kenya) (19912002) Mr. Bennun is a biologist focused on biodiversity assessment and monitoring and the application of science to policy. He has nearly 30 years of experience in field research, practical biodiversity, conservation, and organizational management. 88 — Irma Adriana Gómez Cavazos n PhD in Applied Economics and Master’s Degree in Economics, Texas A&M University n Director of Corporate Affairs, CEMEX for the Americas (2009–2010), and Director of Analysis, International Information Development Vice-presidency, CEMEX headquarters (2007-2009) n Undersecretary of Economic Relations and International Cooperation, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mexico (20042006) n Chief of Staff of the Secretary of Foreign Affairs, Mexico (2003-2004) n Member of the board of PEMEX, Bancomext, and Conacyt (2004-2006) n Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, EGADE Business School, Mexico (1999–2003) where coordinated research in Corporate Strategy and Sustainability. Ms. Gómez Cavazos currently serves as the dean of EGADE Business School in Mexico City. She is an expert in environmental economics with broad experience in Foreign Affairs. She has authored numerous articles for periodicals, including The Review of Economics and Statistics, Empirical Economics, and Natural Resource Modeling. Antonio Vives n PhD in Corporate Finance, Carnegie Mellon University n Consulting Professor, Civil and Environmental Engineering Department, Stanford University (2008–present) n Professor, graduate business schools of IESA, Venezuela; Carnegie Mellon, George Washington, and Virginia Tech, United States n Held several positions at the Inter-American Development Bank (1979-2007) culminating as Manager of the Sustainable Development Department (2005–2007) n Creator of the Inter-American Conferences on CSR Mr. Vives is the principal Associate at Cumpetere (infrastructure investment and sustainability consulting firm) since 2007. He has lectured at more than 100 international conferences on corporate social responsibility (CSR), infrastructure finance, financial markets development, business climate and microfinance, and smalland medium-sized enterprise (SME) finance. He has also authored several books and dozens of articles on financial management, private infrastructure, finance, and CSR. sustainability reporting advisory Safety The previous panel drew particular attention to the need for CEMEX panel STATEMENT to improve its safety record. We note that CEMEX has responded and provided details on how its executives are being held accountable We commend the work of the previous Panel in challenging CEMEX to for operational safety. We are, however, extremely concerned about continue improving its sustainability reporting. We note that CEMEX the continuing poor safety record and especially the performance of has taken the Panel’s recommendations seriously and addressed many its contractors. of the issues raised. This augers well for our relationship with CEMEX and we look forward to a productive two years of work. Biodiversity The detailed sections on quarry rehabilitation projects and on El Completeness and clarity Carmen provide interesting real-life examples of biodiversity conThe advanced draft of CEMEX’s 2010 Sustainable Development servation. They illustrate that it should be possible for CEMEX now Report, which we reviewed, is comprehensive, informative, well balto go beyond the fairly vague commitments in the CEMEX Biodiveranced and clear. We note a marked improvement of quality, balance sity Statement and develop a biodiversity strategy with clear and and readability compared with previous reports. We do, however, quantifiable targets, based on an overall commitment to Net Positive have concerns on specific elements. We have communicated these Impact on biodiversity across the company’s operations. In future, to management, including suggestions on improving the reviewed the reporting emphasis should shift to Biodiversity Action Plan draft. Below, we highlight areas where we expect improvement in implementation at active sites. We caution CEMEX to be mindful of future reports. the danger of continuing to highlight its good work in El Carmen at the expense of dealing with more challenging issues, such as safety Overall, the report’s clarity and consistency are significantly enand human rights. hanced by using the CEMEX Sustainability Model as the organizing structure. This could be further improved by making clear how the Key performance indicators seven Sustainability Priorities map onto the three main Sustainability We find these indicators useful to track CEMEX’s performance over Objectives, and by ensuring that the terminology used to describe time. A clearer set of headline indicators is needed that covers the 89 the Priorities is consistent across different sections of the report. most important issues, aligned with filling the gaps in the set of — targets. Clarity would be improved by using normalized (rather than Governance absolute) measures and more explanation of changes. We welcome the better explanations of corporate governance and policy development. But the report concentrates on describing Data and context process and not on explaining how decisions are made and who is We commend the range of performance data published and the accountable. In particular, we recommend including more detail on shift to include more quantitative information in the text sections, the link between executive compensation and sustainability perforwhich enhances understanding. We look forward to further immance. provements to enable the reader to gauge the significance and relevance of the data. Materiality The report fails to clarify how the Sustainability Model itself is deStakeholder engagement signed, agreed, updated and how targets are set. Reporting on the We would like to see a clearer account of how CEMEX uses stakemateriality analysis of sustainability issues is valuable, but it is not holder feedback to inform the development of its Sustainability made explicit how this analysis was determined and how it informed Model and strategy, and the actions it takes in response to the revision of the Sustainability Priorities. In relation to the seven Susfeedback. tainability Priorities, the set of targets still appears to have significant gaps. It would be helpful to have in the report an assessment of We look forward to a considered response from CEMEX and working these gaps and an explanation of how they will be filled. with the company to help it further improve its reporting. Human rights Reporting on human rights remains wholly inadequate and we look forward to CEMEX responding to the work of the United Nations’ proposed guidelines on the subject. In particular, we would like to see reporting on how CEMEX deals with human rights issues in specific high-profile countries in which it operates, especially Egypt, the Philippines and the United Arab Emirates. ASSURANCE statement 90 — 91 — 92 — AWARDS and recognitions Our commitment to sustainability is reflected in the various awards Best CSR Practices for CEMEX’s Centros Productivos de Autoempleo that we have received around the world, including the following in Centro Mexicano para la Filantropía 2010: Best Safety Award and Zero Lost Time Accident Award to CEMEX in the Philippines by the Philippine Mine Safety & Environment World Business and Development Awards by the United Nations Association Development Program, the International Chamber of Commerce, and the International Business Leader Fund recognized CEMEX for Award for innovative application of self-compacting concrete its contributions to achieving the Millennium Development Goals was granted to CEMEX in Poland by the Association of Readymix through programs that foster and facilitate development, including Concrete Producers Centros Productivos de Autoempleo. Economic Contribution to Society Award to CEMEX in Spain by Forrester Groundswell Award in Management–Collaboration the European Aggregates Association System category recognized CEMEX for its Shift platform. Shift uses Environmental Defense Award for CEMEX in Spain’s commitment social media—social networks, wikis, discussion groups, and other to the environment by the ADM Business School communications tools—to enable meaningful collaboration among employees around the world through the sharing of innovative ideas International Safety Award for risk assessments and safety 93 and best practices. systems at all CEMEX sites in the UK granted by the British Safety — Council Big Tick Award from the Business in the Community (BITC) was granted to CEMEX for its Patrimonio Hoy Program in Mexico and RoSPA Occupational Health & Safety Awards recognition for 12 Latin America. CEMEX operations in the UK, granted by the Royal Society for the Protection of Accidents (RoSPA) Sustainable Development Award was granted to CEMEX in France for two of its quarries by the National Union of Aggregate William W. Howard C.E.O. Award for environmental stewardship Producers (UNPG) to CEMEX in the USA by the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) UNICEM Environmental Award recognized CEMEX in France for ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year awarded to CEMEX in the USA its quarry rehabilitation efforts by L’Union Nationale des Industries de and ENERGY STAR® rating awarded to three plants in United States Carrières et Matériaux de Construction (UNICEM) for superior energy performance by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Health & Safety Award for zero accidents at four of CEMEX in Germany’s operations granted by the German Association of Cement Cement Industry Energy & Environmental Awards recognized Industry (VDZ) two CEMEX’s plants in the United States by the Portland Cement Association and Cement Americas Sustainability Index Silver Award to CEMEX in Latvia granted by the Employers Confederation and Free Trade Union Association CLARES for CSR recognizing CEMEX’s CSR programs in Mexico was To see a full list of awards received by CEMEX in 2010, as well as granted by Universidad Anáhuac in previous years, please visit our Awards section in www.cemex. com/sustainability about this CO2 Emissions CEMEX reports absolute and specific CO2 emissions following the CSI Cement Protocol CO2 Accounting and Reporting Standard for REPORT the Cement guidelines and spreadsheet. As defined in the protocol, it considers direct emissions excluding CO2 emissions from biomass fuels and purchased electricity. All historical information from baseline to current year is calculated under these procedures to reflect appropriate trends and allow year-to-year comparison analysis. Dust, NOx and SOx emissions Absolute and specific figures are calculated based on kilns emissions measurements taken from Continuous Emissions Monitoring Systems (in those sites where kilns are equipped with such technology) or spot analysis. These methods fully comply with the CSI Guidelines for Emissions Monitoring and Reporting. All information is reported to CEMEX databases, processed, calculated, and validated to provide a final group value. Energy We began publishing an annual environmental, health, and safety Fuel consumption indicators are reported to internal CEMEX datareport in 1996, and then in 2003 began issuing Sustainable Developbases in which ”conventional,” “alternative,” and “biomass fuels” are ment Reports. classified according to the CSI Cement CO2 protocol spreadsheet. Heat values are obtained from on-site analysis (where applicable), This report covers our global cement, ready-mix concrete, and aggrevalue provided by supplier or standards from the CSI Guidelines for gates operations, presenting our sustainability performance, prog94 the Selection and Use of Fuels and Raw Materials in the Cement ress, achievements, and challenges for the 2010 calendar (and fiscal) — year. We have emphasized those issues identified as high-priority Manufacturing Process through our materiality analysis, as reflected in the seven priority Clinker Factor & Alternative Fuels areas of our Sustainable Development Model. For more information All material consumption is reported to internal CEMEX databases as well as updates throughout the year, please visit our Sustainable in which “alternative materials” are defined following the standards Development section in our website. from the CSI Guidelines for the Selection and Use of Fuels and Raw Materials in the Cement Manufacturing Process. The ”clinker /cement Unless otherwise indicated, the information provided in this report is factor” is calculated using the procedures from the CSI Cement CO2 for the company as a whole. We are including information for the opprotocol spreadsheet with information obtained from the databases. erations in which we have financial and operative control. If a plant is sold, its information is no longer included in our data nor considered Safety in our targets. We have restated certain data sets from previous years An internal CEMEX safety database collects all related safety inforbecause of improvements to our data-collection systems or changes mation from each site and automatically provides the appropriate to our business; each case is clearly marked. All monetary amounts information to calculate the indicators. The database is configured are reported in US dollars. Tons are metric tons. using the WBCSD / CSI definitions The information for this report came from several sources, including We applied the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability internal management systems and performance databases and our Reporting Guidelines to produce the full report, which meets an apSustainable Development Report Survey, a global questionnaire. plication level of A+ for the third consecutive year. This approach has enabled us to report against our key performance indicators for the whole company. In addition, this report constitutes our communication on progress against the commitments of the United Nations Global Compact We aim to improve the transparency and completeness of each report (UNGC). As a signatory to the Global Compact, we work to align our we produce. We include a statement from PricewaterhouseCoopers, company’s operations and strategies with its ten principles. We are which verified our data on greenhouse gas emissions; atmospheric also committed to helping the world meet the targets of the Kyoto emissions; alternative fossil and biomass fuels rates; environmental Protocol and Millennium Development Goals. incidents; and safety for our cement, ready-mix, and aggregates operations. In addition, we engaged with our Sustainable Development The indices for the GRI and the UNGC are found in our website and Reporting Advisory Panel, which provides feedback on our reporting. are available for download at www.cemex.com/sustainability Materiality analysis, the basis for identifying the highest priority issues CEMEX faces an array of issues related to the operation of our business and how it impacts society. To ensure that we are focused on the most important issues, we conducted a materiality analysis. This analysis examined the potential impact of specific sustainability issues from both a stakeholder and a company perspective. The materiality analysis took into account a broad range of stakeholders input, both direct and indirect. We considered opinions and evaluations from investors and sustainability analysts and rating agencies; feedback from customers, suppliers, employees, and local community leaders and representatives; news media coverage; feedback given by CEMEX’s Sustainable Development Reporting Advisory Panel; and the public reports of our industry sector, among other sources. At the same time, we conducted an internal evaluation of the potential impact on CEMEX of specific issues from a financial, reputational, We welcome your feedback on our sustainability and operational standpoint. reporting and performance. The results of the materiality analysis provided the basis for identifying the issues of highest importance to stakeholders and highest Please send your comments and suggestions to impact to CEMEX. sd@cemex.com, or write to us at 5 health and safety CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. community engagement Corporate Communications and Public Affairs quarry rehab/ stakeholder corporate Av. Ricardo Margáin Zozaya 325 biodiversity dialogue gov. & ethics 4 other air San Pedro Garza García, NL emissions energy use/ climate efficiency & CO2 employee CP 66265 Mexico STAKEHOLDER CONCERN sustainable construction relations 3 Tel: +52 (81) 8888-8888 supply chain customer relations economic value creation water transport/ risk management 2 logistics raw materials vibrations and noise R&D/ innovation 1 products for product safety low-income and quality public policy 0 1 2 3 4 5 POTENTIAL IMPACT ON CEMEX High-priority issues Please consider the environment before printing all or part of this report. To conserve resources, we neither printed this report nor the annual report. www.cemex.com
