Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 April 2011 March 2012 -VY6\Y*\Z[VTLYZ-VY:VJPL[` Epson conducts its business activities with the aim of becoming a company that is indispensable to customers and society. These activities are rooted in our Management Philosophy and in the employee mission underpinning the EXCEED YOUR VISION tagline. Epson Sustainability Report 2012 Editorial Policy This report describes Epson’s CSR initiatives oriented around the Epson Management Philosophy. In compiling this report, we placed the customer at the top of our target audience. In addition, we used the words of the employees who are actually carrying out the activities whenever possible so they can convey their thoughts directly to our stakeholders and reafﬁrm a sense of pride in the work they do. In the ﬁrst feature article, we take a look at several instances in various businesses where Epson products and services have created value that exceeded customer expectations, along with comments from actual users of those products and services. The second feature article introduces Epson’s response to the recent spate of natural disasters and its initiatives geared toward manufacturing continuity. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 1 Overview of the Epson Group 3 Contents To Our Stakeholders 5 Business Vision 7 Feature Articles Feature 1: Creating Value That Exceeds Customer Expectations 9 Feature 2: Disaster Response and Manufacturing Continuity 17 Management Trust-Based Management 19 Customer Commitment Commitment to Customer Satisfaction 23 Commitment to Environmental Conservation Preserving the Natural Environment 29 Individuality and Teamwork Human Development at Epson 47 Occupational Safety and Health 51 Trusted Throughout the World Organizational Governance 53 Inquiries about Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainable Procurement 57 Seiko Epson Corporation 3-3-5 Owa, Suwa-shi, Prospering with the Community Nagano-ken, Japan 392-8502 Corporate Citizenship 59 Tel: +81-266-52-3131 (main) Communication 63 CSR activity website Worldwide Recognition / Reader Feedback 67 http://global.epson.com/SR/ Reporting Period Memberships April 2011 to March 2012 • Global Compact Japan Network Note: Contains some information on activities conducted after March 2012 • Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association Scope • Japanese Business Federation (Nippon Keidanren) This report describes the sustainability efforts of Seiko Epson • Japan Business Machine and Information System Industries Corporation and 97 consolidated subsidiaries. The scope of enviAssociation ronmental reporting, however, covers Seiko Epson Corporation, 18 • Communications and Information Network Association of Japan afﬁliates in Japan and 44 afﬁliates overseas. • Center for Information on Security Trade Control Note: Epson refers to the Epson Group, unless indicated otherwise. • Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry Organizational Changes in This Reporting Period • Addition of three consolidated subsidiaries Previous Reports • Removal of six consolidated subsidiaries Epson has been publishing a report every year since 1999. In 2003, Refer to the following website for details on changes to the Epson Group. the name of the report was changed from Environmental Report to Full year ended March 31, 2012 Sustainability Report. http://global.epson.com/IR/ﬁnancial_results/ Referenced Guidelines Next Scheduled Report 1 • GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines v3.1 July 2013 • Environmental Reporting Guideline issued by the Japanese Ministry of Environment (2012) Disclaimer • ISO 26000:2010 / JIS Z 26000:2012 (Guidance on social responsibility) This report includes forward-looking statements, estimates, and 1 Global Reporting Initiative: This international organization creates global guidelines that plans based on the information available at the time of publication. organizations can use to measure and report their economic, environmental, and social performance. Actual results may be different from those discussed. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 2 Overview of the Epson Group Company Profile (As of March 31, 2012) • Company Seiko Epson Corporation • Capital ¥53,204 million • Founded May 18, 1942 • Number of Employees • Head Office 3-3-5 Owa, Suwa-shi, Consolidated: 75,303 Nagano-ken, Japan 392-8502 Parent Company: 13,045 • Group Companies 97 (including Seiko Epson Corp.) Americas Regional Sales ¥175.6 billion Employees 2,362 Europe Regional Sales ¥178.1 billion Employees 2,317 Japan Regional Sales ¥313.9 billion Employees 19,765 Asia & Regional Sales ¥210.3 billion Oceania Employees 50,859 Regional headquarters Sales/service site Production site Development site Representative ofﬁce/branch Asia & Afﬁliates in Japan (21 total) Afﬁliates Overseas (75 total) Oceania Japan 24% 36% Epson Sales Japan Corporation U.S. Epson, Inc. (regional HQ) Percentage Epson Direct Corporation Epson Europe B.V. (regional HQ) of Net Sales by Region Epson Toyocom Corporation Epson (China) Co., Ltd. (regional HQ) (April 2011 to March 2012) Tohoku Epson Corporation Epson Singapore Pte. Ltd. (regional sales HQ) Europe Americas Akita Epson Corporation Epson America, Inc. (sales) 20% 20% 16 others Epson France S.A. (sales) Japan Epson Precision (Hong Kong) Ltd. (production) 26% Singapore Epson Industrial Pte. Ltd. (production) Percentage Americas P.T. Indonesia Epson Industry (production) of Employees 3% Asia & by Region Epson Precision (Philippines), Inc. (production) Oceania Europe 68% 3% 65 others Consolidated Results Highlights Net Sales ¥877.9 billion Operating Income ¥ 24.6 billion Net Income ¥5.0 billion (billions of yen) (billions of yen) (billions of yen) 1,347.8 19.0 57.5 1,122.4 10.2 985.3 973.6 5.0 877.9 -111.3 -19.7 32.7 24.6 18.2 -1.5 March March March March March March March March March March March March March March March 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 3 FY2011 Performance by Business Segment Note: Key changes to the segmentation of our businesses are as follows: 1 The “Electronic Devices Segment” and the “Precision Products Segment” were integrated to become the “Devices & Precision Products Segment” from the beginning of the fiscal year. 2 The Visual Instruments Business (Information-Related Equipment Segment) and the TFT Business (Devices & Precision Products Segment), which produces the high temperature polysilicon (HTPS) TFT LCD used in 3LCD projectors, were integrated to become the Visual Products Business (Information-Related Equipment Segment) in the second half of the year. Results from previous fiscal years have been recalculated using the new segment data that came into effect from the third quarter (second half). Information-Related Equipment Segment Net Sales Segment Income (billions of yen) (billions of yen) Net Sales: ¥691.8 billion (down 3.1% Y/Y) % net sales Segment Income: ¥648 billion (down 8.7% Y/Y) 78.3% 713.9 691.8 71.0 64.8 Printer Business Inkjet printers, page printers, dot-matrix printers, large-format printers, printer consumables, color image scanners, mini-printers, POS systems products, etc. Visual Products Business (was Visual Instruments Business) 3LCD projectors, label writers, etc. (HTPS TFT LCD for projectors added in second half) March March March March 2011 2012 2011 2012 Miscellaneous Personal computers, etc. Inkjet printers Page printers Large-format printers Scanners S High-temperature See-through polysilicon TFT LCD mobile viewers Dot-matrix printers Mini-printers Inkjet digital label presses Digital minilabs Projectors PCs Devices & Precision Products Segment Net Sales Segment Income (billions of yen) (billions of yen) Net Sales: ¥174.8 billion (down 17.8% Y/Y) % net sales Segment Income: ¥4.6 billion (down 58.8% Y/Y) 19.8% 212.6 174.8 11.2 Device Business Quartz Device Business (crystal units, crystal oscillators, crystal sensors, etc.) Semiconductor Business (CMOS LSI, etc.) 4.6 Note: HTPS TFT LCDs for projectors were moved to the Visual Products Business (Imaging Products Operations Segment) from the second half. Precision Products March March March March 2011 2012 2011 2012 Watch Business (wristwatches, watch movements, etc.) Optical Device Business (plastic corrective lenses, etc.) Factory Automation Products Business (SCARA robots, IC handlers, industrial inkjet equipment, etc.) Timing devices Sensing devices Semiconductors Inertial Wristwatches Eyeglass SCARA robots Inkjet marking measurement units lenses systems Other Net Sales: ¥17.3 billion (down 71.8% Y/Y) % net sales Segment Income: -¥1.5 billion (¥3.5 billion loss in previous fiscal year) 1.9% Intra-Group Service Business, etc. Note: The percentage of net sales includes inter-segment sales from April 2011 to March 2012. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 4 To Our Stakeholders Exceeding Customer Expectations triggered the nuclear accidents in Fukushima and the subsequent shutdown of reactors in Japan, and the 2011 Thailand ﬂoods exposed electrical power supply and environmental problems while underscoring the importance of the global supply chain. These served as stern reminders of the gravity of corporate social responsibility, but they also convinced me that Epson is headed in the right direction. I ﬁrmly believe that by relentlessly pursuing innovation in compact, energy-saving, high-precision technologies,1 Epson can create fresh customer value that matches the world’s desire for smaller, more powerful products that have lower power requirements and lower environmental impacts. We are already on our way. For example, the compact inkjet printers we launched to market in 2011 are 39% smaller than equivalent models from the previous year, providing greater freedom of installation and reducing environmental impacts in manufacturing and transport. Over the year we made strides toward meeting the expectations of society through other businesses, as well. In inkjet printers, we leveraged Epson’s unique Micro Piezo technology2 to develop powerful models for business, commerce and industry, in addition to the compact models described above. In 3LCD projectors, we expanded our lineup with various models that include features such as 3D support, short-throw lenses and improved interactive capability. We also launched an exciting new category of product: a head-mounted display. Focusing on Strengths to Create Value Finally, we merged our sensing, low power, and wearable That Exceeds Expectations technologies3 to begin providing products and services to the healthcare and sports markets. The business environment has changed greatly in the 1 Compact, energy-saving, and high-precision technologies: Technologies that seven decades since Epson was founded, but through it save energy, time, and unnecessary labor; technologies that make products smaller, lighter, and greener ; and technologies that provide product with all Epson has consistently maintained a commitment to greater precision and accuracy 2 Micro Piezo technology: Epson's proprietary Micro Piezo technology uses earning trust around the world by satisfying customers piezo-electric elements arrayed in a print head to eject ink materials. The force and creating value that exceeds their expectations. needed to eject the ink is created by applying a voltage to the piezo-electric elements, causing them to change shape, thus creating mechanical pressure that ejects the ink droplets. 3 Wearable technology: Devices that can be worn like clothes or strapped to the In 2011, northeastern Japan was devastated by a catabody like a wristwatch for use strophic earthquake and tsunami. This disaster, which Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 5 Staying the Course and Aiming to Be an Indispensable Accelerating Execution Company for You Back at the beginning of the 2009 ﬁscal year we anEpson is a global company whose mission, as stated nounced a long-range corporate vision called “SE15.” We in the company’s Management Philosophy, is to be “a laid out the strategy for achieving the vision in a pair of company trusted throughout the world.” Put another way, three-year business plans, the SE15 First-Half Mid-Range we are committed to what we call “trust-based manageBusiness Plan (FY2009-11) and the SE15 Second-Half ment.” A succession of serious scandals involving pubMid-Range Business Plan (FY2012-14). The three-years licly traded companies in Japan in 2011 cast doubt on under the ﬁrst-half plan were set aside as a period for management practices and hurt corporate trust. These restoring our ability to generate proﬁt and for positioning scandals prompted us to rededicate ourselves to mainEpson for fresh growth. Although we still have work to do taining and fortifying our own internal controls. Effective when it comes to reacting swiftly to sudden environmeninternal controls are essential for creating, producing, and tal changes, such as economic slowdowns, the strong delivering value in an organized, efﬁcient, healthy and yen, and natural disasters, we did make steady headway sustained way. What it boils down to is establishing a in expanding business domains and product lineups, and comprehensive governance system for the Epson Group in improving proﬁtability by reducing total costs. and fostering common values and a common corporate culture. Over the next three years we will stay the charted course and accelerate execution of strategies designed to Epson’s “Exceed Your Vision” tagline expresses our achieve the SE15 vision. In the printing segment we will commitment to exceeding the expectations of our cususe our Micro Piezo technology to bring innovations not tomers and our desire to bring them surprise and delight. only to the consumer and ofﬁce markets but also to the Exceeding expectations is our goal, our responsibility, commercial and industrial sectors. In the projection segand our promise to our stakeholders. We can achieve this ment we will continue creating new possibilities for prothrough teamwork. Toward this end, I am visiting Epson jected images and communication with innovative microplants and sales ofﬁces to talk with members of managedisplay and optical technologies. In the devices and ment about the Management Philosophy and to ensure precision products segment we will restore the health of that we are working as a team toward common goals. our businesses and expand our customer base by using our unique strengths in QMEMS4, low-power semiconTo earn trust around the world, we must conduct ourductor, and precision mechatronics technologies to creselves and our businesses in line with universally underate competitive products. stood concepts and principles. Epson has participated in and pledged to uphold the ten principles of the United We intend to accelerate certain strategic actions. SpeciﬁNations Global Compact since 2004. In 2005 we estabcally, we will hasten the rise of inkjet printers to a position lished “Principles of Corporate Behavior,” rules of conduct of dominance in ofﬁce printing, supplanting laser printthat are aligned with the principles of the Global Compact ers. We will also expedite the switch from analog printing (GC), and an Employee Code of Conduct that requires systems to digital printing systems in the commercial compliance with GC principles. All employees are trained and industrial sectors. We also want to raise the proﬁle in these as the cornerstone of our business activities. We of our new businesses. For example, we are looking to will continue to work around the world to make Epson provide wearable devices that are small, energy-efﬁcient, an indispensable company for customers and society, accurate and fun or reassuring. These devices include through the ethical and responsible conduct of each of head-mounted displays that customers can use to view our employees. visual content whenever and wherever they like. They also include a GPS running monitor and a wristwatchtype pulse monitor that tracks users’ physical condition Minoru Usui or physical performance. President 4 QMEMS: Micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) made of quartz material Seiko Epson Corporation that has been processed using semiconductor microfabrication technology Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 6 Business Vision Accelerating Toward Growth The SE15 Mid-Range Business Plan (FY2012-14) Pursing actions in line with the SE15 First-Half Mid-Range Business Plan (FY2009-11), Epson set about rebuilding its business foundations to achieve goals and aspirations stated in the SE15 longrange corporate vision. Here, we look back on the past three years and ahead to the next three years under the SE15 Second-Half Mid-Range Business Plan (FY2012-14). SE15 Long-Range Corporate Vision FY2009-11 Accomplishments & Issues • SE15 Vision Statement • Yearly Goals FY2009 Epson is committed to the relentless pursuit of Reach break-even in ordinary income innovation in compact, energy-saving, Restructure and reinforce the business foundations that underpin the long-range vision high-precision technologies, and through the formation of group-wide platforms1 will become FY2010 a community of robust businesses, creating, Set a profit-generating corporate producing, and providing products and services structure firmly in place that emotionally engage customers worldwide. FY2011 1 Set Epson on a new Shared foundations and infrastructure growth path aimed at fulfilling the SE15 vision • The Epson Envisioned in SE15 Epson restructured its device businesses and expanded its printer and 3LCD projector product lineups and markets. We drove down total costs, signiﬁcantly improving our cost structure and fueling conﬁdence in our strategic direction. On the other hand, our ﬁnancial performance was materially impacted by the business environment, including the strong yen, sluggish economy, and effects of natural disasters. Summary Review of SE15 (FY2009-11) Epson will continue to deliver surprise and delight to its customers by providing products and services based Accomplishments on its storehouse of core technologies to become an Aligned businesses and made steady progress indispensable company for customers around the world. Expanded markets & product lineups, and improved cost structure Toward this end, we are focusing on areas where we can leverage our strengths and are reinforcing our business Issues foundations with the aim of being a community of robust Need to react faster to changes in business environment businesses. Economic slowdown, yen appreciation, natural disasters, etc. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 7 SE15 Mid-Range Business Plan (FY2012-14) Epson has not changed its strategic direction under the second-half mid-range business plan. We will build on our accomplishments from the previous three years by further accelerating actions to achieve the “SE15” goal of becoming a community of robust businesses. • Mid-Range Management Policies The keys to achieving the “SE15” vision lie in Epson’s compact, Use Us MicroM Mic c Piezo technology to revolutionize printing in every energy-saving, high-precision domain do maiin n technologies, including our Micro Continue Co ontin nu u creating new realms for projected images and comPiezo inkjet heads, micro-displays munication mu unic ca with innovative micro-display and optics technologies (e.g., high-temperature polysilicon TFT liquid-crystal panels), and Establish Est tablis businesses in the devices and precision products domain where w wh we can leverage our unique strengths and capture profits QMEMS crystal products. We will aim to grow by improving these In new w domains, leverage our strengths to create unique core unique core technologies to gain technologies techno ol and effectively commercialize them leverage for entry into a wide range of markets. • Mid-Term Financial Performance Targets Targets FY2011 (Result) FY2012 (FC) FY2013 (Target) FY2014 (Target) USD 1= JPY 79 JPY 75 JPY 75 JPY 75 EUR 1= JPY 109 JPY 100 JPY 95 JPY 95 1,000 Net Sales 940.0 1,000.0 (billions of yen) 877.9 890.0 180.0 190.0 SE15 Goals 750 Devices & 174.8 173.0 Precision Products 500 Achieve ve growth Assuming sales growth… pansion via expansion 723.0 760.0 810.0 of the inform informInformation 691.8 ation equip250 Equipment ment business ROS: 10% ROS = operating income / net sales 0 * Results for other businesses, corporate expenses, and internal transaction eliminations are not shown. 100 Operating 7.0% 10% ROE: ≥10% sustained Income 2.8% 3.9% 5.0% 75 5% ROE = net income / shareholders' equity 50 0% 70.0 25 47.0 24.6 35.0 0 Epson’s “Exceed Your Vision” Tagline In 2005, aspiring to surprise and delight customers by providing compact, energy-saving, highprecision products and services that exceed customer expectations, Epson adopted the tagline “Exceed Your Vision” to help unify Epson’s global communications. Then, in 2011, in preparation for the second-half of the SE15 challenge, we reassessed this tagline and identified actions that Epson should take going forward. The special feature articles that follow will highlight some of the products and services that embody the soul of Epson’s Management Philosophy and this tagline. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 8 Feature 1 Creating Value That Exceeds Customer Expectations Changing Business Printers with Inkjet Epson WorkForce Pro WP-4500/4000 Series Business Inkjet All-in-Ones Laser printers have long been the ofﬁce printer of choice, but Epson is changing that with printers that feature unique Micro Piezo inkjet technology that saves time, money, and energy. Epson business inkjet printers provide lower running costs, higher energy efﬁciency, faster ﬁrst-print speeds,1 and better functions and performance. Answering the Needs of Business When it comes to ofﬁce printing, laser printers, which inkjets also contribute to our customers' bottom line. deftly handle large print jobs, are the ofﬁce workhorse. However, not all print jobs are large. In fact, an Epson A key reason for this is that business inkjet printers equipped study found that roughly 90% of all printing jobs call for with extra-large only a few sheets. The higher demand is for the ability to ink cartridges have quickly print out just one or two sheets. Epson's ofﬁce fewer consumables inkjet printers, with short warm-up times and speedy ﬁrst than equivalent prints, match this need perfectly. color laser printers, which, in addition Epson's business inkjets offer the durability required by to toner cartridges, businesses while delivering prints on ordinary paper with have drums and High-capacity ofﬁce printer cartridge (right) almost laser-like speed and quality thanks to structurally fuser units that compared to a consumer cartridge simple Micro Piezo inkjet heads that rely on mechanical need to be replaced. And, not only are inkjet consumables force, not heat, to ﬁre ink droplets. The unbeatably low cheaper, they are faster and easier to replace, while their running costs and high energy efﬁciency of Epson's ofﬁce compact size means they occupy less storage space. 1 The time it takes to print out the first print from a standby state Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 9 Epson’s ofﬁce inkjets will satisfy customers looking to 2 Comparison made against the top 10 A4 color laser printers and MFPs sold in France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the UK in Q1 2011 as tracked by IDC. Power save energy. Laser printers consume a larger amount consumption calculated using manufacturers’ published data for Print/Average Mode as of July 2011. of power because of a high-temperature toner-fusing 3 Comparison made against the top 10 A4 color laser printers and MFPs sold process. Inkjet printers have no such process and, thus, in France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the UK in Q4 2010 as tracked by IDC. Cost per page is calculated from manufacturers’ official list prices for toner consume far less energy. In fact, Epson found that our cartridges and published yields as of December 2010. business inkjets consume up to 80% less energy than IDC is an international research company specializing in the information comparable laser printers2. technology, telecommunications, and consumer technology (ICT) markets. After accounting for lower consumables costs and other factors such as lower power consumption, we found that our ofﬁce inkjets deliver prints at up to 50% lower cost Reference: Product information on Epson's U.K. website per page than color lasers3. http://www.epson.co.uk/workforcepro Putting Business Customers at Ease Toshihiro Kumagai, product leader in Epson’s Printer ent advantage over lasers in this respect, and our ofPlanning & Design Department, says, “Early on in the ﬁce inkjets handle envelopes and other media in sizes, planning stage we identiﬁed business needs and looked thicknesses, and materials that laser printers can’t. The for ways to meet them. The ﬁrst need was to improve third need was high reliability. We print quality on ordinary paper. Businesses might not focused particularly on boosting always need top-quality prints, but why compromise? the durability of components in We used a newly developed 600-dpi head in combinakey mechanisms. Paying great attion with pigment ink to achieve professional quality prints tention to detail, we came up with that even surpass color laser results in some respects. reliable products that are easy to The second need was for the ability to handle a greater use, look solid, and put business variety of media types and sizes. Inkjets have an inhercustomers at ease.” Toshihiro Kumagai Printing Planning & Design Dept. Voice of the Customer Looking for Epson to develop products with more business features, such as page counters and secure printing4 France-based Pepiniere 27 chose a WorkForce Pro because we felt it Mr. Rene Silvestre (left), had features that made it the ideal printer for home ofﬁces and small Pepiniere 27 president and medium-sized businesses. As a business space management and Mr. Adrien Grémont, Finance Director company, we have many small businesses as tenants, and we felt that Epson's printers would suit their needs. Pepiniere 27 wants to have a lasting relationship with Epson. Overall, we ﬁnd Epson's low power consumption and low cost per print to be very attractive, and we are extremely satisﬁed with the large ink and paper capacities. One area where our tenants said they would like to see future improvement is print speed. 4 For example, a function that would require user authentication with some type of ID card before they can print confidential material. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 10 Feature 1 Creating Value That Exceeds Customer Expectations Changing the Classroom EB-485WT and EB-480T ultra-short throw projectors with interactive features1 Improving Lesson Efﬁciency and Learning Effectiveness Epson is building a new category of projected images and communication for the projection domain with innovative micro-display and optics technologies. These interactive projectors are groundbreaking tools that make the classroom more intuitive for teachers and nd students alike. The new EB-485WT (launched Feb. 2012) Projector in use at a Shizuoka high school Efﬁcient Lessons with More Student Interaction In April 2011, Japan’s Ministry of Education, Culture, By putting all of the learning materials into a shared daSports, Science and Technology announced a Vision tabase, teachers were able to spend less time on prepafor IT in Education that calls for a projector or interacration and writing on the blacktive whiteboard to be installed in every classroom. In board and more time on giving the ﬁerce competition that followed, Epson’s ultra-short individual instruction. The increase throw projectors have been praised for the added value in student-teacher interaction led provided by their interactive features and excellent usabilto better understanding. Epson ity. These models have also been well received outside of also released the Epson iProjecJapan, especially in the United States and Europe. tion app, which allows teachers to wirelessly transmit digital data on In this special feature, we will take a look at a case study an iOS device to the projector. This from a high school in the Japanese city of Shizuoka helps keep the lesson moving so Japanese lesson using an iPad* where, in April 2011, the newly released EB-455WT prothat students stay interested and jector was installed in 20 classrooms and ended up makengaged. ing lessons more efﬁcient while also improving student * iPad is a registered trademark of Apple Inc. motivation and understanding. 1 Interactive whiteboard feature. Includes a pen that can be used to write on the screen or as a mouse Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 11 Turning Ideas into Reality The new EB-485WT and EB-480T models have even The electronic pen is a key element of the interactive feashorter throws, producing an 80-inch image at distances tures. Due to its importance, improving the reliability was of 18.7 and 22.2 centimeters, respectively. With brightof the utmost concern. Masatoshi Tanaka, the engineer ness levels of 3,100 and 3,000 lumens, these projectors in charge of the pen, said, “To improve the reliability of produce clear images even in a bright classroom or the pen, we shared our analysis of previous models with meeting room, and the 16 watt speaker output (compared the design team and ran repeated evaluations under to 12 watt in previous models) ﬁlls every corner of the realistic usage conditions to build in quality at the design classroom. stage. This process led to changes to the switch material and surface treatment, resulting in a much more durable These projectors also have a “PC-less function” that switch. These kinds of results come from the entire inlets you use the included electronic pen to write on the teractive team’s passion for creating customer value, the screen without connecting to a PC. When connected speed at which they come together as a team, and their to a PC, you can use two pens to write and perform ability to transcend organizational barriers.” He went on mouse operations simultaneously, and the mouse hoverto say, “This just underscores the importance of building ing function lets you easily visit any link in digital learning in features from the development stage. As a member materials. Automatic calibration and plug-and-play driver of the development team, I’m glad that the technologisupport make setup a snap on any PC. The usability imcal research and cooperation that provements in these models help create a more rewardwent into this pen are contributing ing lesson for teachers and students alike. In addition, to a more exciting learning experithe 20% reduction in size helps reduce CO2 emissions ence.” resulting from materials and transportation. Product information on Epson's U.S.A. website http://www.epsonbrightlink.webengager.com/Education/BL475Wi_480i_485Wi.aspx Electronic pens Masatoshi Tanaka VI Production Engineering Dept. Voice of the Customer The best part is that we can spend less time writing and more time with the students Starting from April 2011, the high school we teach at shortened the lesson time to encourage more efﬁcient pacing. In addition, the creation of a “scientiﬁc inquiry” class necessitated an environment where students could practice and improve their presentation skills. This was the impetus behind the introduction of an interactive blackboard. We chose Mr. Oba (left) and Mr. Jitsuishi (right) Shizuoka Municipal Senior High School this model due to the advanced features and low cost compared to the integrated whiteboards offered by other companies. In our lessons, we can choose whether we want to write on the projected image with the included pen, or project the image directly on the blackboard and write with chalk. Because the projectors are ultra-short throw, we can move around in front of the screen without blocking the image and distracting the students. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 12 Feature 1 Creating Value That Exceeds Customer Expectations Leveraging Core Technologies to Expand Customer Value Our goal under Epson's SE15 Long-Range Corporate Vision is to leverage our unique core technologies to continuously create value that exceeds customer expectations, and to deliver products and services to a far broader base of customer. Did the products and services that we launched in 2011 achieve this? The only way to know is to ask some of the people who purchased them. Moverio BT-100 The Moverio BT-100 see-through mobile viewer allows users to enjoy movies, music, and Web content in a bigscreen atmosphere, anytime and anywhere. Epson, the leader and pioneer in 3LCD projectors, combines original optical technology and high-resolution displays to produce images that appear larger the farther the user stares into the distance. Requiring no other playback equipment and with a 6-hour battery life, this standalone system goes anywhere you go to provide visual entertainment with big surround sound. Product information on Epson's Singapore website http://www.epson.com.sg/sites/epson_singapore/see-through_mobile_viewers/product.page Voice of the Customer The BT-100 Has Potential Beyond that of a Viewing Tool In my line of work I frequently travel around Hokkaido by car and stay at hotels and inns. Wanting to spend my downtime on the road in a meaningful way, I bought a BT-100. I used to pack a DVD player and watch movies, but the screen was small and I had to sit up to see it, so I couldn't relax. The usability of the BT-100 is in a class by itself because you can watch movies while lying in bed, on your side, facing up, whatever. After seeing the product press release, I thought, I could use this, because of the freedom that the untethered, standalone device proMr. Shinji Hayasaka, Sapporo vides. I haven't been disappointed. I still remember putting the BT-100 on for the ﬁrst time and being amazed at how big and clear the picture appeared. In the future, I hope Epson makes HMDs that are lighter. I would also like to see them add augmented reality features, because this HMD has potential beyond its utility as a tool for watching movies. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 13 Lifestyle Improvement Support Service Epson combined three tools to create an original health counseling program: (1) Epson’s wrist-wearable pulse monitor, developed based on Epson’s sensing technology; (2) a website with fun applications that help users Indicates ideal exercise intensity level lose weight; and (3) direct counseling and support by healthcare specialists and nutritionists. Voice of the Customer Wrist-worn pulse monitors with online services are breaking new ground The insurance association I work for has been providing lifestyle-related health counseling for the past four years. However, we found that the number of people at risk of metabolic syndrome was not declining and that we were seeing the same people every year. We decided to try Epson’s Ms. Yoko Takeshita lifestyle improvement support service because the counseling program is superb, with ingenious Misawa Home Health Insurance Society features that make it fun to lose weight, even for less motivated people. The augmentation of wrist-worn pulse monitors that indicate whether you’re exercising efﬁciently with online services on a special Web site is a groundbreaking innovation in health counseling, and the fact that you can monitor heart rate and prevent exercise overload is especially attractive. We have also been satisﬁed with the service we have received. IP-2000 Inkjet Marking System The IP-2000 uses MicroPiezo inkjet technology and UV-cured ink to rapidly print sharp, identifying marks on semiconductors. The system is also being used by other companies to mark items such as electronic components that could be damaged by conventional laser marking systems. The ﬁrst user was Seiko Epson’s Optical Products Division, which uses the system to mark eyeglass lenses. Marked eyeglass lenses Voice of the Customer (Internal User) New value for custom lenses Inkjet printing technology has a ﬂexibility that pad1 printing never had, and it will be essential for the eyeglass lens industry as custom lenses become the norm. The accuracy and clarity of markings was as expected. The IP-2000 can be used to print product names designed for speciﬁc cusYasushi Ando, manager tomers, creating new value. On the other hand, we still have work to do. For example, our system Optical Products Technical Dept. only supports white ink. However, print quality is superior to that of competitors, and we have high expectations for future improvements. (A case study from an external user was not included for customer confidentiality reasons.) 1 A printing method in which ink on a printing plate is transferred to a silicone rubber pad that is then pressed onto the product to be marked Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 14 Feature 1 Creating Value That Exceeds Customer Expectations L800 Photo Printer with High-Capacity Ink Tanks The L800 is a six-color, A4 photo printer with high-capacity ink tanks for customers who Mr. Lin tend to print many images at once, especially president Bee Chain Technology in emerging markets, where users are parCo., Ltd. Wearing an ethnic ticularly sensitive to running costs. This printer costume for a souvenir captures and embodies the genuine needs photo of these customers. One customer in Taiwan explains how his L800 is powering the growth of his business. Epson's next printer should provide even higher Voice of the Customer productivity, larger ink tanks and faster printing Bee Chain Technology takes and sells souvenir photographs at amusement parks around Taiwan. We currently use a dozen L800s for printing these photos. We used to use another brand of inkjet printer with high-volume third-party ink tanks, but the inconsistent image quality, frequent trouble, and poor service were a headache. We decided to switch to the L800 because Epson offers a two-year manufacturer's warranty, photo quality prints at high speed, and low printing costs. We are extremely satisﬁed with the quality of Epson's products and service. We have seen proﬁts improve and are now considering purchasing additional units. LS Series of Industrial Robots Epson’s LS series of robots offer a simple and Mr. David Huang convenient way to automate. They provide a president China United high return on investment by increasing efﬁTechnology (sz) Ltd. ciency, reducing payroll, and stabilizing quality in various tasks. Epson (China) Co., Ltd. (ECC) earned the silver award in the automation and control system category at the 10th Chinese International Equipment Manufacturing Exposition for having contributed to China’s economy by bringing innovation to the production ﬂoor through automation. An Epson robot let us greatly increase accuracy Voice of the Customer and workability, leading to higher profit Until a couple years ago, I had a large crew of people on our cell phone assembly line whose job was to stare through a microscope as they installed cushions. The job was hard on people. They had to install a cushion every four seconds, with an accuracy of 0.2 to 0.3 millimeters, but the defect rate would rise when their eyes got tired. As it become tougher to hire workers, productivity fell and proﬁts stagnated. It was at that point that we decided to automate the task with an Epson robot. We found that the robot could install one cushion every 1.5 seconds and do so with 0.05-millimeter accuracy. Our proﬁts rose, and I am extremely grateful to Epson for the tremendous support. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 15 Smart Receipt Printer + iPad/iPhone* POS Ordering System A TM-T70-i smart receipt printer is installed in the lounge. Ordering terminal in the Yahoo! Dome VIP “Super Box” A TM-T90KP kitchen printer is installed in the kitchen. Web Server Access Point Demand has been rising for systems that utilize generic smart terminals and web-based services as retailers and restaurants try to earn style points and boost sales while reducing equipment maintenance and operator training costs. Epson's smart receipt printers, which simplify ordering and receipt printing by directly exchanging data with Web applications, are the perfect solution. The Fukuoka Yahoo! Japan Dome has a system that allows people in the box seats to use an iPad to order food and drinks. Orders are sent to a smart receipt printer installed in the lounge. The printer communicates with a Web application to perform integrated control of the system and print out receipts in the lounge and orders in the kitchen. * iPad is a registered trademark of Apple Inc. iPhone is a registered trademark of Apple Inc. in the U.S. and various other countries. Voice of the Customer We feel Epson’s smart receipt printers provide advantages in terms of versatility and operating costs We had been using Epson receipt printers in our earlier system, so we trusted Epson to provide durable equipment and perform periodic maintenance. The decisive factor in choosing our new Mr. Koji Tabuchi Fukuoka Softbank Hawks iPad/iPhone POS ordering system was the inclusion of a server-direct printing function in the Marketing Corporation smart receipt printer. Since the printer periodically downloads printing data from the Web server, it does not depend on a particular OS or require drivers to be installed, so equipment administration is a snap. The ability to place orders on a variety of smart terminals, such as the iPad and iPhone, gives Epson’s printers advantages in terms of both versatility and operating costs. Epson is committed to responding quickly to technological and social changes, and delivering products and services that exceed customer expectations. The values embedded in the Exceed Your Vision global tagline form the basis for the Employee Mission Statement, which states that we, as Epson employees, are always prepared to exceed our own vision and expectations, and to produce results that bring surprise and delight to our customers. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 16 Feature 2 Disaster Response and Manufacturing Continuity Photo taken from the roof of Epson Atmix Disaster Response and Manufacturing Continuity The earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan in 2011 robbed thousands of people of their lives and left Akita Epson Corp. Epson Atmix Corp. catastrophic damage. Epson did not escape unscathed, (Yuzawa, Akita) (Hachinohe, Aomori) but through teamwork and a fast response, we were able Tohoku Epson Corp. to quickly restore production and limit losses. (Sakata, Yamagata) Epson Toyocom Corp. Fukushima Plant (Minamisoma, Fukushima) Caring for Employees and Their Families in Fukushima Epson, which had four large production sites in the were living within 30 kilometers of the nuclear power disaster-stricken Tohoku region, suffered serious losses plant, taking them ﬁrst to the Sakata Plant in Yamagata and damage in the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami. prefecture and then on to Suwa, in Nagano prefecture. Most tragically, we lost one of our employees to the disaster, while buildings and facilities were also damaged We also provided both physical and emotional care to and production halted. employees and their families, dispatchEpson Toyocom's Fukushima Plant, located within the ing a physician and evacuation zone surrounding the stricken Fukushima Dainurses to the evacuichi Nuclear Power Plant, was hit particularly hard and ation site to conduct had to be closed. health checkups and, where needed, In the immediate aftermath of the disaster we evacuated arranging for further 93 employees and their families (20 families in all) who care at hospitals and Employees and families being moved by bus clinics. Rapid Restoration of Production Epson Atmix, a metal powder manufacturer located near The recovery team scraped together white boards and the coast in Aomori prefecture, was rocked by the magniﬁlled them with information on progress being made in tude 9.0 earthquake and, about two hours later, struck by mud and debris removal, power restoration, motor repair, the tsunami, which swept overland and inundated the site and so forth to keep employees as well-informed as posand more than half the buildings in a meter of seawater sible and to help ease their anxiety. and debris. After power was restored on March 31, a heavily damOn March 13th, with all lifelines down, Akita Epson and aged electric furnace used in producing metal powders the Seiko Epson Head Ofﬁce delivered aid in the form of was ﬁred back up, enabling production to resume by food, generators, heaters, fuel, and other supplies. April 15, a remarkable one month after the tsunami, and considerably sooner than surrounding factories. Employees soon began digging the site out of the mud and restoring transformers and production equipment to service. Restoration of inundated equipment Bulletins on a whiteboard Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 17 Manufacturing Continuity Initiatives The disaster in Japan focused attention on the impormanaging our procurement risks, developing alternative tance of having a global supply chain. Epson’s manufacsuppliers and components, and keeping strategic inventuring operations were directly impacted by the disaster, tory, etc.) and periodically auditing the BCPs of suppliers which brought production lines to a standstill. Fortunately, in the supply chain. however, the preparations we had in place, such as supply chain maps, functioned effectively when we began mobilizing to restore production. Preparations were not, however, complete, and so we used what we learned to bolster future disaster readiness by preparing, updating, and improving our own business continuity plans (BCPs) for each business (identifying and Production control & procurement committee meets regularly Wall Newspapers Children displaced by the disaster and living in shelters in the city of Kesennuma started issuing a handwritten and hand-drawn newspaper that they posted on shelter walls in an effort to lift the spirits of other evacuees. (Currently, 50 issues have been published.) These wall newspapers drew a big response when photos of them were displayed at a disaster reconstruction event sponsored by Re-create Expo, an NPO set up after the March 31 earthquake. However, the newspapers are created primarily with pencils and highlighter pens on paper that deteriorates over time. Not wanting to see these newspapers lost to time, a person familiar with Epson’s experience in creating digital archives of artworks contacted us and asked if we would produce replicas of these 50 issues of the newspaper for posterity. Epson, of course, agreed and created replicas that were formally presented to the young publishers at an event in December 2011. Some copies of the replicas were also presented to the headquarters of Issue No. 50 of the wall newspaper UNESCO and local schools on the outskirts of Paris, France. Copyright © 2012 Fight Shimbun All Rights Reserved. Employee Volunteer Report Like a lot of people, I wanted to do something to help those affected most by the disaster. First, I joined in the Tohoku cleanup effort. Later, I took advantage of Epson’s expanded well-being leave program to participate in the Kesennuma Oshima Support Project, a program supported by my local social welfare council and an NPO. Debris removal (Kesennuma) I will never forget how grateful the locals were while I was in Tohoku volunteering. Just the presence of people from other prefectures who were willing to help seemed to encourage them to carry on. I found myself inspired by these people, who, despite their hardships, made me feel that even my small contribution was making a difference. My experiences as a volunteer got me thinking about the ties that bind people and communities together, and I want to continue to do what I can to help. Well-being leave http://global.epson.com/SR/our_people/fair_working/index.html#well_being_leave Kaori Iijima Epson Sales Japan Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 18 Management Trust-Based Management Fulﬁlling our corporate social responsibility means behaving with integrity and building trust Building Trust Principles of Corporate Behavior 1 Acting ethically, building trust Trust is the bedrock of business. Our mission is to build We will abide by the law and conduct all our business with high ethical standards. stakeholder trust as we grow and prosper with commu2 Protecting people, assets, and information nities and to help to create a better world. To this end, We will maintain systems to provide the security of people and we strive to practice the corporate values preached in all corporate assets, and will be prudent in handling information. Epson's Management Philosophy, maintain legal and 3 Pursuing customer satisfaction We will keep the customer in mind at all times and make the regulatory compliance, adhere to the highest standards quality of our products and services our highest priority. for business ethics, and create value that exceeds the exFrom the quality assurance efforts of each employee to the quality of our company as a whole, we will devote ourselves to pectations of our customers. creating products and services that please our customers and earn their trust. 4 Creating a safe, healthy, and fair workplace Principles of Corporate Behavior and We will respect fundamental human rights and facilitate a fair, Epson Code of Conduct safe, healthy and pleasant work environment. 5 Fostering diverse values and teamwork Epson’s Principles of Corporate Behavior, which applies We will draw strength from our diversity, creating a positive to the entire Epson Group, sets forth nine core principles synergy between the individual and the company. 6 Co-creating with our business partners for fulﬁlling corporate social responsibility and building We will expect our business partners to live up to the same trust. The Epson Code of Conduct, established in 2006 ethical standards we observe and aim to work together to our mutual beneﬁt while respecting applicable laws and our and based on these principles, clearly describes the mutually independent business strategies and stances. conduct required of all Epson employees. We revised the 7 Initiating honest dialogue with our stakeholders code in 2009 to further enhance awareness and underWe will maintain open lines of communication with our stakeholders, thoughtfully considering their views and suggestions. standing. 8 Prospering with the community We will actively contribute to the communities in which we The graphic below illustrates the nine core principles that operate, as well as the international community, facilitating mutually beneﬁcial relationships. form the foundations of business and help build trust 9 Preserving the natural environment through good CSR practice. We will integrate environmental considerations into our corporate activities and actively strive to meet high conservation standards in fulﬁlling our responsibilities as a good corporate citizen. Customers Global environment Shareholders/investors Principles of Corporate Behavior http://global.epson.com/company/epson_way/principle/index.html Government Local communities NGOs/NPOs Employees Suppliers Trust-Based Management = CSR Management Preserving the natural Acting ethically, Protecting people, Pursuing customer Prospering with the Creating a safe, healthy Initiating honest dialogue Co-creating with our Fostering diverse values building trust satisfaction Community business partners environment assets, and information and fair workplace and teamwork with our stakeholders The Epson Code of Conduct, Principles of Corporate Behavior, and Interpreting the Management Philosophy Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 19 Realizing Our Management Philosophy Last year, 2011, was a time of tremendous upheaval. In addition to the effects of the disasters in Japan and Thailand, an historically high yen, political unrest in the Middle East, and the European ﬁnancial crisis made for stiff economic headwinds. While we responded to each of these events as best we could, we sometimes came up short. We will use the lessons learned to better fulﬁll our responsibilities to our customers in the future. Before getting to work on the SE15 Mid-Range Business Plan (FY2012-14), we launched a program to reafﬁrm the meaning behind the Management Philosophy. As part of this program, Epson employees discussed how their jobs create value for customers and reafﬁrmed our social mission, which is to better ourselves and engage in and accomplish challenging and creative endeavors to provide products and services that surprise and delight our customers. Practicing our corporate values so as to build trust and contribute to society through our business activities is our primary social responsibility. Principles of Corporate Behavior was created to help ensure that we do so continuously. We will maintain integrity by respecting the recommendations for socially responsible corporate conduct set forth in standards and guidelines such as ISO 26000 and OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, to continue to be an indispensable company that is trusted Masahiro Koyama, general manager of CSR and Risk Mgmt. throughout the world. General Affairs Dept. The Trust-Building Organization Trust-Building Exercises The heads of Epson’s divisions build trust in the business Epson has numerous programs and activities to promote units and subsidiary companies they oversee based on socially responsible, trust-building conduct among emEpson’s Principles of Corporate Behavior. Meanwhile, ployees. For example, we hold special events during the corporate departments work with and support the divimonths designated as CSR Month, Information Security sions on projects that span the entire Group. Enhancement Month, Environmental Awareness Month, and CS & Quality Assurance Month. We also provide levelEpson’s Trust-Based Management Council, which is based CSR training, educate personnel on antitrust issues, chaired by the president of Seiko Epson and whose and offer a wide range of online learning opportunities. members include all Seiko Epson directors, statutory auditors, and the general administrative manager of the CSR Month Seiko Epson Audit Ofﬁce, assesses whether the Epson October is CSR Month at Epson, a time for reﬂecting on Group is fulﬁlling and steadily improving its corporate the kind of conduct that builds stakeholder trust. In 2011, social responsibility. employees were asked to read a pamphlet titled “Interpreting the Management Philosophy” and discuss how The council reviews important CSR themes and issues, the the philosophy relates to their jobs. They also met to such as the actual practice of Epson’s Principles of Corpodiscuss key elements of the Epson Code of Conduct. rate Behavior, compliance and risk management, and the readiness of internal control systems. When weaknesses After the end of CSR Month, we conducted a survey to are found, the council discusses such countermeasures ﬁnd out what was discussed in each department and what as are needed. The Trust-Based Management Council employees are thinking. We shared this information with all met quarterly in FY2011. employees as a way to help build awareness and trust. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 20 Management Roundtables The United Nations Global Compact Seiko Epson’s president has been holding roundtable discussions with groups of managers at Epson Group As stated in our Management Philosophy, Epson aspires business sites in Japan since 2009. In 2011, the topic of to be “a progressive company, trusted throughout the these discussions (27 in all) was Epson’s Management world.” We want to be a company on which customPhilosophy. ers and society always depend, a company that grows along with society. To achieve this, we must take it upon One of the participants, Yoshihiro Umetani, commented, ourselves to conduct business in line with universally ac“The discussions were constructive. President Usui cepted principles of conduct. talked very persuasively about the deeper meaning of the Management PhilosoEpson has participated in the United Nations Global phy and what he expects of Compact since 2004. We have pledged to uphold the 10 middle managers, so it was a principles of the Global Compact and independently drive good opportunity to look back initiatives in the areas of human rights, labor, environment on my own job from a broader and anti-corruption. We continue to analyze issues and perspective and make some challenges and strive to improve. changes.” Yoshihiro Umetani, manager Epson Sales Japan Epson’s Principles of Corporate Behavior, developed After gaining a deeper understanding of the Managebased on the 10 GC principles, describes standards ment Philosophy, managers held similar discussions with of conduct that will enable us to achieve the corporate the people in their respective departments to promote mission and vision. The Epson Code of Conduct further the same values and to build the teamwork necessary to breaks these principles down into clear standards of create customer value. behavior for Epson employees. As a member of the Supply Chain Subcommittee of the Global Compact Japan Network, Epson presented study ﬁndings about the importance of social responsibility across the supply chain at the 2011 JapanChina-Korea RoundRoundtable discussion (Seiko Epson Head Ofﬁce) table Conference. U.N. Global Compact Initiatives http://global.epson.com/SR/un_global_compact/index.html ● Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and Epson United Nations Global Compact Principle 1: Support and respect human rights Principle 2: Do not be complicit in human rights abuses Principles of Principle 3: Uphold freedom of association and collective bargaining Principle 4: Eliminate forced labor Epson Code Principle 5: Effectively eliminate child labor Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in employement of Conduct Corporate Behavior Principle 7: Take a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility Principle 9: Develop and diffuse environmentally friendly technologies Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 21 Meeting Challenges with Innovative and Creative Solutions FY2011 CSR Initiatives Epson seeks to build trusting relationships with all stakeholders and to grow and prosper with communities by practicing socially responsible “trust-based management.” Epson’s 2011 CSR initiatives were oriented around the ﬁve tenets of the Epson Management Philosophy. Commitment to Customer Satisfaction 23 – 28 Epson constantly strives to create customer value. Commitment to Environmental Conservation 29 – 46 Epson engages in various environmental initiatives. Individuality and Teamwork 47 – 52 Epson values its employees. Trusted by People Worldwide 53 – 58 Epson practices organizational governance. Prospering with the Community 59 – 66 Epson contributes to the communities in which it operates. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 22 Customer Commitment Commitment to Customer Satisfaction We will keep the customer in mind at all times and make the quality of our products and services our highest priority. From the quality assurance efforts of each employee to the quality of our company as a whole, we will devote ourselves to creating products and services that please our customers and earn their trust. CS & Quality Vision Quality Policy Epson established its Quality Policy as a guide for achiev1. We will solve problems by directly observing all of ing customer satisfaction, one of the core commitments our operations and processes.1 included in Epson's Management Philosophy, and as 2. We will quickly complete the Plan, Do, Check & Act a means to ingrain customer-centric behavior within (PDCA) cycle in all situations. 3. We will thoroughly analyze any failures, and establish the corporate culture. Day-to-day decision-making and procedures based on that analysis, so that conduct are guided by the SE15 CS / Quality Midterm mistakes are never repeated. Action Guidelines, which Epson established in 2009. 4. We will proactively consider our customers’ satisfaction so they will genuinely prefer purchasing In line with these guidelines, product planners and design Epson products and feel conﬁdent using them.2 engineers directly visit, observe, and listen to customers 5. We will seize the opportunity presented by customer to gather information on customer needs and problems, comments and complaints to inform our decisions which is then used to provide customer-pleasing products when designing new products. and services. Initiatives aimed at achieving 100% confor6. We will readily report even negative information. mance begin at the development and design engineering 7. We will foster a climate in which attention is paid to stages. By identifying problems early and addressing their even the most commonplace events. root causes, we can build quality into products instead of 1 We practice sangen shugi, a philosophy that emphasizes the importance of going to relying on inspection at the end of the production process. the actual site of a problem, observing ﬁrsthand the actual situation, and making decisions based on the facts. 2 We practice “wow CS,” which focuses not only on basic product performance but on adding value that delights and impresses customers beyond their expectations. We will continue to emphasize a conscious approach to identifying genuine customer value and to building that value into the products and services we deliver. SE15 CS/Quality Mid-Term Action Guidelines Basic Policy (CS Quality Statement) Create products and offer services ﬁt for the people closest to us Overall Vision (Creating Customer Value) Customer Collect ect feedback information / Create value resources Deliver Customers Create Products / services Customer value Produce Deliver value Share value Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 23 Customer Satisfaction The GP-C800 Color Business Inkjet Printer In Taiwan most hospitals and clinics dispense medicines Epson uses its technology to create unique materials that in a bag made from fanfold paper. A dot-matrix printer is are used in a variety of industries and to create solutions used to print dosage information and other instructions on to customers’ problems. the bags. Hospitals and pharmacies wanted to be able to print a large volume of prescription bags quickly and quietly Development of Ultra-ﬁne Magnetic Powder without paper jams. They Metal powders are materials that are used to inexpenalso wanted to print color sively mass-produce metal components with complicated photos of medicines on shapes. Within this highly competitive market, Epson the bags to ensure that paAtmix Corporation, an Epson Group company, has estabtients correctly identify the lished technology for manufacturing magnetic metal powmedicines. Epson realized ders. These magnetic powders, which have no rival when it could solve the customPrescription bag used in Taiwan it comes to the ﬁneness of the grains, make it possible to ers’ problems by developproduce extremely small and high-performance compoing an inkjet printer capable of handling fanfold paper. nents that are used in an expanding range of applications, from PCs and smartphones to solar power generators, electric vehicles, and low-power home electronics. GP-C800 Magnetic powders SMD coils used as electronic components Usability was another high priority. To maximize ease of in notebook PCs and other products use, product designers modiﬁed the size and placement Epson Atmix acquired the knowledge and expertise that of buttons so that they would be easier to operate while would enable them to unearth industry needs by directly wearing gloves. They increased the amount of ink onengaging in dialog with players in the metal powder indusboard so that cartridges would have to be replaced less try and with component manufacturers in the electronics, frequently. Epson developed automotive, and other industries. These conversations a new mechanism that convinced Epson Atmix of the strong need for ultra-ﬁne protects the print head from magnetic powders that only Epson could provide. paper dust and sharply increases its durability. Thanks Moreover, since magnetic powders can be mixed with to this innovation, these printOperation panel designed for usability other materials to develop applications such as magnetic ers deliver up to 1.2 million total prints.1 shield materials and magnetic ﬂuids, we see growing opportunities to provide customer value. The GP-C800, which combines traditional Epson strengths in dot-matrix printers (the fanfold paper feeding mechanism) and inkjet printers (fast, high-quality prints), is the product of a close partnership with customers, whose comments and ideas led to innumerable modiﬁcations and improvements. Today, the printer is being used not only by hospitals and clinics in Taiwan but by courier services and retailers in China, as well as by customers in various industries for other applications. 1 When using paper the same size (6.5 x 7.5 inches) as that used for pharmaceuMembers of R&D discussing components of magnetic powders tical bags in Taiwan Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 24 Customer Commitment Design-by-Customer Approach Epson has product design departments around the world. Our designers visit customers on-site to learn about their problems and wishes, and to identify ways we can make future products easier to use. Ofﬁce inkjet with Home inkjet with ﬁxed paper trays stowable paper trays Case Study 1: Office Printer Housing Color A survey conducted by Epson showed that the requirements and wishes of printer users in North America, Isao Sakamaki of Epson’s European where home ofﬁces are commonplace, are different from design department says, “We try to those in other regions. One of the differences was that, gather as much feedback as poswhereas white is generally considered to be the color sible from customers in Europe, of choice for ofﬁce equipment in other markets, many the Middle East, and Africa, and to North Americans strongly prefer black. This discovery led design our products to ﬁt their use.” Epson to develop black ofﬁce printers. Epson collects information about Isao Sakamaki European design dept. how products are used around the world, shares that information with other departments from the product planning and development phases, and sets clear design quality objectives. We also build prototypes to repeatedly verify the quality of designs so that we come up with products that not only are visually Customer requests led to new The same model in white appealing but are also easy to use. black ofﬁce inkjets Kenji Yanagisawa of Epson’s American design department says, “The information we gathered by going out into the ﬁeld and talking to and Employee Monitor Program observing customers is invaluable to our development efforts for the Epson has a monitor program in which employees and North American market. Going fortheir family members can participate. Persons regisward, we intend to do an even better tered as monitors evaluate products not as employees job of thinking like a customer and but as customers. The objective is to identify ways to designing products to meet their improve product usability, quality, and design. wishes, whatever they may be.” Kenji Yanagisawa U.S. design dept. In the 2011 ﬁscal year Epson had 605 registered moniCase Study 2: Fixed and Stowable Designs tors. The monitors evaluated nine products, including When we visited customers who use our ofﬁce printers, printers, projectors, and watches. We use the feedwe noticed that paper trays and operating panels were back from monitors to improve things such as user often left open. This suggested two things: 1) the impormanual readability and product usability. tance of being able to use the printer without any setup; and 2) the value of a design that makes the printer look clean, uncluttered, and solid during use. Conversely, a lot of home printer users told us that they would prefer a printer with trays and so forth that can be closed up so that the printer ﬁts easily on a shelf when not in use. Given these different wishes, we took a different design Monitors evaluating products approach for business and consumer printers. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 25 Sales Service & Support Photo Seminars EpSITE1 offers various lectures and hands-on seminars, Epson strives to improve customer satisfaction by providsome free and some for a nominal fee, to teach customing after-sale service and support that customers know ers things such as simple printer operations, tricks to imthey can count on. The company also holds seminars to prove their prints, and other practical skills. In one lecture, teach customers how to properly use their products and for example, customers learned techniques for restoring to suggest ideas for exciting new ways to use them. old, faded prints and ﬁlm using scanners and multifunction printers. Many participants are surprised at how easService Personnel Skills Competition ily this can be accomplished with Epson products. Every year Epson Sales Japan holds a skills competition 1 EpSITE is the name of an imaging gallery in Tokyo with space for activities such as for service personnel who repair Epson equipment in the photo exhibits, product demonstrations, and courses for photo printing. ﬁeld, at customer sites. In 2011, with the goal of improving service and maximizing customer value of Epson products, 12 of our top servicepersons from around Japan were selected to compete in a qualifying round. The top three ﬁnishers moved on to the ﬁnals. The contestants perform service and repair work under the watchful eyes of judges. They are judged not only on their repair skills but on the neatness of their personal appearance, orderliness, ability to correctly diagnose problems, and skill at communicating with customers, all factors that encourCourse in faded photo restoration age customer loyalty. Said one employee who observed the competition, “The contestants demonstrated excellent interpersonal skills and an amazing ability to ﬂexibly adapt to changing situations. These types of servicepersons are a huge asset for Epson because service calls are a valuable opportunity Awards for After-Sale Service to communicate with customers.” In 2011, Nikkei Business ranked Epson Direct CorpoDaisuke Hiyamizu, an employee of a service partner comration No. 1 in after-sale service satisfaction, in the PC pany and ﬁscal 2011 champion, said, “Until the competicategory, for the seventh consecutive year. tion was over, I didn’t think I stood a chance, As a direct link between customers and Epson, Epson so I am thrilled. The Direct is always looking to improve service to ensure competition was a great that customers remain satisﬁed with their purchases. learning experience, and In addition to offering one-day service and online supI am honored to have port tips, Epson Direct is striving to further enhance been chosen as the service so that customers can use their Epson prodwinner. A serviceperucts faster, longer, and with more conﬁdence. son’s job is to maximize customer satisfaction in the ﬁeld. I look forward to applying what I’ve FY2011 Service Personnel Skills Competition champion Daisuke Hiyamizu learned through this experience to satisfy customers.” Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 26 Customer Commitment Quality Improvement Program “CS & Quality Month” Programs Epson has designated November as CS & Quality Month. We take a variety of steps to ensure that the company’s During the month we reassess, for example, whether our focus remains on quality, so that our customers receive day-to-day quality improveonly products that conform 100% to requirements. ment activities are aligned with our goal of achieving E-KAIZEN Activities 100% conformance and E-KAIZEN activities are carried out by teams across the whether we have an effeccompany to maximize teamwork and increase quality. tive mechanism for incorEvery year a worldwide E-KAIZEN team presentations porating the voice of the convention is held in Japan to provide our people with an customer and past experiopportunity to learn from one another and to foster the ence into the product and ability to accomplish ever more ambitious goals. In 2011, a services. We have chosen total of 27 teams from nine countries presented their activitwo of those activities to ties at the convention. present here. In-house poster for CS & Quality Month This year’s gold prize winner was a team from Indonesia Case Study 1: Roundtable Discussions that achieved Teams in the workplace held roundtable discussions to signiﬁcant imtalk about obstacles to achieving 100% conformance and provements in the how to remove them. quality of inkjet printer heads. Design engineering teams discussed what they need to The team caredo to ensure that they correctly understand and incorpofully observed rate customer usability requirements in products. Sales and analyzed and marketing teams discussed actions they need to take manufacturing E-KAIZEN team from Indonesia to ensure that the voice of the customer is communicated processes and to Product Planning in a timely manner. Teams in adminline staff movements to identify problems with the way istrative departments, meanwhile, talked about how they piezoelectric elements were being handled and with the can better support operations. tools used to handle them. They used their ﬁndings to improve both processes and tools, thereby reducing the deCase Study 2: Case Study Presentations fect rate on their line. They then went a step further and To establish a mechanism for building quality in from the contacted Engineering, which effected the same changes development and design stages, Epson provided a venue on other lines within a month. These efforts were instruat which operations divisions can present their activities mental in stabilizing manufacturing. and learn from others. Participants presented and discussed ongoing innovations in product commercialization processes, efforts to improve the customer value creation process, and ways to raise productivity. Poster summarizing the gold prize-winning team’s activities in Indonesian Presentation of design quality improvement activities Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 27 Product Safety Product Information Security Initiatives With the growth and expansion of networks, both busiEpson applies its Quality Management Regulation and ness and consumer products are commonly equipped Product Safety Management Regulation globally to realize with network connectivity. While network connectivity is a uniform level of product quality. We strive to ensure cusconvenient, it also presents security risks, with systems tomer safety and security with the Epson Quality Standard, being subject to the threat of attacks, falsiﬁcation of data, which speciﬁes far-reaching product safety and environand the leak of conﬁdential information by third parties mental requirements to be met by Epson and its suppliers. with malicious intent. These self-imposed standards meet or exceed the legal and regulatory requirements of countries and regions. To counter such threats, Epson has established and implements quality standards to ensure security and eliminate Basic Policy on Product Safety vulnerabilities not only in the built-in software of networkEpson recognizes the importance of product safety in winenabled products but also in drivers and other software. ning customer trust. That is why we established our Basic Policy on Product Safety and are extremely proactive in Rapid Response to Product Incidents ensuring product safety in line with our commitment to cusWhenever a safety incident occurs, we immediately issue tomer satisfaction set forth in the Management Philosophy. a preliminary report using a Quality Crisis Management (QCM) system that spans the entire Epson Group. The Product Safety Initiatives QCM system quickly delivers the information to relevant Epson makes every effort to ensure that its products are personnel and, depending on the seriousness of the safe. We use analytic techniques learned and honed over incident, to the chief executive. Then, putting the needs the years to analyze safety incidents reported by customof our customers ﬁrst, we analyze the cause, develop ers and to determine the root cause. The lessons learned countermeasures, announce the incident to the public, are shared throughout the Epson Group to prevent recurprovide market support, and submit to outside agencies rences of similar incidents. We have also installed equipthe reports and notiﬁcations required by product safety ment and instruments in our laboratories to measure sublaws and regulations, such as Japan’s Consumer Product stances thought to cause sick house syndrome. Using Safety Act. these facilities, we test our products against our strict, independent standards to make sure that our products ● Epson Product Incident Response Process are safe and secure. Product incident occurs The QCM system directly delivers news Inquiry and reports on product incidents that occur anywhere in the world to We also provide product safety training for all employees Sales companies and corporate headquarters, market support departments operations divisions, and build intrinsic safety into our products by eliminating Entry into QCM system and the chief executive based on signiﬁcance. hazards at the product planning and design stages and QCM system by making sure the products are safe even if misused. Delivery Delivery Delivery Division/Afﬁliate Chief executive quality assurance Corporate HQ Sales company department Katsuhiro Yoshimitsu of the Material Analysis & Research Quality Assurance Service & Support Report Cause analysis Center says, “Our mission is to deliver safe, secure prodassessment Legal Affairs Legal Affairs and approval Countermeasure ucts to our customers. As part of that mission, we evaluate planning Public Relations Public Relations Reporting decision Other related depts. Other related depts. products to make sure that customers are not affected Issue reports, share information, respond Reports Appropriate release of information by volatilized chemical sub& notiﬁcations & market support stances. We are also trying Outside agencies Customers to achieve a higher level of Important product safety notices (in Japanese) product safety assurance http://www.epson.jp/info/ by, for example, improving (Epson did not issue any important product safety notices in the Japanese techniques for quantitatively market in FY2011) Katsuhiro Yoshimitsu analyzing volatile substances.” Material Analysis & Research Center Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 28 Commitment to Environmental Conservation Preserving the Natural Environment We integrate environmental considerations into our corporate activities and actively strive to meet high conservation standards in fulﬁlling our responsibilities as a good corporate citizen. Environmental Approach Vision 2050, a document that sets forth what it will take for us as a company to halt environmental degradation Epson carries out environmental programs under uniform and build a sustainable society. Reductions of CO2 emisstandards and goals in every country and region of the sions and conservation of biodiversity are the main pillars world. Our basic environmental stance is set forth in Epof the vision, which is based on the premise that the son Principles of Corporate Behavior and in the Environcarrying capacity of the Earth should be divided evenly mental Policy. In 2008, Epson established Environmental among all people. Environmental Vision 2050 Recognizing that the Earth’s carrying capacity is limited and believing that everyone must share responsibility for reducing environmental impacts equally, Epson is aiming to reduce CO2 emissions by 90% across the life cycle of all products and services by the year 2050. At the same time, as a member of the ecosystem, Epson will continue to work towards restoring and protecting biodiversity together with local communities. Environmental Policy Detailed outline of Environmental Vision 2050 http://global.epson.com/SR/environment/vision/environment_policy.html http://global.epson.com/SR/environment/vision/vision2050_index.html SE15 Mid-Term Environmental Policy in April 2010 and updated in March 2012, the policy maps To achieve our environmental vision, we set certain mileout actions to meet the environmental challenges identistones and are ﬁlling the gaps between where we are and ﬁed in the SE15 Long-Range Corporate Vision. These where we want to be. The SE15 Mid-Term Environmental environmental action policies form an integral part of our Policy set forth the ﬁrst of these milestones. Established business strategies. SE15 Mid-Term Environmental Policy SE15 Environmental Statement Provide customer value by using our compact, energy-saving, high-precision technologies to reduce our environmental impacts across all areas of operations, from our products and services to our sales and manufacturing activities. The 2015 Environmental Goals New perspective: Challenging ourselves to create new environmental value Going beyond only reducing the environmental impacts of products themselves, Epson proposes new products, services, functions, and uses that change the behavior and businesses of customers. Products & production: Halving of life cycle environmental impacts Products Create compelling, customer-pleasing products that have a 50% lower impact across their life cycles by making them smaller and lighter, reducing their power requirements, designing them for easy recycling, and extending their service life. Production Achieve efﬁcient, low-impact production processes that will provide underlying support for greener products in conjunction with programs that reduce total costs and raise quality. Environmental community: Fostering of an environmental community We are challenging ourselves to achieve new socially and economically sustainable practices through environmental community action centered on products and services. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 29 Achieving Environmental Vision 2050 The 2050 vision will be achieved through business activiWe took a backcasting1 approach in creating Environties. Examining future businesses through the prism of mental Vision 2050. In other words, we developed a Environmental Vision 2050 reveals clues about how busivision of how Epson should be in the future and then nesses and the company should be. The idea that we identiﬁed actions we need to take to arrive there. need to reduce our dependence on material goods will likely increase in importance. We continue to discuss our We are steadily reducing the environmental footprint of vision for Epson and are taking action toward its realizaour production plants. This will provide us with a plattion as we head far into the 2050 future. form from which to accelerate the mitigation of environ1 A planning technique in which a desired outcome or goal is envisioned and mental impacts with our products and services. We will planned before the scenario for achieving the outcome or goal is devised. also challenge ourselves to take new approaches to the reduction of environmental impacts. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 30 Commitment to Environmental Conservation Environmental Management tion against nonconformances. Our major business sites worldwide have acquired ISO 14001 certiﬁcation and are Epson manages its environmental performance so as to leveraging aspects of this international standard within achieve its ecological and economic objectives and to the EMS. Going forward, we will make EMS an even more help create a sustainable society. integral part of our businesses. ISO 14001 Certiﬁcation List Environmental Management System http://global.epson.com/SR/environment/reports/iso14001.html The business units that drive environmental activities in Epson establish environmental plans based on the SE15 Environmental Accounting Mid-Term Environmental Policy (page 29) and carry out In the year 2000, Epson designated environmental accountthe activities using an Environmental Management Sysing as an indicator for managing environmental actions. In tem (EMS). We conduct internal evaluations to check the dozen or so years that have passed since, there have performance against the plans and take corrective acbeen changes in way that companies approach environmental actions. We believe that delivering a reduced envi● Promotion System for Environmental Activities ronmental impact, in addition to environmental conservation, President is an increasingly important form of customer value. Environmental Managers’ In line with the environmental goals for 2015 outlined in the Environmental Director Meeting SE15 Mid-Term Environmental Policy, we will reduce the Group-Wide Projects and Subcommittees environmental impacts of our customers by investing approGeneral Manager of Global Environmental priate resources into environmental conservation. Global Environmental Policy Policy Department ● Environmental R&D Expenses Business Units Eco product R&D: 76.2% Operations Japan Overseas Division Subsidiary Subsidiary Energy-saving product R&D 35.2% COO Subsidiary President Eco-label compliance: 24.2% Subsidiary President GM of Environment GM of Environment 3R design: 10.1% ¥2,980 million Other eco product R&D: 6.7% Energy-saving process R&D: 18.4% Consolidated Consolidated Subsidiaries Overseas Subsidiaries in Japan Low-GHG process R&D: 4.3% Other eco process R&D: 1.1% • FY2011 Environmental Conservation Costs and Effects (millions of yen) Conservation Costs2 Savings Conservation Effects and Other Qualitative Effects Description Investment Expense Description Value Net3 Item Unit Value Creating and providing eco-products / 20 420 Energy conserved in the community 10,000 9,571 Recovering and recycling products through energy-saving products kWh “New approach”: Develop products that reduce the environmental Environmental R&D 0 2,980 impact of our customers through efﬁciencies and convenience Energy savings, GHG emissions CO2 reduction (energy saved + GHG Prevention of global warming 290 520 reduction 570 -50 reduction) t-CO2 28,299 Reducing eco-burden substances 0 110 Reduction in substances 0 110 Substance reduction t 0 Waste processing / recycling 0 770 Waste emissions reduction 360 410 Waste volume reduction t 4,338 Effective use of water 10 110 Reduction in water, effect of recycling 160 -50 Water reduced or recycled 1,000 1,629 m3 Sharing environmental data, contributing to Community engagement (exhibitions, lectures, local cleanup, etc.) regional/international conservation 0 60 Information disclosure (Sustainability Report, website, etc.) Compliance (pollution control, etc.), greening, beautiﬁcation 140 230 Legal/regulatory violations: 1 Support for soil and groundwater Soil and groundwater cleanup, etc. 0 60 cleanup, etc. Continually improving environmental Environmental basic, internal environmental auditor, and management 0 120 Savings through internal training 360 -240 environmental specialist training Total 480 5,430 1,450 Conservation costs to sales ratio (%)1 0.6% Note: We tabulate figures using internal guidelines created based on the Environmental Accounting Guideline of the Ministry of the Environment (FY2005). The scope of accounting covers Seiko Epson, 16 subsidiaries in Japan and 20 subsidiaries overseas. The companies included are those that collect environmental accounting data and are ISO 14001 certiﬁed. 1 Calculation of per unit of sales uses Epson Group’s consolidated sales. 2 Figures have been rounded off, so the sums of the figures and the totals may not match. 3 Net environmental conservation costs are derived by subtracting economic effects from total environmental conservation costs. Negative figures represent profit generated as a result of measures taken. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 31 FY2011 Results to achieve the 2015 environmental goals. These actions, which were tightly intertwined with their respective Epson introduced the SE15 Mid-Term Environmental businesses, led to numerous achievements such as the Policy in ﬁscal 2010. In line with the policy, which is tightly development of products with lower life cycle impacts bound to Epson’s business strategies, we are reducing and the expansion of recyclable services. A variety of acthe environmental impacts of our products and services. tions were also carried out in manufacturing, enabling the Epson Group as a whole to achieve its reduction targets. In ﬁscal 2011 each business unit drove its own actions The 2015 Environmental Goals FY2011 Results Halving of life cycle environmental Making products smaller, lighter and more energy efﬁcient impacts Example: In the consumer inkjet printer business, we reduced the life cycle CO2 of each Achieve customer satisfaction by aiming to product by 30% compared with ﬁscal 2006 by reducing the weight of the electronic unit create new products and services whose and of the product itself. environmental impacts across their life cycles are reduced by 50%. In the area of manufacturing, we reached our Group-wide FY2011 reduction targets. • CO2: 37% lower than in FY2006 ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• p. 39 • Emissions: 32% lower than in FY2006 ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• p. 40 • Water: 51% lower than in FY2006 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• p. 39 • PRTR substances: 26% lower than in FY2006 ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• p. 40 (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) • VOC: 31% lower than in FY2006 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• p. 40 (Volatile organic compounds) Expansion of recyclable products We expanded the used ink cartridge collection network through stronger cooperation with and services local governments in Japan as part of the Ink Cartridge Homecoming Project. A similar Expand the resource reuse and recycling program was also launched overseas in Singapore. ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• p. 38 loop by delivering new recyclable products We drafted a plan to expand the collection and reﬁlling of cartridges, and began recycling and services. and reusing ink cartridges in a joint project with other printer companies. ••••••••••••••• p. 37 Environmental applications of advanced technologies The battery-powered “Moverio BT-100” see-through mobile viewer is a new kind of We will be helping society mitigate its product that leads to a lower environmental impact by letting users enjoy a big-screen environmental impacts by pursuing experience no matter where they are. ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• p. 13 innovation in compact, energy-saving, The SureLab SL-D3000 digital minilab and the Epson Stylus Pro 4900 large-format inkjet high-precision technologies and applying printer help mitigate environmental impacts by streamlining customer workﬂows. •••••• p. 34 these technologies in various ﬁelds. Legal & regulatory compliance We are responding quickly and without fail We completed development of a Group-wide management system for E.U. REACH1 to new environmental regulations and compliance and will begin operation in ﬁscal 2012. social movements around the world. Fostering of an environmental community Our sales afﬁliate in Taiwan began the Green Talent Program aimed at local university We are trying new socially and economistudents. Students from Japan also participated. The participating students and media cally sustainable practices through enviprovided yet another way to communicate information. ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• p. 44 ronmental actions centered on products and services. 1 A European Union (EU) law on the safe use and handling of chemical substances Initiatives Starting in Fiscal 2012 that change the behavior and businesses of customers. Based on the establishment of the SE15 Mid-Range In our ﬁscal 2012 initiatives, we will explore new ways of Business Plan (FY2012-14), Epson revised the SE15 Middelivering a smaller environmental impact as a form of Term Environmental Policy to reﬂect the emphasis on the customer value from new, customer-centric perspectives. creation of new products, services, functions and uses Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 32 Commitment to Environmental Conservation Better Products for a Better Future Our environmental positioning statement, “Better Products for a Better Future,” expresses Epson’s commitment Epson contributes to reduced environmental impacts to taking steady, sensible steps to create better, greener through its products. We engage in ongoing efforts to and “eco-considerate” products. We will explore all improve the environmental performance of our products avenues to deliver the better products described in this and help achieve a sustainable society throughout the statement. world. The 2015 Environmental Goals A new perspective that Pro Products that deliver bettermakes customers’ lives greener ener thanthan-ever eco-performance and more convenient Contribute to a smaller environmental Contri footpr footprint by making products smaller and Mitigate the environmental impact of our customers with Epson’s innovative lighter lighter, by improving energy efficiency and by increasing recyclability. products and technologies. Revolutionizing Printing with Micro Piezo that use heat to ﬁre ink droplets. We will leverage these Micro Piezo technology, one of Epson’s three core techtechnological strengths to revolutionize printing in not nologies,1 is capable of accurately depositing precise only the home and enterprise markets but also the comvolumes of ink in exact locations. It also offers durability mercial and industrial areas. and ink compatibility superior to that of printing systems 1 The three core technologies are: Micro Piezo, 3LCD (HTPS) and QMEMS. ● Expanding Domains with Micro Piezo Technology Enterprise Emerging Markets Home Micro Business Sy Systems Piezo Use Micro Piezo technology to revolutionize printing in every domain Commercial Industrial Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 33 New Perspective Workﬂow Improvements with Remote Prooﬁng1 Prooﬁng is the process of checking the color and ﬁnish of Imagine a type of product that delivers more convenience a print before production printing takes place. The Epson and a lower environmental impact. This is Epson’s “new PX-H6000, a large-format printer aimed at the artwork perspective.” segment, has a remote prooﬁng function that lets users check the colors without having to go anywhere. In addiEfﬁcient Digital Photo Printing tion to shortening workﬂow time and lowering costs, this The SureLab SL-D3000, a digital minilab aimed at photo feature saves resources and conserves the energy that shops and studios, is easier to maintain than traditional would have been used to deliver the proofs. development methods. This advantage offers lower main1 This function lets you check the colors of the proof from a remote location by installing the new SpectroProofer colorimeter option. tenance costs while also helping to mitigate resource consumption and reduce the environmental impact of the printing process. PX-H6000 Eco Features • Saves power with auto-off (0.5 W or less while off) • Minimizes paper feed trouble with auto paper loading • Reduces wasted paper with auto nozzle checking and cleaning SureLab SL-D3000 ● Comparison of Processes Eco Features Conventional Process • No chemicals means no liquid waste • No washing process means no water hookup is needed Design studio Ad agency Client Printer Proof Proof Proof sheet sheet sheet checking checking checking Proof sheets returned ● Digital Minilab Advantages Prooﬁng process takes 7〜10 days. Easy maintenance Remote Process Internet Contributes to streamlined operations Design studio Ad agency Client ● Minimizes startup and Server Proof Proof Proof shutdown time sheet checking sheet checking sheet checking ● No special skills or Printer knowledge required PDF PDF PDF Eco considerate PDF transmission Minimizes environmental burden PDF Proof PDF returned by conserving resources Prooﬁng process takes 3〜5 days. ● No chemicals or liquid waste ● No wastewater Saves space These are not the only products that have been born from Can be installed our “new perspective.” The interactive projector (pages almost anywhere ● Compact body has a 2.1 m² 11-12) and see-through mobile viewer (page 13) that we installation footprint (without sorter option) introduced in the feature articles are also designed to ● No water hookup needed reduce the environmental impact of our customers and make their work and lives more convenient. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 34 Commitment to Environmental Conservation Products When procuring production materials, we give priority to materials with a low environmental impact. We have been Epson aims to deliver better-than-ever eco-performance applying a uniﬁed global standard for the procurement of by taking advantage of its technologies for producproduction materials since 2004 and have maintained a ing compact, precision products that save energy and green purchasing rate of 100% since then. resources in order to halve the life cycle environmental impact of its products. All of our products are shipped to a single global standard that complies with all regulatory requirements for chemical Basic Product Development Policy substances. And, even if not restricted by laws and reguEpson created a basic policy on product development lations, Epson actively looks to replace or eliminate subthat incorporates three eco principles: energy-saving stances that are thought to be harmful. Moving forward, design, elimination of harmful substances and resource we will continue to use our substance content framework saving. These principles are reﬂected in the various to thoroughly and efﬁciently meet our legal and societal frameworks and standards that we follow when making obligations, as well as the needs of our customers. products. Basic product development policies http://global.epson.com/SR/environment/lifecycle/ Major Eco Products Seiko Astron Low-Power Solar GPS Watch • EB-435W Ultra-Short Throw Projector Epson developed the world’s ﬁrst solar GPS watch. This impressive timepiece quickly captures satellite data to pinpoint its location and current time zone anywhere on the planet. The watch will see a simultaneous worldwide launch at the end of September 2012 by Seiko Watch Corporation. The ability to obtain Eco Features accurate time anywhere and any time is made pos• Standby power of 0.3 W, approximately 93% lower than the EB-410W from 2009 sible by a newly-developed GPS module aimed at • Power consumption per unit of brightness is approximately low-power, compact, high-precision solar watches. 15% lower than the EB-410W The new module uses only one-ﬁfth the power of Epson’s older models. • SureColor SC-S30600 Series Large-Format Printer SAST003 Eco Features Eco Features • GPS module uses only 1/5 the power of older models • Uses a low-odor solvent ink that does not contain carcino• Solar panel eliminates need for battery or external genic nickel compounds or speciﬁed ﬂuorine compounds1 charger 1 Refers to perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS) and perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) Note: Energy consumption figures hereafter are based on measurements taken in Japan. Product model numbers applicable only in Japan. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 35 • Endeavor ST160E Desktop Personal Computer 2 • WorkForce DS-30 Mobile Scanner Eco Features Eco Features 3 • Consumes only about 11.8 W of power during ordinary use • Lightest in class 325-gram compact body saves resources • Around 77% smaller than the Endeavor AT990E from 2011 • Can run on USB power alone—2.5 W during operation 2 3 Epson personal computers only sold in the Japanese market Portable sheet-feed scanners as of May 2012, according to Epson research The Compact Expression Home XP-400 The Expression Home XP-400 (for North America) was designed to be as small as possible at every stage, from the selection of the materials to the layout of the components. During this process, we even managed to boost the print speed of the new compact print heads. Here are some of the ways we created customer value. Note: Comparisons are with the Epson Stylus NX420 from 2010. Eco Development and Design Eco during Delivery Eco Print Head This product was designed with the life A smaller product means a smaller box When developing the new print head, cycle environmental impact in mind. and a smaller impact during transport. we also reduced the impact of the ● Resource-saving design ①1 20% higher pallet loading efﬁciency manufacturing process. 1 Optimum placement of parts ① ②2 40% higher container loading efﬁciency ● Smaller and lighter 54 units/pallet Compared with the 2005 head, the new Operational panel Old model head is 43% thinner, 41% lighter, and emits 1134 units/container XP-400 37% less CO2 over the life cycle 66 units/pallet Motherboard Old model 2 19% fewer parts ② XP-400 1584 units/container 3 Smaller board & ③ power supply unit Power supply unit is almost Old head (2005) New head 50% smaller Old model XP-400 ● Recyclable design ● Smaller impact during manufacturing 1 We developed a glossy textured molding ① ① 1 New energy-saving LED inspection lamps technique that eliminates the painting ② 2 Adhesive strength tested and optimized process and enables to eliminate waste easy recycling Expression Home XP-400 Eco Features New line-textured pattern Adhesive t39% smaller and 23% lighter 2 Mercury-free ② due to use of LED light tUses 44% less power per day ③ 3 Plastic scraps from molding are ground source for LCD and scanner t23% lower life cycle CO2 emissions down and mixed in with new material Eco during Use Eco Ink Cartridges The compact design ﬁts almost anywhere. We reduce environmental impacts in the 1 24% smaller footprint ① factory. 2 Power off timer reduces standby power use ② ①1 Energy-saving localized clean areas 3 Save paper with multi-page printing and ③ ②2 Water is removed from the waste ink Installation footprint and reused in the factory scan-to-PDF function Ink cartridge manufacturing process Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 36 Commitment to Environmental Conservation Product Collection and Recycling and members of the community. By April 2012, collecBuilding a recycling-oriented society requires businesses, tion boxes had been installed at every business site in government and consumers to cooperate in properly prothe Epson Group. The collected cartridges are recycled cessing used products. and Bellmark points are granted based on the number of cartridges collected. The points are then donated to the To comply with various regulatory requirements and conBellmark Educational Support Foundation, local schools, sumer needs throughout the world, Epson put in place a or schools that were damaged by natural disasters. global system for collecting and recycling not only ﬁnished products but also consumables. Epson currently collects and recycles consumables in 35 countries and regions. Joint Environmental Program In Japan, for example, Epson has supported the Bellmark Program with the collection of used ink and toner carIn April 2012, Epson, together with a company that tridges since 2004. Starting in October 2011, we began offers printing solutions, launched an environmental installing collection boxes at Epson business sites to program where used ink cartridges from coupon printcollect cartridges from employees, business partners, ers are collected and reﬁlled. Under the program, Epson collects used ink cartridges from nearly 30,000 inkjet coupon printers installed in retail stores around Japan. Epson then refurbishes and reﬁlls the cartridges for reuse at the stores. Except for the label, almost all parts of the cartridge are reused and product quality is managed just as it is for new cartridges. Hideaki Irikura, the person in charge of the program, Collection box at an Epson business site enthused, “we developed this color coupon printer under the assumption that the ink cartridges would be ● Regional Recycling System reused. This assumption Finished Product Voluntary Consumables allowed us to overcome Compliance Programs Programs the technical issues faced U.S. (by state) U.S. Sweden Canada (by province) by older models. Going Canada United Kingdom 27 EU member nations Columbia Norway forward, we hope to roll Norway Belgium Switzerland out this environmental Switzerland Czech Republic Turkey Japan (PCs only) Denmark China program to the rest of the South Korea Finland Hong Kong world.” Hideaki Irikura Taiwan France Japan Business System Planning & Australia South Korea Design Dept. Voluntary Finished Product Germany Taiwan Programs Greece Philippines China Hungary Singapore Hong Kong Ireland Australia Eco Beneﬁts1 Japan (business only) Italy South Africa • Life cycle environmental impact per cartridge Philippines Luxemburg reduced by 56% Indonesia Netherlands • CO2 emissions reduced by 39.5 tons per year Malaysia Poland Singapore Portugal Thailand Romania 1 Figures calculated under Epson’s test conditions. Compared with when users India Slovakia dispose of new ink cartridges after use. Australia Spain Chile Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 37 ● Collection Trends for Finished Products by Region Ink Cartridge Homecoming Project in (tons) 15,000 15,000 Singapore Europe 13,813 13,533 Americas 12,200 12,540 Epson Singapore Pte. Ltd (ESP), together with four Asia China 10,480 other printer manufacturers and in cooperation with 10,000 9,400 Japan the Singapore National Environment Agency and 7,030 National Library Board, began Project Homecoming to 6,310 5,700 5,820 collect ink and toner cartridges in Singapore. 5,000 Under the program, consumers will be able to deposit ink and toner cartridges from any manufacturer in col0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 lection boxes that were installed at 13 branches of the * Sum of amount actually collected and amount expected to be collected (FY) national library. The collected cartridges are separated * Collected either voluntarily or as mandated by local law into plastic and metal components, which are then recycled. This program reduces waste and leads to ● Collection of Ink & Toner Cartridges the reuse of precious resources. (tons) 5,000 Europe 4,668 Americas 4,260 4,150 4,070 4,000 Asia 3,900 China 3,510 3,330 Japan 3,142 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,510 1,370 1,000 0 ESP employees at the Project Homecoming media brieﬁng 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) * Amount actually collected Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 38 Commitment to Environmental Conservation Production for wastewater discharged from our factories. Chinese afﬁliate Tianjin Epson Co., Ltd. (TEL) treats 2,400 tons of Epson aims to achieve efﬁcient, low-impact production wastewater annually and uses it to wash equipment and processes that will provide underlying support for greener in humidiﬁers and cooling systems. products in conjunction with programs that reduce total costs and raise quality. ● Annual Water Usage Trend Global Warming Prevention (1000 m³) 18,000 17,319 Epson’s initiatives to prevent global warming revolve 16,484 around reducing CO2 emissions by conserving energy, 15,000 13,981 and reducing global emissions of greenhouse gases 12,768 12,000 other than CO2. In ﬁscal 2011, we set out to reduce 10,492 greenhouse gas emission by 28% compared with ﬁscal 8,456 9,000 2006 and achieved our worldwide target. 6,000 In February 2012, 14 Epson employees were recognized 3,000 with awards for energy management excellence. 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) ● Energy Management Awards in Fiscal 2011 Award1 Recipients Green Power Excellent Energy Conservation Manager Award 6 One of the ways Seiko Epson is trying to reduce its Excellent Energy Conservation Engineer Award 4 greenhouse gas emissions is by purchasing green enExcellent Energy Conservation Technician Award 4 ergy. We have been purchasing wind power from Japan 1 Sponsored by the Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry Energy Saving Committee Natural Energy Company Ltd. since the 2001 ﬁscal year. / The Energy Conservation Center, Japan To date, we have purchased a total of 19,370,000 kWh. Water Recycling In ﬁscal 2011 we contracted COPY Epson is mitigating environmental impacts and maintain2,000,000 kWh worth of green ing legal and regulatory compliance by managing the power from Noshiro Wind Power quantity of water we use and the quality of water we Plant. This represents about 48% discharge. of the power used by Seiko Epson headquarters. We are proactively addressing water concerns in our manufacturing processes. For example, we are taking action to increase the rate at which factory wastewater Green Power Certiﬁcate is recycled and meeting stricter water quality controls ● Greenhouse Gas Emissions Emissions from energy use t()(GSPNTPVSDFTPUIFSUIBOFOFSHZ (Per unit of sales as % of FY1990 level) (Japan) VTFBSFDBMDVMBUFEVTJOHDPSSFTQPOEJOH (Emissions: 10,000 t-CO2) Emissions from energy use emissions in 1995. 120 t*O+BQBOXFVTFEBOBWFSBHFWBMVFQVCMJTIFE Per unit 110.3 107.9 111.2 106.1 (overseas) CZUIF'FEFSBUJPOPG&MFDUSJD1PXFS$PNQBOJFT of sales 102.7 GHG (Japan) 96.9 97.4 97.0 95.3 BTBDPOWFSTJPOGBDUPSUPDBMDVMBUFFRVJWBMFOU 100 88.6 90.7 GHG (overseas) CO 2FNJTTJPOTGSPNFOFSHZDPOTVNFE 100 0VUTJEF+BQBOXFVTFEOBUJPOBMFNJTTJPOT 89 91 80.7 80 90 74.9 GBDUPSTQSPWJEFECZUIF+BQBO&MFDUSJDBM 70.8 .BOVGBDUVSFST TTPDJBUJPO +&.  59.8 t5PDBMDVMBUF$02FNJTTJPOTGSPNGVFMTCPUIJO 60 64 +BQBOBOEBCSPBE XFVTFEUIF$02 58 DPOWFSTJPOGBDUPSTQVCMJTIFEKPJOUMZCZUIF 43.4 56 +BQBOFTF.JOJTUSZPGUIF&OWJSPONFOUBOE 50 48 49 50 47 49 49 40 45 .JOJTUSZPGUIF&DPOPNZ 5SBEFBOE*OEVTUSZ 40 JO7FSTJPOPGB()(FNJTTJPOTDBMDVMBUJPO BOESFQPSUJOHNBOVBM 20 t5PDBMDVMBUFUIF$02FRVJWBMFOUPGFNJTTJPOTPG ()(PUIFSUIBO$0 2 XFVTFEDPOWFSTJPO 0 GBDUPSTQVCMJTIFECZUIF*OUFSHPWFSONFOUBM 1990 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 1BOFMPO$MJNBUF$IBOHF *1$$ JO Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 39 Zero Emissions Substance Management Epson’s zero emissions program began with an effort to Epson uses its “E-Chem” chemical data management recycle 100% of our waste products. All Epson Group system to centrally track information on chemical subcompanies in Japan and manufacturing subsidiaries stances used at Epson sites around the world. We are overseas have implemented the recycling program and engaged in ongoing efforts to reduce the quantities of are now shifting to resource conservation initiatives, chemicals used and to moderate emissions of Pollutant which seek to improve the production process. Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) substances and volatile organic compounds (VOC). Using ﬁscal 2006 ● Annual Waste1 Emissions Trend emissions as a benchmark, all Epson business units Emissions (tons) managed and met their ﬁscal 2011 targets for reducing 50,638 50,290 Recycled (Japan) 50,000 48,693 Recycled (overseas) emissions. 45,449 Waste (Japan) 42,425 40,934 Waste (overseas) 40,000 35,368 In addition, we are building trust relationships by making 32,535 32,432 30,000 28,903 our substance data available to the public and by creating opportunities to exchange opinions with members of 20,000 the local community. 10,000 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) ● PRTR Substance Handling & Emission Trend 1 Items that are no longer needed at Epson ofﬁces and are emitted outside the company Emissions (tons) Amount handled (tons) 1,441 Amount handled 30 1,500 1,143 1,201 25 1,250 Epson America, Inc. (EAI) recycles and reuses waste ma1,003 1,045 20 1,000 803 terials in its warehouses. In December 2011, EAI received 15 14.4 750 12.3 12.3 10.6 a WRAP (Waste Reduction Awards Program) award from 10 Emissions 500 6.8 4.6 overseas the California Department 5 Emissions 250 in Japan of Resources Recycling and 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 0 Recovery in recognition of its * FY2010 amounts differ from those in Sustainability Report 2011 due to a recount. efforts. This marks the fourth time EAI has received the ● VOC Handling & Emission Trend award. EAI staff involved in the program Emissions (tons) Amount handled (tons) 4,808 4,817 Amount handled 500 5,000 4,249 387 408 Meanwhile, Epson Telford Ltd. (ETL), Epson’s ink cartridge 400 350 4,000 2,966 manufacturer in the U.K., reuses waste materials from 300 280 263 266 3,000 the production process to make paper, factory materials, 200 1,978 Emissions overseas 2,000 1,440 stationery and other everyday goods. As a result of these 100 Emissions 1,000 in Japan efforts, ETL is now earning enough money from salvaging 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 0 the waste to break even on its recycling operation. * FY2010 amounts differ from those in Sustainability Report 2011 due to a recount. ● Zero Emissions Programs Recycling Resource Conservation Definition of “recycling” Reduction r Recycling 100% of waste Closed-loop of inputs Waste materials recycling materials Shift Closed-loop r Maximum of 50 g of burnable Resource recycling 投入資源 waste per person per day inputs Factory Non Resource Factory closed-loop inputs Non recycling closed-loop Definition of recycling “resource conservation” Recycled in-house Recycled in-house r Reduction of resource inputs Product Product r Reduction of wastes by using Recycled externally Recycled externally recycled resources Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 40 Commitment to Environmental Conservation Transport Environmental Risk Management Epson is reducing CO2 emissions by increasing the efﬁAny environmental pollution resulting from Epson’s busiciency with which products, parts, and wastes are transness activities could have a serious impact on residents ported. For example, in addition to shifting to greener of the surrounding area, as well as for the rest of the 1 modes of transportation and relocating logistics centers, region or country. We follow Group-wide standards for we are increasing truck loading efﬁciencies, using innopollution control and ensure that all members are well vative stack conﬁgurations and packaging, reducing the acquainted with the ideas and laws of environmental risk number of trucks and the frequency of departures and management. Each promotion unit uses ISO 14001 to arrivals, and much more. We were also able to shrink identify and assess the risk of failing to meet standards package size, improve transport efﬁciency and reduce or of experiencing environmental complaints or incidents the number of trucks by creating smaller products. in an ongoing effort to continuously mitigate those risks. In ﬁscal 2011, we conducted internal pollution and emisFor example, at Akita Epson Corporation we revised the sions audits at 21 business sites (13 in Japan and 8 overmethod of transporting industrial waste from the producseas) and have nearly completed the corrective actions tion process. By switching to double-decker trucks, we for nonconformances that were found. were able to squeeze in a lot more industrial waste and reduce the number of trucks. Regulatory limits for oil were exceeded once during ﬁscal 2011. This incident was reported to the government and In ﬁscal 2011, CO2 emissions from transport in Japan were is being addressed. around 8,800 tons, continuing their downward trend. Per unit of sales, emission were down approximately 1.5% Exceeded regulatory limits: 1 from ﬁscal 2010. However, CO2 emissions from internaComplaints: 0 Accidents: 0 tional transport almost doubled due to the frequent use of air transport in response to quality problems and parts Stronger Quality Management for Waste shortages resulting from the March 11 earthquake in To ensure that wastes are comprehensively managed, Japan and the ﬂooding in Thailand. This also negatively Epson has implemented a program to strengthen the impacted our emissions per unit of sales. Epson will conquality control of wastes. As part of the program, we tinue to strive to deliver products and services to customanalyze wastes for potential hazards and ensure that the ers using low-impact modes and means of transport. results are properly communicated. 1 Switching to different modes of transport, such as from trucks to rail Soil and Groundwater Remediation ● CO2 Emissions from Distribution Epson is pumping and treating groundwater contamiEmissions: (1,000 t-CO2) Per unit of sales (% of 2006) nated by chlorinated organic solvents at several sites in 450 Japan, including at its Head Ofﬁce. In addition, we have 400 386.9 Japan barriers in place to prevent further contamination. 350 350 305.1 300 300 ● Site Groundwater Data and Remediation Methods (mg/l) Per unit of sales (overseas) 250 Per unit of sales 250 Site 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 Remediation (Japan) Int’l (Air) 204.6 199.1 HQ 36 28 39 Barrier, pump and treat, monitoring 200 200 175.4 166.9 158.5 Shiojiri 1.5 0.75 0.67 Barrier, pump and treat, monitoring 150 150 117.2 Fujimi 0.16 0.14 0.12 Barrier, pump and treat, monitoring 100 97.8 141.5 100 91.4 100 Suwa80.3 72.8 71.7 0.14 0.14 0.094 Barrier, pump and treat, monitoring Minami 90.1 83.7 Matsu50 Int’l (Sea) 50 shima 0.13 0.13 0.12 Barrier, monitoring 0 0 * Groundwater trichloroethylene concentration trend / annual average 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) (normal limit is 0.03 or less) Global Environmental Data http://global.epson.com/SR/environment/reports/data.html Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 41 FY2011 Material Flow the product life cycle assessment (LCA). The results are The material ﬂow is a summary of the material and used in various actions designed to reduce environmental energy input into Epson’s business activities and the impacts by improving product performance and business environmental impacts, in the form of wastes and greenenvironmental efﬁciency. house gases output into the air. Substance quantities are tracked using data from actual measurements and OUTPUT INPUT Atmospheric Energy emissions Electric power: CO2: 390,000 t 610,000 MWh INPUT OUTPUT Atmospheric Energy emissions Fuel: CO2: 260,000 t 7,900,000 GJ Logistics Use INPUT OUTPUT Products collected 17,000 t CollecAtmospheric emissions Manution & CO2 600,000 t facturing RecyclSOx 320 t OUTPUT NOx 200 t ing Reused/recycled: 14,000 t Wastewater 6,500,000 m3 Landfill disposal: 3,000 t Wastes Materials Recycled 27,000 t Procurement Development Landfill 1,300 t & Design INPUT Products shipped 140,000 t Recycled water 1,700,000 m³ Raw materials Water Metals 29,000 t Tap water 3,900,000 m3 Plastics 70,000 t Industrial water 3,800,000 m3 Electronics 6,000 t Groundwater 1,100,000 m3 Paper 31,000 t Other 25,000 t Energy Electric power1 820,000 MWh Chemicals 69,000 t Fuel 1,400,000 GJ 1 In June 2011, Epson launched an emergency energy-saving program at all of its Japanese business sites in response to summer energy shortages resulting from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami. This gave a signiﬁcant boost to our energy-saving activities. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 42 Commitment to Environmental Conservation Environmental Communication 10th Recycling Event In April, Epson Portland Inc. (EPI) employees held their Epson proactively communicates information through annual recycling event. FY2011 marks the 10th year of various kinds of events to earn trust of its stakeholders. the event. Employees collected old electronics, batteries, Stakeholder opinions and ideas are reﬂected in future paper and other recyclables in cooperation with nearby environmental activities and products. businesses. More than 200 electronic devices were collected and properly discarded or recycled. Hong Kong Awards for Environmental Excellence In May 2012, Epson Hong Kong Ltd. (EHK) won the bronze award in the Import and Export Trades sector of the 2011 Hong Kong Awards for Environmental Excellence run by the Hong Kong Environmental Campaign Committee. The sectoral awards are based on three criteria: green leadership, program and performance, and partner synergy. EHK won its award in recognition of its continuous efforts to reduce its environmental impact. Used paper is collected EPI employees carry old electronics EHK employee Rie Chan said, “I am very proud that we received an award from such an authoritative institution. Exhibit at Eco-Products 2011 Our performance was the result of a cooperative effort At the Eco-Products 2011 Exhibition held in Tokyo, Epson by everyone at EHK in drafting and executing our enviSales Japan talked about Epson’s new eco-considerate ronmental plan. This award both recognizes the results products and environmental activities in line with Environof our past activities and mental Vision 2050. provides motivation for our future environmental acEnvironmental and product data on inkjet printers were tivities. We will continue to projected on the wall using a short-throw projector, elimipursue further reductions nating the need for information panels. We held a printer in energy usage and waste disassembly workshop to teach children about the recyand expand the scope of cling process. We also had ink cartridge collection boxes our activities to achieve our around the booth to encourage ink cartridge recycling. vision and a better future.” This hands-on event was a great opportunity for customRie Chan, EHK ers to experience the appeal and environmental advantages of our products and for us to collect valuable feedback. Award ceremony (Hong Kong) Hands-on printer recycling workshop Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 43 Environmental Education ners commented, “I discovered that saving energy is not something you can do alone. It was hard getting my dad Epson wants its employees to remain mindful of the to cooperate, even though he uses the most electricenvironment while on the job. We feel it is important for ity. There are many more things I want to do to help the them to consider how their conduct, both at work and at planet.” home, affects the environment and we want them to take the initiative in coming up with solutions. Toward that end, Green Talent Program Epson provides environmental education and promotes In October 2011, Epson Taiwan Technology & Trading correct understanding of ecological practices. Ltd. (ETT) ran a work experience program designed to develop “green talents”1 based on the principles of “pros● FY2011 Environmental Education (Japan) pering with the community” and “preserving the natural Training Trainees environment.” The program gave undergraduate and ISO14001 environmental auditor training 37 (Cumulative: 1,969) graduate students the opportunity to learn about CSR and environmental protection. Training (e-Learning) Start Date Trainees Basic Environmental Training Apr. 2002 449 (Cumulative: 17,440) (Co-existing with Nature) Twelve of the students who participated in the program in Global Environmental Dec. 2003 374 (Cumulative: 11,468) Technologies Training Taiwan were invited to Japan, where they received adBasic Environmental Training II Dec. 2011 14,664 (2011 Edition) ditional environmental training. Students developed an international perspective and deepened their knowledge Epson also contributes to broader environmental presof the environment through environment-themed discuservation by sharing its knowledge and experience with sions and tours of recycling facilities. The students are outside organizations. also expected to have a positive impact on society by talking about environmental protection. ● FY2011 External Environmental Education Programs Region Program Japan Kids’ ISO 14000 Program International Environment Leaders Training Program China Epson Green Next-Generation Environmental Protection Education Project Taiwan Green Talent Program Germany Understanding Energy Project Students have a discussion Tour at Kanbayashi Plant (recycling) Kids’ ISO 14000 Program Several of the students gave comments on the program. Since 2002 Epson has partnered with the International “Next year, I hope that they expand the activities and have Art & Technology Cooperation Organization (ArTech) in more students visit Japan.” “The program turned out to Kids’ ISO 14000, an environmental education support be very fruitful.” “I was able to deepen my understanding program for children that was developed by ArTech. Chilof CSR and learn about Epson’s corporate philosophy.” dren who participate in the program lead the introduction “I learned a of eco practices at home, raising environmental awarelot from the ness within their instructors and own families. the employees were all very Three children of kind.” Epson employees received special awards in recognition of their actions. Students with ETT President Sure Lee One of the winKids’ ISO awarding ceremony 1 A student with an interest in environmental activities. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 44 Commitment to Environmental Conservation Eco Technology Loggerhead Sea Turtle Protection Project Looming resource and energy shortages are necessitating a shift to a sustainable and recycling-oriented society. As part of its efforts to help preserve biodiversity and Over the years, Epson has produced a number of original to verify the effectiveness of its sensing technologies, technologies through its development of printers, projecEpson has been measuring underground temperatures tors and electronic devices. We will continue to study the and monitoring the hatching of loggerhead turtle eggs application of these technologies in a wide range of ﬁelds in an artiﬁcial beach at so that they can contribute to the preservation of the Kamogawa Sea World environment and biodiversity. and at sites along the Tojo coastline since June 2010. Eco-Inventions to Reduce Environmental Impact The sand temperature is For well over a decade Epson has been providing incenmeasured every 30 mintives for eco-inventions; that is, inventions that have a utes, while a small sensor Staff members install the sensors marked effect in decreasing environmental impact. The located above the eggs aim of the incentives program is to contribute to society detects when they hatch. The data is stored in memory by becoming the industry leader in the development of until it is wirelessly read by a staff member using a spetechnology that reduces environmental impact. cial device. What sets this wireless communications technology apart from the pack is that it works with In 2011 we continued to apply for and accumulate inteldevices buried in the ground, sand or water. Detailed lectual property relating to eco-minded designs, manudata on the nest, such as temperature and the date facturing processes and so forth based on our basic and time the eggs hatched, can be tracked without product development policy. having to disturb the nesting environment. The NX430 inkjet printer, launched in November 2011, In ﬁscal 2011, Epson offered technology and manpowused several eco-inventions such as base engine miniaer to a joint research project between Kamogawa Sea turization technology and highly integrated layout technolWorld and the Tokyo University of Agriculture to study ogy to achieve a 39% reduction in size, greatly contributthe relationship between sand temperature, growth ing to a reduction in environmental impact. conditions and hatchling gender. ● Patent Applications for Eco-Inventions (Cumulative) Isuke Karaki, the person in charge of the project, said, (Application index) “To get a clear picture of the 450 424 environmental conditions in 400 380 Other 350 Manufacturing the sand, we need accurate process 300 290 and stable measurements that Energy-saving 250 design aren’t affected by rain, temper194 200 Resource saving ature, salt and other adverse 150 100 100 conditions. In the future we will Isuke Karaki 50 work towards shedding light CS/Quality Assurance ・ 0 Environment Dept. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) on a range of environments.” * As a percentage of normalized 2007 ﬁlings Environmentally conscious products http://global.epson.com/SR/environment/lifecycle/think/case_design.html Epson employees and Sea World staff members check the data Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 45 Community Environmental Contributions Relationship with Forests Epson began its tree-planting activities as an effective Epson aims to be “a progressive company, trusted way to prevent global warming and engage the commuthroughout the world.” To this end, we engage in local nity. We also believe that planting the right tree species tree-planting activities and various other activities that contributes to biodiversity and the preservation of the help preserve the environment and biodiversity. ecosystem. Relationship with Biodiversity In ﬁscal 2011, we planted trees in various parts of China Our Environmental Vision 2050 states that “as a member and Southeast Asia. Meanwhile in Japan, we have been of the ecosystem, Epson will continue to work towards a sponsor of the Jinguji 100-Year Forest Project, a Suwarestoring and protecting biodiversity together with local based volunteer forest management project, since ﬁscal communities.” Our approach to biodiversity hinges on 2008. two key initiatives: preserving biodiversity throughout our business activities, and raising employee awareness of biodiversity. Five factors that affect biodiversity are: climate change, land use, invasive species, overconsumption and pollution. These factors are closely related to things such as greenhouse gas emissions, land alterations accompaCarbon Trading Model Forest Project (China) Jinguji 100-Year Forest Project (Japan) nying underground resource mining, and the release of chemicals into the environment. Epson’s key action areas, Relationship with Communities including global warming prevention, resource recycling Epson believes that fostering an environmental commuand conservation, and substance management, mitigate nity is essential to becoming a company that is trusted the factors that affect biodiversity. We are committed to throughout the world. In ﬁscal 2011, Epson employees pressing on with our efforts to mitigate the environmental around the world worked with local communities on variimpacts of our business activities. ous projects, including cleanup activities around business sites, the removal of invasive species, the recycling and Epson and Biodiversity collection of old electronics, and energy patrol teams to Our lives depend on biodiversity. Likewise, our busisupport energy conservation at local companies. nesses both beneﬁt from and affect biodiversity in myriad ways. We believe that preserving biodiversity is also vital to maintaining our business activities and our employees’ lifestyles. ● Epson and Biodiversity Epson Removing invasive species at Bijiashan Sponsor of recycling event (Thailand) Business Employee Park (China) Activities Lifestyles Direct and indirect effects Underground Ecosystem Services1 Resources Impact of extracting Biodiversity resources and processing them into raw materials 1 Beneﬁts from ecosystems Taiwan Energy Patrol Team Jurizuka Beach cleanup (Japan) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 46 Individuality and Teamwork Human Development at Epson We respect fundamental human rights and facilitate a fair, safe, healthy and pleasant work environment. HR Development and Training company for society. To create and maximize customer value, we have established a strategic game plan that Approach to HR Development puts organizations, teams, and individuals in a position to Regarding our employees as assets on loan from society capitalize on their abilities and fulﬁll their assigned roles. and as the driving force behind the realization of our manThe fulﬁllment of these roles should provide both employagement philosophy, we maintain an organization that ees and the company with opportunities to grow, and the encourages self-reliance and personal growth, and that contribution of individuals to the execution of the busienables people to make the most of their unique compeness strategy should be fairly and impartially evaluated tencies. Human development is the key to our success and rewarded. Seiko Epson will install a new personnel as a product manufacturer. system for middle management at the start of the 2012 ﬁscal year to achieve these objectives. Epson develops and trains its human resources in line with a Human Resources Development Policy estabCourse in Management Practice lished in 1996. The policy states that Epson will “…supThe new personnel system for middle management is inport employees who have aspirations for self-actualizatended to ensure that (1) managers correctly understand tion, connect all the companies in the Epson Group with the strategic business objectives and are able to rapidly people, and nurture employees so that both corporate and nimbly respond to internal and external changes in and individual objectives are met.” the business environment; and (2) managers are able to support the growth and development of the people who We provide training so that our people understand their report to them by putting organizations and individuals in roles and what is expected of them as members of the a position to succeed. Epson team. Training enables them to work and communicate effectively, solve problems, and experience perIn January 2012, before the start of the new personsonal and professional growth. nel system, we began offering a course in management practices. The course is designed to teach aspiring manHuman Resource Development Policy http://global.epson.com/company/epson_way/principle/human_policy.html agers the roles and responsibilities of managers, and to provide them with the knowledge and skills they will need New Personnel System for Middle Management to be an effective manager. The course is also structured Epson aspires to continuously create customer value so as to give participants an opportunity to practice in the that exceeds customer expectations as an indispensable workplace what they learned in the course. ● General Concept of New Personnel System for Middle Management Realization Management Philosophy Employee Business axis Conduct axis Principles of Achievement Motivation Incentives Realization of SE15 of Management Corporate Philosophy Behavior Remuneration Position for success Personnel requirements Salary system Org. mgmt. based Application of skills HR mgmt. on role Org. design Licensing Leader candidates Evaluation system Role deﬁnitions Training Role evaluation Placement HR database Management of objectives Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 47 Overseas Management Training Training for New Employees in Japan Since 2007 Epson has been providing standard Epson The ﬁrst year of employment at Seiko Epson is considmanagement training to personnel at our overseas afered a training period during which new employees learn ﬁliates, especially in Southeast Asia, to help ensure that about the Epson approach to work. For the ﬁrst two the “create, produce, and deliver” value chain operates weeks after joining the company, new employees parsmoothly around the world. As of the end of March 2012, ticipate in an orientation program where they learn about a total of 567 people had completed training. Although Epson and the fundamentals of business, including things training was initially designed for personnel already holdsuch as company systems and processes, how to read ing management posts, we expanded the scope of eligiﬁnancial statements, personnel systems, the Epson Code bility a few years ago to include management candidates. of Conduct, and Epson values. Training covers subjects such as Epson values, the role They then move on to two weeks of hands-on training in of management, and the manufacturing. Here they learn the Epson approach to concrete implementation of work by, for example, disassembling and reassembling Epson Group policies. It is printers and watches, performing tasks with metal ﬁles designed to transform the and hacksaws, studying about production control, and way local employees think touring our production plants. and act and to establish a standard Epson-style manManagement Training in Malaysia agement platform to further strengthen cooperation among organizations. In addition, we held a Global Incubation Seminar in February 2012 for 23 members of middle management at our overseas afﬁliates. We have been holding this seminar every year since 1999 to develop future business leaders and spread and ingrain Epson’s Management Philosophy. New-hires cutting metal with hacksaws Training Courses and Workforce Composition ● Training System (Japan) ● Training in FY2011 by Employee Level (Japan) Future Job/LvlSpecOnPeople Percent Group-Wide Global Training Who Leader Speciﬁc ialist Site Trained Trained Director New Employee Orientation New hires 200 100% Global Leaders COO C-Level Employee Training New C-level staff 207 97.2% Conceptual Skills F1 Site Development Support Compliance Training GM Senior Staff Training New senior staff 264 97.4% Overseas Transfers F2 Specialist Job Training Human Skills Manager Management Section Manager Training New section managers 75 82.7% practices Technical Skills G-Level Note: Persons who have not received training are scheduled to do so in FY2012 F3 Senior F-Level Staff C-Level C-Level Training New Hire New ● Main Online Courses in Fiscal 2011 (Japan) Hire Course Title 2 Start Date Trainees3 Epson Code of Conduct: Part 2 Feb. 2011 15,436 ● Workforce Composition Basic Information Security (2011) Mar. 2011 19,696 Procurement Basics Male/Female Ratio Mgmt. Ratio 1 Mgmt. Diversity (Ethics & Code of Conduct) Nov. 2011 11,142 Women 18% Mgmt. 13% Women 1% J-SOX Training (2011) Dec. 2011 14,089 Men 82% Staff 87% Men 99% Basic Environmental Training II (2011) Dec. 2011 14,664 2 Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March 31, 2012 Compliance training 3 1 Section manager and higher The number of persons completing the course by March 31, 2012 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 48 Individuality and Teamwork Hands-on Training at the Monozukuri-Juku Employment of Persons with Disabilities Epson’s Monozukuri-Juku is an in-house manufacturing school where we develop personnel by teaching them Epson employs a large number of persons with disabiliessential manufacturing skills and know-how. ties. In addition to providing restrooms, parking spaces, and other facilities for improved accessibility, we provide Within the Monozukuri-Juku is the Manufacturing Skills services, such as sign language interpretation for inDojo, where select new employees undergo intensive house training and promotion interviews, to accommotraining to become top-ﬂight manufacturing technicians in date special needs. Epson also has two special subsida short period of time. Many of these trainees compete in iaries, Epson Mizube Corporation and Epson Swan Ltd., the National and International Technical Skills Olympics. that were set up to hire persons with disabilities. As such, The training for the Technical Skills Olympics develops these companies are especially well-equipped to meet people mentally, physically, and technically. Trainees exspecial needs. ercise creativity and challenge themselves in preparation for the national competition. Eight employees of Epson Mizube, cheered on by friends and coworkers, showcased their vocational skills at the Epson employees won 2011 Abilympics held in Nagano, and all placed at or gold, silver, and bronze near the top of their medals at the 2011 National events. This comTechnical Skills Olympics. petition not only motivates people to Departments that take the sharpen their indiMedalists at the 2011 National Techniyoung men and women cal Skills Olympics vidual skills, it helps who complete training for unite and energize the Technical Skills Olympics often praise their skills, the workplace. 2011 Nagano Abilympics medalists motivated approach, and ability to make an immediate impact, proof that training enables them to quickly understand and perform tasks that are required. They use their skills, discipline, ● Types of Disabilities (Japan) mental strength, and Other 6 (3%) attitude to improve Developmental 49 (21%) the workplace. Other physical 4 Limb Total 84 Internal organ 231 2 Kidney Physical 15 176 (76%) Instructor and trainee Cardiovascular 23 Vision Hearing 14 34 ● Ratio of Employees with Disabilities (Japan) (%) 2.4 2.13 2.2 1.99 1.94 1.95 2.00 2.0 1.8 Legally mandated ratio 1.8% 1.6 1.4 1.2 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 49 Maintaining a Fair Workplace manual that Epson created to prevent excess overtime work. We have also deployed time management initiaZero Tolerance tives and monitoring systems across the organization. Epson is serious about keeping all forms of discrimination Epson has programs to build awareness among employand unfair practices out of its operations around the world. ees of the importance of regulating working hours approThis stance is reﬂected in our participation in the United Napriately and we are fully committed to maintaining a welltions Global Compact since 2004. In 2005 we documented balanced working environment. policies that outline Epson’s strong convictions in areas including respect for human rights, elimination of harassWork-Life Balance Initiatives ment, eradication of all forms of discrimination, respect for Seiko Epson, with one eye trained on the well-being and local culture and customs, prohibition of child and forced development of our children, provides an environment labor, and maintenance of positive labor relations. that allows employees to balance their careers with their personal lives so that they feel they can stay with the There were 27 inquiries to our harassment hotline in 2011, company. and all were handled in the strictest conﬁdence, in line with privacy protection laws. Additional services include a We enforce an eight-hour workday at least once per week compliance hotline and other counseling services. Epson at our sites, and an increasing number of sites have a day also strives to prevent fraud and other forms of legal miseach year when parents can bring their children to work. conduct in a number of ways, including through regular These and other initiatives have enabled Seiko Epson reporting to the Trust-Based Management Council and maintain certiﬁcation as a company that is implementing by posting reminders on the intranet bulletin board. policies that will beneﬁt the next generation. Policies on human rights and labor standards http://global.epson.com/company/epson_way/principle/human_rights.html In April 2012 we began implementing an action plan for creating, by the end of the 2015 ﬁscal year, the best posEqual Gender Opportunity Initiatives sible work environment for raising a Seiko Epson was an early advocate of equal opportunity family and achieving a good work-life Next-generation acemployment. We abolished gender-based remuneration balance. creditation mark in 1983, and the return-to-work rate for employees who “Kurumin” have taken childcare leave is 95% (98% in 2011). In fact, Labor-Management Cooperation women stay with Epson longer than men, on average (22.7 Seiko Epson is a union shop whose employee union repyears for women versus 18.7 years for men). resentatives work cooperatively with management. Joint committees are formed to discuss and ﬁnalize mutual ● Childcare Leave Trends resolutions to issues on a variety of topics, such as work Childcare Leave Caregiver systems, family support, and beneﬁts and wages. FY Ratio of women Total1 Women Men3 Leave granted leave2 ● Main Employee Welfare and Benefits Systems (Japan) 2011 66 55 98% 11 (10) 2 2010 82 64 100% 18 (15) 2 Category Description of System 2009 74 53 100% 21 (20) 0 Childcare Childcare leave, shorter work hours for parents, home care service 2008 73 62 98% 11 (10) 4 Caregiving Caregiver leave, shorter work hours for caregivers Retirement beneﬁts (deﬁned contribution pension plan, 1 Including individuals who took well-being leave Retirement corporate deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan), asset-building 2 Number of individuals granted childcare leave / eligible* individuals incentives, etc. (Individuals who have had a child and are eligible for childcare leave) Personal injury or illness leave, in-house therapy (massages), 3 Numbers in parentheses indicate employees who took special paid leave Wellness special paid leave, payment of additional amount to defray costs of injury, illness and child-rearing, subsidies for Well-being leave general medical checkups http://global.epson.com/SR/our_people/fair_working/index.html#well_being_leave Training Subsidies for passing national exams, work-related correspondence courses, self-study, etc. Housing Company housing, property accumulation savings incentives, home ﬁnancing, etc. Monitoring and Controlling Working Hours Commuting Commuting expenses (commuter passes, gasoline costs, highway tolls, etc.) Epson remains fully compliant with labor laws. One of the Insurance Group life insurance, corporate group insurance ways we ensure compliance is by following an operations Other Life planning seminars, employee cafeterias, employee event subsidies, etc. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 50 Individuality and Teamwork Occupational Safety and Health Occupational safety and health are the bedrock of business Approach Eliminating Accidents Believing that healthy, energetic employees and a safe, All Epson manufacturing sites around the globe have insecure, and clean environment are essential to corporate troduced NESP activities as the core component of their health, Epson carries out occupational safety and health efforts to eliminate industrial equipment accidents and programs at its sites around the world. occupation injury accidents. The core component of this effort is the New Epson Initiatives at EPPI Safety & Health Program (NESP), which was launched Epson Precision (Philippines) Inc. (EPPI) has named its in ﬁscal 2000. Covering safety, health, and ﬁre/disaster NESP adoption project the “EPPI Special Safety Project prevention, NESP is based on an occupational safety (ESSP).” They run the and health management system (OSHMS) that conforms program locally and to International Labour Organization (ILO) guidelines. In incorporate their own 2011, Epson began instituting changes in the program ideas. For example, safeso that instead of conducting activities from the Head ty and health information Ofﬁce in Japan, each Epson site is responsible for localis posted in English and izing NESP activities, adapting them to its own particular Tagalog so that it can business, situation, and needs. easily be understood by all employees. Safety and health information posted in Tagalog ● The Role of NESP 04).4 Guideline Initiatives at ETTH (Occupational Safety & Health Manegement System) In February 2012, the Technology Promotion Association (Thailand-Japan) awarded Epson Toyocom (Thailand) Standards t/BUJPOBMDFSUJmDBUJPOTUBOEBSET (Sites acquire Ltd. (ETTH) the Diamond Prize at “Thailand 5S Awards certification of t0)4 4 compliance 2011” in recognition of the quality of its 5S1 housekeeping as needed) program. NESP Implementation Global Epson Group sites & companies Nutchaya Surasri, leader of ETTH’s 5S housekeeping expert committee, says, “For ● Occupational Injury Accident Frequency (Japan) us, 5S is like water; it’s essen1.2 tial for sustaining operations. Manufacturing industry average 1.0 We are constantly improving 0.8 our 5S program and aim to be 0.6 Electrical equipment manufacturing industry average Epson’s No. 1 manufacturing 0.4 site.” 5S leader Nutchaya Surasri Seiko Epson Corporation 0.2 1 Sort, straighten, scrub, standardize and sustain 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) Occupational injury accident frequency: the number of injury accidents per million work hours, where an injury accident is an incident that causes a worker to miss one or more days of work Occupational injury Number of injury accidents accident frequency 1,000,000 Total working hours Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 51 Raising Safety Awareness with Safety Bulletins Mental and Physical Wellbeing Epson issues safety bulletins for occupational accidents that occur at Epson sites Rolling Out “Healthy Epson 21” around the world. The bulleEpson Group companies in Japan manage employee tins, which are posted on the health in line with “Healthy Epson 21,” a ﬁve-year plan deintranet and on bulletin boards signed to help prevent occupational illness and promote and which describe accidents, employee health and wellbeing. In ﬁscal 2011 we updated causes, and countermeasures, the criteria we use to judge data gathered in medical are used to help avoid similar checkups based on the latest medical knowledge so that accidents in the future. we can more accurately capture the state of health. We also revised our guidelines to make allowances for perSafety bulletin in Brazil sonal health issues and to provide health counseling so that employees receive needed aftercare. This program Fire and Disaster Prevention enables each Epson site to identify employee health issues and to take actions to prevent or limit problems. Epson is committed to being an accident-free workplace and contributing to community ﬁre safety. The ﬁrst step is Health Management Support System to ensure that Epson Group is never the source of a ﬁre or Epson Group companies in Japan are following a three-year disaster. The company has organized independent ﬁre briplan, begun in ﬁscal 2010, for building a health management gades to help protect ourselves, our property and our jobs. support system. From ﬁscal 2011 the system allows employees to view their own health examination results on their August 31 is Epson Disaster Prevention Day. Each year PCs. In ﬁscal 2012 employees will be able to use the system on this day, Epson Group companies conduct ﬁre and to make appointments for health examinations and ﬁll out disaster drills. One of the drills is used to test our emerhealth-related questionnaires. gency communication systems, which we have in place to conﬁrm employee safety and determine the extent of damage in the Fire brigade competition in Japan event of a widescale disaster. Top page of the health management support system Participation in Tianjin’s “Fire Prevention Day” Moving forward, Epson will enhance the system to better The ﬁre brigade of Chinese afﬁliate Tianjin Epson Co., support employees’ efforts at self-care, management’s efLtd. (TEL), responding to an invitation from the local ﬁre forts to improve the workplace and relieve employee stress, department, participated in Tianjin’s “21st Fire Prevention and the medical staff’s efforts to provide care. Day” on November 9, where it demonstrated ﬁre-ﬁghting drills as a representative of local manufacturing comFood Poisoning Incident & Response panies. The order In September 2011, nearly 200 people suffered food and discipline the poisoning at a cafeteria operated by a subcontractor in ﬁre brigade demonthe Innovation Center at Seiko Epson’s Hirooka Ofﬁce. strated met with high Acting on instructions from the local department of public praises from citizens health, Epson took steps to improve the oversight of saniand members of the tation in food preparation areas on the Hirooka campus Tianjin ﬁre departand conducted volunteer emergency inspections in 30 ment alike. other food preparation areas at Epson sites in Japan. TEL ﬁre brigade demonstration Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 52 Trusted Throughout the World Organizational Governance Epson is committed to practicing trust-based management. We have established a system of compliance to ensure the transparency and soundness of management in the eyes of our stakeholders. Corporate Governance Design of Internal Control System The primary goal of corporate governance at Epson is Epson’s Management Philosophy outlines the vital busito continuously enhance the value of the company and ness principles to which the global Epson Group is to ensure business transparency and health through a committed, while Epson’s Principles of Corporate Bestrong system of checks and ethical practices. havior describes the conduct required to live up to these principles. We are steadily strengthening our internal Seiko Epson has a board of directors and a board of control systems across the Epson Group. Corporate statutory auditors. The board of directors, which had 10 departments design and implement controls based on members as of the date the Annual Securities Report was our Principles of Corporate Behavior, while our directors submitted, meets once a month and convenes extraordiand statutory auditors assess the overall state of internal nary meetings as needed. It makes decisions regarding controls at meetings of the Trust-Based Management basic management policies, key business operations, Council. period-end closing, disclosure timeframes, and other important issues. An outside director was appointed to Principles of Corporate Behavior, founded on values that the board at the June 20, 2012, general shareholders’ Epson holds dear and reﬂecting changes in the demands meeting, a positive move aimed at bringing an outsider’s and expectations that stakeholders have of enterprises, viewpoint and insight to the company. sets forth nine basic principles to which Epson must adhere to maintain public trust. Epson also has outside statutory auditors who offer frank Investor Relations opinions to the board of directors based on a wealth of http://global.epson.com/IR/ experience and keen insight, contributing to the transparPrinciples of Corporate Behavior http://global.epson.com/company/epson_way/principle/index.html ency and objectivity of decisions made by the directors. ● Epson’s System of Corporate Governance General Shareholders’ Meeting Elect/ Dismiss Report Elect/Dismiss Elect/Dismiss Submit/Report Cooperate Report Propose/Report Independent Nomination Committee Board of Directors Public Accountant Board of Statutory Auditors Audit Compensation Committee Elect/Dismiss/ Oversee Submit/Report Audit Propose/Report Corporate Strategy Council SEC President Report Trust-Based Management Council Business Operations Crisis Management Meeting Executive Officers and Cooperate Audit Office Presidents of Affiliated Companies (Internal) Corporate Management Meeting Audit Business Units and Affiliates Audit Various Strategy Councils Audit Staff Office Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 53 Compliance and Risk Management We make sure that our employees have easy access to information on compliance by posting compliance guideEpson manages compliance in line with the ﬁrst principle lines on the company intranet and by offering online comstated in its Principles of Corporate Behavior: to act pliance training. ethically and build trust. The heads of divisions manage compliance within the businesses and subsidiary companies they oversee. Compliance issues that span the entire Epson Group are administered or supported by corporate departments in cooperation with the divisions. To manage risk, we identify important Group risks and monitor the state of actions to control them. We are organized to mount a swift initial response in line with an established crisis management program when major Antitrust seminar (Shimauchi Plant) risks are detected. Compliance and risk management issues are deliberated and addressed at meetings of the Trust-Based Management Council. Internal Auditing The Audit Ofﬁce, which reports directly to the president of The president periodically reports to the board of direcSeiko Epson, audits Epson Group divisions and subsidtors on compliance-related issues and formulates approiaries from an effectiveness, efﬁciency, and compliance priate measures as needed. Epson has also installed a standpoint. If problems are found, the Audit Ofﬁce concompliance hotline and other support services to facilitate ducts a follow-up audit to check the status of improveinternal compliance-related inquiries and whistle-blowing. ments. To ensure effective Group governance, the Audit Ofﬁce also centrally oversees internal audits conducted Advisory and support services by auditors at regional headquarters in Europe, the Americas, China, and Southeast Asia. Compliance hotline (Audit Ofﬁce) Harassment advisory (HR Department) Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting Counseling related to working long hours (HR Department) Every year, we audit internal controls to ensure the reliEmployee counseling (General Affairs Department) ability of ﬁnancial reporting (J-SOX). The Epson Group Labor union counseling (Labor Union) uses an autonomous distributed implementation system in which operations divisions and subsidiaries subject to Compliance Program external audits conduct a self-assessment on the design Epson has a multi-component program for maintaining and operation of their internal controls, while the J-SOX compliance. Compliance Department ensures the validity of the assessment results. Operations divisions, subsidiaries, and In addition to a training course that presents employafﬁliates not subject to external audits are required to ees with a broad overview of essential legal issues, we independently assess their internal controls and make also provide compliance training that focuses on certain such improvements as are necessary. targeted subjects, such as copyright laws and antitrust laws. Compliance issues are also built into the training Online J-SOX training is provided to employees around curriculums for new employees, persons recently prothe world to increase their knowledge and awareness of moted to senior staff positions, and managers. J-SOX requirements. For the executive management team we brought in an outside expert to give a seminar on antitrust issues. Overseas afﬁliates have their own local compliance rules and compliance training programs. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 54 Trusted Throughout the World International Trade Initiatives Physical Security Epson is a multinational corporation with production Seiko Epson has been upgrading physical security in a centers, sales centers, customers, and business partners variety of ways, most notably with contactless ID cards around the world. Smooth international trade operations that we call “G3-ID cards.” G3-ID cards are used to conare essential if we are to deliver Epson products and trol physical access throughout our facilities. They can services to customers in a timely manner. also be used in lieu of cash in company cafeterias and canteens. Meanwhile, we must observe numerous conventions and frameworks governing international trade that have been We used to destroy used G3-ID cards that our employput in place to maintain international peace and security. ees and on-site partners no longer needed. However, to minimize both waste and expense while maintaining tight To maintain compliance with these and to ensure smooth physical security, we are reusing returned cards that are trade, Epson has established comprehensive systems still in good shape by applying a fresh surface sticker to and processes that have enabled Epson companies to them. earn certiﬁcation from the relevant authorities in Japan and abroad for compliance with the international trade programs. (See the table below.) Company Name Program (Certifying Agency) Seiko Epson Corp. General Bulk Export Licensee (METI) Seiko Epson Corp. Authorized Exporter (Japan Customs) Epson America Inc. C-TPAT1 Partner (U.S. Customs) Epson Portland Inc. C-TPAT Partner (U.S. Customs) Epson El Paso Inc. C-TPAT Partner (U.S. Customs) 1 Customs–Trade Partnership Against Terrorism, a program designed to strengthen U.S. security across the supply chain. Printing G3-ID cards ● Annual Trend in Errors at Customs Clearance 100 *As a percentage of 2008 ﬁlings 100 Information Security 80 Epson’s Basic Information Security Policy describes our 57 60 approach to information security and the requirements 40 28 that we must satisfy. This policy calls for all Epson per17 20 sonnel to recognize the importance of information secu0 (FY) rity, exercise effective information security governance, 2008 2009 2010 2011 and build information security into the corporate culture. Security at Epson In ﬁscal 2011 every business unit assessed the soundness of its own information security. Further, Group Declaring a commitment to protecting people, assets, Information Security Supervising Depertment audited all and information in Principles of Corporate Behavior, Epbusiness units in Japan to evaluate and advise them with son takes steps to ensure personal security, the security regard to the design and operation of controls, and to of corporate assets, and the utmost prudence in the ensure that their risk management for information secuhandling of information. Epson recognizes the imporrity was functioning effectively. Senior information security tance of good security practices. Accordingly, we estabmanagers from the business units gathered three times lish and maintain systems to ensure the on-site safety to discuss initiatives across the organization and to track and security of personnel and visitors, carefully control progress. all assets, respect the property of others, and take strict precautions to safeguard personal data and conﬁdential July is Information Security Month at Epson. Among the information. things we did this year were reassess shared folder acEpson Group Sustainability Report 2012 55 cess privileges on workplace servers, and identify and IT System Security assess the risks associated with tasks in which people We established strict security policies for PCs being used use USB memory sticks or other external storage devicin factory production processes after one was infected by es. We also resumed publication of “Information Security a virus introduced via a USB memory stick. News,” a monthly newsletter providing advice on things such as security precautions when using PCs at home. Epson Sales Japan Corporation, the Epson Data CenOnline information security training is mandatory for all ter, and the Business Systems Operations Division have personnel, including executives in Japan. We also continacquired and maintain Information Security Management ued to hold training for general and section managers. System (ISMS) certiﬁcation. In China, meanwhile, information security training was Protection of Personal Data conducted at Just as Epson Group companies were in the midst of Epson Engineerreviewing systems security in the wake of a massive ing (Shenzhen) leak of personal data by an unrelated company, hackers Ltd. (ESL) for gained access to a web site operated by an Epson afﬁlieight companies ate in South Korea and stole IDs, passwords, names, and in the region. resident registration numbers. Epson responded by beeﬁng up security on the hacked Information security training (ESL) web site and by analyzing other Epson Group web sites and implementing stronger security where needed to prevent similar problems in the future. ● Information Security Organization Intellectual Property Protection Head Office President To protect our legitimate rights, Epson takes legal actions Audit Office against the unauthorized use of our patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property. Group CISO1 Group Supervising Dept. Group IT System In conjunction with Epson’s efforts to improve awareness Supervising Dept. of intellectual property laws around the world, Epson Group Information Security Council (China) Co., Ltd. (ECC) launched the “Intellectual Property Rights Training Project for Media” in 2007. The aims of this ongoing project are 1) to cultivate intellectual property Business Unit Business Unit Chief Executive rights professionals in China, 2) to share knowledge of CISO intellectual property rights with the Chinese media, and 3) to encourage accurate and objective reporting. Senior Info. Security Manager Admin. Office Departments 1 Chief Information Security Ofﬁcer Basic Information Security Policy http://global.epson.com/company/epson_way/principle/security_policy.html Kiyofumi Koike, chairman & president Intellectual Property Rights Reporting of ECC, addressing journalists Seminar (ECC) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 56 Trusted Throughout the World Sustainable Procurement Prospering with suppliers based on the principles of fairness, coexistence and co-prosperity ● Procurement System Approach to Sustainable Procurement Co-creating with Our Business Partners Management Philosophy Epson is committed to practicing sustainable procurement. We develop mutually beneﬁcial trusting relationPrinciples of Corporate Behavior ships with our business partners around the world based on the concepts of fairness, coexistence, transparency, Epson Code of Conduct and co-prosperity. In addition to providing quality products and services, we believe that part of our responsibiliBasic Procurement Policy ty is to work with business partners to ensure that human 1. We will build good partnerships with suppliers, based on mutual trust and the principles of fairness, rights, labor standards, and environmental preservation coexistence and co-prosperity. 2. Exercising high ethical standards and a social are being upheld across the supply chain. Business partconscience, we will conduct our procurement ners that we can trust are essential if we are to continue activities in strict compliance with both the letter and spirit of laws and regulations, both national and to provide customers with products and services that international, in every region where we operate. 3. We will strive to reduce our environmental impacts excel in every area, including quality, price, and environthrough our procurement activities and will always seek stable and reasonable quality, price and mental performance. delivery from suppliers. These partnerships are the roots that allow Epson to Procurement Code of Conduct grow in harmony with the local and international communities. Procurement Guidelines Basic Procurement Policy and Guidelines Epson Supplier Epson Group Procurement We have established formal procurement guidelines that Code of Management Regulation Conduct spell out fundamental principles for our business partners around the world. Our procurement guidelines cover Epson Group requirements regarding compliance with laws, social procurement standards norms, and ethics in areas such as child and forced labor, respect for human rights, environment preservation, Division & Group Evaluation and health and safety. company standards standard With stakeholders taking an increasing interest in how enterprises take overall responsibility for human rights, Request for Business Supplier compliance relationship evaluation labor standards, and environmental preservation in their supply chains, Epson asked its business partners to folSelflow the Epson Supplier Code of Conduct, established in assessment Suppliers April 2008, to help ensure that equivalent standards of conduct are maintained across the supply chain. Sustainable Procurement http://global.epson.com/SR/procurement/index.html Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 57 Sustainable Procurement Initiatives Compliance management is a core part of Epson’s business activities. We conduct in-house training and internal As part of its sustainable procurement initiatives, Epson audits on an ongoing basis to ensure that our procureevaluates suppliers’ quality and delivery management ment activities comply with laws, regulations, and social systems every year and checks the kinds of CSR activinorms worldwide and that they respect fair and open ties taking place. In 2011, we asked 950 suppliers to competition. conduct self-checks, and we performed on-site checks at about 50 of them. October is CSR Month at Epson. Since all employees should be familiar with procurement to at least some Epson has conducted periodic supplier evaluations for degree, we require that they complete online courses in many years, but the evaluations did not have a strong Introduction to Procurement (Ethics & Code of Conduct) CSR component. We therefore built detailed CSR checks and in Subcontracting Law Fundamentals during the into these evaluations and perform them as needed. month. We report the results of evaluations to suppliers and, if necessary, request improvements. Procurement departments are not the only organizations that engage in procurement activities. Design, engineer● 4VQQMJFS&WBMVBUJPO'SBNFXPSL ing, and many other organizations also purchase goods and services from vendors. Persons directly involved in /FXTVQQMJFSFWBMVBUJPO procurement represent the company and need to have a deeper understanding of codes of conduct, laws, and Procurement Guidelines regulations. Therefore, we require all procurement staff 4VQQMJFST r&QTPO(SPVQ &QTPO Basic Procurement Policy and decision-makers involved in negotiating prices with Compliance &QTPO4VQQMJFS$PEFPG$POEVDU suppliers to successfully complete procurement and requests r3FRVFTUTUPTVQQMJFST compliance management training. So far, roughly 15,100 OOVBMTVQQMJFSFWBMVBUJPOT employees have done so. Evaluation & %FUBJMFE$43FWBMVBUJPOT improvement requests We believe that these kinds of training programs teach employees the importance of self-driven compliance The globe was wracked by natural disasters in 2011, management and foster a workplace culture of self-dissuch as the catastrophic earthquake and tsunami that cipline. This, in turn, leads to procurement activities that struck Japan and the ﬂooding in Thailand. Using the earn trust from stakeholders. lessons learned from these disasters, we remade our business continuity plan (BCP) for procurement as part of our supplier crisis management program and began making the rounds at mission-critical suppliers to ascertain their safety and security. Through these and similar actions, we aim to build a supply chain that is highly uniﬁed in terms of quality, cost and delivery, as well as on the CSR front. Procurement and Compliance Training (Head Ofﬁce) Compliance Management Initiatives Unethical actions or violation of laws or company regulations in procurement activities would result in the loss of trust built up over the years and cause serious damage to the entire company. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 58 Prospering with the Community Corporate Citizenship Proactive engagement in communities as a good corporate citizen Approach to Corporate Citizenship Our foundation in Hong Kong aims to protect the environment by working with external environmental groups. In Epson established its Corporate Citizenship Policy in Japan, we have another foundation that aims to promote 2004 based on its commitment to being a progressive economic, professional, and educational development company, trusted throughout the world, as stated in the in Asia by providing scholarships to students from Asian Management Philosophy. We are committed to harmonicountries and by helping fund educational, technologious coexistence with society through programs rooted cal and cultural exchange programs. In South Korea, yet in local communities throughout the world. Recognizing another foundation offers support for youth research and that companies are expected to be even more socially exchange programs in South Korea and overseas, funds involved, each and every employee will continue to conscholarships for junior and senior high school students, tribute to Epson’s standing as a good corporate citizen and provides computers and other equipment for learning. and facilitate mutually beneﬁcial relationships. Epson’s contributions go beyond ﬁnancial support. We emphasize contributions involving the imaging-based technologies and knowledge that underpin our business as a way to give something back to society. Going forward, Epson will continue to engage in corporate citizenship activities, including contributions involving manpower. Ceremony for scholarship recipients (Japan) In ﬁscal 2011, Epson made contributions equivalent to 580 million yen. Seiko Epson does not make any political Epson Information Science College contributions at this time. In 1989, with the arrival of today’s information-intensive world, Seiko Epson established the Epson Information Science College in order to develop reliable engineers capable Policy for Philanthropy and Giving of making broad contributions to the community. 1. Pursue social contribution activities in priority areas One of the key educational policies of the school is to 2. Encourage and support participation in social build positive character in addition to the development of activities knowledge and skills. Since its inception, the school has 3. Promote distinctive social contribution activities produced over 2,000 graduates who are working in various 4. Emphasize community engagement ﬁelds. Education for young people is one of the areas of priority for our corporate Education for Young People citizenship activities. We aim Epson Scholarship Foundations to foster skilled Epson’s foundations aim to promote education, technoloworkers who are gy, and culture, to engage in environmental activities, and sound of body to contribute to the development of local communities. and mind. Students listen to a lecture Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 59 Activities Using Imaging Technology risks and is able to share the artistic value of the artwork with people worldwide. Helping Disaster Areas with Photo Prints “To everyone who helped the town of Otsuchi, Iwate recover from the earthquake and tsunami, we want to express our gratitude by showing how your support has helped our children.” Epson helped this town put their thoughts onto paper by printing photo postcards. In November 2011, the four elementary schools in Otsuchi held a joint road race. Employees from Epson Sales Japan brought equipment to take pictures of the event and print them out on post cards. All of the participants Digigraphie ﬁne art reproductions of Moomin artwork received a memorial photograph. (Tampere Art Museum) Afterwards, Epson Sales Japan donated poster-sized printouts of the participants and postcards with a “Thanks Support for Tanzania World Heritage Site from Otsuchi” logo. We hope that someday, these postEpson Europe B.V. (EEB, Netherlands) donated a large cards along with the children’s smiles will make their way format printer as a form of support for the preservation of to the people of Japan. rock paintings contained in a series of caves in the Kondoa district of central Tanzania. The caves, which are registered as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, contain rock paintings estimated to date back thousands of years. The paintings depict animals, insects and people in geometric shapes. However, after years of wind, grafﬁti and vandalism, these precious Posting race results in real time Postcards with a “thank you” logo paintings have become worn and need to be preserved. Using a large format printer donated by Epson, a local NGO prints out reproductions of the rock paintings and Original Moomin Drawings as Digital Art sells them to tourists to raise funds for preserving the site Epson Europe B.V. (EEB, Netherlands) has been reproand supporting the local community. ducing original artwork of the world-famous Moomin series, which is housed in the Tampere Art Museum in Finland, as Epson digigraphie ﬁne art since July 2011. Epson digigraphie ﬁne art is a form of art in which a professional Epson inkjet printer is used to create a digital reproduction of a work of art. Tourists view the rock paintings Many museums from across the globe have asked to borrow the Moomin artwork, but the Tampere Art Museum could not meet all of their requests due to the risk of damage or deterioration during transport. However, by using Epson digigraphie, which faithfully reproduces the brush strokes, textures and shadows of the original artwork, the museum no longer has to worry about such Large format printer donated by Epson Reproduction of a rock painting Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 60 Prospering with the Community Environment and Community Activities Forest Management and Local Cleanup Epson employees around the world are helping to prevent Used Battery Recycling global warming and preserve biodiversity through treeEpson Precision (Philippines), Inc. (EPPI) helps protect the planting activities in various regions worldwide. Employenvironment and contributes to the community through ees engage in local cleanup activities in order to foster an 1 its participation in the Balik Battery Program, a battery environment where employees actively participate in local recycling program run events as members of the community. by a major battery manufacturer in the ● Main Forest Management and Local Cleanup Activities Philippines. The proRegion Activity gram supports educaJapan Tree-planting in Yamame Forest tion in the Philippines Kawaminami Industrial Park clean-up by collecting used Lake Suwa Adopt Program (clean-up) batteries and convertChina Longcheng Park tree planting ing them to cash. EPPI employees and the collected batteries Zhongshan Park conservation and clean-up Wuxi region clean-up EPPI joined the program in 2010 and has already collectTaiwan Linmeishan tree planting ed over 3,280 kg of batteries, raising a total of 77,159 PhilThailand Kao Yai National Park tree planting ippine pesos (around 1,850 U.S. dollars). The proceeds Indonesia Setokok Coast tree planting were used to donate textbooks, bookshelves, tables, and U.S. Portland industrial area roadside clean-up other supplies to Lodlod and Kayumanggi elementary schools in Lipa City. These supplies were used to create learning resource centers in the schools. Disaster Relief Epson and its employees engage in disaster relief for areas that are affected by ﬂooding, typhoons, and other natural disasters. We help the rebuilding process by donating money, supplies and manpower. To support the recovery from the mass ﬂooding that Thailand experienced in October 2011, Seiko Epson and Smiling children hold the textbooks Children listen to a book reading Epson Toyocom (Thailand) Ltd. (ETTH) donated information equipment (computers, projectors, etc.), learning Joyce Tan, an EPPI employee who participated in the materials, desks, chairs, provisions, and other supplies to program, said, “The program itself is very simple, but it ﬁve elementary schools near ETTH. opens up a whole new world of opportunities for the bright-eyed children who will be able to study with the textbooks.” 1 “Balik” means “return” or “repeat” in Filipino. In this case, it means “recycle.” EPPI Joyce Tan Students, faculty and ETTH employees stand behind the donated goods Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 61 Workshops and Trainee Programs Professional Support Activities Super Apprentice Program Super Science High School For over ten years, Epson Telford Ltd. (ETL, U.K.) has In ﬁscal 2002, the Japanese Ministry of Education, been working with local colleges and schools to recruit Culture, Sports, Science and Technology began the graduates for a three-year engineer apprenticeship proSuper Science High School (SSH) Program at select gram at the company. high schools around the country to prepare students for success in science and technology. The program, a joint ETL is located in the West Midlands region of England, a effort between industry and academia, is currently runmajor industrial area. In recent years, many companies ning at around 140 schools in Japan. have had difﬁculty in recruiting skilled engineers. Since 2002, Seiko Epson employees have served as inIn addition to the apprenticeship program, ETL began a structors at Suwa Seiryo High School in Nagano Prefecnew “Super Apprentice” program that targets students ture, one of the schools in the SSH program, where they from local schools. In 2011, ﬁve strong candidates were teach students about the joys of research and manufacrecruited from 200 applicants based on a challenging inturing and about the importance of critical thinking. terview process. As part of the program, the apprentices gain deep and broad experience in various aspects of the working environment by spending four hours each week on practical learning at ETL in addition to their studies at school. This experience helps the apprentices identify a career path when they move on to university. ETL then continues to support the apprentices with two Students learn how a computer works weeks of practical training every quarter until they graduate from university. Clock-Making at Prefectural Children’s Hospital 2011 apprentices (wearing yellow shirts) In February 2012, Seiko Epson held a special “Make Your Own Unique Clock” lesson for students who attend Work Experience Program in Shenzhen school in the Nagano Prefecture Children’s Hospital. In January 2012, Epson Engineering (Shenzhen) Ltd. (ESL) and Epson Precision (Shenzhen) Ltd. (EPSL) invited The lesson was held in response to requests from stustudents from the Japanese School of Shenzhen, China dents who wanted to make something on their own. to a three-day work experience program. The program The children spent nearly half a month creating watch consistent of hands-on assembly of mini-printers and dials using photos and drawings and then used them watches and a tour of the consumables warehouse, in the lesson to create fun and charming clocks. Each dormitories, factories, and other buildings. Some of the clock was one of a kind and full of personality with family students expressed a particular interest in the machinphotos, drawings of cartoon characters and surprisingly ery and found the hands-on experience in the assembly sophisticated design elements. classroom to be particularly rewarding. Mini-printer assembly at ESL Watch assembly at EPSL Clock-making at a hospital school Clocks overﬂowing with personality Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 62 Prospering with the Community Communication Deepening trusted relationships through constructive communication Approach to Communication Shareholders and Investors Communication serves as a vital bridge that connects Epson engages in regular communication with investors Epson to its various stakeholders, including customers, as part of its outreach to overseas institutional investors, shareholders, investors, governments, communities, a key investor type in capital markets. NGOs and NPOs, media outlets, suppliers, students, and employees. With its global business presence, Epson In ﬁscal 2011, the president and the rest of the Epson established a Global Communications Standard in 1998 management team visited more than 37 institutional investo bridge cultural differences and to deliver communicators located in North America, the United Kingdom, Hong tion activities that are trusted throughout the world. As a Kong and Singapore to explain and answer questions on progressive company that upholds the ethical standards our growth strategy, performance trends and other comof the international community, Epson’s communication pany information. This was part of an effort to raise underprograms go beyond legal compliance. We communicate standing of our company and to encourage investment. through the mass media and directly to stakeholders to ensure the timely delivery of information on our activities We will continue to disseminate information on the reand initiatives, even if it is of a negative nature. sults and progress of the SE15 Mid-Range Business Plan (FY2012-14) and will communicate with institutional and individual investors in Japan and overseas in an even Customers more meaningful manner. Epson Photo Team is an all-day photography event where team members hold demonstrations and seminars for Communities photographers and help solve any problems they have with taking and printing photos. Team members share Seiko Epson and Epson Group companies in Japan orthe joy of photo printing by visiting communities across ganize events to exchange ideas with the local residents Japan and directly meeting with many customers. Since of the communities in which we operate. We strive to starting the team in 2008, over 8,400 customers have build a positive relationship of trust with the community participated in the events. Going forward, we will conby cultivating a deeper understanding of our environmentinue to run events that bring delight to our customers. tal initiatives and risk management system. In ﬁscal 2011, we held such events at 11 business sites in Japan. Local photo exhibit (Kyoto) Comments during event (Kagoshima) Dialog with local residents Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 63 Suppliers Media Epson believes that part of its responsibility is not only to Every year, Epson invites members of the media from deliver quality products and services but also to mainaround the globe to its business sites in Japan and talks tain a suitable level of human rights, labor standards and about its business strategies and initiatives. environmental preservation throughout the supply chain. In December 2011, we invited 25 reporters from China, We strive to build trust by solving various problems Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Thailand and Indonesia through meetings and dialog, and by sharing objectives to learn about our environmental vision and our efforts with suppliers. Our divisions and overseas manufacturto reduce the environmental impact of our products. We ing sites periodically hold procurement policy explanatory also deepened meetings to fostheir underter understandstanding of our ing of our busienvironmental ness plans and programs by procurement showing them policies and to our ink cartridge ask for cooperacollection and tion in bringing recycling sites. Reporters hear about Epson’s environmental programs (Hirooka Ofﬁce) them to fruition. Explanatory meeting for suppliers Governments Companies In December 2011, Epson (China) Co., Ltd. (ECC) signed Epson proactively works with companies in different a memorandum of understanding with the China Enindustries in order to create new social value. vironmental United Certiﬁcation Center on strategic cooperation to promote sustainable consumption. The Working with Epson Sales Japan, the sales and marketmemorandum lays out ﬁve areas of cooperation, such as ing team at our Microdevices Operations Division teamed the sharing of environmental data, promoting the estabup with two other major companies in 2011 to launch a lishment of environmental standards and encouraging cross-industry sales education project. This project aims government green purchasing. to improve the quality of business activities by breaking down organizational boundaries and sharing ideas to The vice president of ECC, said that “We want to provide learn how to create value that contributes to solutions for eco-considerate products and services to society and to the problems faced by customers and society. contribute more to the development of sustainable consumption.” A spokesperson for the Environmental United Katsuyuki Kawasaki, one of the promoters of the project, Certiﬁcation Center commented, “This is a test to ﬁnd comments, “Going forward, businesspeople will need to a new way to conserve the environment and we ﬁrmly have a much broader and more varied point of view. I hope believe that our mutual cooperation will beneﬁt the prothat having the opportunity to communicate with different motion of sustainable consumption.” corporate cultures will transform our activities for the better. Katsuyuki Kawasaki Cross-industry sales education session at Device Management Dept. the Hino Ofﬁce Memorandum signing ceremony (China) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 64 Prospering with the Community Students The Arts Epson holds various digital imaging contests to support Work Experience the creative efforts of photographers and users across Seiko Epson’s Monozukuri-Juku (Manufacturing School) the globe. facilitates communication by offering basic training in manufacturing for local elementary, junior high and high In 2011, Epson Australia Pty. Ltd. (EAL) held the second school students. annual Epson International Pano Awards. Nearly 1,000 entrants from 62 countries and regions submitted over Several of the junior high school students who partici3,500 photographic works to the event. pated in a printer disassembly and reassembly workshop talked about their experiences. One said, “Putting together a printer for the ﬁrst time was hard but fun.” Another commented, “I could see that a lot of thought goes into printer design. I want to become an engineer, In November of the same year, Epson Europe B.V. (EEB, too, so I can create Netherlands) held its annual Epson Red Sea competition something good.” in Israel. Yet another student mentioned, “Standing up all day is hard work. Now I know how Junior high school students disassemble and my parents feel.” reassemble printers EEB also held the “Be the Manchester United PhotogOther Stakeholders rapher” contest for photography enthusiasts throughout Europe. The winner of the contest, which was held beManufacturing Museum tween August and October, got the opportunity to meet Many of the notable products that Epson has develwith the Manchester United starters and receive sports oped, manufactured and sold since its founding are photography tips from the team’s professional photograon display at its manufacturing museum. The museum pher. is a popular spot for visitors to the Seiko Epson head ofﬁce. It was toured by shareholders after the general In Asia, Epson held the Color Imaging Exhibition 2011, shareholders’ meeting in June 2011 and then by memwhich showed all of the top works from contests held in bers of the Chubu Association of Prefectural Governors India, Indonesia, Taiwan, and the Philippines during ﬁscal in July. 2011. Various new initiatives were tried for the national and regional contests, such as accepting entries on Over 13,200 visitors have toured the museum since its Facebook and providing common themes. This resulted opening in May 2004. We will continue to work toward in a collection of works overﬂowing with ingenuity and our goal of an intuoriginality. itive and interesting museum that turns visitors into Epson fans and makes them want to come back. Shareholders tour the manufacturing museum Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 65 Employees communication and coordination between departments and employees so that everyone can work together to China Region Environmental Conference create customer value. Epson (China) Co., Ltd. (ECC) held the China Region Environmental Conference in September 2011 to share Labor Union environmental data within China and to achieve cooperaLabor-management conferences are held every month to tion between Epson Group companies. facilitate communication between managers and employees at Seiko Epson. Informal meetings are also held at the The conference was attended by environmental supervidivision and workplace level to provide a venue for bidirecsors from the nine Epson Group companies in China. In tional communication between employees and managers. addition to interpreting the SE15 Mid-Term Environmental Numerous committees, such as the health and safety Policy, attendees learned about trends in environmental committee and the working conditions committee, also regulations, especially the environmental protections in provide opportunities to deepen mutual understanding. China’s 12th ﬁve-year plan. Companies also introduced their energy-saving, water-saving and other environmenConnecting People Forum tal activities, and exchanged ideas on building a platform to share environmental data. In February 2012, Seiko Epson became a sponsor and participant in the “Connecting People Forum,” Jingjun Ren, general manager at Epson Engineering which was planned based on the belief that we can (Shenzhen) Ltd. (ESL), said, “This conference allowed ﬁnd solutions to problems impeding the creation of a us to build a platform for sharing environmental data in sustainable society by “connecting” individual activiChina and decide on the types of joint projects to pursue. ties and people. The forum was attended by nearly 90 These accomplishments will play a vital role in improving people, including museum curators, university profesthe level of activities in the China region.” sors, NPO members, planners, and corporate CSR staff. Presentations and workshops were led by the participants. Seiko Epson led a discussion on “corporate citizenship that reﬂects the company.” Yuri Makita, who is in charge of corporate citizenship at the Head Ofﬁce, said, “Communication with the community is essential to Jingjun Ren, ESL China Region Environmental Conference held corporate citizenship. We at ECC discovered many new ideas by talking to people from Communication at EEB various ﬁelds and would Epson Europe B.V. (EEB, Netherlands) began posting delike to apply these ideas to partmental interviews on its corporate intranet in Februfuture activities.” Yuri Makita ary 2012 to promote understanding of the duties of other General Affairs Dept. departments and to enhance interdepartmental communication. The interviews, which are posted the third week of every month, cover departmental goals and duties as well as personal topics such as hobbies and pastimes. EEB oversees nearly 130 countries in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. The many different nationalities and beliefs held by the roughly 2,300 employees in these regions result in an incredibly complex organizational structure. Participants communicate with each other EEB uses these interview articles to encourage positive Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 66 Worldwide Recognition / Reader Feedback Worldwide Recognition Here are some of the awards and accolades received by Epson in ﬁscal 2011. As of May 2012 Product and Service Awards Conferred by Recipient Date TIPA Awards 2011: Best Expert Photo Printer, Best Large Technical Image Press Association (TIPA) Epson Stylus Photo R3000, Epson Stylus Apr. 2011 Format Printer, Best Photo Scanner Pro 4900, Epson Perfection V330 Photo No. 1 in 2011 After-Sales Satisfaction, PC category (see page 26 for details) Nikkei Business Epson Direct Corporation Jul. 2011 Fifth Kids Design Award (Future Products) Kids Design Association ELPIU02 electronic blackboard unit Jul. 2011 EISA Awards: Best Product 2011-2012 European Imaging and Sound Association (EISA) Epson Stylus Photo R3000 Aug. 2011 Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Industry and IT, Silver Award in Automation and Controller category at National Development and Reform Commission, the 10th China International Equipment Manufacturing Epson (China) Co., Ltd. Sep. 2011 Exposition (see page 15 for details) China Council for the Promotion of International Trade, etc. (China) Good Design Award 2011 Japan Institute of Design Promotion PX-673F, EP-904A and 3 other products Oct. 2011 iF Product Design Award 2012 International Forum Design Hannover (Germany) 6 products including the TM-L500A series Mar. 2012 Environmental Awards Shenzhen Pengcheng Waste Reduction Steering Excellent Enterprise in Waste Reduction Epson Engineering (Shenzhen) Ltd. Jun. 2011 Committee (China) Waste Reduction Awards Program (WRAP) Award California Department of Resources Recycling and Epson America, Inc. Dec. 2011 (see page 40 for details) Recovery (U.S.) Don Emilio Abello Energy Efﬁciency Award Department of Energy (Philippines) Philippines Epson Optical Inc. Dec. 2011 Bronze Award at 2011 Hong Kong Awards for Environmental Excellence (see page 43 for details) Hong Kong Environmental Campaign Committee Epson Hong Kong Ltd. May 2012 Employee Awards Gold Flag Award for Occupational Health and Safety Ministry of Manpower and Transmigration Management System (SMK3) (Indonesia) P.T. Epson Batam May 2011 Japanese Red Cross Society Golden Order of Merit Japanese Red Cross Society Tohoku Epson Corporation Jul. 2011 Diamond Prize at Thailand 5S Awards 2011 Technology Promotion Association (ThailandEpson Toyocom (Thailand) Ltd. Feb. 2012 (see page 51 for details) Japan) Intellectual Property Awards Inventor’s Award at 2011 National Commendation for Invention of Ink Jet Printer Offering Invention Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation Borderless Print (Patent No. 3700677) Jun. 2011 Nagano Prefecture Governor’s Award at 2011 Kanto Invention of Higher Quality via Automatic Region Commendation for Invention Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation Photographic Image Correction Technology Nov. 2011 (Patent No. 3458855) Top 100 Global Innovator Award Thomson Reuters (U.S.) Seiko Epson Corporation Nov. 2011 General CSR Awards 2010 GoldenBee CSR China Honor Roll WTO Tribune (China) Epson Toyocom (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. Jun. 2011 Corporate Citizen Award CommonWealth Magazine (Taiwan) Epson Taiwan Technology & Trading Ltd. Aug. 2011 2011 China Outstanding Corporate Citizen Award 21st Century Network (China) Epson (China) Co., Ltd. Dec. 2011 Global Company Regional Headquarters Contribution Beijing Municipal Commission of Commerce (China) Epson (China) Co., Ltd. Jan. 2012 Award Inclusion in SRI Indices Epson is a component company of the following socially responsible investment (SRI) indices. May 2012 FTSE4GoodGlobal Index http://www.ftse.com/ftse4good/index.jsp Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 67 Reader Feedback Thank you for reading the Epson Sustainability Report 2012. Epson considers the Sustainability Report to be an important means of communicating with you, our stakeholders. In an effort to further improve our reporting and CSR activities, we ask that you take a few minutes to ﬁll out a survey at our website. We appreciate your cooperation. Sustainability Report 2012 Survey https://cform.epson.jp/form5/pub/e042/sustainability Listening to Our Readers We would like to thank everyone who responded to last year’s survey. The results, compiled from responses provided by 713 people, are summarized below. ● General Stakeholders Poor Excellent Poor Excellent Poor Excellent 3% 27% 2% 27% 1% 34% Fair Fair Fair 8% 8% 8% Ease of Readability Content Understanding Good Good Good 62% 63% 57% ● Employees Poor Excellent Poor Excellent Poor Excellent 1% 9% 1% 14% 1% 14% Fair Fair Fair 15% 10% 10% Ease of Readability Content Understanding Good Good Good 75% 75% 75% Main Improvements in Top Comments Sustainability Report 2012 • Talk about businesses and product initiatives other than • We included initiatives on various businesses and printers. products in the special features and main text, and • Include more customer comments and opinions. included comments from customers using the products • Reduce the number of pages and make articles more wherever possible. concise. • We improved readability and reduced the volume of text • Improve readability with more photos and illustrations. by using many photos and illustrations and by moving • The articles on water were very uplifting. detailed information to a website. • The use of subtle colors throughout helped readability. • We included new data on annual water usage trends. English website Japanese website Chinese website http://global.epson.com/SR/ http://www.epson.jp/SR/ http://www.epson.com.cn/aboutepson/report.html Epson Group Sustainability Report 2012 68 3-3-5 Owa, Suwa-shi, Nagano-ken Japan 392-8502 tel: +81-266-52-3131 http://global.epson.com
