VLA VILHELM LAURITZEN ARCHITECTS STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Copenhagen June 2012 To whom it may concern I hereby express our continued support for the Global Compact initiative. Since VLA’s latest communication on progress in june 2011 the implementation of environmentally sustainable measures in our various building projects has become even more present. Many of our projects are now designed with energy optimized features like high insulating glass, integration of solar cells and efficient climate shells. Most notably is the silver medal award in the precertification of Psychiatric Hospital in Slagelse by the new Danish certificate system regarding sustainable building solutions – DGNB Denmark. Please see also our part in the development of a low energy housing concept wich will offer affordable ‘green’ homes to all levels of income. For actions taken and outcomes achieved I kindly refer to the following pages. Best regards Søren Daugbjerg CEO and partner Vilhelm Lauritzen Architects VLA Communication On Progress #3 2012 Element 1: Statement of Continued Support VLA VILHELM LAURITZEN ARCHITECTS ACTIONS Human rights • As a firm founded and based in Denmark – who has been a member of The United Nations since its creation in 1945 we of course strive to be in compliance with the 30 articles of The Universal Declaration of Human Rights. • As architects we have a special obligation in regards to article 25 (1) concerning the right to adequate housing. At VLA we have a strong focus on housing projects and have over the last years designed several projects with a high degree of both environmental and economic sustainable measures. Labour • Continued update of the ‘VLA employee information’ with description of rights and rules concerning employment in the firm. The information is available on the company’s intranet and handed out in hard copy to every new employee. The information includes description of maternity leave, rights in case of illness, insurance, working hours, holidays and name of the elected union representative. • Continued agreements with professional organizations ensuring the rights of employees at VLA. Environment • VLA has a defined strategy concerning environmentally sustainable approaches to building design.The strategy is built around five focal points; the job, the architecture, the technology, finance and the strategy. • Working with various business partners on developing new sustainable solutions for both private and public clients. Anti-corruption • Compliance with Danish law in respect to anti-corruption – also when working abroad. VLA Communication On Progress #3 2012 Element 2: Actions VLA VILHELM LAURITZEN ARCHITECTS OUTCOMES Psychiatric Hospital in Slagelse Silver Medal from DGNB Denmark VLA, working with Karlsson Architects, won the competition for a major new psychiatric hospital in Slagelse in Denmark in 2010 and will now be turnkey consultant for Region Zealand. With its 44 000 square meters the project is the largest psychiatric building in recent times and will have room for 190 patients in general psychiatric, forensic psychiatric and secure wards. There will also be a sports hall and swimming pool, and research and teaching facilities. The new Psychiatric Hospital in Slagelse is one out of seven Danish pilot projects which is precertified by the new Danish certificate system regarding sustainable building solutions – DGNB Denmark. The project has been awarded a silver medal for the Hospitals Research Center of 7.000 sg.m. which is based on the proposed project. The final certification will be accomplished when the construction is completed in 2014. VLA Communication On Progress #3 2012 Element 3: Outcomes VLA VILHELM LAURITZEN ARCHITECTS OUTCOMES Facts Psychiatric Hospital in Slagelse DGNB Denmark is a new certification system to measure the sustainability of buildings. The scheme is administrated by the Danish National Council for sustainable construction, Green Building Council (GB-GBC). The need for a cerfication scheme stems from an increasing need in the building industry for assessing the sustainability of buildings. DGNB Denmark comprises of 49 criteria in six categories, of which four are weighted equally. The six categories are weighted as: Environmental quality 22, 5 % Economic quality 22, 5 % Social and functional quality 22, 5 % Technical quality 22, 5 % Building Lot quality – not included in the assessment 10, 0 % VLA Communication On Progress #3 2012 Element 3: Outcomes VLA VILHELM LAURITZEN ARCHITECTS OUTCOMES ‘Energy Zero Home’ Since the first communication on progress in june 2010, VLA has continued the development of a housing concept with focus on low energy consumption, affordability and flexibility. Continued collaboration with different business partners on this project provides VLA valuable challenges, feedback and inspiration for working with both environmental and social sustainability. The concept’s flexibility means that the houses are now being realized on several locations across Denmark. Some as family homes and some as homes for disabled. The project is designed with inspiration from the nordic townhouse tradition of modern and liveable houses. Human scale and vibrant facades make it an attractive type of housing. Affordable quality housing requires a build system with a high degree of repetition and prefabrication. The building elements are prefabricated as room-size elements at a factory and erected and installed on foundations on site. The low energy consumption is possible with the integration of measures like solar arrays and solar traps, extra insulation, ventilation plant with heat recycling and heat pumps. The units are light constructions in recyclable materials such as timber, aluminium, galvanized steel and zinc. VLA Communication On Progress #3 2012 Element 3: Outcomes VLA VILHELM LAURITZEN ARCHITECTS OUTCOMES Facts ‘Energy Zero Home’ 2000 3600 3000 2950 450 Energy consumption: < 1kWh/m2/year Thermal transmittance Windows: 0.65W/m2K Facades/roof/floor: 0.08-0.1W/m2K Sustainable Energy Europe The ‘Energy Zero Home’ project has been selected to be part of the EU ‘Sustainable Energy Europe’ campaign wich is dedicated to energy-efficient, sustainable solutions. Sustainbale Energy Europe is an attempt to present an overall picture of European efforts in this field and to spread best practice in sustainable technologies, develop networks, and inspire new ideas and approaches. Some 450 projects and events are currently involved. VLA Communication On Progress #3 2012 Element 3: Outcomes
