The Ethico Report 2011 Efico Group based on the Communication On Progress of the United Nations Global Compact COP Year 2011 Antwerp, March 2012 EVOLUTION, PROGRESS, SOLUTIONS & INNOVATION FOR A SUSTAINABLE GREEN COFFEE SUPPLY CHAIN EFICO GROUP SUPPORTS THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES SINCE 2003 This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. Foreword Brief description of nature Statement of continued support 2011 of business by Patrick F. Installé The European UN Global Compact Chairman Efico Group Ongoing Commitment Companies Towards Rio+20 This annual communication report, or Communication on A BEST PRACTICES COLLECTION Company Profile: Progress (COP) is an important conclusion and demonstration of Efico is a coffee and cocoa traAs a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, since 2003, we endorse the Efico Group’s commitment to ding company, established in its ten universal principles covering human rights, labour, the environment, and the UN Global Compact and its 1926, with offices in Belgium, anticorruption. principles. Germany, Switzerland, Brazil, Ethiopia and Guatemala. Following our core values and Code of Conduct we are committed to behave As a Global Compact signatory, ethically in all our business activities and with partners involved within the Efico is committed to publicly Our team of traders continues coffee and cocoa supply chain. communicate with stakeholders to uphold the values of a longon an annual basis of our progress standing family business, and proWe are aware of the people concerned by our operations and respect all relevant laws. We do business by continuously Edited by in implementing the ten princivides tailor-made services with a improving our financial, environmental, and social performance to improve the world’s sustainability. ples with the aim to stimulate and ‘personal touch’. to enhance sustainability and The company has always been At EFICO, we are committed to align our business goals with our impact on society and environment. Global citizenship transparency with internal and characterized by its spirit of resinfluences how we run our business, holding us to high standards of integrity, ethics, responsibility and transparency in external stakeholders. ponsible entrepreneurship and everything we do, as sustainability is part of our Group’s DNA. We share our UNGC commitment proactive approach to the sustaiin all our communication mateA sustainable nability of the sector. Through internal policies and strong, mature and long-term relationships with stakeholders, we work to ensure that we approach rial and we get more and more throughout live up to our ideals. We consider that cultivating partnerships with customers, suppliers, industry peers, port authorities, positive feedback about our the green coffee governments and NGOs is a vital part of business continuity to achieve our common goals and share added value supply chain membership. by Katrien Delaet, Head of Sustainable Projects, Efico has subscribed the United throughout the green coffee supply chain. Within the international conNations Global Compact prinEfico Group Approach 3 Offices in Producing Countries: Brazil, Ethiopia and Guatemala, text in which we are operating, ciples since 20 03 by taking In 2011, the global economy experienced a very high volatility of commodity market prices and restrictive capital avaiOur goal is to deliver products and services that meet the highest enable us to be active and have presence in local markets. standards of our customers to ensure that high quality products are Train farmers in the Central American region on sustainable agritraceable, safe, reliable and sustainable and reduce the environcultural practices. Training provided by a Guatemala-based the awareness of UNGC is really ownership of its values and by lability. This situation requires a lot of concern. Thanks to the hard work and talent of the Efico team, we were able to mental impact of our activities throughout the supply chain. agronomist. A private foundation compliant with UNGC principles, Efico Efico Global Strategy to Reduce Greenhouse Gas Foundation supports multiple stakeholder sustainable developEmissions in the Supply Chain ment projects in coffee and cocoa producing countries. Since its improving. implementing an ambitious susmaintain forward progress on our core business. That includes our commitment to global citizenship, which we believe “ Emissions are measured and analyzed. Once creation, the Efico Foundation has suphigh consumption factors have been identiported 36 projects in 14 countries for a fied an action plan is developed to reduce total of euro 1,310,000* in partnership The challenge for the tainable approach which covers becomes even more important in difficult times. and compensate for most greenhouse gas with 60 different organizations, NGOs, research institutes, universities, national proemissions. Our action plan is innovative as it applies reductions in areas of emission group is to detach ducer associations, other foundations, and economic growth from “ with sound technology. Unlike many comcooperatives or local producer organizathe green coffee supply chain. tions. pensation plans designed for tree planting programs, ours is a proactive approach to a environmental impact In 2008, Efico co-developed and supcontinuous reduction of emissions. The and create added value ported the “Climate-Friendly Farming ” Project”, a pilot project in Guatemala, for the sector By reading this report you will find This received several international On top of our ongoing actions, as for example the increase in sales of sustainable plan is implemented in producing and consuming countries with a proven business which completed the certification requiremodel applied to the different stages of our ments of the Rainforest supply chain. Alliance sustainable program with a volthe implemented activities we recognitions. products, we realized two very important projects this year. The first is the achieveuntary, additional climate module that describes towards proSustainable achievements and results ducers how to prepare for climate change and reduce their own Responsible actions in producing countries: environmental impact. Today, agriculture is among the top reaCommitment to Pre-finance over euro 18 million in 2010, in partnership with the sons for global climate change and is responsible worldwide for achieved in 2011. Belgian Export Credit & Insurance Agency the “Office National Ducroire” (ONDD) Create a United Nations Global Compact audit of the princi14% of all greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. This percentage increases to 30% with the deforestation resulting from farms and farm expansion. Most coffee plantations grow in an agroforestry ment of our project ‘Climate-Friendly Farming’ which is part of our overall project of CO2controlled supply chain. The second project concerns the signing of the MOU ples, in partnership with Mayacert. Starting in 2004 and every system (tall trees provide shade) with high carbon stock. As part of year after that, at least one of our coffee producing suppliers is our pilot project, carbon storage was measured and greenhouse audited. gas emissions were calculated. This is the starting point to reducEfico shares this know-how of susglobal citizenship with the Customs Authorities of Zeebrugge. These two projects enable us to work * As of August 2011. In the version of our COP 2010, we tainability with its stakeholders closely with our stakeholders to build innovative models that will benefit society on made a large description of our and approximately 450 European becomes even long-term. activities. This year we suggest coffee roasting companies. to fulfil this report following the In 2011, Efico’s turnover totalled more important As to the development of our Group we opened a new office in Brazil, the largest 49 UNGC requirements expressed € 252 million and during that coffee producing country in the world. And we created a new company ‘Binary ” ing and compensating CO2 in the supply chain. In September 2011, Forklifts are electric and run on green energy produced on the the first farm became Climate Certified, which will allows us to roof of the building. This equipment extends the life cycle of cofduring the workshop organized same year Efico traded 1.060 miltoday Services’, an independent ICT company providing business solutions based on market ‘Climate Friendly’ products in the near future. fee and preserves its unique qualities. Technologies: Operation is fully automated, which reduces work Responsible actions in consuming countries from the staff considerably. Equipment allows for mixing, clean3 Offices in Consuming Countries: Belgium, Germany and ing, sorting beans and, possibility for receiving, storing and disby the Belgium Network. We will lion bags of green coffee and Microsoft Dynamics NAV customised to the Group’s needs. Also available for third Switzerland enable us to be active and have presence in local tributing coffee. 4,600 photovoltaic modules = ± 1 GWh / year of markets. green power annually, equivalent to the average annual conPurchase Policy for Sustainable Products: In 2010, 26% of our sumption of approximately 300 families, allowing removal of summarize the improvements 40,000 bags of cocoa. parties, for example, to optimize Warehouse Management or Trading Commodities. volume was certified, verified or provided by a sustainable pro20,610 tons of CO2 over 30 years. gram and sold through programs such as Nespresso AAA, RainDirect Access to Rail Transportation on site for reception and disforest Alliance, UTZ Certified, Organic, Fair Trade, 4C, etc. tribution of goods. The totality of goods are received by rail, which Ecological Footprint Policy Rationale: In 2008, we performed reduces traffic burden. Most of the goods are forwarded by rail. and progress we have made on an ecological footprint analysis and mapped emissions linked to Waste Management complies with the prevention, reduction our activities to reduce impact to the maximum. and recovery-based priorities of the Cradle-to-Cradle (C2C) conPurchase Policy for Sustainable Products was implemented in cept. Where possible, the life cycle is extended and waste is used different Efico Group sites. as raw materials to create new products. The same concept apeach principle. Sustainability Policy Dissemination: We share our sustainable expertise with suppliers, customers and partners with a variety of sustainable products, with our commitment to the UN Global plies to our customers waste: jute bags, sisal and plastics. Waste water on our site is also processed. For the first time, we participate at ‘The Best Practices’, an initiative of the Italian UNGC Network. As an Advisory Member of the Steering Committee of the UN Global Compact Belgium Network, we actively strive to further promote the UNGC Compact principles, our role in the local Belgium network, and Future perspectives with the support of 47 European coffee roasters to the Efico A driving force in our supply chain, our proposed sustainable soluFoundation. tions provide added value to the sector in producing countries and SEABRIDGE: A new approach to sustainable and innovative loin Europe. Long-term partnerships strengthen our actions. The sucwww.efico.com principles and the activities of the local network. gistics dedicated to green coffee. Green coffee is a natural food cess of our project is largely due to continuous knowledge sharing product very sensitive to light, temperature variation, odors, air and exchange with our stakeholders, because they share our valquality, and humidity. In 2008, Efico built a new, European susues and requirements. As part of the learning process, www.seabridge.eu tainable facility center for storage, processing and distribution of green coffee in the port of Zeebrugge (Seabridge). As an independent company within the Efico Group, Seabridge operates for Efico, as well as for third parties, such as coffee roasting compawe proposed a GC Active level. www.eficofoundation.org nies, trading houses, producer organizations, insurance and maritime companies Worldwide it is the only automated sustainable Since 1926 Efico has been a coffee and cocoa tradservice center with air-conditioned storage space of 20,000 m2, ing house of international scale with offices in Belgium, Germany, Switzerland, Brazil, Ethiopia, and This ‘Ethico’ report describes only a few activities carried out this year throughout the Group’s program to fulfill our capacity for ± 300,000 coffee bags combining performance with the triple pivot of sustainability. In 2008, Efico was awarded the Guatemala. Our team of traders continues to up‘Innovation & Design’ Award by the SCAE (Specialty Coffee Assohold the values of a long-standing family business ciation of Europe) for its innovative Seabridge concept. and provides tailor-made services with a ‘personal touch’. The company has always been characterized Location: In the port of Zeebrugge, which shares our long-term sustainable vision to streamline logistics performance. State-of-the-art facilities: Insulation allows higher efficiency by its spirit of responsible entrepreneurship and proactive approach to the sustainability of the sector. Efico has subscripted followed the United Nawww.eu-greenbuilding.org responsibilities as a global corporate citizen, and to promote innovation that contributes to a sustainable future for our tions Global Compact principles since 2003 by levels 30% compared to traditional facility performance for which we obtained a Green Building Certificate and an award from the European Commission. Facilities are approved by the taking ownership of its values and by implementing an ambitious sustainable development policy that has received several international recognitions. planet and its people. Federal Agency for Food Safety. Efico shares this sustainable know-how with approximately 450 of its European coffee roasting Investment: Approximately euro 30 million. company buyers. In 2010, turnover totalled euro 166 Tracking and Traceability: A unique code traces all our goods million and that same year Efico traded 1 million from origin to destination, ensuring traceability of all our prodbags of green coffee and 70,000 bags of cocoa. ucts. www.efico.com Optimum Storage Conditions: Air is maintained at a constant temperature and humidity, is filtered, sterilized and ventilated. Sigurdsson: “Het is een tijdje geleden nu. Ik zag me verplicht om de productie van haar laatste album ‘Vol Patrick F. Installé Full article available on : Chairman Efico Group www.globalcompactnetwork.org EFICO’S BUSINESS MODEL IS BASED ON THIS SUPPLY CHAIN APPROACH A supply chain consists of all stages, directly or indirectly, involved in fulfilling customer requests. In the Efico coffee supply chain we indentify 6 steps, from farmer to the European Green coffee is the most important agricultural commodity and the second raw Green coffee is a natural food product which coffee roasting companies. This does not mean that Efico is not concerned about the final material traded in the world, after petroleum and before wheat, and represents is very sensitive to light, temperature variation, Companies stages. As a trading company of raw materials, Efico supplies qualitative green coffee that 4% of the global Food Trade. The coffee market, open to speculation, has prices odor, air quality and humidity. In 2008, Efico built enables our customers to make coffee favoured by consumers. widely varying, reaching fluctuations of up to 15% in the same day. The two largest a new, European sustainable facility center for Transport Producers & Logistics We work hand-in-hand with our clients on a ‘tailor-made’ approach to improve quality, coffee stock exchanges are New York (Arabica) and London (Robusta). In Europe, storage, processing and distribution of green achieve certification programs, reduce CO2 consumption of activities, optimize eco-effi90% of adults drink coffee, the most consumed beverage after water. coffee in the port of Zeebrugge (Seabridge). ciency & waste management, exchange product knowledge, provide marketing support Worldwide 2.5 billion cups of coffee are drunk every day. In recent years, As an independent company within the Efico and optimize costs and return. consumers care about the origin and the conditions under which it is produced. Group, Seabridge operates for Efico, as well as Coffee Throughout this dynamic supply chain, Efico strives to make its supply chains more efficient for third parties, such as coffee roasting comWaste Roasters Product Use by improving the information sharing throughout. This constant flow of information is essenThe mission of our trading team is to develop and build long-term relationships panies, trading houses, producer organizations, tial to create added value for the entire sector. Long-term business relationships need to be with our suppliers throughout the world in order to consistently source unique, insurance and maritime companies. Worldwide based on trust and honesty, making sure all parties are satisfied about the business deal. high-quality coffee for our clients while maintaining our promise of ‘tailor-made’ it is the only automated sustainable service services. center with air-conditioned storage space of Green Coffee is the most important agro-export product for many developing countries. 20,000 m², capacity for ± 300,000 coffee bags It is produced and exported by nearly 65 countries and ranks as one of the top cash crops. THE SUPPLY CHAIN CAN BE DIVIDED INTO TWO PARTS combining sustainable performances. The coffee industry is also a social, cultural, institutional and political network that has served In 2008, Efico was awarded with the ‘Innovation as a base for the country’s development. Coffee & Design’ Award by the SCAE (Specialty Coffee PRODUCING COUNTRIES & CONSUMING COUNTRIES provides directly & indirectly a livelihood for 100 Association of Europe). million people. 70% of production is carried out by small-scale producers. Coffee is often compaSTATE-OF-THE-ART FACILITIES: red to wine for its complex aromas and the speInsulation allowing higher efficiency level: 30% cific attention it requires. The coffee supply chain compared to traditional facility performance varies according to a country or region. for which the group obtained a Green Building Certificate and an award from the European Commission. Facilities are approved by the Federal Agency for Food Security. Optimal storage conditions equipment extend the life Link to film: From Flower to Cup From Cherry to Green Coffee Bean cycle of coffee and preserve its unique qualities. Efico created a new approach to sustainaBOTANICAL ASPECTS Every cherry contains two beans which have to be separated from its surrounding layers. Three different coffee methods are possible: Wet, Semi-Washed or Dry-Process. ble and innovative logistics dedicated to green There are more than 80 varieties of coffee plants; coffee. the 2 most important types are Coffea Robusta and WET PROCESS: WASHED COFFEE Arabica. Coffee plants produce the best beans when The freshly harvested cherries are sorted by manual selection, then processed through a pulping machine where the skin and pulp are separated from the bean. Coffee they are cultivated in appropriate agro-climatic conbeans are separated by weight as they are conveyed through water channels; the lighter beans float to the top, the heavier, ripe beans sink to the bottom. After separation, ditions combining: altitude (varying from 600-2,000 the beans are transported to large, water-filled fermentation tanks. Depending on a combination of factors they will remain in these tanks from 12 to 48 hours. The purpose meters), soil chemistry, a certain degree of humidity, of this process is to remove the slick layer of mucilage (called the parenchyma). When fermentation is complete, the beans are washed by being sent through additional To ensure best practice across a broad spectrum variety and weather (amount of rainfall, sunshine and water channels. Finally, the coffee bean is ready for drying. of transportation, we choose a site with direct temperatures from 15 to 25 °C). Coffee production access to rail. Almost all goods are received by occurs between the tropics of Cancer and Capricorn. SEMI-WASHED PROCESS: SEMI-WASHED COFFEE rail and sent by rail, reducing the burden of trafAlso the age of the plant and the care it receives are This method meets halfway between wet and dry processing. The separation of the beans is done by flotation & depulping, without conducting the fermentation process. fic. As our operations are fully automated and determinant. Young plants are kept in the nursery for controlled, the structure of our services is pera period of 3 to 6 months. These factors determine the DRY PROCESS: UNWASHED OR NATURAL COFFEE formed by a professional partnership with NMBS expected productivity, starting only after 3 years. Arrived at the processing unit, the cherries are spread out on huge surfaces to dry in the sun on patios of concrete or canvases. All layers (outer skin, pulp and parchment) which allows us to receive and send our goods stay intact and are dried as a whole, turned throughout the day, covered at night, or if it rains, to prevent them from getting wet. Depending on the weather, this process on fixed appointments. HARVESTING might continue for several weeks for each batch of coffee. When the moisture content of the coffee beans drops to 11 percent, the dried cherries are moved to warehouses The fruit turns bright, and deep red when it is ripe where they are stored. Robusta-coffees are usually dry processed. and ready to be harvested. In most countries, coffee is picked by hand, called ‘Cherry Picking’; only red, Next steps are identical for the 3 methods: DEPULPING; the hull of the coffee bean, called parchment, is mechanically removed and the beans can also be polished, Efico’s final goal ripe cherries are selected. This requires recollecting SORTING, CALIBRATING and PACKAGING; Deparched beans are manually or mechanically sorted & sieved to remove bad beans, stones or other foreign matter. is to manage all steps several times. Another method consists of ‘Stripping’; There are different qualities or ‘grades’. Coffee is put into bags, usually of 69 kg and QUALITY CONTROLS; coffee is analyzed and undergoes quality tests in laboratories. throughout the supply chain all cherries (both ripe and unripe) are stripped from and to deliver products and the branches, with one smooth movement by hand services that meet or by machine. In some regions in Brazil, were landsthe highest standards capes are flat and extended, harvest is entirely to make sure that carried out by machines: ‘Mechanical Harvesting’. ‘Green coffee’ is loaded onto ships for transport to consuming countries. It is shipped in jute or sisal bags or bulked into containers. high quality products are Coffee tree branches pass through vertical shafts The exporter buys from cooperatives or auctions. In some countries the government controls coffee trade. traceable, safe, reliable and inside the harvester. Each shaft rotates in the opposite sustainable, whilst reducing direction. The daily harvest is collected and transporCoffee has to travel a long way from grower to consumer. Efico’s local offices play a crucial role. Their know-how of the local market and producers enables them to the environmental ted to the farm. Getting the cherries as fast as possiguarantee to get the right product on the right place, at the right time, at an acceptable price to our customers. Several key issues of this step are quality of shipment impact of our activities. ble to the units is crucial for the coffee quality. dealers/brokers, shipping lines, port facilities, quality of the container, and tracking and tracing. Top-down overview of the Efico Group activities within the framework of the Human Rights principles EVOLUTION, PROGRESS, SOLUTIONS & INNOVATION FOR A SUSTAINABLE GREEN COFFEE SUPPLY CHAIN With the aim to Protect, Respect and Remedy Top-down overview of the Efico Group activities within the framework of the 10 UNGC principles Responsible National & EU National & EU Tools avaisourcing/processing Legislation Legislation lable to our requirements customers: Management Systems Management Systems Review legislation International -Efico Group’s Policy -Efico Group’s Policy National & International profile per Legislation Including the UNGC Including the UNGC EU Group with country Principles Principles Legislation offices in Shipping lines -Efico Quality -Highest standards in producing Three offices in contacts Management Quality/Food safety, Internal countries producing and Systems ISO 9001 Traceability and Code of countries agreements: -Internal Code of Sustainability Conduct Efico we strive Conduct -Seabridge is in process Foundation Screening Screening to work with to reach the ISO 9001, suppliers exporters the same lines Workers Health 22000, 14001 & AEO UNGC providing & Safety Standards Supplier ‘WITH A PERSONAL TOUCH’ Certified full package Vaccination Campaign -Internal Code of Audit products services Conduct Long-term Product Offer UNGC Port Authorities partnerships sharing Workers Health & Safety all certified Supplier Audit Management the same values & vision procedures, equipment, products and on sustainable Supply training, monitoring, HUMAN RIGHTS Acting with due attention to avoid International Regulations Chain Management prevention, correction Seabridge Relations and improvement infrastructure infringing on the rights of others, International Field Visits and Full PRINCIPLES BASED ON THE and treat any inconvenience Sustainable Relations Engagement in valuing Communication CommunicaUNIVERSAL DECLARATION that would be caused projects via the people in use of social media to tion tools Efico communities, knowing publish aspects of shared and Foundation ia Efico the local context and Supply Chain available for Foundation in satisfying all our Management our customers PRINCIPLE 1 Within our sphere of influence sustainably. Our local offices are customers’ requirements & partners we take steps to support and encouraged to get involved in Businesses should support promote human rights. the development of the local MAIN PROGRESS REALIZED IN 2011 society. Flexibility is essential. A and respect the protection of We conduct our operations with fine balance between global TRADING ACTIVITIES taken steps to develop and improve our ment UNGC principles in their daily international honesty, integrity and openness principles and maintaining conA special point of attention goes to the relations. The government has an active activities. This new tool will allow our proclaimed human rights and respect for human rights sistency with both corporate selection of our business partners both in role in green coffee commercialization, suppliers to be prepared for the audit and the interests of our employvalues and local expectations. producing & consuming countries. which brings us to an active communicaand improve their performance. ees, business partners, suppliers We choose well-managed and reliable tion with the government and its embassy and customers. Through the Efico Foundation partners operating ethically. in Europe. UNGC SOURCING SUPPLIERS AUDIT PRINCIPLE 2 projects and the UNGC Audit, Some activities were restricted in 2011 The supplier Americo Melo was audited, Efico establishes itself as a truswe encourage improvements in due to unsafe conditions in some produEFICO FOUNDATION and above all, this year we conducted ted partner by working handhuman rights in producing councing countries and unreliable roasting We invest € 166,000 in projects, which is and financed the 4C verification proBusinesses should ensure in-hand and sharing know-how tries to build a better future for companies. Internally those decisions an increase of 13% compared to 2010. gram of Cojcafé, which was our UNGC that they are not complicit with its partners in the sector. the local communities involved were discussed and followed. And we received 203 applications; an Audit supplier of 2010. Corrective meain human rights abuse in coffee and cocoa production. increase of 117 cases compared to 2010. sures have been set up especially to Global principles with local INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS improve the relations between workers implementation are the only In Ethiopia, our second largest coffee UNGC PRACTICAL GUIDE and management. In doing so, they sucway to operate successfully and sourcing country after Brazil, we have Developed to train producers to impleceed to obtain the 4C verification. Top-down overview of the Efico Group activities within the framework of the Labour principles The tools used to cover these principles are the same as developed for the Human Rights principles ‘YOU CAN LEARN A JOB BUT YOU HAVE TO EXPERIENCE PASSION’ which must be added by the following IN PRODUCING COUNTRIES Position paper child labour Enhancement of our Training Team As we are concerned by Recruitment of an agrothe way the commodities nomist Ing. Elmer Nij, in we trade are produced, we charge of implementing are also concerned about sustainable projects in strengthenin the rural comCentral America. munity. The best way to With a long field expecombat child labour is to r ience in implementing fight poverty by empoweseveral codes and sustairing rural communities nable prog rams, Elmer and promoting educa conducts training sessions tion. This year, through the in simple terms and in local Efico Foundation, we sup languages. Consultancy ported several training and services are available for New Computer Center in the rural education projects. our trusted suppliers and/ Ing. Elmer Nij, Coordination of elementary school of El Platanillo, or on request of customers. Certification Programs & Guatemala, providing Special Projects 10 refurbished computers Efico Central America IN CONSUMING COUNTRIES Recruitment process through interviewing candidates to determine their capacity, skills, experience, motivation, both short and long term career goals, and other intangible qualities necessary for the proposed job. Candidates are also screened on their references. Training and monitoring are essential when it comes to a well-balanced job satisfaction to create added value. Our group has an involved and active leadership consisting of periodical re-evaluation decisions and making adjustments, as needed to meet the company goals. Work environment: besides special attention to safety, our teams benefit from up-to-date and innovative infrastructure. LABOUR Since 2005, we support further economic development of our Group by creating new jobs and by increasing labour Ensuring a safe, well-organized, userproductivity through a well-defined (Risk Management) approach and by following the highest qualitative standards in PRINCIPLES RESULTING friendly, empowering work environment management practices to ensure efficiencies at every level. In 2011, our group’s employment increased with 27% comFROM THE INTERNATIONAL striving to generate added value pared to 2010 and 138% compared to 2005, with 6 different nationalities. LABOUR ORGANIZATION’S through strategic long-term partnerships EFICO GROUP’S EMPLOYMENT FIGURES PER TEAM DECLARATION 2005 2010 2011 Details 2011 PRINCIPLE 3 With the knowledge capabilities training, education, responsiTRADING 27 20 21 10 11 Freedom of association and right to of our team, we continuously ble agriculture practices, and collective bargaining seek to exceed our partners’ energy management to help LOGISTICS 6 17 19 11 8 demands and expectations. We create a more efficient, environPRINCIPLE 4 can do more than ever to help mentally responsible and wellWAREHOUSING* 0 26 36 36 0 our customers build sustainable balanced world. Elimination of all forms forced or businesses, while respecting the ICT 1 1 5 3 2 compulsory labour rights of our workers and we look Through Seabridge, ‘The Stateafter the welfare of the workers Of-The-Art’ facility center in FOUNDATION Fully supported by the EFICO Group PRINCIPLE 5 involved in the production of the Zeebrugge, the streamline of commodities we import. handling and operations is fully TOTAL EFICO GROUP 34 64 81 60 21 Effective abolition of child labour The human dimension of our automated. The workload of * Longshoremen are provided by Port Authorities at disposal of Seabridge, not permanently fulltime employed, but with a work is growing and should be our team is herewith greatly minimum of 17 days per person, per month. elaborated further. improved. Thanks to agreements PRINCIPLE 6 By setting clear goals and reguwith NMBZ, the Port Authority of The continuous improvement of our processes is of vital importance and is evaluated on a regular basis. Progress is monilar evaluation processes we Zeebrugge, our work organizatored during Management Reviews, ISO/BPM and Trade Meetings. For the Longshoremen of Seabridge, special conElimination of discrimination in respect continuously monitor and innotion is also enhanced, with strict sultations are organized with their unions every 3 months. Recommendations are made on goal setting and metrics to of employment and occupation vate in working methodologies. timing for loading and unloatrack internal performance in meeting the Group’s supply chain sustainability expectations. To secure the supply chain, We are working in areas such as ding of trains. safety hazards are identified, security controls are implemented and potential threats and influences are reduced. Top-down overview of the Efico Group activities within the framework of the Environmental principles The tools used to cover these principles are the same as developed for the Human Rights and Labour principles which must be added by the following MAIN PROGRESS REALIZED IN 2011 HIGH PERFORMANCE DELIVERED BY LEVERAGING A SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN Working with coffee suppliers Network & Match relevant Creation of added Improving Tools available to our putting them on the path to transport stakeholders’ interests with value in sustainable ecocustomers to achieve quality & sustainable production optimization our company issues logistics services solutions our shared objectives Efico Foundation projects Ecological Footprint Efico’s Group Partnership Best Practices Field Policy Rationale Policy including with the Expertise Creation of a new In 2008, we performed an environmental issues SNCB International Group product ecological footprint analysis -Rail with offices in Pilot project via Efico Identificaand mapped emissions Improving own connectiproducing countries Foundation; tion of linked to our activities to services+operations ons on the which provides a Developing & Pioneering maritime reduce the impact to the Seabridge Food Seabridge lot of field expertise in first ‘Climate-Friendly’ routes and maximum. Safety Management site, allow especially in terms certified farm. companies is conform to ISO daily traffic of certification sensitive Purchase Policy 22000. Seabridge -Special programs and New staffing to the for Sustainable Products implements an equipment best practices Training of farmers same implemented at Environmental Mgt to optimize provided by a concerns different Efico Group sites. System (EMS) accortrain STATE-OF-THE-ART ‘A SUSTAINABLE APPROACH Guatemala-based of ding to ISO 14001 & transport Facility Innovation THROUGHOUT THE GREEN COFFEE SUPPLY CHAIN’ Agronomist on sustainaPurchase Policy plans to reach the in Sustainable sustainable agriculture bility for Sustainable Products certification by the Awareness Services practices In 2011, 30% of our volume end of 2012 of train -CO 2 controlled was certified, verified or transport: Supply Chain Mgt Supporting sustainable provided by a sustainable Pre-cursor role in Increase -Track & Trace system Supporting sustainable agriculture practices, commitments of customers program and sold through environmentally of In & to guarantee the Triple A & Rainforest Alliance programs such as Nespresso sound technologies Outbound traceability of all ENVIRONMENT carbon footprint assessment, green energy certification in several clusters AAA, Rainforest Alliance, UTZ Seabridge goods we trade production and efficiency, train transport, Certified, 4C, Organic, Fair infrastructure: A tool for -Rationalized and PRINCIPLES DERIVED FROM waste management, sales and Contributed to sustainable Trade, etc. An increase of 4% -Clean location customers atomized logistics THE RIO DECLARATION concern of suppliers compared to 2010, also with and surroundings concerned flow in one location communication of sustainable products 4C verification program a slightly higher total volume -Technologies by low -100% green coffee of Cojcafé for 2011. allowing full carbon delivery on site by PRINCIPLE 7 financing by automation transport train transport, distriThis large program covers the To control and reduce the influthe contribution of Efico Commitment / Marketing & -Only use of Green or pool bution by train or Businesses support a precautionary whole supply chain of the goods ence of our activities on the Communication Support & Energy. Own protransport pool transport approach to environmental challenges we import. environment we developed an Strategic sourcing Advice -On product level: duction on -Time&fuel efficiency In producing countries we supefficient concept, based on the and supplier engagement Sustainable and pioneer in Seabridge site. Improve-Flexible packaging PRINCIPLE 8 port suppliers and customers conviction that the issues on the Creation of a new Climate-Friendly topics -Binary Services: ment of possibilities for willing to improve responsible climate have to be tackled at UNGC practical tool for web + press release. efficiency of full other reception, storage & agriculture practices. locations where they occur. farmers implementing the -On concept level: automation of site transport distribution Promote greater We launched the World’s First UNGC principles CO 2 reduction and compenoperation possibilities -Eco-efficiency: environmental responsibility Coffee to be Rainforest Alliance Emissions in coffee producing sation of green coffee supply -Waste manage-Screening economic growth Verified™ as Climate-Friendly. countries should be reduced by chain. By organizing ment: reports to companies uncoupled from enPRINCIPLE 9 Innovation in new products is activities in producing countries, site visits of Seabridge. IVCEI (Interregiovironmental impact the cornerstone of tomorrow’s and CO 2 emissions in Europe ia Efico Foundation nal Packaging Time and -Waste management Encourage the development & sustainable society. This proshould be reduced in the same New office in Brazil Commission) fuel solutions based on ject was announced during the place. Strategic location. In 2011, efficiency Cradle-to-Cradle diffusion of environmentally United Nations Durban Climate Efico Group imported coffee Marketing & guaranteed Concept friendly technologies C h a n g e C o n fe r e n ce by We have built our model on that from 36 countries /regions. Communication loading & Rainforest Alliance in partnerassumption with partners in the Brazil represents more than Use of social media unloading Marketing & ship with the project partners, sector and throughout the whole 50% of the total volume to publish all aspects time Communication where Efico is part of. supply chain. = increase of 15% (2011vs2010) of sustainability Advise: on all issues Top-down overview of the Efico Group activities within the framework of the Anti-Corruption principle The tools used to cover these principles are the same as developed for the Human Rights, Labour and Environment principles which must be added by the following Putting suppliers on the path Network & Match relevant Creation of State-OfImproving Tools available to our of controlling, monitoring and transport stakeholders’ interests with The-Art controlled, safe Just-In-Time customers to achieve financial empowerment optimization our company issues and secure supply chain deliveries and share our goals Responsible sourcing Fight Group’s Policy Efico’s Group Promoting Best Practices -Reliable partners illicit Mentioning our commitment Policy including Sustainable with offices in -International Relations support drug & to be a transparent company anti-corruption issues Practices producing countries -Controls through the UNGC precursor where partners can conduct Truck UNGC Audit for Suppliers Audit in partnership with trafficking an audit at any time. Improving companies coffee suppliers Mayacert. As of 2004, at least one Efico has Each year audits are conduct Management are faced of our coffee producing suppliers signed by different business partners. Systems, working in with the Efico Foundation is audited per year. its second conformity with increased supports multi-Supporting sustainable farming ‘MemoResponsible sourcing/trading -Quality Management use of train stakeholder practices guaranteeing better randum By promoting sustainable Systems ISO 9001 transport on sustainable responsible practices. This allows of Underprograms we support -Seabridge Food the development SEABRIDGE EVENT us to combat global poverty, Standing’ responsible practices and Safety Management Seabridge projects in coffee having a direct impact on which provide tailor-made services ISO 22000 site. and cocoa ORGANIZED IN PARTNERSHIP empowering rural communities allows ‘with a personal touch’. producing countries. WITH CUSTOMS AND PORT AUTHORITIES by training and education. Customs Tracking and Special ‘Close collaboration improves control procedures’ -Three offices in producing Authorities New office in Brazil: Traceability agreements All financial means countries Brazil, Ethiopia and to control Following the same Group’s A unique code traces with NMBS are directly Guatemala enable us to be the goods policy all our goods from allow us to invested in a project. active and have presence and we trade origin to destination, act Transparency is control on the local markets. at any Customs clearance & financial ensuring traceability accurately fully guaranteed time. transparency of all our products. and by the management ANTI-CORRUPTION Respect of all engagements, transparent Prefinancing with Delcredere -Payments obligatory through increase of the King Baudouin company, long term collaboration In 2011, we prefinanced Seabridge financial institutions Precursor role in the Foundation. € 15,963,800 in partnership with also Special attention to facing controlling imported organizaPRINCIPLE BASED ON THE with reliable partners, guidelines for the Belgian Export Credit & signed financial difficulties goods tion’s STATE-OF-THE-ART UN CONVENTION investments in producing countries, Insurance Agency “Office this In December, performance Warehouse AGAINST CORRUPTION combating illicit drug and money trafficking National Ducroire” (ONDD) special Partnership with the Belgian Seabridge signed an Management Distribution: Togo 43%, Ethiopia agreeCustoms against drug MOU to join efforts to System 37%, Nicaragua 3%, Honduras & ment trafficking fight illicit trafficking Which runs on PRINCIPLE 10 Cameroon 5%. Prefinancing is allowing In 2011, Efico resigned an MOU of narcotic drugs and Microsoft Dynamics Following this last principle, our Since December 2011, the siga kind of payment in advance to combat to join efforts to fight illicit precursors. NAV Platform. Businesses should work against Group adopts and demonning of the MOU of Seabridge on the next harvest. This service illicit drug trafficking of narcotic With this pioneer corruption in all its forms, strates its commitment towards with the Customs Authorities is appreciated when local and drugs and precursors. AEO „Authorized technology we can including creating a business environfacilitates regular checks of our financial organizations fail to money Economic Operator” increase and ment promoting values of intestock. provide support. It also allows trafficking. Communication is a special status that improve extortion and bribery grity, transparency and good our suppliers to choose their on drugs prevention companies can all our operations governance. This signature was followed by a business partners and also the Press release sent in acquire and which and their controls. demonstration of customs conmoment they fix their contracts. December, followed by indicates to Customs Efico acts as an open group and trols with sniffing dogs looking for special attention in 2012 that the company is MOU Drug Prevention enables its partners to carry out drugs and money. Controls of Efico Foundation with presence on our website: reliable in the fiscal As a reliable partner all types of audits. projects: In 2011, we visited six and security domain. we have a positive Our staff and partners have projects that received support: Drug prevention page Obtaining this certifiand professional been informed about these -Kachalu & 4C/Rainforest Alliance cation will accelerate approach. inspections. in Colombia Leolinda in Brazil Press release and simplify the daily -IT computer school and ‘Climate customer handling of The AEO certification planned Friendly Farming’ in Guatemala our goods which allows early 2012 will strengthen the -Conservation International quick and efficient safety of the supply chain. project in Indonesia handling of goods MAIN FIGURES ON THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES TRADING GREEN COFFEE Unit 2005 2009 2010 2011 Progress EFICO FOUNDATION: INVESTMENT IN SUSTAINABLE PROJECTS SINCE 1926 IN VOLUME 2011 vs 2010 Per year Before 2005-2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Achieved Bags 654,000 850,000 1,000,000 1,060,000 Efico Fund +6% MT 39,230 50,674 60,000 63,256 In € 51,954 282,790 312,057 126,313 94,899 147,496 165,952 1,181,461 Number of new 4 7 2 7 3 8 5 36 Bags 83,000 135,000 260,000 320,000 projects per year Sustainable Product* +30% MT 5,000 8,000 16,550 19,432 Projects could require a maximum of € 20,000 per year and 3 year support. Each year we have a new selection of projects. * in 2011, 30% of our total volume originated from certified/verified programs. The Efico Foundation supports 36 sustainable multi-stakeholder development projects in 14 coffee & cocoa producing countries amounting to ± € 1,181,461. GREEN ENERGY Unit 2009 2010 2011 Progress PRODUCTION 2011 vs 2010 kWh N/A 891,910.00 967,704.00 +8% Financial Means 100% of Efico Foundation’s financial means goes directly to 21% Coffee Roasting projects and are generated in 3 differents ways: 33% Companies 1. Coffee Roasting Companies 8% Efico's Grants CO2 reduction Kg N/A 621,661.27 674,489.69 +8% 2. Efico Group transfers, at least € 50,000/year Public Donations and all the operational support-costs 38% 100% of the energy used in Seabridge is certified green energy, partly produced on-site by 4,600 photovoltaic panels. 3. Public donations Private Donations In 2011 this lead to a CO2 reduction of 674.5 TONNES (CO 2 equivalents); an increase of 8% compared to 2010. 4. Private donations WASTE MANAGEMENT Unit 2010 2011 Progress Controls RECYCLING (TOTAL) 2011 vs 2010 Thanks to regular project visits, full allocation of means is guaranteed. (TOTAL) MT 55.43 79.25 +42% If necessary, procedures are followed to prevent or rectify possible undesired practices. Future challenge After six years of operations, field monitoring is crucial to measure the real impact of projects and their continuity. Performance evaluation of projects will be a focus in the future. Energy recuperation (TOTAL) MT 14.55 48.01 x 3.5 2012 will also be a reflexion year: the operations, the sustainable criteria and the control systems of our foundation have to be evaluated. A brainstorming session will be organized with our partners within the King Baudouin Policy of recycling all waste streams, partly with high value recuperation and recycling, partly by energy recuperation. Foundation end of March. During the last 3 years, we received more and more project applicants. In 2009 the total amounted to 55 projects, in 2010 to 86 projects, and in 2011 to 203 projects. The operational effectiveness has to improve the performance of our organization with as main aim to strengthen the impact on livelihoods of rural proTRAIN TRANSPORT Unit 2010 2011 Progress ducing communities at its maximum. VOLUME BY TRAIN / CO2 REDUCTION COMPARED TO TRUCK TRANSPORT 2011 vs 2010 Communication INBOUND Volume by train MT 37,250 52,074 +40% PRESENCE OF THE EFICO GROUP ON YOUTUBE PRESENCE OF THE EFICO GROUP ON CO2 reduction Kg 29,800 41,659 +40% WWW.YOUTUBE.COM/EFICOGROUP WWW.EFICO.COM 2010 2011 2010 (new website) 2011 Views 2,489 9,745 Visitors 31,535 25,857 Most viewed films New visitors 64% 61% 1) Mechanical Harvesting Returning visitors 36% 38% in Brazil 175 3,523 Average time on site 2’16 2’39 2) Seabridge 390 569 Average page per visit 3 3.6 OUTBOUND MT N/A 31,747 N/A Taking care of your coffee N/A 223 Most viewed pages Volume by train Kg N/A 199,371 N/A A bridge between coffee, men Efico/Home 14,689 11,927 CO2 reduction and machines N/A 167 Seabridge/Home 9,861 5,954 Ethiopia N/A 741 Efico Foundation/Home 10,242 5,253 Reception and distribution is possible thanks to our own direct access to rail transport. From Flower to Cup N/A 519 Efico/UN Global Compact 454 696 Compared to truck transport, this leads to a reduction of 28 % in CO 2 emissions. Climate-Friendly Seabridge/UN Global Compact 236 178 Farming Project As of October: 79 73 Efico Foundation/UN Global Compact 141 196 In 2011, we realized 95% of inbound by train and more than 50% outbound by train. FUTURE PERSPECTIVES Over the years, Efico has maintained the same values, and engaged in structural reforms in how a business can conduct and improve sustainable economy. In March 2003, Efico joined the Global Compact with the purpose to generate, disseminate and ensure its legal compliance to all parties involved in the supply chain. As a driving force in our supply chain, our proposed sustainable solutions provide added value to the sector in producing countries and in Europe. Long term partnerships strengthen our actions. The success of our sustainable approach is mostly due to continuous knowledge sharing and exchange with our stakeholders, following our values and requirements. 2012 will have its challenges. The first step will be the continuation of our current program and the upgrading of our performance. Next, we will launch a new ‘Climate’ product and a new ‘Implementation Guide of the UN Global Compact Principles’. We will also develop qualitative agriculture production programs, reduce greenhouse gas emissions of the supply chain, increase green energy production, optimize the Efico Group’s transport policy and of course continue our support to the Efico Foundation. As in previous years, this ‘Ethico Report’ will be shared with all our stakeholders. The link to this document published on the website of the UNGC will be mentioned in all our communication material. Italiëlei 181, B-2000 Antwerpen Koffieweg 10, B-8380 Zeebrugge Italiëlei 181, B-2000 Antwerpen Tel.: +32 (0)3 233 78 65 Tel.: +32 (0)50 36 70 80 Tel.: +32 (0)3 233 78 65 efico@efico.com office@seabridge.eu info@eficofoundation.org www.efico.com www.seabridge.eu www.eficofoundation.org
