Communication on Progress {January-December 2011} Full name of the participating company/organization: Apex Adelchi Footwear Limited Country of headquarters / countries of major operations: Dhaka, Bangladesh Industry sector: Footwear Manufacturing and Exporting Reported period: January to December 2011 Structure of the Communication on Progress: 1. Apex Adelchi Footwear Limited (AAFL) is committed to upholding the principles of the UN Global Compact through all vistas of its operation. The company believes that prosperity and growth is firmly pegged to the wellbeing of the community through which it operates, concurrently safeguarding the human rights of its workforce and customers, ensuring labor standards are met and treating all its stakeholders in an unbiased and transparent manner. This is embodied in the company’s credo, “Honest Growth”. 2. Description of practical actions, and policies if available, taken to implement the UN Global Compact principles and quantitative measurement of performance. The guidelines below are developed to help you with identifying the actions and indicators under the four issue areas. Human Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Rights: internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses What is the relevance of Human Rights Actions and indicators – examples: for your company? What The company provides information among its impact/influence has your company on employees on the measures supporting human Human Rights? How is your company rights. impacted/influenced by Human Rights? The company selects its contractors based on a Does the company demonstrate its list of criteria, including a criterion regarding the human rights protection policy in any of availability of information about their engagement the following documents?: with human rights protection. Organizational structure Employment rules The company protects the rights of its customers HR plan by providing information about its products Risk management plan /services Supplier selection criteria Customer relation systems The company has a policy supporting: Employee relation systems educational projects Employee information and training scholarships plan projects for participation in cultural life Sponsorship, donation and social minorities activity policy This is done after an evaluation of the needs Is there a special person or team or Page 1 committee in charge of implementing this The company allocated 0.75% of retained profits policy? for concrete human rights protection projects Does the company have other special The data is taken from: internal reports and projects, for instance assisting nonexternal audit report. governmental organizations to support disadvantaged social groups? The company has partnered with Center of Excellence for Leather Skills Bangladesh Limited (COEL) to help those worst affected of climate change in the Gaibandha region through a comprehensive apprenticeship program. These men and women, who often earn less than a dollar a day, are given a six-month long paid apprenticeship, whereby they are trained as machine operators and supervisors. The first batch of 1,000 graduates, whose courses were administered through ILO’s TVET initiative have already been absorbed by a number of leather footwear exporters in the country. AAFL also has a fully staffed round-the-clock medical centre within its factory compound. Apart from routine free medical check-ups for the factory employees, the centre also provides guidelines on hygiene practices. Additionally, AAFL also has an on-site day care centre for young children belonging to its female workers, in light of the fact that approximately 70% of its factory employees are female. In April 2011, AAFL’s domestic wing Gallerie Apex undertook a week-long campaign to raise funds for the victims of the Earthquake and Tsunami victims of Japan. The company ultimately donated 10% of its sales revenue of the third week of the month to JICA through a formal ceremony as a gesture of appreciation for the partnership Bangladesh shared with Japan. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Standards: effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. What is the relevance of Labour Actions and indicators – examples: Standards for your company? What The company has a plan for employment, training impact/influence has your company on and career development, the criteria being Labour Standards? How is your company transparent for the employees. The company has impacted/influenced by Labour clear rules regarding working hours, breaks, etc. Standards? Job advertisements guarantee equal access to all able candidates. Does the company demonstrate its human rights protection policy in any of The company has a formal representation of the the following documents?: employees in the management. The company Collective labour contract has a formal system to hear the opinion of the Organizational structure employees Employment rules Risk management plan The company selects its contractors based on a Page 2 Supplier selection criteria list of criteria, including a criterion regarding the Customer relation systems availability of information about their engagement Employee information and training with labour standards protection. plan External audit reports Given the potential risk in the sector of employing Equal opportunities policy children under 18, company displays in the notice board not to employing children under 18. Is there a special person or team or committee in charge of implementing this The company has also proactively sought policy? empowerment and employment of marginalized females. This is reflected in the fact that Does the company have other special approximately 70% of AAFL’s factory workforce is projects, for instance, assisting a noncomprised of women. governmental organization, which works for supporting equal opportunities between women and men, the abolition of The data is taken from internal reports and child labour and other forms of labour external audit reports. norms violation? Environment: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. What is the relevance of Environmental Actions and indicators – examples: issues for your company? What The precautionary approach of the company impact/influence has your company on guarantees that it collects information in order to the Environment? How is your company identify, monitor and assess the possible impacted/influenced by the environmental effects of its products and Environment? services. Does the company demonstrate its The company selects its contractors based on a environment protection policy in any of list of criteria, including a criterion regarding the the following documents?: availability of information about their engagement Risk management plan with environment protection. Supplier selection criteria Customer relation systems The company states clearly its planned Employee information and training environmental targets and achievements (on the plan web site, internal bulletin, etc.) Marketing plans Is there a special corporate The data is taken from internal reports and environmental policy, independent or as external audit reports. part of other documents? AAFL has conducted a month long environmental Is there a special person or team or awareness campaign through its domestic committee in charge of implementing this manufacturing and retail wing, Gallerie Apex. policy? Titled, the Green Gallerie Initiative, the program introduced environment friendly, recyclable Does the company have other special shopping bags. In addition, the company also projects, for instance, assisting a nonintroduced dedicated recycle bins in 10 of its governmental environmental premium outlets encouraging consumers to organization? recycle. Framed environment pledges have been placed in select showrooms encouraging customers to get involved in saving electricity, paper and other key natural resources. Page 3 AntiPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including Corruption: extortion and bribery. What is the relevance of Corruption for Actions and indicators – examples: your company? What impact/influence has your company on Corruption? How The company observes strict rules with regard to is your company impacted/influenced by donations, including for political parties, Corruption? guaranteeing transparency. Documents that could bear on elements The employees are informed about the company of anti-corruption policy: policy thanks to an internal bulletin. financial rules and orders regarding gifts, social expenses and Both suppliers and partners are informed about representational expenses the company purchase policy. purchase rules description of connected persons The company has signed the initiative of the GC donation rules, including for political and BBLF to limit the amount of cash payments. parties rules for service payments by state The company finances: employees and/or employees to survey and discussion on Corruption in business partners universities within the framework of a project of the х Association Does the company have a document, participation of one of its employees in a describing the anti-corruption and antilecture-discussion with students “What is bribery policy, for instance in a Code or corruption and what are its forms?” other form? AAFL’s local wing Gallerie Apex was awarded the Is there a person charged specifically with highest Value Added Tax Payer for the year implementing this policy? 2010-11 (Gazipur district) by the Bangladesh Government, which serves as a vindication of the Does the company have any other transparent practices of the company. special projects, for instance with a business organization and/or with the support of a non-governmental The data is taken from: internal reports and organization? external audit reports. 3. Sharing the COP with the company’s stakeholders – available links to the company’s Communication on Progress and additional information on the location of the COP report – and posting the COP on the Global Compact website http://www.unglobalcompact.org/admin/ Contact person for the COP (full name, position, email, etc.): Md. Mominul Ahsan, Head of Human Resources, Apex Adelchi Footwear Limited; ahsan@apexadelchi.com Page 4
