UN Global Compact Communication of Progress 2011 Responsible Tourism at Karen Blixen Camp 1|P a g e CONTACTS Karen Blixen Camp Ltd. 40C Marula Lane, Karen Nairobi, Kenya, PO BOX 9913 00 100 GPO NBO www.karenblixencamp.com info@karenblixencamp.com reservation@karenblixencamp.com Contact persons Martin Sonderby Nielsen, Managing Director msn@karenblixencamp.com Katrine Jessen, CSR Manager kj@karenblixencamp.com Sector Tourism, leisure and holiday Number of employees 120 staff members UN Global Compact signatory since Karen Blixen Camp registered our support in 2008 ECO TOURISM AT KAREN BLIXEN CAMP Karen Blixen Camp is an eco friendly luxury camp located in the beautiful Mara North Conservancy. We strongly believe responsible tourism can contribute positively to the UN Millennium Development Goals and protect the environment, combat extreme poverty, improve education and share the benefits of modern technologies through outstanding CSR practices. Karen Blixen Camp is a founding member camp of the Mara North Conservancy and protects 32.000 Ha of pristine wildlife area in the vital northwestern zone of the Greater Maasai Mara Ecosystem. We are committed to minimize our impact on the fragile environment and use the latest green technologies. Solarpanels provide all power used at camp, solar system heats up water for the outdoor showers and a sewage system handles all wastewater produced. Karen Blixen Camp observes the Working Law of Kenya 2007 and has endorsed the International Labor Organization’s (ILO) declaration on rights to work. All staff is employed on permanent contracts until retirement to ensure job security, rights in case of termination and social and medical benefits. We support the local Maasai community following the principle of trade, not aid. Distribution of revenue covers; lease payment for Mara North Conservancy, bed night fee for leasing our privately owned concession area, purchasing local goods and for using local supplies. Karen Blixen Camp opened the Karen Blixen Hospitality School in January 2012. The school will offer affordable cooking school education as well as IT and language education for the local Maasai youth. The school was established with funds from the Danida, the Danish International Development 2|P a g e Assistance. Karen Blixen Camp has fundraised 2 million USD for the benefit of the local Maasai communities. CODE OF CONDUCT • Protect the Mara North Conservancy with 30,000 of pristine wilderness area • Make use of the latest green technologies and minimize our impact on the environment • Promote environmental responsibility and find sustainable solutions on energy consumption • Fundraise for the betterment of the local Maasai community • Promote tertiary education for the Maasai youth, young men and women alike • Promote literacy and make available computers and internet technologies • Ensure full and decent employment for all staff employed • Assure proper working conditions and respect workers’ rights to join an association • Promote gender equality and equity amongst staff employed • Embark HIV/AIDS awareness for all staff employed BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF NATURE OF BUSINESS Karen Blixen Camp in the Maasai Mara offers exclusive wildlife experiences to visitors from around the world. The camp comprises 22 large canvas tents and gives an authentic ’yesteryear’ experience for visitors wishing to gain that little extra from their safari. Set on the banks of the Mara River, the location is spectacular. Throughout the day elephants, giraffes, zebras and impalas come for a drink while a large hippo pod rests lazily in the river. Karen Blixen Camp is committed to responsible wildlife experiences. We invite our guests to explore and understand the complexity of the Maasai Mara Ecosystem with its great wildlife on game drives, game walks, nature walks, balloon safaris and eco camp walks. Understanding the intricacies of how the Maasai Mara Ecosystem works adds the ultimate dimension to the very unique and outstanding wildlife experience. Karen Blixen Camp conducts our business in a manner that benefits the environment, the people working at the camp and the neighboring community. Our mission is to become one of the most recognized eco friendly luxury camps in East Africa and make eco tourism a very successful business imperative in today’ tourism industry. Karen Blixen Camp is a Kenyan registered company owned by Danish shareholders. IFU, the Investment Fund for developing countries has granted us a development loan, as a part of their objective to promote economic and social growth in developing countries. Danida, Danish International Assistance to developing countries has granted us funding through its UN based IPD, International Partnership for Development Programme to establish a hospitality and forestry school for the Maasai youth, combating low education and extreme poverty. SCOPE OF THIS COP Karen Blixen Camp is proud to present our Communication on Progress for the year 2011 to the UN Global Compact. We are reporting on our CSR practices and progress within the principles of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. 3|P a g e HUMAN RIGHTS UN Global Compact principles covered Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses COMMITMENT Karen Blixen Camp is committed to support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and ensure our company is not complicit in human rights abuses. We adhere to the UN Human Rights Declaration of 1966, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the Constitution of Kenya of 2010 which declare protection of human rights and how they should be observed in relation to operation of companies. Karen Blixen Camp is committed to ensure equality and freedom from discrimination, freedom from well as slavery servitude and forced labour and further guarantee freedom of association and the right to fair labour practices within our business practices and sphere of influence. We are committed to contribute positively to the Children’ Act and children’ rights to education and proper healthcare for children living in our close vicinity. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEMS AND ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED IN 2007-2011 Freedom of discrimination Karen Blixen Camp is committed to secure that no discrimination takes place in employment related procedures and decisions based on a person’ origin, sex, religion, political or union affiliation, sexual orientations or physical challenges at the workplace. Our employment policy promotes equal opportunities for all candidates who meet the job qualification criteria. With an unemployment rate at 50 percent within the local Maasai community, Karen Blixen Camp strongly believe we have a great responsibility making sure the Maasai community benefit economically from our presence through promotion of employment opportunities. 80 percent of the staff working at the camp has been recruited from the local Maasai community and 20 percent derive from other areas in Kenya. Gender equality Promoting gender equality is crucial. Poverty is not gender-neutral, but affects men and women in different ways. Women are more likely to be employed in vulnerable jobs – in farming, as unpaid family workers or as own-account workers – with no or little financial security or social benefits. Karen Blixen Camp is committed to promote gender equality. Women and men are given the same employment conditions and salary is paid in accordance to qualifications. Women are also given 3 month of maternity leave, whilst men are entitled to 14 days of paternity leave. Of the 120 staff members, only 16 are women. In other words; we are still lacking far behind securing a 50 percent gender ratio amongst our staff. The reasons are partly due to barriers within the society and educational barriers. Women are therefore strongly encouraged to apply. 4|P a g e MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOME AND VALUE ADDED FOR OUR COMPANY Karen Blixen Camp is experiencing great support from our travel agent and tour operators who are pleased with our Eco Tourism practices. We expect to increase our occupancy rate due to travel agents and visitors’ interest in sustainable tourism. ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR NEXT YEAR Karen Blixen Camp will focus to attract more women for employment at the camp. 5|P a g e LABOUR RIGHTS UN Global Compact principles covered Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation COMMITMENT Karen Blixen Camp believes that the private sector has the capacity to alleviate poverty through proper working conditions. We abbey the Working Law of Kenya 2007, the Labour Organization’s (ILO) declaration on rights to work and have endorsed the labour principles of the UN Global Compact. Being the single largest sector in the world economy, tourism plays a key role for many African countries. Tourism creates jobs and incomes for millions of people. As such tourism is capable of contributing positively to the UN Millennium Development Goals; alleviating extreme poverty and hunger through full and decent employment. Africa is highly dependent on the global economy, but the global economy is not dependent on Africa. Africa accounts for less that 1 percent of annual global capital inflows and for less than 2 percent of the world trade. The entire GDP of Africa (excluding South Africa and Nigeria) is about equal to that of a small country as Ireland. According to the World Bank an estimated 44 percent of the African population will continue to live in extreme poverty with less than 1 USD per day. In absolute terms, the number of poor people has nearly doubled, from 200 million in 1981 to 380 million in 2005. Sadly, the financial crisis has pushed another 65 million people into vulnerable employment. They and their family find themselves living in extreme poverty without a financial stable job, but reliant on casual, seasonal or own-account labour. To beat the poverty line, 11 millions of jobs must be created every year in Africa. Research shows that nine out of ten jobs are created in the private sector; making private sector led economic growth crucial for employment generation and poverty reduction. But tourism must be conducted in a responsible manner, adhering to international accepted standards. Tourism is, unfortunately, a fiercely competitive global market, with incentives for putting short-term earnings before long-term environmental considerations. Protecting the environment, respecting workers’ right, ensuring full and decent employment as well as promoting gender equality is crucial should the tourism industry wish to have a sustainable impact in the developing countries; alleviating extreme poverty through job creation and economic growth. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEMS AND ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED IN 2007 TO 2011 Karen Blixen Camp employs 120 staff members. 107 are working at the camp in the Mara and 13 are working at the head office in Nairobi. Permanent contract for job security 6|P a g e All staff is employed on a permanent contract until retirement with a 3 month probation period. This ensures not only job security, rights in case of termination, but also economic, social and medical benefits. Contracts have been written by Muthoga Gaturu & Advocates in accordance with the Working Law of Kenya 2007. Karen Blixen Camp refrains from use of casual labour as this renounce job security, social rights and medical benefits. Worker’s right to join an association and to bargain The International Labour Organization has endorsed workers with the universal right to freely join an association and to bargain. We respect and encourage these rights. All staff is free to join any chosen association. Five staff members have been democratically elected to form the staff committee. The committee represents the staff and act on their behalf, raising questions or matters that worry them. Staff is also able to voice any concern through the monthly staff meetings where the entire staff and the management are represented. In case of any misinterpretation between an individual staff member and the management, the company responds to the chosen labour union with attention to resolve the matter. Staff is also encouraged to formally negotiate salary and terms of employment at least once a year. Salary and leave conditions The salary consists of a base salary, travel or housing allowance as well as a service charge, where 5 percent of our total revenue is paid as a monthly bonus salary. The service charge effectively increases staff salary between 10 to 135 percent. Staff works on a monthly schedule with 21 working days, 7 days on leave and an additional 3 weeks holiday a year. Medical security and benefits Medical insurance is important in countries without welfare state funded healthcare systems. Our staff has insurance through the National Health Insurance Fund. NHIF covers the individual and his/her close family in case of in-patient medical help (hospitalization), but not in case of out-patient medical help. When needed, staff is able to seek medical help at the local Mararienda Health Clinic. Such out-patient activities (consultation fee, test and medication) are paid by the company. In case of extended medical treatment, staff has the option of being referred to private or national hospitals in Nairobi. Two doctors, Dr. Ingrid Helweg Gichere and Dr. Raphael Gichere from Kenyatta National Hospital, Nairobi, are attached for counseling and monitoring of health for all staff. The doctors also come to our camp and inform about HIV/Aids and family planning. Our staff is able to pose any questions on matters that worry them and their families. Social security Social security is provided through the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), which reimburses social benefits when a member retires from a regularly paid employment or to the dependants of a deceased member. NSSF also offers funeral grants. Living conditions at the camp for staff Working in the bush means living in the bush. Our staff accommodation comprises two stone houses; canteen, flush toilets and hot and cold water showers. All staff rooms have a bed, beddings, linen, a mosquito net and a lockable cupboard for private belongings. The canteen serves breakfasts, lunches and dinners. TV with DSTV provides news from the outside world and a DVD shows movies. Twice a year, a football tournament between the camps of the area is arranged. 7|P a g e MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOME AND VALUE ADDED FOR OUR COMPANY Karen Blixen Camp is experiencing great support from our travel agent and tour operators who are pleased with our Eco Tourism practices. We expect to increase our occupancy rate due to travel agents and visitors’ interest in sustainable tourism. 8|P a g e ENVIRONMENT UN Global Compact principles covered Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies COMMITMENT Karen Blixen Camp is committed to minimize our impact on the fragile environment. The camp has been constructed to run in the most environmental friendly manner using the latest green technologies. Solar panels provide all power used at camp, gas burners heats up water for the outdoor showers and a sewage system handles all waste water produced. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEMS AND ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED IN 2007 TO 2011 Green technologies Solar panels provides electricity Karen Blixen Camp has 24 hour electricity, powered by an extensive solar panel system. During sunny days the solar panels follows the position of the sun and the solar energy goes into the battery bank ensuring electricity is also available at night or on rainy days. The benefit is obvious; there is no excessive use of diesel fueling noisy generators and our outlet of CO2 is kept at a minimum. The total investment in the solar system with 55 solar panels of 165 watt each with the battery bank amounted to 135,000 USD. It is estimated that, with good care, the solar system will last around 8-10 years. The equivalent usage of power provided by a generator will cost 54,750 USD per annum or 547,500 USD for 10 years usage. The cost buying the generator exempted. In this context, investing in green technologies rather than the good old polluting ones makes financial sense. Solar water heaters Traditional safari tourism relies on firewood and charcoals as their main source of energy. But with only 1.7 percent forests cover left in Kenya, usage of firewood and charcoals is no longer viable. Karen Blixen Camp has recently installed solar water heaters for heating water for the outdoor guest showers. Recent development of solar technology now allows sufficient energy from the sun to be captured, even on cloudy days. Adding to the benefit, the solar water heaters are centralized into one unit, connected to our main water system, providing hot water for all 22 guest tents on a 24 hour base. We believe the investment in solar water heaters will be returned within 18 months. The benefit is simple; when not using firewood and charcoal we do not contribute to the deforestation of Kenyan woodlands. Previously, we made use of gas burners for heating up water. Waste water treatment Wastewater treatment is another important matter when running a camp out in the bush. Water for guest showers, washing of bed linens, and not to mention flushing toilets, creates wastewater. All wastewater produced are led into the sewage system and directed into the septic tank. From here the wastewater is mechanical treated as it runs through channels of charcoals and sand filters, ending in two 9|P a g e huge soak pits. The surface water is collected and used for watering our bush garden. We test the grey water by sending samples to the Kenyan National Laboratory to ensure zero out let of polluting agents. Strict waste management system for recycling Karen Blixen Camp is committed to recycle all waste produced. However, we must admit it present a very challenging affair to accomplish this obligation. The western world benefit from governmental regulated waste management systems, whereas countries as Kenya still struggle to establish sufficient and effective recycling plants throughout the country. Much depend on the private sector as well as the people working in the takataka (garbage) business. We compost the organic waste and separate and transport the non-degradable waste back to Nairobi. We liaise with a private company who collects our waste and whenever possible sell it to recycling companies. Moreover, we have stopped buying PET mineral water bottles as no proper recycling plant can be found in Kenya. Instead guests are provided with refillable water bottles. We will continuously strive to align our business practices with a sustainable purchase policy for reduced waste production. CONSERVATION Olisuk Concession Karen Blixen Camp protects 3,400 acres (1,373 Ha) of natural wildlife area as a private concession. Eleven Maasai families have decided to lease their land to us and in return we pay them a fixed bed night fee every time a guest stays at our camp. Mara North Conservancy Karen Blixen Camp is situated in the beautiful Mara North Conservancy. We protect more than 30,000 Ha of stunning natural wilderness in close partnership with the Maasai communities. Guests are ensured a truly exclusive safari experience. Mara North Conservancy is a partnership between eleven member camps and the 750 Maasai landowners. Our ambition is to create a best-practice, world-class conservancy with long term commitments to the environment, the wildlife and the Maasai communities. The partnership provides the Maasai communities with the economic incentives to set aside their land for wildlife conservation and guarantees our guests of a truly exclusive safari experiences in one of the world’s most stunning wildlife areas with responsible tourism and controlled vehicle density. Community and tourism conservation Communities living in natural wildlife areas must be provided with the economic incentives to set aside their land for wildlife conservation. The eleven member camps of Mara North guarantees fixed monthly lease payments for the privilege to carry out their game drives within the beautiful area. The idea of guaranteeing a fixed lease payment is truly innovative and marks the very first time that the Maasai landowners in this area have received direct, predictable and transparent income from wildlife, allowing the community members to plan ahead for the future. The lease payment is not subject to the number of conservancy tickets sold, and therefore not dependant on fluctuations in tourism. Mission goals • Safeguard the Maasai Mara through professional wildlife management • Direct and transparent revenue distribution to the Maasai landowners • Promotion of strong eco-tourism practices and use of environmentally friendly technologies 10 | P a g e • Controlled tourism and guaranteed low vehicle density for lower environmental impact • Fundraising for the betterment of the local communities Management Mara North Conservancy is managed by a board of directors, elected by the member camps. The board works in close partnership with the Maasai Landowner Committee to meet short and long term objectives for the future. The Landowner Committee reports to all landowners for their final approval. Twice a year, full community meetings are held whereby all landowners are able to voice their opinion on the way forward. Mara North Conservancy is a not-for-profit public company established on the 1st of January 2009. Wildlife Management Professional wildlife management is crucial. Brian Heath, Seiya Ltd. has been appointed as Mara North Conservancy’ Conservation Manager with Marc Goss as the Daily Conservation Manager of the ranger surveillance team. Seiya Ltd. is an international recognized conservation company with over 40 years of wildlife conservation experience. Mara North Conservancy employs 30 rangers to secure the area and its wildlife. The foremost objectives are to protect the wild animals from poaching and snaring, manage grazing zones for livestock, respond to and find solutions for human/wildlife conflicts and restore natural habitat areas with maintenance of roads and tracks. Anti-poaching enforcement Poaching has been and is a very current threat to wildlife. Elephants are still being shot in great numbers to remove and sell their tusk for ivory productions. Plain game as zebras or wildebeests is caught in snares to be sold at the growing worldwide bushmeat market. Marc Goss and his rangers will, when necessary, arrest and hand over suspects to the Kenyan Wildlife Services and the Kenyan Police. The day and night surveillance of the wilderness area most definitely prevent poachers to access and destroy wildlife within the Mara North Conservancy. Responding to human-wildlife conflicts Human-wildlife conflicts occur in areas where man and wild animals live side by side. The Maasai have never hunted the plain games for meat, but entirely depended on their livestock. However, traditions have prescribed for every young warrior to kill a lion to reach his manhood. This practice has unfortunately not completely ceased to exist. Young Maasai warriors will still kill the big cat predators in retaliation for attacked livestock. Marc Goss and his rangers are responding to any human-wildlife conflicts occurring within the area to discourage retaliations and find a joint solution for future coexistence. Mara North Conservancy has introduced a compensation scheme in the event of predatorlivestock conflicts. The scheme works as an insurance fund where landowners pay half and the member camps the other half. The cost to the individual landowner is on average 21 USD per year. Moreover, we are introducing predator proof enclosures (bomas) to keep livestock safe at nights as well as recommending better herding practices. Controlled grazing and zoning Controlled grazing and zoning for livestock is important to accommodate both wildlife and livestock. Mara North Conservancy keeps certain zones and hours restricted for grazing. Cattle grazing are permitted in areas, where they do not interfere with wildlife such as the big cat predators. Follow Marc Goss and the 30 ranger through www.mncreports.blogspot.com. 11 | P a g e Karen Blixen Camp’ contribution Karen Blixen Camp is founding member camp of Mara North Conservancy. We guarantee the payment of 27,500 USD per month. This makes us the single largest contributor with 330,000 USD per year in fixed lease payments. Martin Sonderby Nielsen, Managing Director of Karen Blixen Camp, is member of the Executive Board of Mara North Conservancy and acts as its Treasurer. Katrine Sonderby Nielsen, CSR Manager of Karen Blixen Camp, has fundraised 2 million USD for the benefit of the local Maasai communities. MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOME AND VALUE ADDED FOR OUR COMPANY Karen Blixen Camp is experiencing great support from our travel agent and tour operators who are pleased with our Eco Tourism practices. We expect to increase our occupancy rate due to travel agents and visitors’ interest in sustainable tourism. ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR NEXT YEAR Karen Blixen Camp will continue our engagement in Mara North Conservancy and focus on the establishment of the Forestry School for combating extreme poverty and low education for the Maasai youth as well as for the restoration of natural wildlife areas in Maasai Mara. 12 | P a g e ANTI-CORRUPTION UN Global Compact principles covered Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery COMMITMENT Karen Blixen Camp is committed to combat corruption in all its form and support the United Nations Convention Against Corruption of 2005, the Council of Europe with the Crime Law Convention on Corruption and the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act of Kenya. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEMS AND ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED IN 2007-2011 Karen Blixen Camp has contributed to the full stop of corruption concerning conservancy fee ad payment of lease agreement in the formerly wildlife area Koyaki-Lemek Wildlife Trust by the establishment of Mara North Conservancy. It is estimated that the Koyiaki-Lemek Wildlife Trust generated approximately 2.5 USD from the years 2005 to 2007, but only managed to distribute 20 percent of this revenue to the Maasai landowners. Today, the eleven Mara North member camps are obliged to pay 112,000 USD per month in fixed lease payments, which on a yearly base accounts to 1.3 million USD. 83 percent is distributed as lease payments, paid directly into the individual landowner’ bank account and 17 percent is allocated for conservation management with employment of rangers, vehicle surveillance and maintenance of infrastructure. As a result, each Maasai landowner is secured 37 USD per Ha amounting to at least 2,220 USD per year. In comparison farmers will pay 22 USD for leasing the wildlife area for cultivating. Karen Blixen Camp is founding member camp of Mara North Conservancy. The company guarantees the payment of 27,500 USD per month. This makes KBC the single largest contributor with 330,000 USD per year in fixed lease payments. MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOME AND VALUE ADDED FOR OUR COMPANY Mara North Conservancy protects more than 30,000 Ha of pristine natural wildlife area. Our ambition is to create a best-practice, world-class conservancy with long term commitments to the environment, the wildlife and the Maasai communities. The partnership provides the Maasai communities with the economic incentives to set aside their land for wildlife conservation and guarantees our guests of a truly exclusive safari experiences in one of the world’s most stunning wildlife areas with responsible tourism and controlled vehicle density. Mare North Conservancy is one of the most densely populated wildlife areas within the Maasai Mara Ecosystem. The great Oloololo Escarpments borders the conservancy to the south and attracts the rains; crucial for the red oat and spear grassland areas. Throughout the year great numbers of herbivores as elephants, giraffes, zebras, Thomson’s gazelles and impalas seek the area for water and gracing. Always accompanied closely by the big cat predators. At the foot of the Oloololo Escarpment the Mara River flows through the conservancy area with families of huge hippos and large crocodiles resting lazily in the waters. Mara North Conservancy is home to the Leopard Gorge; world famous due to its significance as birthing and maternity ground for the big cat predators. Five prides of lions amounting to 52 family members, seven cheetah and at least six leopards has made the conservancy their homeland area. In 13 | P a g e the northern corridor the scenic Lemek Hills make an important wildlife refuge, particularly to a pack of highly threatened African wild dog. ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR NEXT YEAR Karen Blixen Camp will continue our engagement in Mara North Conservancy. 14 | P a g e COMMUNITY PROJECT COMMITMENT Karen Blixen Camp review education as a strategic social investment that effectively contributes to the betterment of the local communities as well as the private sector. Our long term development goal targets reduction of unemployment, poverty and gender disparity. We believe that the direct benefit for us and other camps is access to an international skilled local workforce that gives an outstanding service; competitive with the best restaurants and hotels in the world. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEMS AND ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED IN 2007-2011 Maasai Mara is the most famous safari destination in the world and attracts the attention of thousands of tourists who come to see the great wildebeest migration. Tourism represents the prime foreign exchange earner in Kenya and it is crucial that the people working in the tourism industry are highly competent and experienced. For the majority of the young Maasai a full course of secondary or tertiary education is not an obtainable goal as school fees and the cost of living in the big cities are simply too high. The poorest part of the Maasai communities is in fact the youth as they do not own land or cattle. These young people will have to make a living as their parents did; herding the livestock or find themselves in constant unemployment, contributing to the cycles of poverty. Learning for Life, Responsible Tourism at Karen Blixen Camp is a community-private sector project funded by Danida and Karen Blixen Camp. Our goal is to enable graduated chefs to seek employment at camps in the Mara. Only by taking education and training of the local Kenyan youth very seriously, are we continuously able to compete in the highly competitive tourist industry of today. Karen Blixen Hospitality School will focus on • Cooking school • IT and language courses • Forestry and environmental education A Cooking School for Maasai youth Karen Blixen Camp opened our Cooking School the 7th of January 2012 with Frederik Olesen, a Danish Chef as the cooking school instructor. The Cooking School will give students a comprehensive and practical hands-on understanding of fundamental cooking skills; balancing between the classical cuisine and modern recipes. The cooking school will be full time and students will be prepared for entry-level positions such as comis-chef, demi-chef, chef de partie, or assistant baker and pastry chef. A cooking certificate that is recognized by the local tourism industry will be awarded to students who pass the necessary exams and assessments. IT education Karen Blixen Camp is also offering IT education with courses for beginners, intermediate and advanced levels, not only for our future students, but also for our camp staff as well as the local Maasai community. Our target for 2015 is to offer IT education for all our staff and make sure that at least 20 percent of the Maasai children and youth, girls and boys alike have received IT education. 15 | P a g e Literacy and Language courses Foreign languages courses as German and French are offered for our safari guides, enabling them to enhance their qualifications and in future offer professional wildlife guiding in the above languages. Adult education is made available for those wishing to become literate in English. Karen Blixen Forestry School Karen Blixen Camp will open our Forestry School in July 2012. Our mission is to conserve and enhance the beautiful Maasai Mara by teaching the Maasai youth how grow and sustainably manage multi-use woodlots, providing them with a decent income for the future as well as environmental security. The Forestry School will offer theoretical as well as practical tuition. The students will learn about the Maasai Mara climatic conditions, indigenous trees, how to establish nurseries and how to successfully plant, protect and nurture trees into maturity. Students will also raise awareness about the beautiful Maasai Mara by performing guided tours and speeches for guests. Growing trees The forestry team has established a nursery with a holding capacity of 10,000 seedlings. To this date we have planted 25,000 trees within the vicinity of the camp. We focus on tree seedlings endemic to the lower Mara River Basin as well as growing endangered tree species. Our future plans are to expand the degraded forests along the riparian zone of the Mara River to reduce erosion, increase bird and protect wildlife habitat. Plant trees for conservation We invite our travel agents and guests to plant trees for conservation. Guests will walk along the banks of the Mara River, pick their favourite spot and will dig as many holes as they like and preferred the pr tree seedlings. The funds will go towards protection of land as well as education of the young Maasai. MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOME AND VALUE ADDED FOR OUR COMPANY Karen Blixen Camp is experiencing great support from our travel agent and tour operators who are pleased with our Eco Tourism practices. We expect to increase our occupancy rate due to travel agents and visitors’ interest in sustainable tourism. ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR NEXT YEAR Karen Blixen Camp will continue the development of Learning for Life, Responsible Tourism at Karen Blixen Camp our Danida financed community-educational project. 16 | P a g e ECONOMIC – TRADE, NOT AID COMMITMENT The tourism industry is often criticized for not ensuring that enough of its revenue goes back to the host community. Karen Blixen Camp is committed to distribute our revenue in many different ways following the principle trade, not aid, making it possible for the local Maasai community to profit from our presence in their area. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEMS AND ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED IN 2007-2011 Olisuk Concession Karen Blixen Camp protects 3,400 acres (1,373 Ha) of natural wildlife area as a private concession. Eleven Maasai families have decided to lease their land to us and in return we pay them a fixed bed night fee every time a guest stays at our camp. The bed night fees accumulate to 80,000 USD annually. Use of locally produced goods and suppliers We support locally produced goods and use local suppliers. Free ranging and eco friendly Maasai goats and lambs are sold by Maasai herdsmen and served for our staff; either barbequed or used in stews. Milk for the staff’s morning chai (tea with hot milk) also comes from the local Maasai cattle, grazing on the savannah. For logistic and contractual work we hire local trucks and jeeps. We spend 40,000 USD annually using local suppliers, saving us money, time and diesel not purchasing from Nairobi. Guest visits benefit the local Maasai community When guests previously visited the traditional Maasai village the ticket fee often did not benefit the villagers. Karen Blixen Camp has together with Tribal Voice, UK, initiated a simple ticketing system to ensure direct payment and transparency. When guests visit the local Maasai village they are obliged to obtain a ticket at the camp. We keep track of all sold tickets and at the end of each month the total amount is calculated and the money paid. In this way, the villagers are ensured to receive the money they are entitled. On behalf of our guests we forwarded 6,100 USD to the traditional Maasai village in 2011. Shop for development The beautiful Maasai artefacts for sale in the gift shop are made by a local women’s group. It was the women who took the initiative to sell their beaded armbands, wedding necklaces and rungus (wooden clubs). Since we wish to promote trade, not aid, prices are negotiated and the gift shop makes a profit every time a guest buys the artefacts. Last year we bought Maasai beadwork worth 3,800 USD and sold everything, making the business profitable for both parties. MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOME AND VALUE ADDED FOR OUR COMPANY Karen Blixen Camp is experiencing great support from our travel agent and tour operators who are pleased with our Eco Tourism practices. We expect to increase our occupancy rate due to travel agents and visitors’ interest in sustainable tourism. 17 | P a g e ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR NEXT YEAR Karen Blixen Camp will continue our support and allow the local communities to benefit economically from our presence in their home area. 18 | P a g e INTERNATIONAL AND LOCAL PARTNERS COMMITMENT Karen Blixen Camp is partnering with international as well as governmental agencies. NGOs provides expertise and special know-how, whereas our tourism partners and local communities offer network and valuable capacity building BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEMS AND ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED IN 2007-2011 Danida Danida is the Danish International Development Assistance to developing countries. Its legal mandate is to provide economic and technical support to developing countries with the objective to achieve economic growth, social development and political independence within the framework of the principles of the United Nations. Please visit www.ambnairobi.um.dk for more information about Danida in Kenya. Karen Blixen Camp has been granted funding from Danida through its Innovative Partnership for Development Program. IPD has the objective to alleviate poverty through job creation, economic growth and social development. Companies receiving IPD funding should align their business practices with the principles of the UN Global Compact and support the UN Millennium Development Goals. Please go to www.ambnairobi.um.dk for more information about Danida’ IPD Programme. IFU, Investment fund for developing countries Karen Blixen Camp is a Kenyan registered company owned by Danish shareholders. IFU, the Investment Fund for developing countries has granted us a loan, as a part of their objective to promote economic and social growth in developing countries. IFU has invested with Danish companies in Africa for nearly 40 years and is one of the most experienced institutions when it comes to investing in and setting up businesses on commercial terms on the continent. Companies must integrate an ambitious CSR policy to ensure high standards in respect of environment, labour principles, human rights and anti-corruption. Please visit www.ifu.dk for more information on Danish investments in Africa. MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOME AND VALUE ADDED FOR OUR COMPANY Karen Blixen Camp is experiencing great support from our travel agent and tour operators who are pleased with our Eco Tourism practices. We expect to increase our occupancy rate due to travel agents and visitors’ interest in sustainable tourism. ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR NEXT YEAR Karen Blixen Camp will continue our partnership with Danida and IFU for the protection of the fragile Maasai Mara and the betterment of the local communities. 19 | P a g e COMMUNICATION ON COP WAY OF COMMUNICATING THE COP Karen Blixen Camp supports the principles of the UN Global Compact and the UN Millennium Development Goals. We will make this COP available through our website www.karenblixencamp.com. Moreover, the core information will appear through our CSR brochure Eco Tourism at Karen Blixen Camp. The brochure is made available for our stakeholders, business partners, travel agents, tour operators and guests visiting the camp. The ‘we support’ logo will be featured alongside other ecocertifications of our business. AWARDS Karen Blixen Camp won the Danish Travel Awards for Innovation in 2007. We were voted Runner Up for Best New Safari Property in Africa by The Good Safari Guide 2008. In 2011 we were elected Runner Up for IFU’ CSR Award. 20 | P a g e
