Sustainable Development Report 2012 Contents Our vision and values 2 Our approach to reporting 3 Organisational overview 4 Who we are 4 What we do 4 Our performance in 2012: 5 Summary Progress against our 6 commitments CEO letters 10 Our approach to creating value 20 The changing business context 22 Our business strategy 28 Strategic objectives 29 Our governance and 40 management approach Our management approach 42 Promoting good governance 44 Our performance and prospects 46 ЈЈ Investing in effective people 48 ЈЈ Maintaining access to strategic natural resources and minimising 66 our environmental impacts ЈЈ Developing social capital 72 Appendix 88 Our Performance Data 90 The GRI Guidelines and UNGC 96 Communication on Progress Independent Assurance 97 Statement To view the Implats Integrated Annual Report online, please visit our website at: www.implats.co.za 1 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Our vision and values Our vision is to be the world’s best platinum-producing company, delivering superior returns to stakeholders relative to our peers. Implats’ values practice by being a responsible employer, ЈЈ Safeguarding the health and safety of our developing people to the best of their abilities and employees, and caring for the environment in which fostering a culture of mutual respect among we operate employees ЈЈ Acting with integrity and openness in all that we do ЈЈ Being accountable and responsible for our actions and fostering a workplace in which respectful, as a company and as individuals honest and open communication thrives ЈЈ Being a good corporate citizen in the communities ЈЈ Promoting and rewarding teamwork, innovation, in which we live and work. continuous improvement and the application of best Our Sustainable Development Report forms part of a suite of reports that comprise our annual integrated reporting process; all of these reports are available at www.implats.co.za Proof 12 – 4 September 2012 Integrated Annual Report 2012 Annual Financial Statements 2012 Integrated Annual Report: Annual Financial This has been developed in Statements: These were accordance with the prepared according to recommendations of the South International Financial African Code of Corporate Reporting Standards (IFRS), Practice and Conduct (King III), the requirements of the South and draws on the guidance African Companies Act, the provided in the Discussion regulations of the JSE and Paper issued by the recommendations of King III. International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). Notice of Annual General Meeting 2012 Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Statement as at 30 June 2012 Notice of Annual General Mineral Resource and Meeting: This was prepared Mineral Reserve Statement: according to the requirements This conforms to the South of the South African African Code for Reporting of Companies Act, the Listings Mineral Resources and Mineral Requirements of the JSE and Reserves (SAMREC) and the recommendations of King III. Australasian Code for the Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves (JORC), and has been signed off by the competent persons, as defined by these codes. 2 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Our approach to reporting Boundary, scope and target audience Sector Supplement of the Global Reporting Initiative This report provides information relating to our (GRI). In addition to this report we have provided a sustainable development policies, practices, response to each of the criteria of the GRI G3.1 performance and prospects for the financial year 1 July Guidelines. A GRI index is provided on our website 2011 to 30 June 2012, for all our operations over which www.implats.co.za. we have direct management control and for which we set and implement policy and standards. The GRI G3 guidelines have been applied to attain the A+ application level. As a signatory to the United Materiality and target audience Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we have also used The report reviews our approach to addressing those the UNGC’s Advanced Level reporting criteria in our social, economic and environmental issues that are seen communication on progress, and we declare that we as having a material impact on the long-term success of meet the 24 advanced criteria. our business, on the sustainability of the economy, the environment and the communities in which we operate, Independent assurance or that are important to our key stakeholders. While the Selected performance information has been report is seen to be of potential interest to all our existing independently assured by a third party assurance and prospective stakeholders, it is focused primarily on provider, KPMG, as has the A+ GRI application level. addressing the interests of socially responsible The scope of the assurance, the selected performance investment (SRI) analysts and investors, as well as information and the independent statement of sustainability professionals. Our approach to identifying assurance are provided on page 97. the issues we regard as being most material to Implats in FY2012 is described on page 34. Contacts Please address any queries or comments on Reporting standards this report to: Our sustainability reporting process is informed by the Cindy Mogotsi Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1), Implats Group Sustainable Development Manager internally developed reporting guidelines and the Mining E-mail: Cindy.Mogotsi@implats.co.za Implats sustainable development policy statement Implats is a PGE-focused mining company involved in exploring, mining, processing and refining operations and is committed to sustainable development principles such that the Company’s business: ЈЈ Investments are commercially sound and financially ЈЈ Responsible stewardship of natural resources and profitable; the ecological environment; ЈЈ Practices are technically appropriate and socially ЈЈ Striving to minimise potential negative social responsible; and impacts while promoting opportunities and benefits ЈЈ Processes and practices are inherently safe and for host communities; environmentally sound. ЈЈ Upholding the human rights of employees and communities in line with legislation and the United To this end Implats is committed to: Nations Global Compact; ЈЈ Developing policies in line with these principles, ЈЈ Engaging with stakeholders in a transparent and supported by sound systems and processes; timely manner through formal and informal ЈЈ Complying with the governance of risk principles engagement structures; included in the King III Report; ЈЈ Continuous improvement of its business processes ЈЈ Recognising that risk management is a systematic by accurately measuring, monitoring, evaluating way of protecting business resources and income and reporting in a transparent manner to against losses such that strategic and operational stakeholders on performance; and objectives can be achieved; ЈЈ Sustainable development that meets the needs of ЈЈ Preventing all incidents and accidents at its the present without compromising the ability of operations in a reasonably practicable manner and future generations to meet their own needs. strives to minimise hazards inherent in the working environment; ЈЈ Safeguarding the health and safety of all stakeholders, and striving for zero harm; 3 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Who we are Impala Platinum Holdings (Implats), one of the world’s foremost producers of platinum and associated platinum group metals (PGMs), has its primary listing on the JSE Limited (JSE) in South Africa (as IMP), a secondary listing on the London Stock Exchange (LSE) in the United Kingdom (as IPLA) and a level 1 American Depositary Receipt programme (as IMPUY) in the United States of America. Introduction Implats is structured around six main operations with underground and opencast sites, including PGM processing facilities. Our operations are located on the Bushveld Complex in South Africa and the Great Dyke in Zimbabwe. These are the two most significant PGM-bearing orebodies in the world. Our headquarters are in Johannesburg and we have six main operations: Impala, Zimplats, Marula, Mimosa, Two Rivers and Impala Refineries. The structure of our operating framework allows for each of our operations to establish and maintain close relationships with their stakeholders while operating within a Group-wide approach to managing the economic, social and environmental aspects of sustainability. Great Dyke Attributable Mineral Resources of 230 million Zambia platinum ounces as at 30 June 2012 Mozambique Zimplats • Harare Zimbabwe Bulawayo • Mimosa Namibia Botswana Polokwane Bushveld complex Marula• Afplats Two Rivers Impala Impala Refineries Rustenburg • • Johannesburg Zimplats 41% Impala 31% Tamboti 12% Afplats 6% Imbasa and Inkosi 4% Marula 3% South Africa Mimosa 2% Two Rivers 1% Our major shareholders are the Royal Bafokeng Nation (RBN) and the Public Investment Corporation (PIC), who own 13.2% and 13% respectively with the balance of the shares being held by various private and public entities. (Refer to page 108 of the Integrated Report (IR)). What we do We produce approximately 25% of the world’s supply of platinum with a workforce estimated at 63 000, including 23 000 contractors. In the financial year ending 30 June 2012, the Group produced 3.02 million ounces of PGMs, which included 1.45 million ounces of platinum. PGMs are primarily platinum and its associated by-products palladium, rhodium, ruthenium and iridium, which usually occur in association with nickel and copper. While PGMs are a relatively rare commodity (only about 16 million ounces are produced annually, of which less than 6.5 million ounces are platinum), they are playing a progressively important role in everyday life, whether it be in goods we use daily, or in the processes required to produce these goods. 4 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Our performance in 2012: Summary Variance 2012 2011 2010 % Production data Tonnes milled (000t) 17 788 20 974 20 309 15 Refined platinum (000oz) 1 448 1 836 1 741 21 PGMs (000oz) 3 016 3 772 3 689 20 Revenue (Rm) 27 593 33 132 25 446 17 Operating cost (Rm) 14 234 13 941 12 402 2 Capital invested (Rm) 8 142 5 540 4 554 47 Taxes (Rm) 1 951 2 751 2 431 29 Unit cost** per oz Pt (Rand) 13 450 10 867* 10 089* 24 People EMPLOYEES IN SERVICE Own Number 39 621 39 624 38 317 – – Contractors Number 22 725 17 504 15 819 30 Turnover % 10 8 6 3 HDSA in management % 48 48 45 – SAFETY RATES FIFR Rate 0.09 0.05 0.12 80 LTIFR Rate 4.96 4.94 4.61 0.4 TIFR Rate 11.19 13.47 15.21 17 EMPLOYEES HEALTH People on wellness programmes Number 5 179 5 121 4 151 1 People on ART Number 3 566 2 773 1 905 29 TB cases Number 389 350 399 11 Medical incapacitation Number 699 388 281 80 The environment Energy consumed (000Gj) 17 542 18 222 17 013 4 Total CO2 emissions (000t) 3 707 4 022 3 755 8 Total direct SO2 emissions (t) 18 463 18 881 16 926 2 Total water consumed (000kl) 40 114 41 868 37 060 4 Water withdrawn (000kl) 25 274 25 721 25 783 2 Total water recycled (000kl) 14 839 14 823 9 981 – Social capital SED expenditure (RSA) (Rm) 90 130 88 31 Housing and living condition expenditure (Rm) 430 277 552 55 or Improvement or Deterioration * Figure corrected ** Excluding share-based payments 5 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Progress against our commitments This table summarises how Implats has performed against the public commitments we made in our 2011 Sustainable Development Report (SDR), and outlines our future commitments; these are presented in terms of the material issues that inform the structure of our 2012 report. Key Our commitments Our performance Future commitments sustainability Our objectives for 2012 as How we delivered on our Our plans ahead drivers stated in our 2011 SDR 2012 objectives Promoting Retain the safety strategy of EXCO reviewed and reaffirmed We will retain a strong employee changing the culture to the Group’s position on safety strategic focus on changing and compliance and improving the and approved a safety the safety culture and closing contractor supervision across the Group intervention plan of the supervision gap through a safety 28 initiatives grouped into new cultural transformation seven categories; a key framework and improved focus remained on improving hazard identification and risk the safety culture assessment system; safety performance will have a greater weighting in incentives Roll out the DuPont STOP® While there has been a We will continue to increase intervention continuing focus on the STOP observations rollout of the STOP initiative, there remains scope for further uptake Achieve all safety targets Disappointingly we did not Our target remains for a 20% including a 20% year-on-year achieve this target this year; year-on-year improvement on INVESTING IN EFFECTIVE PEOPLE LTIFR improvement this remains a critical goal for the LTIFR 2013 Increase compliance with This year we had 237 Platinum Our target remains for a 100% Platinum Road Rules to 100% Road rules breaches compliance with the Platinum Road Rules or 100% disciplinary action for noncompliance Implement technical Roof-bolting has been Roof-bolting and net interventions of roof-bolting in implemented at 5, 2A,12 and installation will be rolled out on UG2 stopes and personnel 14 Shaft trackless areas. all shafts at Impala Platinum detection systems on Proximity detection systems and 11 and 12 Shaft trackless trackless equipment are installed at 14 Shaft and equipment will be equipped Marula Platinum with proximity detection systems in FY2013 Enhancing Mitigate the risk of Our continuing efforts to We will continue to conduct employee occupational and nonmanage occupational and key screening on employees and wellness occupational illness non-occupational illness are contractors, and focus efforts showing results across most on further mitigation of risks indicators relating to NIHL and the maturing AIDS epidemic. A new health and safety plan to be initiated by mid-year Increase employees on ART There was a 29% increase in We will strive to ensure a by 10% from the 2011 base the number of employees on further uptake of at least 10% ART of known HIV-infected Ensure 100% compliance with We achieved an 89% employees onto our wellness wellness and ART treatment compliance rate with wellness and ART programmes regimes and ART treatment 6 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Key Our commitments Our performance Future commitments sustainability Our objectives for 2012 as How we delivered on our Our plans ahead drivers stated in our 2011 SDR 2012 objectives Enhancing Increase medical aid Our medical aid membership Our target is to increase employee membership by 5% increased by 7% medical aid membership by an wellness additional 5% Continue with silencing of Good progress has been We will complete the silencing underground equipment and made in the silencing of of underground equipment machinery across the Group to underground equipment and and machinery at Marula and achieve the 2013 industry machinery in order to achieve continue research and milestones the 2013 Industry Milestone at development efforts for the Rustenburg operation and silencing of shaft sinking Marula is on track equipment and machines used for long anchor drilling Reduce absenteeism due to Our absenteeism-due-toOur target remains to reduce INVESTING IN EFFECTIVE PEOPLE sickness by 10% sickness rate this year was absenteeism due to sickness 4.3% (as compared with by a further 10% 4.5% in FY2011) Attracting, Reduce critical mining skills Critical skills turnover To optimise our talent retention retaining turnover by 10% year-on-year increased to 10.71% in initiatives, we will be targeting and from previous year’s FY 2012 (FY 2011: 8.7%) turnover rates below 7.5% per developing performance annum, improving to below talent 5% for critical job categories 5% of wage bill to be spent Group skills development We will devote an additional on skills development and expenditure for our South 1% of payroll levy towards education African operations was creating and entrenching R354 million equivalent to critical skills approximately 6% of wage bill 800 employees to be This year 907 employees We aim to have 610 educated through Adult Basic were educated through employees educated through Education Training (ABET) ABET programmes ABET programmes in FY2013 programmes in FY2012 Promoting Further advancement of our This year 58% of all new We will continue efforts to employment transformation programme appointments and promotions meet our transformation equity and with 60% of all new were HDSA candidates targets of deploying 45% diversity appointments and promotions HDSAs at E-level, 55% at to be HDSA candidates D-level and 75% at C-level by the end of 2014 7 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Progress against our commitments continued Key Our commitments Our performance Future commitments sustainability Our objectives for 2012 as How we delivered on our 2012 Our plans ahead drivers stated in our 2011 SDR objectives Optimising Complete the implementation The Board has signed off our We will focus efforts on energy of our carbon management carbon management strategy implementing our carbon usage and strategy, which will include the and there has been some management strategy at promoting setting of carbon reduction implementation across the operational level. Carbon climate targets Group; we are in the process reduction targets to be change of finalising carbon reduction completed and rolled out to mitigation targets all operations MAINTAINING ACCESS TO STRATEGIC NATURAL Promoting Complete the implementation The Board has signed off our We will focus efforts on sustainable of our water conservation water conservation strategy implementing our water water use management strategy, which and there has been some conservation management will include the setting of water operational specific strategies at operational level targets implementation across the this includes water recycling Group; we have not yet targets over and above finalised our water targets normal performance targets Reducing Obtain atmospheric emission Our Rustenburg operation has We will endeavour to secure our licences at the South African received a provisional SO2 an atmospheric emission atmospheric operations atmospheric emission licence, licence for the refineries and emissions valid for two years. The ensure adherence to licence refineries have submitted their specifications at all operations RESOURCES AND MINIMISING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS applications Complete the feasibility project The feasibility assessment has The commencement of for the implementation of SO2 been completed installation of the scrubber abatement equipment at abatement equipment is Zimplats as part of the sulphur scheduled for FY2017. Efforts dioxide reduction strategy will be made to secure authorisation for expenditure to install an SO2 abatement system for the Zimplats operation Managing Waste licensing activities at the We have identified all of the We will complete our waste our waste South African operations to waste licensing requirements licences applications by streams ensure compliance to the and are continuing to engage FY2013 National Environmental with the regulatory authorities Management Waste Act in South Africa to finalise the (Waste Act) issuing of these General All operations to retain their This has been achieved: at All our ISO 14001 certified environrespective ISO 14001 financial year-end all operations will strive to retain mental certifications and Marula to operations had retained their their respective certifications. manageobtain certification ISO 14001 certificates, and Marula is scheduled to ment Marula passed the first stage conduct its stage 2 of its ISO certification certification process in process calendar year 2012 Implement the environmental This is ongoing We will implement the requirements of the revised environmental requirements Mining Charter and meet of the revised Mining Charter government’s climate change policy requirements 8 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Key Our commitments Our performance Future commitments sustainability Our objectives for 2012 as How we delivered on our 2012 Our plans ahead drivers stated in our 2011 SDR objectives Promoting Complete housing project by The housing project targets Our investments in our socio2020 for 2012 have been achieved housing programme will economic and we are on track to continue, with the aim of developcomplete the 2020 housing meeting our 2020 targets ment project objectives through our Complete Sunrise View School Construction of the school The primary school is planned investments in FY2012 was slightly delayed due to for completion in February challenges in securing funding, 2013 and the secondary which have now been school in September 2013. addressed and construction Collectively the school will school will cater for students cater for 1 880 students Complete lower density The project has commenced Our investments in our accommodation for one to convert former hostels into housing programme will person per unit by 2014 residences is on track and we continue, with the aim of will achieve the lower density meeting our 2014 targets DEVELOPING SOCIAL CAPITAL target of one person per room before the 2014 mining charter target Implement Housing Task The task team agreements No further action needed Team Agreement with regard to home ownership have been implemented Implement the Business During FY2012 the Enterprise Implementation of our revised Support Unit or Incubator Development Strategy was strategy started in late FY2012 project during FY2012 completely revised and will continue into FY2013 and beyond Implement the new social and All projects submitted in our Implement projects listed in labour plan (SLP) projects revised SLP as part of section the SLP Section 102 during FY2012 102, have been approved by the DMR during the third quarter of FY2012 and planning is in progress Ensure compliance with The DMR inspected Impala in We will continue to strive for revised Mining Charter October 2011 and was full compliance with the satisfied with our progress Charter. Inspections were towards complying with Mining conducted by the DMR for Charter Targets in 2014 both Marula and Impala operations with satisfactory outcomes. A new SLP to be submitted in FY2013 9 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Chief Executive Officer’s review – outgoing David Brown Safety, industrial relations, the indigenisation process in Zimbabwe and overall market conditions are key themes addressed in this letter Dear Stakeholder It is apparent that the Association of Mineworkers and Financial year 2012 can, without exaggeration, be Construction Union (AMCU) now enjoys a very described as a year of two sharply contrasting halves. significant presence at Rustenburg. The exact extent of that presence and support from workers will now be In the first six months of the year our operations independently verified. It appears clear, however, that, performed commendably. Cost increases were going forward, management will need to adjust to the contained while production targets were met and, in reality of a multi-union environment. This is a some instances, exceeded. After six months of the fundamental departure from the past but there is no financial year all indications were that we had turned reason why this reality cannot be accommodated by the corner on delivering on vital capital projects after all parties to ensure the industrial harmony that is so under-performing in recent years. essential for success. Unfortunately our achievements on production, Following the strike, management began a painstaking cost-containment and capital-projects until December process of revisiting and revamping their 2011 were not matched by our safety performance. communications with employees. A cardinal lesson to On safety, our record for the entire year was not be learnt from recent events is that a more direct, acceptable. much more inclusive process of dialogue between managers and the workforce is essential. Safety, industrial relations, the indigenisation process in Zimbabwe and overall market conditions are key The effects of the 2012 strike action were of themes addressed in this letter, as well as operational, significance not only for our stakeholders but for South sustainability and financial issues. Africa as a whole. Contributions to GDP which were forfeited as a result of sharply reduced production Industrial action volumes, as well as tax revenues that did not accrue to In the second half of the year the Group suffered a the national Treasury, were significant. To these costs costly work stoppage. The unforeseen, illegal strike at must be added a policing period of intense upheaval Impala Rustenburg had the most profoundly negative and the effect that images and reports of acute impact on production while the implications for violence had on perceptions of the country and our industrial relations are likely to be felt for years to industry at home and abroad. come. 10 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 The violence and intimidation attendant on the strike Identifying risks in a hazardous underground mining have to be condemned in the strongest terms. The environment and then taking the appropriate and brutality displayed by a minority was shocking in the timely remedial or avoidance decisions requires a extreme. This violence was partially related to certain set and level of skills. If we are to mine safer we grievances over service delivery and perpetrated by have to up-skill our entire workforce but particularly our elements with other agendas and was linked to first line of supervision. That only 40% of our shift workplace issues which underscores the importance supervisors and mine overseers have matric – and that of all elements of civil society – employers, employees, most of our workforce have much poorer levels of communities and government – working hard to education – illustrates the extent of the human prevent a repeat. In this respect we continue to resources challenges we face. These challenges are engage honestly and frankly with our host communities sharpened by the fact that we will have to employ new while investing millions in social and local economic people every year as we open new, deeper shafts development. We also need to work much more while closing down depleting ones and coping with an closely with central government to ensure that the ageing workforce. These individuals will have to be rights and wellbeing of those who seek to do their jobs identified, recruited and trained appropriately and and raise families in settled, secure communities are intensively if they are to mine and operate safely not threatened. and productively. Mining safely I firmly believe that, as with safety, we now have Most regrettably, I must record the deaths during the appropriate and effective strategies and systems in year of seven of our colleagues and five contractor place with which to uplift the skills, the health and employees. We extend our most heartfelt condolences the overall wellbeing of our workforce. to the families of those who lost their lives. We continue to provide leading-edge solutions to These twelve deaths represented a 80% deterioration address the education, training and wellness of our of our FIFR on the already unacceptable loss of seven people. These efforts demonstrate the fact that we employees’ lives in the previous year. Other safety now accept we are very much a people business and indicators were mixed. Our lost-time injury frequency that without a meaningful buy-in to our Group’s vision rate was virtually unchanged at 4.96 from the previous and strategy by all, especially employees, we will be year while the total injury frequency rate showed a simply unable to achieve our objectives. slight improvement from 13.47 to 11.19. Zimbabwe and indigenisation It should now be clear, however, that we are unlikely This year the Zimbabwe indigenisation debate and to meet the 2013 safety targets agreed with the negotiations around our assets in that country were a Department of Mineral Resources (0.03 fatal injuries key concern for myself and the executive. Our per million man hours worked) in 2003. This ongoing discussions with the Youth Development, failure to perform on safety is a source of deep regret Indigenisation and Empowerment Ministry were aimed and the utmost concern to management and the at preserving short-term value for shareholders while Board. simultaneously preserving Zimplats’ growth potential over the medium to long term. We are confident that Fatal and lost-time injuries continue to bedevil our our proposal – which has now been accepted in operations but it is a fact that we are making our principle by the Zimbabwean government – will meet operations safer places in which to work. I am satisfied these objectives. that we have the right strategies in place, that we are working hard to close the supervision gap and that In terms of the accepted proposal, 10% of Zimplats’ management are showing visible, decisive leadership share equity shall be sold on a non-contributory basis on safety. But despite our best efforts, including to a community trust and a further 10% sold to an initiatives identified from the DuPont safety intervention, employee equity trust with Zimplats providing an the application of our safety standards and procedures interest-bearing loan to facilitate these purchases. remains patchy and many clearly avoidable, indeed Upon agreement being reached with the Zimbabwean unnecessary, incidences and even fatalities occur. government on compensation in lieu of empowerment Given this, the Board has good reason to continue credits for ground released in 2004, Zimplats shall asking management searching questions about the make available for sale to broad-based indigenous application of our safety strategy. groups which would include the national Indigenisation 11 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Chief Executive Officer’s review – outgoing continued and Economic Empowerment Fund a 31% fully Our Zimbabwe operations – Zimplats and Mimosa – contributory stake in Zimplats. both continued to record exemplary performances on all key matrices – safety, production, cost control and The agreement reached with the Zimbabwean delivery of capital projects. authorities in March 2012 stipulates that the fair value of the Zimplats assets is to be independently Despite ongoing uncertainties relating to ownership, determined. The procedures and parameters for the predictability of power supply and inflation, determining this fair value are now the task of a Zimplats performed extremely well with a lost-time technical committee comprising representatives of injury frequency ratio of 0.21. Tonnes milled rose both the government and Group. The successful marginally and increases in unit costs per ounce in resolution of these discussions will, no doubt, have an matte were restricted to 6% in US dollar terms. extremely positive impact on investor sentiment Mimosa returned a satisfactory performance, towards Zimbabwe as what should be an extremely increasing production marginally while restricting cost exciting investment destination as well as on our increases to 6%. Excluding royalties, Mimosa remains Group. the Group’s lowest cost producer. It is clearly in our interests and those of our Impala production declined significantly this year, to shareholders that we do everything within our power 750 100 ounces, a full 20% below target. Strike action to ensure the negotiation process is concluded as had the effect of hiking the cost per ounce by expeditiously as possible and that mutually beneficial 29% year on year. At Marula a poor third-quarter outcomes are achieved. performance saw tonnes milled increase by 2% and production decline from 70 000 ounces to Operational, sustainability and 69 000 ounces – slightly below the much-reduced financial review production target set a year earlier. Audits carried out The year under review brought into sharp focus the during the year confirmed that much work still needs extent to which our operations and our ability to create to be done before Marula can qualify for ISO 14001 sustainable value for shareholders are inseparable from environmental quality certification but we remain the social and political environments in which we hopeful that this can be achieved in FY2013. Notably, operate. The socioeconomic risks confronting both the chrome operation established at Marula went from South Africa and Zimbabwe are substantial and we strength to strength and remains an outstanding ignore them and fail to engage with them at our peril, achievement on empowerment. as FY2012 clearly demonstrated. An improved production and cost performance at Two Gross production of 1.45 million platinum ounces Rivers, our joint venture with African Rainbow Minerals, represented a 21% decline on FY2011 with mine-towas marred by the deaths of two employees this year. market production slumping to 1.24 million ounces. This poor performance could be ascribed almost Curtailed production by third parties saw Implats entirely to industrial action and, to a lesser extent, register a gross unit cost increase of over 20% and to Section 54 safety-related stoppages. Largely as a a 21% contraction in gross output. result of the third-quarter strikes, unit costs per ounce were 24% above FY2011. Capital expenditure for the Capital project development year, including stay-in-business and expansion spend, Aside from disruptions related to the strike, work on was R7.28 billion versus R5.29 billion in FY2011. Impala’s 20, 16 and 17 shafts progressed well during the year. These shafts are critical to providing Impala At R6.95 million, gross profit was 40% below plan and with the base level of its production over the next 37.4% down on the year before. Headline earnings per 20 years. share declined by 38%, impacted to no small degree by market weakness. Production build-up at No 20 shaft will commence in FY2013 with a planned production for the new The Group’s cash position was severely impacted by year of 26 000 ounces. Final commissioning of the six-week strike with a resultant reduction in cash the No 16 main shaft is on target late in FY2013. from R4.5 billion to R0.6 billion and net debt at No 17 main shaft reached a depth of approximately R995 million and a gross debt at R2.2 billion. 1 580 metres and the refrigeration shaft was completed to a depth of 1 574 metres. 12 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Work continues on the Afplats Leeuwkop producer in the world. We are well on track, I believe, development. By the end of the year the main shaft to realise our strategic aim of becoming the world’s pre-sinking had been carried out to 65 metres below best platinum-producing company and have the collar, main shaft terracing was largely completed consistently (often under very trying circumstances) and the main shaft stage and sinking headgear were delivered superior value to our shareholders. installed. The Board has further approved the first phase of the Leeuwkop Capital project. The total We have delivered on our strategic objectives of capital required in real terms is R9.8 billion of which growing access to resources and, thanks to astute R261 million has been approved for the sinking of the and sustained investment, will continue to replace and 10 metre diameter main shaft to a depth of 330 metres grow production. An unswerving focus on disciplined below surface during FY2013. operational efficiency, high productivity and judicious capital investment mean that our low-cost ethos is Zimplats’ Phase 2 expansion continued to record most an integral part of our business and will remain so satisfactory progress. The two-million ton Mupfuti Mine in future. and concentrator project is well on track to commence production in FY2013. Only on safety have we fallen well short of the ideals for which we strive. Low points in my time with the Group capital spend of R7.3 billion in FY2012 Group include the deaths of nine colleagues in one represents a peak investment with total capital incident at Impala’s No 14 shaft in 2009. In truth, every spend over the five-year period to 2017 estimated fatality has come as a bitter, personally felt blow made at R35 billion, representing a gradual decline as no less palatable by the fact that most of the deaths at production from these investments ramps up. our workplaces were avoidable. Outlook and prospects More recently the violence and intimidation associated The ongoing hangover from the 2008 worldwide with the work stoppages at Rustenburg came as a financial crisis continues to depress commodity prices, rude shock to all of us associated with our company. particularly PGMs. Prevailing pessimism about the It is to be hoped that these events will spur the Group state of the world’s economy and fears of a double-dip to work closer and more energetically with all recession combined this year with strike-related stakeholders, including labour and all levels of declines in output to reduce the Group’s ability to government and civil society, to ensure that these generate cash and profits. The Group profile lost in events are not repeated. FY2012 to strikes and Section 54 stoppages is likely to be made up if these once-off events are not While there have been disappointments along the way, repeated. there have, undeniably, been many highlights to celebrate and to look back upon with satisfaction. While in the past a regular weakening of the Rand Growing the business and securing greater access versus the US Dollar helped to offset above-inflation to mineral resources have been among the key cost increases, the recent relative strength of the Rand achievements of our management team over the past has put pressure on margins. Indications now are that decade. A particularly important landmark was buying this pressure will ease somewhat as the Rand tests into a strategic stake in the Zimbabwean assets, the slightly lower levels. world’s second largest PGM deposits, while in South Africa the successful conversion of major South African While demand fundamentals are unlikely to reassert licences to full 30-year new-order licences was of the themselves within the next twelve months, the utmost importance. elimination of higher-cost production, coupled with solid underlying demand drivers, will doubtless, in the Our ability to make the considerable investments medium term, see more buoyant pricing. Thanks to required to ensure our continued access to resources its consistent capital investments and ongoing cost and to steadfastly carry out these extremely costly and leadership, Implats is better placed than most of its complicated projects means that we are assured of peers to exploit an inevitable upturn in PGM prices. supply for the next thirty years, supplies that will enter production as soon as FY2013. These very significant Retrospective and thanks capital investments would be worth little, however, At the end of FY2012 I took my leave from a Group without the development of the human capital required I have been privileged to serve for 14 years. In that to bring them to the surface, to process and market time Implats has cemented its position as the lowest them to a world that values their importance as green cost producer of PGMs and the second largest minerals. In this area we should acknowledge that our 13 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Chief Executive Officer’s review – outgoing continued Group’s great investment in training and skills for our employees and for the creation of a more development has resulted in the creation of a sizeable stable, more productive workforce. We still have body of knowledge and expertise that adds much to do but we have made great strides in this unmeasurable value to the societies and economies of most important area. The recently launched Platinum both South Africa and Zimbabwe. Village will provide 2 500 decent homes for colleagues. Relations have been built and cemented with many significant stakeholders. In the past our relationship Throughout my tenure as CEO, I have been with the Department of Mineral Resources was less privileged to enjoy the support of a world-class body than optimal while today we have, I believe, a deep of employees, a top-rate management team and and well-informed understanding. Similarly, our Social Board members. My sincere thanks and respect are and Labour Plan and the many material interventions extended to all who have given so unstintingly of their it entails, has provided the basis for a constructive time, knowledge and skills to make our company the dialogue with communities affected by our operations. undoubtedly enormous success it has become. Our progress on meeting the objectives of the Mining Charter demonstrates our commitment to making a Finally, I extend very best wishes for continued meaningful contribution to transformation while, in success to incoming CEO Terence Goodlace. I pass Zimbabwe, we have committed ourselves to an on the baton to Terence secure in the knowledge that investment that is set to empower thousands of he inherits a team of the highest calibre, one that will citizens. help him take this company to even greater heights. Our achievements on the provision of family housing and in converting our hostels into one-person-perroom accommodation have involved significant David Brown investment and will translate into lasting benefits both Outgoing Chief Executive Officer 14 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Chief Executive Officer’s review – incoming Terrance Goodlace Sustainability today informs all elements of our corporate strategy and, increasingly, guides our everyday actions. Dear Stakeholder Our markets World markets, in particular those of the Eurozone, are Introduction experiencing profound economic turmoil at present, a Implats strives to be a responsible corporate citizen. state of affairs that has inevitably impacted negatively We are determined to do everything within our power on commodity prices including those of the platinum to create lasting value while working to inflict zero harm group metals (PGMs). Metal prices maintained a – on our employees, our physical environment and downward trajectory for most of the year, a trajectory society. that continued after the Implats year end. Yet PGM fundamentals remain strong, a strength that is being Sustainability today informs all elements of our reinforced by tightening emission standards, emerging corporate strategy and, increasingly, guides our market demand and a growing replacement everyday actions. We remain committed to upholding requirement in more mature markets. Persistently weak and promoting the principles of the United Nations PGM prices have had a significant impact on the Global Compact, to which we are a member. continued viability of the platinum industry, requiring Implats to adopt a cash-preservation strategy that We appreciate that our long-term success is largely includes an ongoing assessment of operational determined by how we manage and interact with the viability. At the time of writing, capital spend had physical and social environments in which we operate been reduced to around R6 billion as opposed to the and how we respond to the many non-financial R7.3 billion spent in FY2012. challenges, risks and opportunities facing our company. Recently the South African mining industry has witnessed outbreaks of deep-rooted community Sustainability and zero harm are competitive discontent and the emergence of a robust new labour imperatives. We are striving to be not only the best, union, developments that have had profound effects most competitive, platinum-producing company but on workplace dynamics and, in turn, operational one that is esteemed by shareholders, employees and performance. The six-week illegal strike at our Impala all stakeholders with a material interest in our business. operations had a significant impact on the production We will only achieve the regard we seek if we translate of PGMs and the financial performance of the Implats our policies and aspirations into fact. 15 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Chief Executive Officer’s review – incoming continued Group in FY2012. The tragic events at Lonmin in Zimbabwe August 2012 further underscored the tenuous position The year was particularly demanding for our Board and in which the industry currently finds itself. management as they grappled with issues regarding the implementation of Zimbabwe’s indigenisation and Employee relations economic empowerment legislation. While this remains Implats does not condone violence and seeks a a work in progress and we remain and are committed responsible, principled and respectful relationship with to ensuring that we comply with national laws, we all stakeholders, our employees in particular. We have have sought throughout to safeguard the interests of intensified engagement with our employees through shareholders. In a notice dated 14 March 2012 forums such as the newly established interim workers’ shareholders were advised that Zimplats had reached committees at Impala. In the wake of the Lonmin agreement with the Government of Zimbabwe in terms discord numerous interactions have taken place with of which 51% of the shareholding in the operating government, organised labour and industry in an effort subsidiary, Zimbabwe Platinum Mines (Private) Limited, to normalise the situation in the platinum industry. Our would be disposed of at fair value to a Community company has and will continue to engage expert Share Ownership Trust, an Employee Share Ownership third-party assistance in the development of strategies Trust and broad-based indigenous participants. A Joint for a new employee-engagement dispensation and to Technical Committee comprising Government of consider strategies for differing scenarios or outcomes. Zimbabwe representatives and management has been set up to work through material issues pertaining to Wage demands are going to be at the forefront of all the agreement. Shareholders will be briefed on major industrial relations interactions with stakeholders. developments. ANC policy and industry response Safety and wellbeing Implats recognises the important resolutions adopted We are determined to improve our safety performance by the ANC at its policy conference in June 2012 and and to protect the health and wellbeing of our people, is seeking, with the Chamber of Mines of South Africa, both employees and the contractors who work on our to establish a process of engagement with the ANC sites. It is important to note that mining industry that will help give effect to those resolutions and help leaders, myself among them, have recognised that to achieve the key objectives of reducing significant changes are required if we are to improve unemployment, poverty and inequality, while at the health and safety. Implats has now joined the Chamber same time allowing the mining sector to achieve its of Mines of South Africa as a full member with a view investment and growth objectives. The South African to participating in and contributing to tripartite industry mining industry and the platinum industry in particular health and safety initiatives. In addition, I have now are facing a range of macroand socio-economic become actively involved in the CEO’s “Elimination of challenges which affect investment decisions and Fatalities” team. employment. We remain convinced that the industry and government can work together in creating win-win Although the South Africa mining sector and Implats partnerships. Such mutually beneficial collaboration have come a long way on the safety journey to zero must include the current Platinum Task Team Mining harm, we are struggling to reach the 2013 milestone of Industry Growth Development and Employment Task world-class safety performance. Fatal accidents have Team (MIGDETT) process. reduced by more than 62% since 2003 but it is 16 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 important to recognise that a step change is required if implementation of the new cultural transformation the industry is to deliver on the 2013 milestones and framework, increased training for middle managers, thus enhance its credibility as a caring industry. We fully accredited training for 3 200 safety representatives acknowledge that Implats’ leadership, strategy, by 2014 and further institutionalising the DuPont STOP management style and systems have contributed to process. In addition, our South African operations have current performance. We also acknowledge that we committed to installing safety nets and hanging wall have not actively participated in industry initiatives to bolts on both the Merensky and UG2 stoping horizons work towards zero harm. Various mining industry while equipping mobile trackless mining equipment stakeholders have worked together for some time to with proximity warning devices. Shaft safety devices effect the culture changes needed to achieve better are being completely overhauled to ensure shaft safety. safety results. The Mine Health and Safety Council undertook the project, “Changing Minds, Changing Going forward, the market should expect less Mines”, to develop a framework that will guide the production rather than more as we grapple with being sector towards attaining zero harm, an initiative which safe first. On my watch we will stop unsafe operations; we now wholeheartedly support: The key themes of I shall not countenance the high lost-time injury rates the action plan are: nor the fatalities we have experienced in some areas of ЈЈ Strengthening a culture of health and safety; the Group. ЈЈ Promoting a learning industry and building capacity; and Mining Charter ЈЈ Making workplaces safer and healthier. Achieving targets as set out in the Mining Charter are extremely important for Implats and its stakeholders. As part of implementing the Leadership Summit Action Detailed features of our performance against targets Plan, it was agreed that a culture transformation are highlighted in this report. In summary: framework should be developed with a view to significantly improving the culture of health and safety Ownership across the mining sector. The approved Culture Implats has met the 26% ownership criteria for all of its Transformation Framework was signed off by the operations in South Africa. Minister of Mineral Resources and other stakeholder principals on 18 November 2011. The Culture Housing and living conditions Transformation Implementation Model consists of five Implats has a progressive housing strategy that has pillars (leadership, risk management, bonuses and been in place since 2007. To date this strategy has performance incentives, leading practices and the delivered in advance of SLP targets. In South Africa elimination of discrimination) and Implats will, much over R1.3 billion has been spent on housing-related more actively, measure our performance against the initiatives in the last three years, with over detail of these pillars and their subsets. A commitment 1 500 bonded houses built and over 5 000 legacy to a culture of health and safety is the single most units converted into family and single accommodation important factor and is central to the future of mine units. It should be noted that our Zimbabwe health and safety within the Group. operations, as part of the phase II expansion are also implementing housing strategies; Zimplats has In summary, a number of very significant, potentially committed US$85 million for housing at its operations very beneficial, new safety initiatives are being as part of the phase 2 expansion. Critically, the implemented at a sector level (now with Implats’ active company will review what else can be done to involvement) and within our organisation. They include accelerate current initiatives, bearing in mind the the introduction of new policies, the development and depressed state of PGM prices. 17 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Chief Executive Officer’s review – incoming continued Procurement compressed air rock drills with muffled rock drills for Overall Group procurement expenditure currently use in the underground environment. To date some stands at 51% BEE. Over 50% of services and R34 million has been spent on hearing devices and consumables are procured from BEE suppliers. BEE R18 million on the silencing of rock drills. capital expenditure stands at 41% and remains a key area for improvement. As at June 2012, R4.8 billion HIV/Aids is the most significant health risk facing our had been spent with BEE suppliers. employees and 5 179 employees are enrolled on the Company’s wellness programme, representing a Employment equity 110% increase since 2007. This includes more than Historically disadvantaged South Africans (HDSAs) 3 500 employees on antiretroviral therapy. HIV represent 48% of all management, with women voluntary counselling and testing is offered to all representing 18% of total management; a 3% employees and all employees continue to be improvement over the last three years. However, it is encouraged to know their HIV status. Some recognised that further transformation is required. This 9 800 employees participated in our Company is being planned for within the Group. VCT testing programmes. Human resource development National contributions A total of approximately 6% of payroll has been spent During 2012 our Company invested R7.3 billion in on training and 90% of our core and critical skills are developing productive assets as well as adding to the represented by HDSA people. Skills shortages remain infrastructure of South Africa and Zimbabwe. This, a critical issue for the Group and further initiatives are coupled with past investment, has created direct being planned to bridge the skills and supervision gap. permanent employment for 39 600 thousand employees in the two countries. The multiplier effect of Mine community development these investments is considerable and should not be In the year to June 2012 Implats spent R90 million on ignored. As our company has grown, so has its community-related projects. This year approximately contribution to the fiscus. In the past year, payments 110 full-time jobs were created through these in respect of corporate tax, royalties and payroll taxes community projects. Over 68 000 individuals benefited amounted to R1 951 million (previous year – directly and indirectly from various other social projects R2 751 million). undertaken by the Group in the year, more than 90% of them black. These projects varied from health to In conclusion education and infrastructure-related projects. Over FY2013 will be an extremely challenging year with low R300 million was spent on socioeconomic commodity prices, a volatile community and industrial development in the last three years. relations climate in Rustenburg, the Zimbabwe situation and a high-cost, low productivity Health environment. The Group strategies, as detailed and The Group has achieved the target of zero new cases included in this report and not repeated here, currently of noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) since 2008 when form the basis of our actions, but it is appropriate to new baselines were created. However, hearing loss add some detail on what we are planning at an from prior years continues to manifest among operational level. This detail includes: employees exposed to underground workings. The ЈЈ Continuously improving our safety, health, fitting of personalised hearing protection devices in the environment and community performance and risk Rustenburg area forms a major part of our strategy, as management – especially through leadership does the retrofitting of mufflers and the replacement of commitment, managing the physical environment, 18 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 people initiatives and practices, procedures and to secure the future through a strong balance sheet systems improvement. Measures will focus on and, while maintaining a philosophy of “growing leading and lagging indicators. Zero harm is the within the Implats means”, our balance sheet is the goal and a new Health and Safety Plan, which weakest it has been for many years. This is not includes industry initiatives, will be presented to the appropriate in the current economic environment; Implats Board in November 2012; and ЈЈ Increasing productivity through integrated, allЈЈ Delivering on organic and other growth initiatives inclusive productivity plans which focus on mine such that we safely optimise on our current installed and plant design and set-up, simulations and infrastructure and resource bases. benchmarking, continuous improvement in delivering volume, value, quality, costs, capital and I thank our partners, our employees, shareholders, cash flow (“VVQ3C”). A comprehensive Productivity contractors, business partners and suppliers for the Plan will be presented to the Board in November substantial contributions they are making to support 2012 as will a comprehensive Human Resources our journey to a future in which we create lasting, and (Organisational Behaviour and Transformation) Plan; growing, value. I look forward to communicating ЈЈ Development and equipping of underground further updates on our sustainability performance in workings at Impala has become a key strategic the coming year and have no doubt that we will then driver to create ore reserve flexibility. To this end a be in a position to provide details of meaningful programme is being set up to monitor development, advances. ledging and equipping rates; ЈЈ Increasing real profits by focusing on revenues and real costs with the cash margin being the ultimate measurable. We need to execute rigorous cost control and operational efficiency to maintain the Terence Goodlace Group’s position as a best cost producer. We need Incoming Chief Executive Officer 19 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Our approach to creating value In the last twelve months recessionary fears continued to dampen PGM prices more than most commodities while, at the same time, the underlying automotive and industrial demand for PGM actually strengthened. Drilling on the farm Kareepoort, Afplats Zimplats Ngezi operations 20 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 21 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 The changing business context Our markets Against a backdrop of widespread and varied fears for Events influencing the PGM markets over the last the worst, investor sentiment towards platinum has twelve to eighteen months centered more on macrobeen overwhelmingly coloured by a negative outlook economic events than the fundamentals for the on the world economy, with the result that PGM metals themselves. The recovery seen in world markets have remained extremely fragile. Metal markets post the 2008/9 global financial crisis has remained freely available and prices accordingly been impacted by the financial woes currently being trended downwards. experienced in Europe. Market performance Concerns about a double-dip recession deepened Supply-side disruptions such as those endured at as Europe grappled with fiscal austerity measures Implats, and more latterly at Lonmin, together with the and a slowing Chinese economy, partially the result closure of smaller operations at Aquarius Platinum, of reduced exports to Europe, signalled to some have tightened the PGM market. Without a meaningful that the European contagion could spread worldwide. increase in demand, however, further supply discipline This concern raised the possibility that the relative may be required to drive the platinum price beyond the immunity of emerging markets – notably China, US$1 800 level. Brazil and India – to international economic shocks might be wearing thin. Platinum, Palladium, Rhodium and R:US$ Price More positively, however, towards the latter part of this reporting period, the US economy continued to show 3 500 10.0 resilience with its ravaged housing and employment 3 000 sectors showing sustained, albeit slow, signs of 8.0 recovery. If the double-dip recession is to be avoided, 2 500 $ per ounce the US will have to continue on its growth and recovery 6.0 2 000 trajectory while the world becomes accustomed to lower growth rates out of China. 1 500 4.0 1 000 China’s economic performance post-2008 was 2.0 achieved largely by compressing seven years 500 infrastructural development into three years. This in 0 0 turn resulted in exponential increases in commodity 04/Jan/10 04/Oct/10 04/Jul/11 04/Apr/12 prices – a development from which many commodity producers benefited. Now that the Chinese are reorienting their macro-economic model towards one Pt LND pm in which domestic consumption is the primary engine Pd LND pm of sustained growth – this change of policy will result Rhodium in an interim slowdown in economic growth. Implats R:US$ believes that the Chinese central bank’s easing of monetary policy in mid-2012 was a response to Helping to underpin the market is the fact that global the slowdown as a result of this change, from vehicle sales had, by June 2012, exceeded the infrastructure to consumption-led growth, equivalent period for 2011 by approximately 7%, a development that should have positive notwithstanding a reduction in Europe of a similar implications for PGMs. percentage. Driving worldwide vehicle sales are emerging markets where urbanising, richer populations Steadily rising oil prices have stoked fears that inflation seek the trappings of their new wealth, including their poses the greatest single threat to continued growth in own cars. Nowhere is this as pronounced as in China the US and China. While there is no doubt that where, despite a slowing in the rate of growth in the fuel-related inflation could inhibit overall growth, rising overall economy, vehicle sales were still well ahead of oil prices augur well for the mediumto long-term price the comparable period for 2011. outlook for PGMs as motorists turn to more modern, cleaner and more fuel-efficient vehicles, including hybrids, which in many cases carry greater metal loadings. 22 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Light-duty vehicle sales Platinum future exchange investment (ForeJanuary 2010 – June 2012 cast) Units: Millions 2010 2011 2012 2 000 1 800 North America 11.8 13.1 14.9 1 600 Western Europe 13.4 14.0 12.5 Thousands, ounces 1 400 China 16.8 17.1 18.5 1 200 Japan 9.3 8.1 9.5 1 000 Rest of the world 22.8 24.3 25.8 800 600 74.1 76.6 81.2 400 200 Jewellery demand, as reflected by Shanghai Gold 0 Exchange (SGE) indices, reached record levels in calendar year 2011 with platinum prices dropping Jan/10 Jun/12 below those of gold for the first time in more than a decade. In the first half of 2012 Chinese jewellery Nymex net longs demand remained consistent with the levels of 2011. TOCOM net longs SGE annual cumulative oz Palladium future exchange investment January 2010 – June 2012 1 200 000 Aug/10 Mar/11 Oct/11 May/12 2 500 1 000 000 800 000 2 000 Pt ounce Thousands, ounces 600 000 1 500 400 000 1 000 200 000 500 0 Months 0 2009 2010 Jan/10 Jun/12 2011 2012 Total Developments over the past year demonstrated the While investors liquidated almost one million platinum extent to which the investment community’s sentiment ounces in the year under review, Exchange Traded prevails over fundamentals in determining the direction Funds (ETF) inflows were positive as industry supply of PGM markets. Despite modest but continuing woes worsened, contributing to a tightening of the improvements in automotive and industrial demand, platinum market positioning. Palladium surprisingly platinum prices sagged from a high of US$1 900 per witnessed slightly more aggressive liquidation in the ounce in August 2011 to test the mid-US$1 300s per forward markets with over one million ounces sold. ounce, ending the year trading at well under US$1 500 This was compounded by physical sales in the ETF per ounce. This was entirely as a result of investors market. As a result, prices succumbed from a high of taking flight from commodities as concerns rose about just under US$800 per ounce to end the year below the economic outlook, particularly in the eurozone. US$600 per ounce. 23 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 The changing business context continued demand for our products, could see the markets move Platinum ETF investment into deficits in the foreseeable future and help to January 2010 – June 2012 restore pricing levels required for further capital investments into the sector. 600 One generally anticipated response to the envisaged 500 supply constraints is an uptake in re-cycling internationally. This is expected to gain impetus as Thousands, ounces 400 demand increasingly outstrips supply and re-cycled metals acquire a growing cachet as being “greener” 300 than those sourced ex-mine. By 2016 recycled 200 available platinum could likely reach some 1.65 million ounces. This would represent a significant source of 100 PGMs. 0 While the market reflected a small oversupply for most Jan/10 Jun/12 of the year under review, there are persuasive reasons for believing that this situation will not pertain for long. US ETFs These reasons include increasing vehicle ownership in UK ETFs emerging markets, especially in China, higher demand for diesel vehicles in Europe, generally much tighter SWISS ZKB emissions control (including the introduction of Euro 6, and LEVlll/Tier lll in the US tailpipe emissions legislation and new non-road emissions legislation), improved Palladium ETF investment industrial demand and the emerging requirement to fit January 2010 – June 2012 emission control devices to heavy-duty diesel vehicles. 1 400 The development of alternatives to the internal 1 200 combustion engine as it has powered vehicles since the late 1800s is gathering pace and will soon impact Thousands, ounces 1 000 our industry. By 2020 there is evidence that hybrid 800 vehicles could account for more than 25% of new 600 vehicle sales worldwide. In the same year batterypowered vehicles are predicted to become 400 economically significant, although they still face a 200 multitude of challenges. The rollout of fuel-cell vehicles is expected to start in 2015, with commercially relevant 0 sales commencing, at the earliest, by 2025. Not to be Jan/10 Jun/12 underestimated, however, are the continual improvements in the internal combustion engine, in US ETFs terms of power, efficiency, economy and reduced UK ETFs emissions. SWISS ZKB Whether battery-powered or fuel-cell vehicles achieve early-adopter popularity and traction in the market will Outlook be determined by technological advances and the Mar/11 Jan/12 The challenges facing the South African PGM industry rollout of infrastructure such as hydrogen re-fuelling are many and varied, and range from inflationary stations coupled with both the price and availability of pressures, lack of skills, inter-union rivalry as well as oil. It is our belief that the combustion engine will socio-political issues. These challenges will result in remain a formidable competitor to these competing output from South Africa struggling to regain the PGM technologies and should be around for many years to production levels witnessed in 2006/7. Consequently, come. a lower supply base, coupled with increases in 24 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Light-duty vehicle emission standards, 2006 through 2017 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 National phase-in Tier II Tier III? US California States LEVII Phase-in LEVII LEVIII Phase-in gasoline Euro 5 EU Euro 4 Euro 6 diesel Euro 5a Euro 5b Japan Japan 2005 Japan 2009 gasoline China 4 China 2 China 3 China* diesel Beijing China 3 China 4 China 5 gasoline Proconve L6 Brazil Proconve L4 Proconve L5 diesel India* Bharat Stage II Bharat Stage III * Cities in China and India adopt emission standards in advance of national legislation. This chart shows the timeline of emission standards Palladium adopted in the major mature and emerging markets. Despite generally positive fundamentals for this metal, The height of the rows is proportional to the country’s negative investor sentiment, combined with substantial 2012 sales. The transition from orange to blue Russian destocking and ETF redemptions, represents a tightening of emission standards with overshadowed a 7% growth in automotive demand. orange signifying more relaxed standards which require We anticipate growing deficits developing in this less PGMs, and blue signifying tighter emission market which should see a fairly rapid depletion of standards, which require more PGMs. The current year above-ground stocks and in turn exert upward is demarcated by the white line. pressure on prices. We believe a return to prices above the US$1 000 per ounce level is possible in the next three to four years. Platinum Prices during the past twelve months were volatile, Rhodium with a sustained decline setting in from February 2012. In the short term, rhodium prices are expected to This was driven much more by negative investor remain subdued as the market continues to be sentiment than by underlying demand. adequately supplied. In the last year relatively small increases in automotive requirements were met by Given the uncertainty of how the eurozone dilemma raised UG2 output and heightened recycling. From will play itself out, platinum prices are expected to 2013, however, lower South African production will resume a moderate upward trend in FY2013. We have move the market closer to balance, with prices every confidence that in the medium term, recovering slowly, possibly reaching US$1 800 per fundamental supply and demand dictates will reassert ounce by 2016. themselves, to the extent that prices over and above the US$2 000 per ounce mark are possible. 25 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 The changing business context continued Market review Forecast (000 oz) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Platinum supply/demand balances Demand Automobile 3 830 2 950 3 270 3 400 3 470 3 900 Jewellery 1 355 2 410 2 160 2 415 2 420 2 550 Industrial 1 755 1 230 1 695 1 730 1 730 1 820 Investment 425 650 650 150 100 100 Total demand 7 365 7 240 7 775 7 695 7 720 8 370 Supply South Africa 4 485 4 580 4 735 4 735 4 360 4 550 North America 330 260 230 375 380 385 Other 745 665 1 015 1 020 975 1 040 Recycle 970 850 1 020 1 110 1 180 1 230 Russian sales 800 775 800 800 795 775 Total supply 7 330 7 130 7 800 8 040 7 690 7 980 Balance (35) (110) 25 345 (30) (390) Palladium supply/demand balances Demand Automobile 4 940 4 170 5 200 5 600 5 900 6 400 Industrial 3 620 3 365 3 155 3 160 3 100 3 135 Investment 1 055 (520) 400 300 Total demand 8 560 7 535 9 410 8 240 9 400 9 835 Supply South Africa 2 355 2 472 2 530 2 580 2 425 2 461 North America 870 655 665 860 930 960 Other 310 1 287 1 360 1 464 975 944 Recycle 1 085 986 1 370 1 500 1 700 1 950 Russian sales 3 750 2 805 2 850 2 750 2 750 2 700 Total supply 8 370 8 205 8 775 9 155 8 780 9 015 Balance (190) 670 (635) (915) (620) (820) 26 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Forecast (000 oz) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Rhodium supply/demand balances Demand Automobile 759 682 750 760 790 860 Industrial 136 113 150 178 190 190 Total demand 895 795 900 938 980 1 050 Supply South Africa 580 640 650 635 610 630 North America 20 10 15 18 19 20 Other 15 25 25 30 31 35 Recycle 220 185 230 265 275 295 Russian sales 70 65 70 70 65 65 Total supply 905 925 990 1 018 1 000 1 045 Balance 10 130 90 80 20 (5) 27 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Our business strategy Our vision is to become the world’s best platinum-producing company while delivering superior returns to our stakeholders relative to our peers. To achieve this vision, the Group will remain focused on a strategy to: Develop safe and Consistently deliver effective people superior returns We will achieve this by: We will achieve this by: ЈЈ Promoting employee safety ЈЈ Focusing on capital, cost and health controls and operational ЈЈ Creating and sustaining efficiencies mutually beneficial relations ЈЈ Optimising production levels. with employees ЈЈ Attracting, retaining and developing talent and skills. Our strategy Maintain access Invest in social to strategic and environmental natural resources capital We will achieve this by: We will achieve this by: ЈЈ Pursuing organic growth ЈЈ Making a meaningful and through exploration and capital sustainable contribution to the development societies in which we operate ЈЈ Entering strategic alliances/joint ЈЈ Implementing projects that ventures impact positively on our ЈЈ Ensuring sustainable access to communities water and energy ЈЈ Respecting the human rights ЈЈ Cementing positive relations and interests of all stakeholders. with authorities. 28 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Strategic objective 1 – Developing safe and effective people We aim to achieve this by: ЈЈ Promoting employee safety and health ЈЈ Creating and sustaining mutually beneficial relations with employees ЈЈ Attracting, retaining and developing talent and skills. Why this is material ЈЈ No improvement in lost-time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) ЈЈ Ensuring the safety and health of our employees, of 4.96 (FY2011: 4.94) contractors and suppliers is essential if we are to ЈЈ 131 section 54 instructions or stoppages were issued, respect their most fundamental human rights; without a resulting in 288 days of lost production at Rustenburg, meaningful commitment to respecting the rights of four days at Marula those with whom we interact, we will have no social or ЈЈ Impala’s opencast and Zimplat’s Ngwarati and political licence to operate. Processing achieved zero lost-time injuries for 12 months ЈЈ If we are to create sustainable value for shareholders ЈЈ 63 new cases of noise-induced hearing loss (FY2011: and society we need our people to be healthy, safe, 57), and 387 new cases of pulmonary TB (FY2011: 350) motivated and equipped with the requisite skills; this ЈЈ 92 900 occupational health-screening examinations; no requires a work environment informed by mutual trust previously unknown occupational risks detected and respect. ЈЈ 110 655 man-days and 150 000 platinum ounces lost to strike action, which was accompanied by violence and How we manage this objective intimidation ЈЈ People management is headed up by a dedicated Group ЈЈ Staff turnover in the total workforce was 10% (FY2011: executive reporting to the CEO; his scope of work 8.3%) includes remuneration, human resource development, ЈЈ 29% increase of people on ART talent management, employment equity, stakeholder ЈЈ R354 million spent on skills development. engagement and sustainable development. A Group Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) executive sits on Our commitments for achieving this objective the EXCO and is responsible for guiding the Group in future strategy on HSE issues ЈЈ Retain strong focus on cultural transformation for safety ЈЈ Policies and procedures on people management issues and closing the supervision gap are established at corporate level and apply at our ЈЈ Develop leading indicators and ensure safety enjoys operations. These seek to ensure the continuous greater weighting in manager and supervisor incentives development of our employees, in line with business ЈЈ Meet safety targets: 20% improvement in LTIFR and demands, while at the same time offering career TIFR at each operation; 100% compliance with road progression opportunities with particular emphasis on behaviour; and 100% compliance with Platinum Rules historically disadvantaged South Africans within our or 100% disciplinary action for non-compliance South African operations ЈЈ Focus efforts on ensuring further mitigation of risks ЈЈ Each operation has a Transformation Committee made relating to NIHL and AIDS up of representatives drawn from management, ЈЈ Increase membership of the Impala Medical Plan by a employee unions, women and people with disabilities, as further 5% well as other stakeholder groupings that we engage with ЈЈ Ensure alignment with the SA government’s NHI to advance transformation at each operation strategy, including providing healthcare facilities around ЈЈ Groupand site-specific HSE policies, procedures and our lease areas standards have been set, with the aim of ensuring that ЈЈ Develop a new employee engagement model, with our activities comply with legislative requirements. greater focus on the role of line managers Responsibility for implementing Group-wide HSE policies ЈЈ Address potential skills shortages through in-house and procedures rests at an operational level with line technical trainee programmes, capacity-building at management. The operations submit quarterly supervisory and managerial level, and enhanced performance reports to the HSE Committee. HSE people-leadership initiatives specialists, at a Group and operational level, support line ЈЈ Devote an additional 1% of payroll levy towards management in implementing this strategy, and in creating and entrenching critical skills monitoring and managing performance. ЈЈ Continue efforts to meet transformation targets: 45% HDSAs at E-level, 55% at D-level and 75% at C-level Our 2012 performance by 2014 ЈЈ Twelve work-related fatalities (FY2011: seven) ЈЈ Focus strongly on local employment from communities ЈЈ Fatal injury frequency rate (FIFR) deteriorated to 0.09 where our operations are based. (FY2011: 0.05) 29 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Our business strategy continued Strategic objective 2 – Consistently deliver superior returns We will achieve this by: ЈЈ Focusing on capital cost controls and operational efficiencies ЈЈ Optimising production levels. Why this is material Our commitments for achieving this ЈЈ Delivering consistent returns is essential to objective in future rewarding those who invest their capital in our ЈЈ A key focus for the next year will be on restoring business and to secure their continued support. Impala to its full production potential. To this end an Superior returns ensure that we have access to annual production target of 950 000 ounces has capital and to borrowings with which we finance been set for FY2016 future growth and expansion ЈЈ Zimplats’ expansion will see it achieve production of ЈЈ Profits enable us to invest in our human resources, 270 000 ounces per year to motivate our staff and to keep contributing to the ЈЈ Marula management will be tasked with raising development of well-functioning sustainable production and reducing unit costs. Impala’s communities and to the economic growth of South commissioning of capital projects is well in hand Africa and Zimbabwe. and will be accelerated in the new year. These projects include the Impala shaft numbers 16, 17 How we manage this objective and 20. Through the commissioning of the new ЈЈ Superior returns relative to peers are mainly realised shafts team efficiency will return to 380 centares per through achieving competitive and safe production team by 2020. Phase 1 of Leeuwkop has been ЈЈ A robust annual budgeting process is undertaken approved by the Board at a cost of R1.4 billion out with a high focus on safety, cost containment and of a total capital budget of R9.8 billion production levels ЈЈ Cost leadership will be achieved through improved ЈЈ Performance against this budget is monitored productivity and stoping efficiencies and better continually and reported in detail on a monthly basis utilisation of infrastructure. Negotiations with to EXCO and on a quarterly basis to the Board. suppliers of commodity inputs for improved rates will be ongoing Our 2012 performance ЈЈ Cementing a new, more sustainable labour ЈЈ As a consequence of the strike revenue declined by compact with our employees will be fundamental to R2.8 billion achieving the growth in returns that we believe we ЈЈ A stock build-up in the current year, compared to a are capable of achieving and that stakeholders release in the previous year, resulted in lower expect of us. We will be focusing efforts on revenue or R2.2 billion developing a new employee engagement model ЈЈ Capital investment amounted to R7.3 billion mainly in which management at all operations will liaise for shaft numbers 20, 16 and 17 more closely with workers. We will redouble our ЈЈ R90 million was spent on socioeconomic efforts to defuse antagonistic inter-union rivalry, development in our communities of operation facilitating, wherever possible, dialogue between ЈЈ A total of R430 million was invested towards the competing unions improving the living conditions of our employees in ЈЈ Dialogue with representatives of the Department of South Africa and approximately US$66 million at Mineral Resources (DMR) will be stepped up in an our Zimbabwean operations effort to address concerns related to the application ЈЈ R354 million was invested in developing our skills of section 54 stoppages. We will cooperate fully based with major literacy improvements at the with the DMR to ensure that our operations comply Rustenburg operations at 74.3% (FY2011: 57%). with and ideally exceed agreed safety standards. This is mainly due to our literacy programmes, the continuous skills audit and improved recruitment processes. 30 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Strategic objective 3 – Maintain access to strategic natural resources We will achieve this by: ЈЈ Pursuing organic growth through exploration and capital development ЈЈ Adopting value-adding positions and entering strategic alliances/joint ventures ЈЈ Ensuring sustainable access to water and energy ЈЈ Cementing positive relations with authorities. Why this is material ЈЈ Reduced total direct emissions of SO2 and CO2 at ЈЈ The Group creates value primarily by extracting and Group level refining platinum group metals. Without access to ЈЈ Completed prefeasibility project for SO2 abatement at these minerals we have no business. To support our Zimplats operations extraction and processing of these resources we ЈЈ Made progress with our coal-to-biomass fuel-switching require additional mineral resources as well as access project to reliable supplies of water and energy (mainly in the ЈЈ Total Group water consumption of 40 114 megalitres, form of electricity). We recognise that the supply of representing a decrease of 4% on FY2011 – some of these resources is constrained and likely to 41 868 megalitres become more so in future, leading to anticipated ЈЈ Recycled 14 840 megalitres of water, equating to 37% increases in costs as well as growing competition with of all water consumed (FY2011: 35%) other potential users including local communities ЈЈ All South African operations, with the exception of ЈЈ It is important that we demonstrate responsible Marula Platinum, are now certified in terms of stewardship of the resources we share with the ISO 14001 societies in which we operate, particularly as our ЈЈ Commenced final phase of a biodiversity management underground operations become deeper and consume plan for our Rustenburg operations. greater amounts of energy and water. This involves taking measures not only to address security of supply Our commitments for achieving this objective (for example through efficiency, recycling and fuelin future switching), but also to actively minimise our impacts on ЈЈ Focus on implementing carbon and water conservation natural resources. This has direct benefits in terms of strategies, and seek to finalise carbon and water reduced costs and liabilities, enhanced resource targets security and improved licence to operate. ЈЈ Engage with local, regional and national authorities in SA regarding water-use licences and complete waste How we manage this objective licensing ЈЈ Implats embraces an Integrated Mineral Resources ЈЈ Implement the new air quality reporting requirements Management (MRM) function. To this end, systems, for our Rustenburg operations procedures and practices are aligned and are ЈЈ Complete study into the feasibility of coal-to-biomass continuously being improved to achieve this objective. fuel-switching project at Rustenburg smelter MRM includes exploration, geology, geostatistical ЈЈ Continue our work with government and academia on modelling, mine-survey, sampling, mine planning and fuel-cell technologies utilising PGMs in alternative the MRM information systems. The MRM function is energy sources the custodian of the mineral assets of the Group and ЈЈ Continuously improving the management of Mineral specifically strives to grow these assets in terms of Resources and related processes, while addressing both Resources and Reserves, and to unlock value skills development and retention through a constant search for optimal extraction plans, ЈЈ Optimal exploitation of current assets, together with which yield returns in line with the corporate and growth of the Mineral Resource base by leveraging and business objectives optimising existing Implats properties, exploration and ЈЈ The Group has established environmental specialist acquisitions, including alliances and equity interests teams that work closely with operations and are with third parties involved in due diligence exercises undertaken in ЈЈ Comply with the legislative regime that governs mineral connection with acquisitions, and the development of rights ownership strategic resources. ЈЈ The transparent, responsible and compliant disclosure of Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves in line with Our 2012 performance the prescribed codes, SAMREC and JORC, giving ЈЈ Commenced implementation of Board-approved due cognisance to materiality and competency. carbon and water conservation strategies ЈЈ Obtained water-use licences for SA operations and provisional atmospheric emission licences for Rustenburg operations 31 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Our business strategy continued Strategic objective 4 – Develop social and environmental capital We will achieve this by: ЈЈ Making a meaningful and sustainable contribution to the societies in which we operate ЈЈ Implementing projects that impact positively on our communities ЈЈ Respecting the human rights and interests of all stakeholders Why this is material –– R3 364 million in dividends paid to shareholders ЈЈ Our strategic approach to investing in –– R3 731 million in payments to providers of socioeconomic development initiatives is informed capital by our belief that the long-term success of a –– R9 449 million in payments to suppliers and business is closely linked to the success and contractors wellbeing of the communities in which it operates ЈЈ In Zimbabwe and from which it draws its employees. Ensuring –– R726 million in employee wages and benefits the trust and endorsement of these communities –– R485 million in taxation and royalties to and their political representatives is essential to our government licence to operate and to our ability to operate –– R174 million in payments to providers of capital effectively and efficiently ЈЈ This value-added was supplemented with additional ЈЈ We believe that our commitment to housing investments of R90 million in socioeconomic provides a clear opportunity for differentiation and development initiatives and R430 million in the to build a sustainable competitive advantage among upgrading of employee housing, home ownership current and prospective employees and other facilitation and the conversion of single-sex stakeholders. It presents a strong business/ residences employee linkage and serves as a cornerstone of ЈЈ Met all our housing objectives for 2012 and on track the other pillars of our broader transformation to deliver on 2020 objectives strategy: it supports skills retention, procurement ЈЈ 51% of our total discretionary spend of R9.4 billion and enterprise development initiatives, as well as was spent with vendors with HDSA/BEE ownership making a meaningful contribution to community of greater than 25% (2011: R4,8 billion or 55%) development. ЈЈ 52% of procurement expenditure spent with companies in the North West province, and 6% with How we manage this objective companies owned by local communities close to ЈЈ Our Sustainable Development Department based at the operations. our Rustenburg operations manages our socioeconomic development initiatives in our South Our commitments for achieving this African operations. The Stakeholder Engagement objective in future Department assists with community relations ЈЈ Our revised enterprise development strategy ЈЈ Community projects are identified at quarterly envisages the Group allocating greater resources to forums attended by community representatives, developing local SMME and HDSA suppliers as well local government and employees. Mine operational as assisting those small suppliers that are in committees approve projects and submit them to distress. We will work closely with the Royal the executive-level Group Sustainable Development Bafokeng Enterprise Development Unit in Forum for final approval. The Social, Ethics and Rustenburg and the Marula Community Transformation Committee (reconstituted in FY2012) Development Agency in Burgersfort to effect greater oversees social and economic development issues. local procurement by identifying and mentoring black-owned smaller suppliers. Our 2012 performance ЈЈ Our investments in improving the accommodation ЈЈ Although significantly affected by the strike, we of employees will continue. The housing project is nevertheless continued to contribute important scheduled to be completed, as projected by 2020, economic value-added for stakeholders, and in the and the conversion of all hostels to one-person-perregion more broadly, through our core activities room accommodation will be achieved, as including: stipulated by the Mining Charter, before 2014. ЈЈ At a group level Implementation of our Social and Labour Plan is on –– R6 940 million in employee wages and benefits track for completion in FY2013. –– R1 871 million in taxation and royalties 32 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Our sustainability strategy: Contributing to value creation Globally economic, social, environmental and governance issues remain a significant challenge to business and society. Population growth is expected to reach nine billion by 2050, with 98% of this growth anticipated in emerging and developing countries. As many people begin to enjoy a middle-class standard of living for the first time, this will place growing pressure on already limited natural resources. Despite the anticipated improvement in the standard of ЈЈ The economy – By accessing and beneficiating living of many of the world’s poor, it is likely that this will minerals we make a significant positive contribution be accompanied by a persistent increase in levels of to the local, regional and national economies in inequality. This context of growing inequality, increasing which we operate. The positive value added resource pressure and ongoing financial uncertainty, through our core business activities is further places a significant burden on business, government enhanced through our strategic social investment and society at large to contribute to sustainable activities. growth. As a large mining company we need to be particularly Our capacity to deliver on our business strategy attuned and sensitive, for example, to the underlying depends on our ability to anticipate the changing drivers behind calls for nationalisation and social, political and environmental context and to be indigenisation, to the growing demands for youth responsive to the shifting expectations of our employment and service delivery, and to the increasing stakeholders. At the same time we need to be pressures for greater corporate responsibility and cognisant of the impacts of our operations on: accountability. We recognise that our ability to ЈЈ The environment – By its nature, mining inherently consistently provide value is dependent upon our has a high impact on the environment: in addition to capacity to attract, retain and develop safe, skilled and depleting non-renewable resources, there are committed employees, on the reliability and cost of environmental impacts in terms of energy and water access to energy and water, and on the nature of our use, waste generation, land disturbance, and relationships with government and our local atmospheric and water pollution. These impacts are communities. mitigated through effective internal environmental management practices. It’s important also to For these reasons, we see sustainability as being recognise the positive contribution of platinum integral to the pursuit of our vision and our business group metals in terms of their application as part of strategy. If our sustainability strategy is to contribute lower-pollutant technologies meaningfully to the delivery of our vision of superior ЈЈ Society – While mining has had a recognised returns to our stakeholders, it is essential that the negative impact on communities, it can also play a strategy focuses on and responds to those profoundly positive role in terms of providing sustainability-related risks and opportunities that have employment, investing in the health and wellbeing a material impact on our business. The process of of employees and their communities, and identifying these material sustainability issues – and generating significant local economic activity. As determining our strategic sustainability objectives – is outlined throughout this report, Implats endeavours informed by the outcomes of our internal risk to achieve a significant positive social contribution; management process, as well as by the views and we recognise this is critical to our licence to operate interests of our key stakeholders. and to our ability to generate value over the medium and long term 33 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Our sustainability strategy: Identifying our material sustainability issues Our risk assessment and management business. Each identified risk, and its associated process controls, has a clearly defined line management owner. Implats’ risk management process sets out to achieve This process is repeated and reviewed regularly, an appropriate balance between minimising the risks ensuring that the information remains relevant. All associated with any business activity and maximising information is captured into the Group risk repository the potential reward. The aim of the process is to system that informs the Group risk profile. The Group enhance our understanding of the uncertainties that risk profile and risk watch report is presented on a we face by providing a structured and consistent monthly basis to the Executive Committee (EXCOM) approach that aligns our strategy, processes, people, and quarterly to the newly established Board Risk technology and knowledge, with the goal of improving Committee. our ability to create stakeholder value. It enables the Board and senior managers to take decisions This process culminates in the identification of a regarding the possible trade-off between risk and prioritised set of Group strategic risks (see page 38). reward, and assists them to identify and pursue From these risks, we have identified the material appropriate strategic growth opportunities informed by sustainability-related issues that in turn have been the Group’s risk appetite and risk tolerance levels. used to inform our strategic sustainability objectives that are fully aligned with our business strategic The structured risk management process objectives. encompasses the following steps: ЈЈ Establishing the context – considering all internal Our stakeholder engagement process at various levels and external factors, including the views and within the organisation, as well as externally and interests of our stakeholders (see 36 to 37) supported by market fundamentals inform our most ЈЈ Identifying the risk – establishing both the source material issues. These issues feed into our risk process and cause of the risk, and evaluating all possible and are assessed based on their impact for both the consequences organisation and the affected parties. These impacts ЈЈ Analysing the risk – identifying and assessing what inform the risk mitigating measures and responses, as this means for the achievement of our objectives well as the identification of the material issues for ЈЈ Evaluating the risk – determining the risk rating (by monitoring and reporting. In determining materiality, the severity, exposure and frequency), identifying the EXCO participates in a survey drawn from the risk controls (both existing or new), and prioritising the profile where they are requested to rank each material risks issue based on various criteria. These findings are ЈЈ Managing the risk – considering all options to compared to the risk watch to further validate our establish the most appropriate response for each understanding of the most material issues to the identified risk. business and their potential impact on its long-term sustainability. Arising from this process is a set of objective-based risk assessments (ORAs) that cover approximately 60 of the most important aspects of the Implats 34 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Internal stakeholders Market External fundamentals stakeholders Risk identification process and ranking n io ia at ul Tr ng ng ul Tr ia at io n EXCO Materiality materiality results Triangulation survey 35 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Our sustainability strategy: Identifying our material sustainability issues continued Identifying and responding to our stakeholders’ interests Implats has a range of stakeholders – both internally and externally – who have an interest in the organisation and who may have a material influence on our ability to create value. As outlined in the table below, various structures are in place to facilitate dialogue with these stakeholders, and to identify and respond to their views and interests. The frequency of these engagements is dynamic and is dependent on the nature of the issues raised. During FY2011 a process was put in place to identify and prioritise those stakeholders that are significantly impacted by our business activities, as well as those who have influence over the long-term viability of the Group. This process was undertaken by the Sustainable Development department with final approval and endorsement of the findings by EXCO. While the Group recognises that all stakeholders are important, the outcome of the review process prioritised strategic relationships with the following stakeholder groups: employees, government, shareholders, BEE partners, customers and communities. These stakeholders remain integral in the long-term sustainability of our business. Our stakeholders Nature of engagement Material issues raised How we have responded Employees and Operation forums Organisational rights Following the recent strike trade unions Internal communication Safety action, working committees Collective bargaining units Conditions of employment were established to better Wages engage with the workforce. Progress with transformation A review of salaries for certain critical skills necessitated an adjustment of these. Shareholders, Road-shows PGM market, safety, production The current turmoil with analysts and Results representations Cost of production markets has been addressed investors Investor conference Capital delivery as well as its potential impact One-on-one appointments Nationalisation and on revenue going forward. An indigenisation update on capital investment for replacement shaft 20, 16 and 17 has been conveyed. Government Meetings with officials from Safety (accidents and Implats has joined industry local, provincial and national stoppages) partners together with government Progress with transformation government stakeholders in Compliance visits from Social and Labour plan order to address current government progress safety issues. Through the Labour relations Chamber of Mines (COM) Environmental authorisation various issues impacting the industry are being addressed including cultural transformation of the industry, social development and skills. Advocacy Stakeholder liaison meetings Nationalisation, section 54s Implats is in the process of groups One-on-one meetings and safety responding to some of the Surveys, hotlines and ANC’s policy proposals issues raised by the publications Benchmarks foundation regarding mining activities in the Rustenburg area. This report was produced in July 2012 after the Company’s financial year-end. 36 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Our stakeholders Nature of engagement Material issues raised How we have responded BEE or Operational meetings Cost of production Current constraints relating to indigenous Board meetings Capital delivery safety performance, skills, and partners One-on-one meetings Safety (accidents and health have been discussed stoppages) with partners. A continuous Progress with transformation update regarding employee Social and labour plan progress relations is continuously being Labour relations reported as well as initiatives to remedy the situation. Engagement through the COM have also taken place to discuss and engage on the recent ANC policy proposals on the State’s Intervention in the Mining Sector (SIMS). Producers and Strategy meetings All of the above The current cost pressures felt Industry forums Industry interest by the PGM industry has group meeting resulted in the formation of a Platinum Task Team, driven by the DMR and stakeholders from labour, and the PGM producers. This is being handled through the COM which Implats has recently become part of. Media Press releases All of the above Media releases have been One-on-one interviews consistently released (radio, TV and print media) throughout the year, updating the public on all material issues affecting the organisation. Traditional Community liaison meetings Employment opportunities Relevant issues are addressed councils, land Community trust meetings Procurement opportunities by the responsible executive owners and Future forum meetings HIV/AIDS in communities at each operation. Information communities One-on-one meetings on Company performance on material issues is provided at community forums, particularly regarding employment, procurement, environmental issues and health. Suppliers Suppliers forums Conditions of contract In the current year the Group One-on-one meetings reviewed its policies to include specific contractor obligations. This is to further advance the Group’s standards and policies though the value chain. Customers Industry forums Delivery against terms With the recent strike action, One-on-one meetings customers have been kept informed about the supply of material as per delivery agreements. 37 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Our sustainability strategy: Identifying our material sustainability issues continued Classification of group strategic risks – June 2012 The Group risk profile identified the following key risks: High potential Strategic Objective Impacted impact issues by the Issue What is Implats’ response? Country risk: Strategic Objective Number 4 Addressing relevant issues regarding sustainability, corporate Zimbabwe and – Develop social and responsibility, and being recognised as a good corporate SA (Social and environmental capital citizen in the countries and communities where the Company Community operates, and maintaining sound and mutually beneficial Issues) relationships with them and the general public. Striving to retain permission to operate, and ensuring full legal and regulatory compliance in a continuously changing environment. Safety and Strategic Objective Number 1 – Aiming to achieve continuous improvement in safety Section 54 Developing safe and effective performance towards the vision of ‘zero harm’. notices people Employee Strategic Objective Number 1 – Aiming to achieve organisational diversity and improved relations Developing safe and effective employee engagement and participation in all business people activities. Employee Strategic Objective Number 1 – Aiming to achieve continuous improvement in health health Developing safe and effective management performance towards the vision of ‘zero harm’. people Cash Strategic Objective Number 2 – Focusing on cash management as a key to preserving the preservation Consistently deliver superior financial value of the business. returns Supply and Strategic Objective Number 2 – Understanding the future demand for our products, and the demand (and Consistently deliver superior corresponding industry supply side profile. considering returns Scanning the environment for technological advances that metal prices) may affect the demand for Implats’ products (substitution), and instituting appropriate responses where possible. Infrastructure: Strategic Objective Number 3 – Ensuring we minimise our consumption of energy and water including Maintain Access to Strategic by promoting efficient processes, and adopting appropriate energy and Natural Resources technologies. water access Environmental Strategic Objective Number 3 – Aiming to achieve continuous improvement in environmental regulatory Maintain Access to Strategic performance towards the vision of a net positive impact. requirements Natural Resources Rand/Dollar Strategic Objective Number 2 – Closely monitoring the Rand/Dollar exchange rate as a exchange rate Consistently deliver superior source of significant volatility for our business. returns Productivity Strategic Objective Number 2 – Maintaining reliable and effective production processes and Consistently deliver superior delivering product on time and to specification. returns Skills availability Strategic Objective Number 1 – Attracting, developing, retaining and motivating the requisite Developing safe and effective management, operational, technical and business skills and people pool of talent. Project delivery Strategic Objective Number 2 – Maintaining effective project management processes and Consistently deliver superior skills to ensure successful project implementation and returns delivery. Unit costs Strategic Objective Number 2 – Implementing a best cost programme that supports safe Consistently deliver superior production. returns 38 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Our material sustainability issues we are to their concerns. Social development On the basis of our internal risk assessment process, programmes, community engagement initiatives and the outcomes of feedback from our stakeholders, and positive government relations are critical to we have identified the following strategic sustainabilitymaintaining our competitiveness related issues that have a direct impact on our ability to ЈЈ Providing for declining infrastructure – deliver on our business strategy and growth objectives: The outlook for future infrastructure is that it will ЈЈ Ensuring the safety and health of our employees lag economic growth and therefore hamper and contractors – Respecting the fundamental development. Transport, telecommunications, rights of all who work with us is critical to our power and water are and will remain issues. licence to operate, and ensuring a safe and healthy Contingencies are required to minimise the impact. workforce has obvious implications for productivity From a sustainability perspective, critical focus and efficiency areas include maintaining cost-effective access ЈЈ Effective people – Attracting, retaining and to energy and water resources developing skilled employees is critical. As a mining ЈЈ Compliance with legislation and governance company we are facing increasing competition for requirements – Underpinning all that we do is the certain critical scarce skills; this is compounded by need to ensure compliance with government a relatively high employee turnover rate due to an legislation, as well as (increasingly) with some of ageing and ailing workforce, and inadequate the changing societal expectations reflected in education in our semi-skilled talent pool. Our ability various “soft law” and governance initiatives. to retain scarce talent and maintain productivity is There has been a significant increase recently in dependent on the quality of the relations between environmentally related requirements and we are management and employees. The 2012 strike anticipating further developments that may have action has reminded us how strategically important a material impact on our operations, including in this issue is; the lessons learnt from the strike will particular climate change mitigation. be informing our response going forward ЈЈ Maintaining access to strategic natural resource ЈЈ Promoting transformation and diversity – Not and managing our impacts – Our ability to sustain only is this an important legislative imperative, but we our business over the long term requires us to be believe strongly that a transformed and more diverse responsible in the way in which we extract our ore organisation is more resilient and better positioned to paying due regard to our natural environment and be competitive in the country and region mitigating our impacts on land, water and air. ЈЈ Retaining the support of our host communities – Our licence to operate is critically dependent These material sustainability issues have informed the on the level of support we enjoy from our local identification of our four strategic objectives. (See communities and their representatives, which in page 28.) turn is informed by how we manage our social and environmental impacts, and how responsive 39 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Our governance and management approach Our commitment to the underlying objectives of sustainable development, and to the promotion of sound safety, health and environmental performance, is reflected in the structures and support functions that we have in place at an executive and operational level. Promoting safety underground 40 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 41 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Our management approach Introduction Group policies and procedures on people Our commitment to the underlying objectives of management issues are established at corporate level sustainable development, and to the promotion of and apply at our operations. Our policies and sound safety, health and environmental performance, procedures are aimed at ensuring the continuous is reflected in the structures and support functions that development of our employees, in line with business we have in place at an executive and operational level. demands, while at the same time offering career progression opportunities, with particular emphasis on At the Board level, sustainability issues are addressed historically disadvantaged South Africans (HDSAs) through the Social, Ethics and Transformation within our South African operations. Each operation Committee (reconstituted in 2012), and the Health, has a Transformation Committee made up of Safety and Environmental (HSE) Committee (in place representatives drawn from management, employee since 1988). The Social, Ethics and Transformation unions, women and people with disabilities, as well as Committee is responsible for monitoring the Group’s a number of other stakeholder groupings that are activities relating to social and economic development, represented or engaged with to oversee and advance good corporate citizenship, the environment, health transformation at each operation. The operational and public safety, consumer relationships, and labour committees report to the Social, Ethics and and employment issues. The HSE Committee, chaired Transformation Committee. Our operations also have by an independent non-executive director, guides community future forums, at which issues of concern strategy, assesses the adequacy and appropriateness to local communities – including employment, of HSE policies, standards and procedures, and procurement, health, safety and the environment – are reviews Group-wide performance on a quarterly basis. discussed. Key issues arising from community forums are relayed to the Operational Committee and, Sustainability objectives form part of the key ultimately, to the EXCO and Board, when required. performance indicators against which the performance of Implats’ management and executives is measured Managing health, safety and and remunerated. Refer to the Integrated Report (IRP) environmental (HSE) issues page 112 for details on these KPIs and executive Group and site specific HSE policies, procedures and remuneration. The Sustainable Development Forum is standards have been set with the aim of ensuring that responsible for ensuring the implementation of all of our activities comply with legislative requirements strategies relating to sustainability, overseeing the and support our vision of zero harm. The responsibility overall performance of the Group’s non-financial for implementing safety, health and environmental indicators and lending support to the Board’s HSE policies and procedures lies with line management. All Committee, the Social, Ethics and Transformation operations submit quarterly performance reports to the Committee, and the Audit and Risk Committees Board appointed HSE Committee. Group and through the EXCO. The Forum consists of Group operational level health, safety and environmental executives from each discipline who provide input and specialists support line management in implementing review performance on a quarterly basis. the strategy and in monitoring and managing performance. A Group HSE executive is a member of People management the Implats Executive Committee. Given the importance of this function – both to the continued democratisation of South Africa and the The Group’s environmental team has close links with success of our business – people management is operational and project management and is involved in headed up by a dedicated Group executive reporting due diligence exercises undertaken in connection with to the CEO. His scope of work includes remuneration, acquisitions and the development of strategic human resource development, talent management, initiatives. Implementation of our policies is enhanced employment equity, stakeholder engagement and by our commitment to maintaining certification to sustainable development. ISO 14001-aligned environmental management systems. 42 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Regular compliance audits are conducted at our Managing our investments in sociooperations, both internally by the Group’s internal economic development auditors, and externally by ISO 14001 auditors. All of Our Sustainable Development Department based at the Group’s certified operations retained their our Rustenburg operations manages our sociocertifications in FY2012 and Marula Platinum initiated economic development initiatives in our South African its ISO 14001 certification process in June 2012 with a operations. A technical team is responsible for verification audit scheduled for September 2012. In implementing the projects, working together with the addition to the ISO 14001 certification, the Refineries Stakeholder Engagement Department who assist with are also signatories to Responsible Care and retained managing community relations. The identification of their certification after an audit in December 2011. community projects is an ongoing process based on a needs analysis, in consultation with stakeholder Responsible Care is the chemical industry’s global representatives from communities, local government voluntary initiative under which companies, through and employees. The Sustainable Development project national associations such as the Chemical and Allied steering committee is responsible for reviewing the Industries Association (CAIA), work together to proposed projects after due diligence. Once approved continuously improve their health, safety and by the project steering committee, the projects are environmental performance and communicate to their recommended to the Group Sustainable Development stakeholders about their products and processes. The Forum, a multi-disciplinary executive-level Responsible Care ethic helps our industry to operate management team that evaluates the merits of safely, profitably and with due care for future investing in each project. generations, and at the World Summit on Sustainable Development in 2002, was commended by UNEP for In Zimbabwe Sustainable Development initiatives are making a significant contribution to sustainable implemented and managed by the stakeholder development. engagement executive supported by technical personnel from the operations. Marula School project. 43 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Promoting good governance Introduction Our fraud policy prescribes that all reported allegations We are committed to promoting the highest standard will be investigated. A total of 58 allegations were of corporate governance, and to ensuring that our reported Group-wide, 32 of these were received by the practices are materially aligned with the expectations South African operation and the remaining 26 were of the King Code of Governance for South Africa 2009 reported in Zimbabwe. In accordance with our zero (King III). We strive to promote and ensure a strong tolerance policy statement, all the reported allegations ethical environment in which all employees are were investigated. expected to act with integrity, honesty and fairness. The Implats Board assumes overall responsibility for Twenty-eight allegations were founded and were dealt managing the system of internal control and for with in the following manner: ensuring that controls are effective in providing ЈЈ In the South African operation, 28 allegations were reasonable assurance that governance, risk founded resulting in 24 disciplinary hearings with management and controls are in place and that our the following outcomes: defined business objectives will be achieved. –– One hearing, regarding negligence, is still pending; Corruption and fraud –– In 20 hearings, regarding fraud, theft and gross Implats has a zero tolerance stance on fraud and negligence, the employees were found guilty and corruption throughout the Group. Our expectation were dismissed; therefore is that our employees, business partners, –– five hearings, irregularities (regarding financial contractors and associates conduct themselves misconduct) and gross negligence, resulted in with the highest level of integrity and in line with a final written warning; the Implats code of ethics and fraud statement. –– One hearing, regarding financial misconduct, A detailed code of ethics underpins the Group’s resulted in a not guilty; and fraud policy, in line with the organisational culture –– In one of the remaining cases, regarding which promotes a strong and healthy ethical fibre. negligence, no disciplinary hearing could be Both policies are fully compliant with the Prevention conducted, due to the employee resigning. and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act of 2004. ЈЈ In the South African operation, four criminal cases were opened, emanating from investigations and Executives and line management are responsible and the cases taken through the disciplinary processes accountable for the implementation of the fraud policy, carried out; the other cases did not necessitate code of ethics and resultant procedures. criminal action. Fraudulent irregular activity and theft reported Group-wide by internal audit in FY2012 Nature of allegation Pending Unfounded Founded Total Fraud 3 1 8 12 Corruption 6 0 1 7 Theft 0 3 7 10 Irregularities 2 6 5 13 Misappropriation not material in nature 0 7 3 10 Breach of code of ethics 0 2 4 6 Total 11 19 28 58 44 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Human rights We track implementation of human rights issues Respect for human rights is an integral part of the through monthly reports submitted to the EXCO. In Company’s Code of Ethics and values. In addition to addition, surveys are conducted twice a year by an striving for full compliance with applicable legislation in independent third party. Procedures are in place to the regions in which we operate, we have also ensure that channels are available to deal with unfair committed to the ten principles of the United Nations practices. Global Compact. These seek to give effect to the fundamental expectations of behaviour that are While contractor agreements do not specifically outlined in authoritative international instruments contain human rights clauses, contractors are including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. expected to abide by our Company policies, practices, standards and the constitution of the countries in All policies and procedures at an operational level are which they are operating. During the year under review, supported by formal agreements with employee union our policies were amended to include the obligation by representatives. These agreements cover the following contractors to respect and abide by our human rights human-rights related aspects: principles as stipulated in the UN Global Compact. ЈЈ Minimum employment age We have undertaken to improve our monitoring of ЈЈ Rights to freedom of association and collective contracted labour on human rights issues and are bargaining continuing to focus on this area. Through stakeholder ЈЈ Prevention of forced or compulsory labour engagement processes, material community issues ЈЈ Equality and fair treatment of all individuals free from pertaining to human rights are addressed in discrimination, irrespective of race, gender, creed or community forums. No claims of human rights place of origin abuse were made against the Company in the ЈЈ The need for security personnel to uphold these year under review. rights. Mimosa Wendza Shaft. 45 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Our performance and prospects The key imperatives of our corporate strategy are zero harm and to be the lowest cost producer, set against our vision of being the best platinum mining company in the world, delivering superior returns to our stakeholders. We recognise that effective people are central to the achievement of these goals and that delivery rests largely on the shoulders of the Implats leadership team. Zimplats process control 46 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 47 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Investing in effective people Introduction In support of the strategy, the Group’s position on The key imperatives of our corporate strategy are zero discipline and safety was reaffirmed during the year. In harm and to be the lowest cost producer, set against October, a safety summit was held for all Impala and our vision of being the best platinum mining company Marula mining HSE elected and appointed personnel in the world, delivering superior returns to our in which the need for increased enforcement, improved stakeholders. We recognise that effective people are training and continued communication were identified. central to the achievement of these goals and that A seven-point plan consisting of 28 specific initiatives delivery rests largely on the shoulders of the Implats aimed at re-enforcing the overall strategy was approved by EXCO and rolled out at Impala leadership team. Rustenburg and Marula Platinum. Our goal is to strengthen our organisational capacity While there have been successes with these initiatives, by providing a safe, healthy and sufficiently rewarding it is evident from our Group performance (reviewed work environment that enables us to attract and retain below) that we are still some way from meeting our the best possible talent, supported by an targets. An important contributing factor is that we organisational culture that values diversity and the have not been able to achieve the level of operational people we employ. Our strategy specifically aims to discipline and compliance required to meet the targets improve the socio-economic environment of our in all of the operational areas. workers, allowing us to build competitive advantage by affirming a people compact that is built on humanising The recent violent industrial action and the overall our business and capacitating our people. industrial relationship climate has had a negative impact on the implementation of our strategy, however, Our commitment to investing in effective people we recognise that this alone does not account for the involves the following focus areas: lack of progress and the unsatisfactory safety ЈЈ Promoting employee and contractor safety performance in certain areas. ЈЈ Enhancing employee wellness ЈЈ Fostering positive employee relations Our 2012 safety performance ЈЈ Attracting, retaining and developing talent It is with deep regret that we report that seven of our ЈЈ Promoting employment equity and diversity. employees and five contractors died in our underground operations during FY2012. Eleven Promoting employee and contractor fatalities occurred at Impala’s Rustenburg operation. safety Seven of these fatalities were caused by falls of Our management approach to safety ground, two were caused by truck and tramming Our safety strategy seeks to develop a culture of safety incidents, one was from a winch moving incident and within the organisation such that we can achieve our one involved explosives. At Marula Platinum one of our vision of zero harm. Implats believes that zero harm is employees drowned in shallow water whilst at work possible and to this end we continuously plan for an underground. We have undertaken investigations into improvement in performance to reach this goal. the root causes of these fatal incidents and have implemented remedial actions. Our strategy was developed following external (DuPont) and internal reviews of our safety systems The increase in the fatalities (12) and the fatality rate to and culture, as well as an analysis of the root causes 0,09 this year from last year’s best ever performance of fatal, reportable and lost time incidents. The strategy for Implats of 0,053 reflects our concern that there has seeks to change the safety culture through the Group been insufficient progress in changing our safety from the current measured culture of dependence to culture. independence. In our dependent culture, although ЈЈ The average fatality rate for the past five years has there is an acceptance of the need for safe practices, remained at 0.09 per million man hours worked these are only followed when effective supervision is ЈЈ The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) has remained almost constant at 5.0 across the Group, present and demands it. In an independent culture, other than at our processing and Zimplats every employee is committed to safety and safe operations who demonstrated improvements in working practices. their LTIFR 48 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 ЈЈ By contrast, the Total Injury Frequency Rate – a ЈЈ We conducted 62 492 breathalyser tests measure of all recorded injuries, including fatalities, throughout our operations, with 243 testing lost time injuries, restricted work cases and medical positive; disciplinary action has been taken treatment cases – has improved by 17%. against employees testing positive. In addition to tracking these important lagging During the strike and the industrial unrest that took indicators, we are continuing to focus on refining and place from January 2012 to May 2012, 86 employees monitoring a set of leading indicators of performance. were injured and four employees were killed as a result These include the number of stoppages, the results of of violence associated with the strike. These strike alcohol testing and road behaviour checks, and the related deaths and injuries are not included in the at number of safety meetings, induction programmes and work safety statistics. Our sincere condolences and safety representative training initiatives. We saw mixed deepest sympathies go out to all of the families progress during the year in terms of these indicators: affected by these tragedies. ЈЈ A total of 131 Section 55 instructions or stoppages were issued in FY2012, resulting in approximately During the period under review we have also 288 days of lost production at our Rustenburg conducted a self-assessment of previous mining and operations and 4 days at Marula (compared with industry disasters. These included the 1986 Kinross 158 and 17 days respectively in FY2011) and none disaster, the 1995 Vaal Reefs disaster, previous dam at Zimplats; we have engaged actively with the disasters at Merriespruit in 1994 and at Bafokeng authorities on these instructions (see box on Platinum 4 shaft in 1974, second means of egress A tri-partite approach to safety) incidents and the 2007/2008 Eskom power crisis. ЈЈ We achieved 98% compliance in our road The review of these disasters, taking into account the behaviour testing, up from 35% compliance causes and eventual impacts, have helped further two years ago inform our risk mitigation processes. Zimplats operations. 49 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Investing in effective people continued In memoriam The following employees died during the course of work during FY2012. We extend our sincere condolences to their families, friends and colleagues. Our employees Contractor employees ЈЈ Mr Phakani Joseph Tshabangu died in a fall of ЈЈ Mr Rui Wamba Tila died in a fall of ground ground accident on 16 August 2011 at Impala accident on 25 June 2011 at Impala Rustenburg’s 10 Shaft Rustenburg’s 5 Shaft ЈЈ Mr Christian Sinikiwe Dweba died in an accident ЈЈ Mr Monyamane Molotha died in a fall of ground dealing with explosives, on 26 September 2011 accident on 30 August 2011 at Impala at Impala Rustenburg’s 9 Shaft Rustenburg’s 20 Shaft ЈЈ Mr Samuel Rapelang Montshioa died in a fall ЈЈ Mr Sizakela Xabela died in an accident involving of ground accident on 18 November at Impala a falling winch on 16 November 2011 at Impala Rustenburg’s 7 Shaft Rustenburg’s 4 Shaft ЈЈ Mr Thobekile Zendane died in a fall of ground ЈЈ Mr Matona Koenyama died in an incident incident on 18 November 2011 at Impala involving a locomotive on 9 March 2012 at Rustenburg’s 7 Shaft Impala Rustenburg’s 2 Shaft ЈЈ Mr Malefetsane Michael Likotsi died from ЈЈ Mr Salomao Chunguane died in a fall of ground drowning in shallow water on 5 March 2012 accident on 7 June 2012 at Impala Rustenburg’s at Implats’ Marula Mine 17 Shaft ЈЈ Mr Dumisani Neewell Choqha died in a fall of ground accident on 16 March 2012 at Impala Strike deaths Rustenburg’s 14 Shaft We extend our condolences also to the families of the following exmployees who were killed as a ЈЈ Mr Matholandile Qhakaza died in an accident result of the strike action: during an underground ore tramming process on 16 April 2012 at Impala Rustenburg’s 4 Shaft ЈЈ Mr Mziwakhe Nogemone, an equipping helper at 7A Shaft ЈЈ Mr Roberto Andre Chume, a rigger helper at 20 Shaft ЈЈ Mr Bandile Deyi, a scraper winch operator at 7a Shaft ЈЈ Mr Moeletsi Johan Sehlahla, a rock drill operator at 1 Shaft 50 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Fatal injury frequency rate (FIFR) Per million hours worked 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Impala Rustenburg 0.12 0.06 0.17 0.11 0.06 Impala Springs 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Marula 0.13 0.00 0.00 0.13 0.37 Mimosa 0.00 0.10 0.00 0.00 0.19 Zimplats 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.13 Group 0.09 0.05 0.12 0.08 0.10 FIFR LTIFR TIFR (per million (per million (per million hours worked) hours worked) hours worked) 0.087 4.96 11.19 0.095 0.082 0.122 0.053 0.087 5 2.92 2.92 4.61 4.94 4.96 16.97 13.95 15.21 13.47 11.19 0.15 20 4 0.12 15 0.09 3 10 0.06 2 1 5 0.03 0.00 0 0 FYO8 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FYO8 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FYO8 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 2011: 0.053 2011: 4.94 2011: 13.47 A deterioration of 80% A deterioration of 0.4% An improvement of 17% 51 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Investing in effective people continued A tri-partite approach to safety Achieving a sustained improvement in safety performance throughout our operations, and the mining sector as a whole, will require a collaborative effort involving industry, government and labour unions. Government has placed a very high priority on improving safety performance on South African mines. At a national level the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) is using Section 54 stoppage instructions frequently and with a wide scope. We fully support the government’s intent and completely agree that work should be stopped when a condition or behaviour has been identified that poses a direct danger to employees’ safety. This is the same instruction that we have applied internally, and we welcome any assistance from the government in identifying and effectively addressing the root cause of any fatality. We are concerned, however, that some of these Section 54 stoppages are being extended beyond the source of the risk or the scope of the Act and that as a result they are having unforeseen negative consequences, including in some instances of reduced safety performance. We are committed to developing and maintaining a positive and professional relationship with the DMR with the aim of meeting our shared objective of identifying the most appropriate and effective solutions to improving safety. Where we believe that inspectors have been in breach of the Act, or have issued instructions that we believe would result in inappropriate outcomes, we have been willing to challenge these instructions with the authorities with the aim of finding the most appropriate outcome. While these challenges may initially have caused concern with the authorities, we believe that ultimately this is contributing to a more professional relationship and to outcomes that are more jointly beneficial. In addition to engaging with government on safety issues we work in close association with employees’ unions. Our operations-based safety and health committees play a critical role in the management of safety and health. In FY2012, there were a total of 41 full-time union-elected safety stewards and 4 507 part-time safety representatives across the Group. In addition, we have 66 trained safety officers appointed to ensure on-the-ground supervision. We have safety and health agreements at all our operations, dealing with standards and procedures, discipline, accident investigations and safety and health planning, ensuring that all employees can and do play a role in safety and health management. Zimplats Ngezi mine. 52 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 In 2003, the South African mining industry, government providing technical and managerial training for and unions agreed to meet certain sector-wide safety miners and mine overseers and occupational health milestones by 2013. These ЈЈ Communication: Implats-branded safety included: communication messages will be extended into our ЈЈ The platinum sector achieving constant immediate communities using external agencies improvement in safety performance to at least ЈЈ Safety reward systems: Recognising that equalling an international benchmark of an FIFR of international best safety practice does not 0.03 per million man hours recommend paying for the achievement of lag ЈЈ After December 2013, no new cases of silicosis among previously unexposed individuals indicators alone, we will be reviewing our incentive ЈЈ After December 2008, no deterioration in hearing schemes for safety performance and applying greater than 10% amongst occupationally exposed different schemes for different operations in the individuals Group. Any recommended changes will be made ЈЈ By December 2013, the silencing of all underground through the HSE and Remuneration committees equipment to below 110 dB. ЈЈ Risk management review: We intend to develop a fully integrated health, safety and risk In terms of FIFR, while Implats had an industry-leading management plan to increase risk awareness performance in 2011 (see graph) given the recent and mitigation at all levels in the organisation; fatalities, there is concern that Implats and the the introduction of major hazard standards will platinum industry as a whole is in danger of not be assessed and online hazard identification and achieving this milestone in 2013, nor potentially some of the other agreed milestones. This is a key concern rectification systems will be implemented across to us and highlights the urgent need for a continued the Group further focus on safety issues, as part of a collaborative ЈЈ Targets: Each operation is expected to achieve at approach involving business, government and labour; least a 20% improvement in their LTIFR and TIFR while all sharing the end-objective of improved safety, performance. In addition we will strive to achieve: where necessary we must not shy away from robust 100% compliance with road behaviour; 100% discussion on the best means of meeting that compliance with Platinum Rules or 100% objective. disciplinary action for non-compliance ЈЈ The implementation of a new cultural transformation Platinum industry fatality rate towards the framework MHSC’s 2013 milestones ЈЈ The training and accreditation of 3 200 safety 0,30 representatives by 2014 0,25 ЈЈ Installing safety nets in addition to roof bolts in both 0,20 Merensky and UG2 0,15 ЈЈ Installing proximity warning devices on trackless 0,10 mobile mining equipment. 0,05 0,00 Implats Pt Industry Milestones Enhancing employee wellness Our management approach to health The process of mining, which is typically undertaken Our safety focus for 2013 and beyond in extreme heat conditions, requires strong physical We have prioritised the following focus areas for safety fitness and mental alertness, both of which are in the year ahead: compromised by poor employee health. Employee ЈЈ Leadership: We will strive to ensure that all illness impacts the broader social wellbeing of the operations have behaviour-based safety workforce and their extended families and programmes in place, that the DuPont STOP communities, and has severe consequences across a process is fully implemented at Rustenburg and range of interrelated issues including staffing practices, Marula, and that all D and E levels are conducting absenteeism, safety, efficiencies and skills retention. at least two STOP interactions per month Promoting the health and wellbeing of our employees, ЈЈ Supervision: In the belief that inadequate and contributing to the broader health of their family supervision remains a major safety issue in our members and communities, is critical to Implats’ ability South African mining operations, we will focus on to create value. 53 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Investing in effective people continued In terms of occupational health, our strategy infrastructure for the unit and in return gain NIHL is to ensure that no ill health is caused to access to neonatal and adult ICU beds. employees as a result of their work activity 63 or through exposure in their workplace. We Nutrition forms an important element of our 31 44 107 57 63 strive to ensure that all occupational health health strategy. To ensure nutritional quality, 110 risks are identified, that mitigation controls we use the advice of dieticians in the choice 100 are in place and that any ill health is of all food provided in Company 90 80 detected and treated early and efficiently. accommodation. Subsidised nutritional 70 60 Any possible resulting disability is referred packs are made available to all 50 to independent third parties for assessment underground employees at our Rustenburg 40 30 and possible compensation. operations. A trial to establish effective 20 methods of distribution, control and formal 10 0 Recognising that there is an overlap mid-shift feeding has not adequately FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 between occupational and nonaddressed the risk of abuse in the event of FYO8 2011: 57 occupational health stressors, our strategy a 100% subsidy. We are conducting further A decline of 11% on non-occupational health is to ensure that work in this area. all employees have access to affordable healthcare. The delivery and funding Our 2012 health performance arrangements depend on local facilities and The Human Immune Deficiency Virus (HIV) TB conditions, and differ between our and infection with pulmonary tuberculosis operations in South Africa and Zimbabwe. (TB) are the primary health risks facing our 389 Impala Medical Plan (IMP) is a registered employees, both of which are of epidemic 328 487 399 350 389 medical scheme that was formed to provide proportions in southern Africa. The major 500 private care to employees and their occupational health risk associated with our dependants through Company owned and activities is noise induced hearing loss 400 operated facilities at Rustenburg, Marula (NIHL). Key health trends and performance 300 and Refineries. In addition, we provided a during FY2012 are summarised below; a 200 menu of external schemes to employees more detailed breakdown of our health who preferred alternative private performance at an operational level is 100 arrangements. The IMP currently has a provided in the table on page 91. 0 membership of over 19 000 and reserves ЈЈ General health indicators: During the FYO8 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 in excess of the requirements. course of the year we lost the equivalent 2011: 350 of 4.3% of man shifts each day through A decline of 11% Non-occupational health has received illness at our mining operations; while increased focus in South Africa mainly due this is a decrease on 2011 levels (4.5%), to the government’s commitment to it represents a worrying increase on VCT National Health Insurance (NHI). This will 2008 levels (3.4%) impact our non-occupational health ЈЈ Noise induced hearing loss (NIHL): strategy, and we are monitoring In FY2012, 63 cases of NIHL 9 820 developments closely. NHI will afford an were submitted for assessment for opportunity to provide access to care for compensation, as compared with 57 in 3 609 6 101 6 837 14 072 9 820 families in more remote areas and to FY2011; this is a rate of 101 per 15 000 contain certain increases in private 100 000 employees. Although there has healthcare expenditure. Although none of been no significant increase in 10 000 our operations currently fall within the first compensable NIHL (hearing loss above districts chosen to pilot NHI, indications are 10% as a result of occupational 5 000 that our Rustenburg operations will be exposure), NIHL remains a major included in the next district lists due in occupational health risk. While we have 0 2013. We have entered into a made very good progress in the silencing FYO8 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with of individual machines to below 110dB, 2011: 14 072 the Department of Health for a neonatal ICU total prevention of hearing loss still A decline of 30% unit in the Rustenburg region (Bojanala), requires exposed individuals to wear whereby Impala will provide the hearing protection devices 54 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 ЈЈ Pulmonary tuberculosis (TB): away due to HIV-related illness during TB remains a significant health risk for the year (compared with 131 in FY2011), ART our employees, and is exacerbated by while an additional 699 patients applied the high level of HIV/AIDS. 75% of newly for medical incapacity and left the Group 3 566 diagnosed TB patients in FY2012 are ЈЈ Pneumoconiosis: 35 new cases of 943 1 006 1 905 2 773 3 566 HIV-positive. During the year, 389 new silicosis were diagnosed at our 4 000 cases of pulmonary TB were detected Rustenburg operations; all of these 3 500 (FY2011: 350), equating to a rate of cases have proven historic gold mine 3 000 981 per 100 000 employees. exposure. One new case of asbestosis 2 500 ЈЈ HIV/AIDS: During the year, we was also diagnosed in the Group; this 2 000 1 500 undertook 9 820 HIV tests on employees case also has previous asbestos mine 1 000 (FY2011: 14 072). Employees who exposure. All cases have been submitted 500 tested negative were counselled to for assessment and compensation to the 0 remain so, while those who tested Department of Health’s Medical Bureau FY09 FY10 FY11 FYO8 FY12 positive were encouraged to join our of Occupational Diseases 2011: 2 773 wellness programme. Over the year a ЈЈ Malaria: In FY2012 35 cases of malaria An improvement of 29% total of 5 179 employees participated in were diagnosed at Impala Rustenburg, the wellness programme (FY2011: all of which were as a result of travel to 5 121), of whom 3 566 (FY2011: 2 773) Mozambique. These cases were all Deaths in service received antiretroviral therapy (ART). successfully treated at Impala’s 1 220 of those on ART joined the ART Rustenburg hospital. Nine new cases programme during the year. The number were diagnosed at Zimplats, relating to 112 of employees receiving ART through employees who had travelled to malaria 105 122 134 131 112 external medical aids or government areas. It appears that the local malaria 150 health facilities is not known and so risk at Ngezi Mine has been controlled these figures may be underestimated. by the education and spraying 100 Regrettably 112 employees passed programme. 50 0 FYO8 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 2011: 131 An improvement of 15% Medical incapacity 699 147 116 281 388 699 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 FYO8 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 2011: 388 A deterioration of 80% Impala Rustenburg Hospital. 55 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Investing in effective people continued Our health focus for 2013 and beyond distribution of subsidised nutritional packs to We have prioritised the following key focus areas for underground employees health in the year ahead: ЈЈ Medical aid and non-occupational medical care: ЈЈ Noise induced hearing loss (NIHL): We will The Impala Medical Plan currently has a continue to focus on the prevention of any membership of over 19 000; our aim for next year is occupation related NIHL. Although good progress to increase membership by a further 5% while has been made and we are in keeping with the maintaining costs Industry noise milestones, the number of employees ЈЈ National Health Insurance: Ensuring that our who are showing early signs of NIHL appears to be health strategy is fully aligned with the NHI will be a increasing. The silencing of underground machines key focus for FY2013. In accordance with our MoU will be completed in 2013 and all employees who with the Department of Health, this year we will are exposed to noise will be required to wear their build and commission an intensive care unit in the approved hearing PPE at all times in the operations. Rustenburg area, and we intend to enter into a To date the Group has spent approximately further MoU regarding the establishment of primary R34 million on hearing devices and R18 million on care clinics in and around the lease areas. silencing of equipment and machinery since inception in 2003. Employees will continue to have annual audiometric screening examinations in order Our management approach to employee to detect deterioration of hearing early and before relations permanent NIHL develops. Any employee who The Group is committed to providing an enabling shows signs of early hearing loss of between 5% and environment that fosters open, honest and effective 10% will undergo a formal evaluation and safety relations between management, employees and investigation. Employees showing an early hearing elected union representatives. Our labour relations loss shift of between 2.5% and 5% will undergo policy deals with freedom of association, recognition of formal counselling on the risks of noise, the trade unions, discrimination, and the constitutional importance of wearing PPE and the implications of rights of individuals and employees. We monitor labour NIHL relations in our operations, with monthly labour ЈЈ Diesel particulate matter (DPM): DPM is a relations reports submitted from the operations to the by-product of diesel combustion. The monitoring of EXCO. An independent third party conducts biannual personal exposures to DPMs will continue during surveys of labour relations. Currently approximately BP2013. The risk of exposure to DPMs will be 56% of employees in South Africa are covered by mitigated by adequate ventilation, low sulphur collective bargaining agreements with labour unions diesel replacement and exhaust filters in subject to the completion of a verification process. underground diesel combustion engines Issues addressed within these agreements include ЈЈ Pulmonary tuberculosis (TB): We will strive to salaries and salary reviews, the participation of unions ensure that there is no further increase in our in decision-making at different forums, and current incident rate (which is currently 981 per consultation and notice periods regarding any 100 000 employees), and that we at least maintain significant organisational changes. The minimum our in-house cure rate of above 90% notice period for any organisational change or activity ЈЈ HIV/AIDS: We will strive to ensure a further uptake at Implats’ operations is 30 days. of at least 10% of known HIV-infected employees onto our wellness and ART programmes, as well as Following the unforeseen strike action that occurred carefully monitoring and driving compliance of the this year, we have recognised the need to significantly existing 3 566 patients on ART treatment revise our strategic approach to employee relations. ЈЈ Employee wellness: Our wellness programme From our analysis of the strike (see 59), it is clear that extends care and guidance to approximately we had over-invested in the institution of the union to 5 000 employees, we anticipate that the identify and resolve people-related problems, both programme will continue to grow by 10% per year. within the industry generally, as well as more We will be placing stronger emphasis on monitoring specifically at Impala. Historically our line managers and promoting employee fitness throughout the were delegated principally with overseeing the Group, and we will undertake further work during production and safety processes, with the union and the year to identify the most effective means for the human resources overseeing people issues. 56 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Fostering positive employee relations “The capacity of our managers and frontline supervisors to effectively deal with people issues and re-capture the hearts and minds of our workforce is perhaps our most pressing business challenge.” Johan Theron Recognising the weaknesses of this approach, our prominence. In addition, quarterly engagement current strategy on employee relations focuses firstly sessions between senior managers and the combined on the short-term need to normalise the operating workers’ committees are taking place. The main environment as quickly as possible, and secondly on objective of these sessions is to engage on matters of the longer-term goal of recapturing the hearts and mutual interest so as to build trust and respect minds of our employees. Our aim is to create a new employee engagement model driven by line Our 2012 performance on employee management, and to establish an industrial relations relations dispensation in which all stakeholders commit to a Our performance this year on almost all measures has common set of values that extend the current been dominated by the violent labour unrest that took boundaries of what constitutes the ‘common interest’. place at Impala Rustenburg and Marula during the third quarter of FY2012. The illegal six-week strike by Zimplats observes the right of employees to fair labour more than 17 000 workers had a significant impact not standards as enshrined in the country’s Labour only on Implats, but also on our neighbouring Relations Act. The right to union membership is communities and the country as a whole. The strike observed and consequently 52% of the Company’s resulted in 110 655 man-days lost and R2.8 billion in employees that are covered by the Collective lost production, undermined our efforts to enhance Bargaining Agreement for the Mining Industry are employee safety and skills development, and members of the trade union. At plant level, workers’ prompted the collapse of our existing collective committees are in place to facilitate employee bargaining structures. It caused significant disruption representation. Monthly site Works Council meetings within our local communities, with a small minority of take place between management and the workers’ strikers engaging in unacceptable levels of intimidation committee. Matters of industrial relations are reported and violence that resulted in four deaths and on monthly at the PeopleCo and OpCo meetings and 69 injuries. In addition, it resulted in lost government details are fed into the monthly EXCO meeting. revenue, reduced international investor confidence, and potentially will have profound implications for A brief strike action took place at Zimplats in January industrial relations throughout the country more 2012. The strike action lasted 2.5 shifts and the broadly. estimated net loss caused by the strike was about $840 000 and 684 man-days lost. The strike action In Zimbabwe apart from the brief work stoppage at was caused by a dispute relating to an interpretation of Zimplats operations (and events leading up to it) in the industry Collective Bargaining Agreement provision January 2012, the industrial relations climate was relating to the payment of utility bills for Company generally sound. Currently, the main area of concern is houses. the anxiety among staff caused by the noise around the government’s indigenisation programme. A post-strike assessment resulted in a new strategy to Employees at the Zimplats operations are concerned better engage the employees and their representatives. about job security as well as the likely impact of Communication structures have been strengthened indigenisation on growth plans. and the works’ councils have also been given 57 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Investing in effective people continued Our focus on fostering positive employee ЈЈ An important part of our strategy is to strengthen relations for 2013 and beyond our employee interaction; it is imperative that we do In seeking to develop a revised approach to industrial not separate industrial relations (which focuses on and employee relations, we will be focusing our efforts engagement with employee representatives through over the short and medium term on implementing the a collective or union) from employee relations (which following building blocks: deals with the day-to-day engagements with ЈЈ We will implement an inclusive and credible employees directly through line managers). While externally facilitated process aimed at maximising we need to retain industrial relations expertise and the quality of the outcomes and the buy-in of all functionality, we believe that we can’t have a stakeholders. This new approach will be driven separate team or function of industrial relations “fire within a rights-based framework, with the focus on fighters”; all our efforts at every level in the creating opportunities for participation that should organisation should be to resolve people issues at exclude winner-take-all options and that sets lower the lowest possible level as quickly as possible thresholds to gain recognition and negotiating rights ЈЈ A new approach to collective bargaining will be ЈЈ We will be investigating new means of ensuring crafted to take account of a multi-union appropriate representation for all employees, environment. It is recognised that processes are including considering how non-unionised underway within the Chamber of Mines to centralise employees are appropriately catered for and bargaining. Nevertheless, management believes represented that the following principles should be considered to ЈЈ The conversation will be extended to frontline guide thinking about collective bargaining for as managers, who are at the forefront of the process long as it is conducted at Company level: lower of business and people optimisation. The process thresholds should be in place to gain recognition will examine whether stakeholders, including rights table, thus allowing more inclusive managers, have the competencies necessary to participation in collective bargaining; and the implement the new approach; and put initiatives in principle of a 50% +1 threshold for collective place to develop those skills. We recognise the bargaining rights may prevail but allow for unions to importance of providing training in effective people join together in reaching that threshold leadership skills, communication skills and dialogue ЈЈ For the Zimbabwean operation focus will be on with problem solving as the major way to resolve minimising external interference by striving to disputes and differences resolve industrial relations issues swiftly in-house, ЈЈ The strategy will include mechanisms through which strengthening internal communication structures the Company can communicate more directly with enhancing the effectiveness of the Company’s employees and not rely solely on union works councils and building trust at all levels of the communication channels. Whilst we believe that we organisation. have strong structured communication channels in place, direct face-to-face communication with employees needs to be strengthened as a key component of the new way and our visible felt leadership intervention 58 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 FOCUS TOPIC: The strike action in South African operations The unforeseen labour unrest that disrupted our Impala operation during the third quarter of FY2012 had a profound impact not only on our operations but also on our surrounding communities and potentially also on the future nature of labour relations throughout South Africa. An important effect of the strike was to forcefully bring home to the Company the strategic importance of maintaining effective communications between management and employees. Given the issues identified during the strike we are determined to develop a sustainable industrial/employee relations strategy that will create the conditions for robust and meaningful employee engagement and constructive engagement with unions in a multi-union environment. The capacity of our managers and frontline supervisors to deal effectively with people issues and to re-capture the hearts and minds of our workforce is perhaps our most pressing business challenge and will be energetically tackled through training and dialogue. Where previously the Human Resources function operated through written communication, the emphasis going forward will be on oral discussion. The stakeholder forums will be overhauled so that they become meaningful vehicles for two-way communication. In doing so, we will give these forums greater capacity and their members increased authority. The road to meaningful employer-employee dialogue will be a long and difficult one but we are confident of creating a new environment that is sensitive towards our people’s concerns. We are working hard to create an interim, mutuallyagreed structure that is truly inclusive. Events in Rustenburg this year clearly indicated a failure by operational and Group management to engage with our employees as well as a significant failure of our risk-management protocols and systems. The lessons of this failure must be turned into successes, to the benefit of all stakeholders. Attracting, retaining and developing With this in mind, we have commenced the following talent strategic initiatives: Our management approach to people ЈЈ Remuneration: A key part of our talent strategy is management to offer a fair remuneration consisting of a base Attracting and retaining talent is an increasingly salary, employment benefits and performance significant challenge, not only for Implats but also for incentives that incentivise efficiencies without the mining industry as a whole, both locally and compromising safety. Our remuneration is globally. There are various factors that are contributing benchmarked against the 50th percentile of the to this challenge for us including: a depleted supply of market for the broad talent pool, with the 75th skilled and semi-skilled mining skills; poor education percentile used for critical jobs, talented individuals, levels in our semi-skilled talent pool; increased important employment equity candidates and/or employee turnover as a result of an ageing workforce; exceptional performers. The introduction of and growing competition for skilled resources. performance incentives through variable pay remains a continuing source of debate between the To address these challenges our strategy aims to: Group and the unions. Despite many attempts at ЈЈ Secure the best available talent in the market reaching agreement on this issue it remains through appropriate selection and competitive unresolved and places additional pressure on our remuneration fixed-pay elements and cost base, and potentially ЈЈ Develop internal talent through talent identification, impacts our ability to meet future production career progression and skills development initiatives targets. We are continuing to engage the unions as ЈЈ Retain critical mining skills and minimise avoidable we seek to develop an acceptable, effective and turnover with a compelling employee value efficient remuneration system. At our Zimbabwean proposition operations the philosophy is to pay rewards that fall ЈЈ Reward good performers though our performance into the upper quartile of the Zimbabwean market management programme. rate and to reference this against the southern African benchmark. This has placed these 59 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Investing in effective people continued operations in a position where they are able to ЈЈ Skills turnover: Total workforce turnover for attract good talent. The last three years has seen an FY2012 was 9.8%, up from 8.5% in 2011. The increase in mining activities within the country, turnover this year was negatively impacted by the particularly within the diamond mining industry, six-week strike at Rustenburg, as well as by the consequently placing a greater demand for critical restructuring at Rustenburg and Marula. The skills and talent. This has not had a significant turnover of our miners was 20% for the year, impact on our operations changing from 38% in the six months before the ЈЈ Skills development: An analysis of current skills salary increase to 10% after the increase. This acquisition practices reveals that approximately excluded employees who were discharged and 95% of critical skills (particularly amongst rock drill re-employed during the strike action. Turnover of operators) are drawn from the external labour rock drill operators was 12%, up from 7.5% last market, while only 5% are acquired from within the year, with many of the resignations occurring during organisation. This phenomenon is exacerbated by the six-week strike. At the Zimplats operations the low literacy levels at the lower levels, which turnover remained stable at 4.2% (FY2011: 4.4%) creates a bottleneck for potential career ЈЈ Skills development: During the year we advancement. The main objective is to reverse the implemented various initiatives aimed at promoting current practice and move towards developing skills skills development. internally such that 70% of critical/technical skills –– We have recently introduced a new training are obtained from within the organisation and programme, in partnership with TEBA and the improve the literacy levels of the workforce Royal Bafokeng Nation, to train young people ЈЈ Succession plans: We have annually reviewed with a grade 12 qualification as winch operators succession plans in place for all our critical and rock drill operators. We intend to register positions. Succession candidates are placed in this programme with the Government Jobs talent pools and assessed against internal and Fund, with the goal of training more than external talent benchmarks; these assessments are 1 000 people per year (or approximately 60% used to compile individual development plans of our indicated requirement) ЈЈ Leadership development: Our Leadership –– We have recently established a new mining Development Programme, in partnership with the training facility at the old 9 Shaft hostel complex Gordon Institute of Business Science (GIBS), will to support mining supervisors and managers continue to provide targeted leadership with supplementary technical training and interventions and develop leadership capacity instruction. We hope to grow this into one of the throughout the Group. This programme is top Mining Academies in the industry, and to supplemented with targeted executive management support all our mining initiatives and training development initiatives from Harvard University. interventions at this facility The programme will be further leveraged to include –– Group skills development expenditure for our in-house supervisory programmes at our new South African operations was R354 million, mining training facility. We will also continue with a 0.8% decline year-on-year (FY2011: people management training and mentoring from R357 million). Of the approximately 3% Colin Hall, aimed specifically at improving the (R11 million) went towards ABET training. people leadership capacity of our line managers We have maintained our skills development and supervisors. expenditure at approximately 6% of payroll. Approximately 90% of the skills development Our 2012 performance on people expenditure is compliance training, mostly as management a consequence of safety incidences and Our performance on almost all employee-related subsequent retraining. To meet the required issues this year was dominated by the impact of the critical skills for the business in the short to strike. A summary of our performance on key issues medium term, we will be investing an additional over the year is presented below; additional detail at 1% of payroll towards skills development. For the an operational level over the past five years is presented in the performance table on page 90. 60 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Zimplats operations $2.76 million was programmes took place during the year and spent on skills development, up 25% 160 managerial and supervisory employees from the previous year. participated in the programme –– Over the year we provided an average ЈЈ Promoting local employment: Despite of 113 hours of training per employee efforts to hire more local people, migrant for all our employees, while our workers continue to play an important role contractors received an average of in the industry, particularly for rock drill 35 hours each of training at our operators and winch operators, who come South African operations principally from the Eastern Cape, Northern –– During FY2012, our South African Cape and Lesotho. These two job operations had approximately categories constitute more than 50% of 85 full-time bursary holders at our workforce. university studying primarily in the engineering and mining-related Our focus on people management for disciplines, while we had eight 2013 and beyond full-time bursaries from our Zimbabwe Retention of key talent (mine overseers, shift (Zimplats) operations. In addition, a supervisors, miners, engineers, foremen and total of 548 individuals benefited from artisans) remains vital to maintain continuity our apprenticeship and learnership and improve safety and productivity. To this programmes at the South African end, we will review all aspects of our selection, operations and 73 at Zimplats retention and reward processes to ensure we ЈЈ Adult basic education and training improve our turnover rate by 15% every year (ABET): The level of basic literacy to achieve the targeted rate of below 7.5%. (ABET3) at our mining operations has ЈЈ Resourcing our operations: Effective improved significantly over the past five planning and management of employees years, up from 30% in FY2008 to 74.3% will be critical to our ability to sustain and in FY2012, as a result of both the ABET grow the business. As we open new and programmes that we have in place, as deeper shafts, while closing down older well as our recruitment drive focusing on shafts with lower extraction rates, staffing hiring employees who have completed our Impala operations will be one of our high school education. Despite our most pressing resource challenges. Taking Employee turnover (%) efforts to improve education, high school account of our new shaft requirements, our equivalency still remains low for our annual staff turnover rate, and the fact that we have an ageing workforce, it is mining discipline. In FY2012, 907 anticipated that approximately 3 000 new 10 employees were enrolled for ABET, in hires will be required every year over at least both full-time and part-time classes. the next five years. Significantly, we will also On average 56% of those who wrote 8 need to increase our stopping teams at exams successfully completed their Rustenburg from approximately 600 teams programmes, while 53% dropped out or in FY2013 to 700 teams in FY2017. 6 were unsuccessful in their examinations Increasing this talent pool, while ensuring ЈЈ Leadership development: 37 members that safety performance and labour of our management team at the South efficiencies are not compromised, highlights 4 African operations participated in our the importance of holding on to our existing FYO8 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 senior management and executive talent while bringing in young, healthy and development programmes, presented by well-educated new employees GIBS; 11% of those who participated in ЈЈ Skills development: We will further the programme were women and 57% develop the new mining training facility were HDSAs. At our Zimplats operation, at the old No 9 Shaft Hostel with the six core leadership development assistance of the Mining Best Practices 61 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Investing in effective people continued Department, with the aim of not only developing our Promoting employment equity and own future mining talent, but also providing a critical diversity resource for the broader industry. We plan also to Our management approach to employment commission the new integrated engineering training equity facility in Rustenburg in FY2013, and the enhanced In seeking to meet and go beyond the expectations of capacity will be utilised to support our engineering the revised Mining Charter, our employment equity talent development initiatives. We plan to grow this strategy focuses on the following two strategic areas: into one of the top institutions in the country, and integrating transformation and employment equity with third-party assistance to train artisans beyond considerations within our talent management and our immediate needs people processes; and accelerating the recruitment, ЈЈ Talent management: Various initiatives are planned development and promotion of designated groups into for FY2013: we will review our total reward composition and relative market position for lower occupational levels where they are under-represented. level employees (A, B and C band) as part of a To assist in driving this strategy throughout the Group, comprehensive strategic analysis for consideration during the year we put in place a common framework by the Board; we will communicate and implement for the Group Transformation Committee and Implats’ the revised Share Based Incentive Scheme; and will Operational Employment Equity structures. At Zimplats review the nature of the Executive Bonus Scheme there is commitment to create gender equity at all ЈЈ Career progression: We will review all aspects of levels of the organisation and in particular at our talent identification, succession and talent managerial level. While no legislation is in place to development processes to ensure we achieve the enforce gender equity, the operation aligns itself to the targeted rate of above 60% internal talent overall Group policy on diversity management. acquisition ЈЈ Promoting local employment: An important part Our 2012 performance on employment of our people strategy over the next ten years will equity be to seek to bring more unemployed young people Over the last five years we have made valuable from the neighbouring communities surrounding our progress in promoting diversity across most levels of South African operations into the industry, providing management throughout the Group. Our biggest them with the necessary training and support. In challenge, and one that is shared throughout the Zimbabwe, given the context of the indigenisation industry, is in ensuring greater diversity at the EXCO policy, and with new mining operations competing level. Our performance in this area is attributable in for the same depleted skills base, (particularly in part to the departure of some of our HDSA members gold and diamond mining), there will be a in the last few years. heightened focus on skills retention. Implats continues to focus on increasing women representation in management and in FY2012 had 141 in this category (18% representation). 62 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 HDSA in management (South Africa) 2012 2011 Mining Total Total Charter number of HDSA number of HDSA target HDSA employees/ employees/ HDSA employees/ employees/ 2012 % members members % members members Board 25 58 12 7 62 13 8 EXCO 25 20 10 2 20 10 2 Senior management 25 39 108 42 36 115 41 Middle management 35 43 202 86 41 213 87 Junior management 40 53 433 231 55 465 255 Total management 48 763 368 48 816 393 * Excluding non-executive directors. HDSA in management is 48% (361 employees). **One executive director is representative on both EXCO and Board. The table below summarises the Historically Disadvantaged South Africans (HDSA) performance per level of Implats against the performance of Anglo Platinum and Lonmin as per the 2011 Employment Equity Reports submitted to the National Department of Labour. Employment equity benchmark Implats (SA) Lonmin Anglo Platinum In HDSA In HDSA In HDSA Occupational level service % service % service % Top management 4 25 15 20 9 33 Senior management 111 36 183 34 311 38 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 678 49 409 53 2 071 53 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 5 049 71 3 502 64 6 706 69 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making/unskilled 30 207 86 23 650 80 39 891 87 Total permanent 36 049 83 27 759 78 48 988 82 From the above it is clear that we are well positioned relative to our competitors. It is important to note the differentiation of the “In-Service” per level due to the different structures within the respective companies. 63 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Investing in effective people continued Notwithstanding the fact that the new Mining Charter does not address the role of women and their representation within mining, we have continued to encourage female representation at all levels of the organisation. The Rustenburg Transformation Steercom has initiated a Woman in Mining project aimed at raising awareness amongst women of the career-progression opportunities available to them. We have made useful progress in employing women in core positions throughout the Group, and we are well positioned relative to our competitors at management level, with the exception of the skilled level (see table below). The table below summarises the Women in Mining performance per level of Implats against the performance of Anglo Platinum and Lonmin as per the 2011 Employment Equity Reports submitted to the National Department of Labour. Women in mining benchmark Implats (SA) Lonmin Anglo Platinum In Women In Women In Women Occupational level service in Mining service in Mining service in Mining Top management 4 25 15 7 9 11 Senior management 111 11 183 14 311 10 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 678 20 409 26 2 071 20 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 5 049 10 3 502 16 6 706 17 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making/unskilled 30 207 9 23 650 6 39 891 10 Total permanent 36 049 10 27 759 7 48 988 11 From the above it is clear that we are well positioned relative to our competitors at management level with the exception of Skilled level. At the Zimplats operations 5.4% of the workforces is constituted by females. While it is acknowledged that this is low, plans are in place to reach an above 10% target in the medium term. 64 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Our focus on employment equity for 2013 ЈЈ Promoting women into occupations where they are and beyond under-represented (differentiated for each Overall we aim to achieve 55% and 45% HDSA occupation) with a greater focus in operations representation at D and E level respectively by the year where the representation of women can be 2014. To achieve these goals, our employment equity expanded strategy focuses mainly on: ЈЈ Identifying and eliminating transformation barriers ЈЈ Retaining key talent as far as possible: aiming for in poor performing departments, functions and turnover below 7.5% per annum occupations ЈЈ Promoting talent from within: aiming for 80% ЈЈ Empowering operational transformation forums and HDSAs at D level and 70% at E level assisting them to advance employment equity and ЈЈ Recruiting scarce skills where necessary: aiming to eliminate transformation barriers recruit 80% HDSAs at D level and 70% at E level ЈЈ Inculcating the right corporate culture and value ЈЈ Using graduate and skills development programmes system to advance and sustain transformation to advance transformation in targeted occupations initiatives. (80% HDSAs and 40% women) 65 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Maintaining access to strategic natural resources and minimising our environmental impacts As a company involved in the exploration, extraction and processing of mineral resources, we inevitably have an impact on the natural environment. We believe, however, that through our responsible environmental management practices, and through the nature of our investments in social and human capital, we have a net positive impact on society. This contribution is further enhanced by the role that PGM metals play in the move to a greener economy. Our commitment to protecting natural Zimbabwe, where power outages and high resources involves the following key focus tariffs have become significant financial areas: incentives for power-conservation ЈЈ Optimising energy usage and promoting strategies. security of supply ЈЈ Promoting sustainable water use and As there are limited opportunities to reduce reducing pollution the electrical energy usage at our smelters ЈЈ Reducing our atmospheric emissions and refineries, our strategic focus is ЈЈ Responding to risks and opportunities primarily on promoting energy efficiency brought about by climate change within our mining operations. Our new ЈЈ Ensuring effective land management and shafts have been designed with high-level promoting biodiversity specifications for energy efficiency and ЈЈ Managing our waste streams power management in the main fan ЈЈ Striving to reduce environmental stations, refrigeration systems, underground incidents. pumping systems, underground lighting, air compressor and reticulation systems and Optimising energy usage and hot water control systems for change promoting security of supply houses. To minimise exposure to energy Our management approach to insecurity, and to reduce our greenhouse energy gas emissions, we are also exploring Energy security and pricing remains a opportunities for alternative energy sources. significant material risk, in terms of both our existing and planned operations. As we Our 2012 energy performance expand into deep-level mining and extend In FY2012, approximately 68% of our total Total energy our underground footprint, our mining energy consumption was electrical energy, consumption operations will become more energycomprising almost 10% of our overall cash (000Gj) intensive, making us more exposed to cost base; this compares with 9% in FY2011 17 542 increased costs and potential supply and 8% in FY2010, reflecting the continuing disruptions. In terms of our broader rise in electricity costs year-on-year. Further 16 135 16 338 17 013 18 222 17 542 environmental policy and strategy, we are details on the total energy consumed at 20 000 committed to identifying opportunities to each of our operations are provided in the 15 000 optimise energy efficiency with associated performance table on page 93. monitoring and reporting on relevant 10 000 energy-related data. We made progress during the year in exploring alternative renewable energy 5 000 As part of Eskom’s power conservation sources. The coal-to-biomass fuelprogramme (PCP) introduced in 2008, the switching project where we are assessing 0 South African mining industry has been the feasibility of using biomass as an energy FYO8 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 encouraged to voluntarily reduce total source at our Rustenburg smelter is in 2011: 18 222 energy consumption by 10%. We have progress. We have commenced the A decrease of 4% continued to work closely with Eskom and process of registering this as a potential have participated in their demand-side Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) management (DSM) programmes with the project under the UNFCCC Kyoto Protocol. aim of reducing their load requirements, The feasibility into the establishment of particularly during peak demand periods. biomass plantations is progressing well: We have a similar energy challenge in three sites have successfully been planted, 66 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 and monitoring of the growth and soil characteristics is integrate the responsible management of water into underway. If this fuel switch is realised, this will have a our core business operations. The strategy covers valuable impact in terms of reduced direct greenhouse resource consumption and water quality management, gas emissions. and proposes a framework for operation-specific water conservation strategies. It also defines a water Our energy focus for 2013 and beyond consumption baseline for the period 2001 to 2020, We have prioritised the following energy-related focus to be extended to 2030 in the near future. areas in the year ahead: ЈЈ We will ensure that we have the internal systems in Various projects are in progress aimed at reducing place to meet the regulations in terms of the potable water consumption, optimising industrial water National Energy Act, 2008, requiring the mandatory use and increasing water recycling. We have reviewed reporting of energy data to the Department of our definitions to ensure a consistent approach for the Energy; while all our operations currently report monitoring and reporting of water management fossil fuel consumption figures and electricity usage, indicators across the Group but still need to further the and we annually calculate and report our application of these across all operations. We have greenhouse gas emissions via the Carbon once again taken part in the Water Disclosure Project Disclosure Project, there is scope to improve our administered by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). data on our energy efficiency initiatives ЈЈ We plan to complete our feasibility studies relating During the year we finally received our water-use to our coal-to-biomass fuel-switching project. licences for our South African operations; we are continuing to engage actively with the regional and Promoting sustainable water use and national authorities to resolve issues and concerns reducing pollution relating to some of the requirements in these licences. Our management approach to water use Pending finalisation of amendments to these licences and pollution we maintain detailed records of all our communications Implats is highly reliant on water for our mining, with regulatory officials as evidence of the continuing processing and refining operations and for human agreements. At the Zimbabwe operations, the required consumption. An important focus this year has been permit process was followed for all activities including on implementing our recently approved water water use. Water abstracted from dams and rivers was conservation strategy, which was developed to all within the set allocation limits. 67 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Maintaining access to strategic natural resources and minimising our environmental impacts continued Water conservation Our 2012 performance on water has increased on 2011 levels. Over the strategy baseline issues year, 14 840 megalitres of water was (000 000 m3) Total Group water consumption in FY2012, recycled, which equates to 37% of all the consisting both of water withdrawn and water consumed in our operations; this 70 water recycled, was 40 114 megalitres, compares with 35% in FY 2011 and 27% 60 representing a decrease of 4% on water in FY2010. consumption in FY2011. This decrease is 50 largely attributable to the reduced Further details on the total water withdrawn, 40 production during the year associated with consumed and recycled at each of our 30 the industrial action. Our unit consumption operations are provided in the performance rate of water (kilolitres per tonne ore milled) table on page 93. 20 10 Consumption in (kl) (000) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 0 ■ Total water consumed Water from water service providers ■ Total water withdrawn ■ Water withdrawn excluding external or municipalities(1) 10 722 12 636 11 970 13 151 ** grey water ■ Water withdrawn – external grey water Waste water from other ■ Total water recycled organisations(2) 2 767 3 769 3 668 3 829 – Water from rivers(3) 2 124 2 337 2 659 2 328 – Water conservation Water from dams(4) 7 891 7 016 7 506 5 816 – strategy Water from ground water(5) 1 770 1 287 1 276 658 – Future initiatives (000 000 m3) Water withdrawn (1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5) 25 274 27 045 27 079 25 783 25 970 Water internally recycled 14 840 14 823 9 981 11 652 13 505 70 Total water consumption 40 114 41 868 37 060 37 435 39 475 60 Notes: 50 1 From FY2011 the Zimplats and Mimosa water withdrawn from rivers and dams excludes water provided to communities in line with South African operations. 40 2 At Marula and Zimplats, fissure water is included as ground water from FY2011. 30 3 From FY2011 the refineries water withdrawn include domestic water (offices). This is in line with Group reporting. 20 ** Figures were not available in this format. 10 0 Maintaining security of water supply In terms of managing water pollution, our becomes a more pressing issue during the primary concern relates to the possible ■ Total water consumed ■ Total water withdrawn planning of new projects and in accessing release of process water containing ■ Water withdrawn excluding external grey water new water supplies. While we have secured sulphates, chlorides and nitrates into ■ Water withdrawn – external grey water an initial allocation of water for our Afplats receiving water bodies. None of our ■ Total water recycled project, we recognise that in the longer operations are associated with acid mine term we will have to consider more drainage or the use of cyanide. We innovative solutions, including the possibility undertake regular surface and groundwater Total water of participating in the feasibility study sampling at all our operations; at our consumption (ml) investigating a long-distance water pipeline Rustenburg operations, groundwater data 40 114 into the Rustenburg area from the is fed into a regional model, which is used Witwatersrand Basin deep level decant. as a management tool for identifying and 39 475 37 435 37 060 41 868 40 114 Both of our operations in Zimbabwe have addressing groundwater problems. 50 acceptable water allocations, but as they 40 withdraw water from local water sources, Our water focus for 2013 and any threat to these sources would have an beyond 30 impact on the water resources at their We have prioritised various activities in the 20 disposal. We work very closely with other year ahead: water users, and in addition to continually ЈЈ We will formalise the proposed water10 increasing our recycling of water, we are use licence amendments for our South 0 always looking for other alternative sources, African operations albeit on a small scale. ЈЈ We will drive the implementation of our FYO8 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 recently approved water management 2011: 41 868 A decrease of 4% strategy, with a particular emphasis on 68 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 increasing the amount of recycled Further details on the direct SO2 emissions water that can be used as a substitute at each of our operations over the past five for potable water years are provided in the performance table ЈЈ The cost and feasibility of water on page 94. The reduction in SO2 is as a treatment alternatives will be result of lower sulphur grades and reduced investigated. production in Rustenburg. Total indirect sulphur oxides emissions (SO2) equated to Reducing our atmospheric 26 243 tonnes while total indirect nitrogen emissions oxides for the Group were 13 953 tonnes, Our management approach to air both associated with electricity usage. quality The most significant air quality risk for the At Impala Rustenburg and Zimplats, Group relates to the sulphur dioxide (SO2) average daily SO2 emissions are calculated emissions from our smelting and refining through a mass balance approach while at operations in Rustenburg, Springs and the Impala Springs operations specialist Zimplats. Our management of our sampling is conducted. As part of our operational impact involves the monitoring, sulphur dioxide reduction strategy, we have measuring and reporting of emissions, and completed the prefeasibility project to the identification and implementation of evaluate the installation of SO2 abatement Total direct emissions-reduction activities. Our equipment at our Zimplats operations SO2 emitted (t) underlying objective is to ensure that, as a currently planned for 2016/2017. 18 464 minimum, we comply with all legislative requirements. During the year we obtained Our air quality focus for 2013 and 26 477 21 152 16 926 18 881 18 464 the required atmospheric emission licences beyond 30 000 (AEL) for our Rustenburg operations. The We have prioritised the following activities 25 000 application for an AEL for Refineries has relating to air quality management in the 20 000 been submitted and finalisation is awaited. year ahead: ЈЈ We will implement the new air quality 15 000 Ambient air quality is monitored at our reporting requirements for our 10 000 operations via a network of ambient Rustenburg operations as stipulated by 5 000 monitoring stations. These monitoring the provisional atmospheric emission 0 stations are indicative of ambient levels and licence trends. In most instances it is difficult to ЈЈ We will continue with the preparatory FYO8 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 accurately attribute the source of any work relating to the implementation of an 2011: 18 881 A decrease of 2% pollution as various factors can influence SO2 abatement scrubber at our Zimplats the ambient data; no source apportionment operations. analysis is done concurrently or at any of the sites. The ambient monitoring network Responding to climate change at Impala Rustenburg comprises six Our management approach to monitoring stations, three of which measure climate change selected meteorological conditions, SO2 We recognise that climate change has and PM10 (particulate matter smaller than potentially significant implications for our 10 microns) levels. A further five ambient activities, resulting from both governmental monitoring stations in total are in operation policy requirements as well as the physical at our other operations. In addition to impacts of a changing climate. A detailed ambient stations, a comprehensive total review and assessment of the companydust fallout network is maintained at our specific risks and opportunities of climate various mining operations. change is provided in our public response to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Our 2012 performance on air available at www.cdproject.net. These risks quality and opportunities informed the In FY2012, total direct emissions of SO2 development of our carbon management were 18 464 tonnes, down by 2% on levels strategy. In implementing the strategy, we in FY2011. Our Zimplats operations are undertaking various electricity contributed 73% of total emissions while conservation projects and a fuel-switch Rustenburg and Refineries operations initiative, and we update the Group carbon contributed 26% and 1%, respectively. footprint annually. Although we have 69 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Maintaining access to strategic natural resources and minimising our environmental impacts continued determined an emissions baseline up to as compared with 0.192 in FY2011. 2020, we have not yet defined a Group Additional details on our direct and indirect emissions reduction target. greenhouse gas emissions by operation for each of the past three years are provided in Our 2012 climate change the performance table on page 94. The performance decrease in CO2 emission was as a result Our total CO2 emissions for FY2012 of the reduction of production leading to amounted to 3.7 million tonnes, as less electricity purchased. This was further compared with 4.0 million tonnes in influenced by the change in Eskom FY2011. This decrease is attributable emission factor applied from sold to largely to the reduced production generated. associated with the industrial action in early 2012. The bulk of our emissions To reduce our GHG emissions we are (3.3 million tonnes) are associated with focusing on reducing and optimising our our Eskom electricity usage, with the energy use, as well as exploring balance (0.4 million tonnes) arising from opportunities for using alternative energy burning fossil fuels such as coal, diesel, sources. Our activities and progress on petrol and industrial burning oil. Our these issues are briefly reviewed in the emissions intensity (tonnes of CO2 per discussion on energy use (page 66). Total direct and indirect CO2 tonne of ore milled) in FY2012 was 0.196, emission (000t) 3 707 Climate change indicators 3 223 3 391 3 755 4 022 3 707 2012 2011 2010 5 000 Direct CO2 emissions (t)* (000) 418 436 395 4 000 Indirect CO2 emissions (t)** (000) 3 289 3 587 3 359 3 000 Electricity purchased (MWh) (000) 3 322 3 469 3 267 2 000 Direct energy (GJ) (000) 5 584 5 661 5 250 1 000 Indirect energy (GJ) (000) 11 958 12 561 11 763 Total energy (GJ) (000) 17 542 18 222 17 013 0 * Direct CO2 emissions as a result of burning fuel (coal, diesel, petrol, IBO and natural gas). FYO8 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 ** Indirect CO2 emissions from energy purchased. 2011: 4 022 A decrease of 8% Our climate change focus for 2013 Ensuring effective land and beyond management and promoting Group CO2 baseline We have prioritised the following activities biodiversity Current initiative and relating to climate change mitigation in the Closure plans have been developed for all diversification of sources CO2 (1 000 tonnes) year ahead: our mining operations. Closure liability of ЈЈ We plan to complete our feasibility our South African mining operations, as is 6 000 studies relating to our coal-to-biomass required by the Department of Mineral fuel-switching project Resources, is calculated annually by 5 000 ЈЈ We will update the Group carbon an independent specialist. The 2012 footprint and will set realistic reduction unscheduled closure cost for our targets, however small, for each Rustenburg and Marula operations 4 000 operation in line with our carbon amounted to R948 million. A financial management strategy provision for this amount is in place. We 3 000 ЈЈ The Group is working with government regard concurrent rehabilitation as a key and academic institutions on the component of our overall land management 2 000 development of fuel-cell technologies approach. During FY2013 we will formulate ■ Diversified energy source scenario that will utilise PGMs in alternative an action plan to rehabilitate identified ■ “Do nothing” scenario energy sources, which can be used for non-operational and semi-rehabilitated sites Current initiatives scenario local technology transfer and that can across the Rustenburg property. This will ■ reduce the business’s reliance on energy not only free up land for other land uses but derived from fossil fuels. will reduce our overall closure liability. 70 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 During the year the South African Department of ЈЈ Completing the Heritage Resources Inventory for Environmental Affairs published draft norms and our Rustenburg operations; standards for the remediation of contaminated land in ЈЈ Commencing the final phase of a biodiversity terms of the Waste Act. Although the implications for management plan for our Rustenburg operations, the mining industry remain unclear, it is expected that which will be aligned with the framework of the South these norms and standards will form the basis of future African National Biodiversity Institute (SANBI); and soil remediation projects. Pending finalisation of these ЈЈ Submitting the consolidated Environmental norms and standards, our rehabilitation projects at our Management Programme (EMP) for the Rustenburg South African operations will continue as planned. The operations. ongoing rehabilitation at our Rustenburg operations is being undertaken concurrently with our opencast Managing our waste streams mining activities with a total of 31.1ha rehabilitated Our approach to waste management across the Group during FY2012. The re-vegetation of the tailings side is aimed at maintaining full compliance with the new slopes are nearing completion with a total of 22.1ha South African legislative requirements relating to waste. composted and re-grassed during the year. In future, A key focus this year has been on finalising the licensing rehabilitation will be focused mainly on maintaining of waste management activities at our South African previously rehabilitated side slopes as well as grassing operations, as required by the new Waste Act. new arisings. We have continued with the Unfortunately this was delayed at some of our phytoremediation (vegetation) project on the enhanced operations for a variety of reasons. Submitting these evaporation spray system (EESS) at our Refineries. applications and ensuring that the licences are issued Following the cessation of all opencast mining at will be an important focus for FY2013. Ad hoc waste Zimplats towards the end of 2008, a rehabilitation audits of current waste contractors are conducted to programme was subsequently developed and formally ensure that waste is handled in an environmentally implemented in January 2011. The programme is acceptable manner and this will continue in the aimed at backfilling the voids with waste rock, sloping forthcoming year. to a maximum of 18° and re-establishing indigenous grass and tree species. This project is expected to be In accordance with the new Act we have updated our completed in 2016 at an estimated cost of waste inventories at Rustenburg, Springs and Marula, US$7.9 million. and ensured alignment with the new waste categorisation proposed by government. These Although extensive biodiversity studies were inventories will form the basis of our long-term waste conducted for both the Rustenburg and Marula management plans that we will be implementing at our operations, implementation of formal biodiversity operations over the next few years, with a particular management plans is only scheduled for FY2013. All focus on reducing waste and increasing recycling operations do however have site specific procedures activities. At our Zimplats operations we have submitted and standards to manage impacts associated with the Waste Management Plan in compliance with the their activities. Only Zimplats and the Refineries provisions laid out in the Environmental Management operate within close proximity to an area of high (Hazardous Waste Management) Regulations of 2007 biodiversity. A total of 276ha of the Zimplats mining and the Environmental Management (Effluent and Solid operation is located within the Ngezi National Park. Waste Disposal) Regulations of 2007. This area, which was associated with historic opencast mining, has subsequently been rehabilitated. Our A significant development this year was the refining operation is situated next to the Blesbokspruit establishment of a new central salvage yard at our which is deemed an ecosystem under threat and Rustenburg operations which will provide a central appears on the Montreux record. Although our facility from which we can manage our waste streams. Refineries is deemed to have no direct impact on this This centralised salvage facility provides the platform ecosystem, they are represented on the Blesbokspruit from which implementation of our waste management forum and is involved with environmental education objectives can be performed. and conservation at the Blesbokspruit Grootvaly Trust. Striving to reduce environmental Significant additional activities during the year relating incidents to land management and bio-diversity include: In line with our ISO14001 EMS expectations, all ЈЈ Compiling a Group guideline document to operations are required to identify and report on standardise closure liability determination; environmental incidents. Systems are in place to ЈЈ Finalising a Group guideline relating to the design, investigate and determine the direct and root causes of construction, operation and closure of tailings dams; high-severity incidents, and to address and close out these incidents. 71 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Developing social capital Our approach to socio-economic development is based on the understanding that a business cannot be successful in the longer term if its surrounding communities are not economically viable, socially uplifted and environmentally sound. In addition to the significant socio-economic value added resulting from our core activities, we make further specific social investments into the communities that are home to our employees and their families through our extensive corporate social investment programme. Collectively we believe that our various activities contribute to the establishment of communities that are viable – economically, socially and environmentally – beyond the life of our mines. Introduction During FY2012, we created significant value for our Our commitment to developing social capital involves various stakeholders in the form of: the following key focus areas: ЈЈ Employee wages and benefits – R6 940 million ЈЈ Continually building our economic value add ЈЈ Skills and training – R354 million at the South ЈЈ Promoting socio-economic development though African operations investing in communities ЈЈ Taxation and royalties amounted to R1 871 million ЈЈ Continuing our strong focus on the provision of ЈЈ Dividends paid to shareholders – R3 364 million housing ЈЈ Payments to providers of capital – R3 731 million ЈЈ Promoting development and transformation ЈЈ Investments in socio-economic development through our procurement practices. initiatives in our communities – R90 million in South Africa and US$9 million at our Continually building our economic Zimbabwean operations value add ЈЈ Payments to suppliers and contractors – Through our core activities, Implats’ operations make R9 449 million. a significant positive contribution to socio-economic development in both South Africa and Zimbabwe: we A detailed breakdown of the economic value added provide employment, skills and training; we pay taxes throughout FY2012 is provided in the following table. and royalties to governments and dividends to our shareholders; we purchase goods and services from local businesses; and we invest in the development and improvement of infrastructure and other social services in the communities that are home to our employees. 72 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Direct economic value added from Group operations For the year ended 30 June 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Rm Rm Rm Rm Rm Revenue 27 593 33 132 25 446 26 121 37 619 Net cost of products and services (12 689) (14 031) (10 681) (11 745) (14 067) Value added by operations 14 904 18 174 14 765 14 376 23 552 Other net (expenditure)/income 907 581 416 1 004 6 198 Total value added 15 811 18 755 15 181 15 380 29 750 Applied as follows to: Employee benefits 6 940 6 732 6 158 4 426 5 137 Labour and other 7 313 6 783 5 773 5 143 4 077 Share-based payments (373) (51) 385 (717) 1 060 The state as direct taxes 1 207 1 897 1 584 1 733 5 112 Royalty recipients 664 901 536 442 648 Providers of capital 3 731 2 881 2 178 7 946 6 299 Financing costs 248 190 179 140 135 Non-controlling interest 119 172 79 (16) 109 Dividends 3 364 2 519 1 920 7 822 6 055 Total value distributed 12 542 12 411 10 456 14 547 17 196 Re-invested in the group 3 268 6 344 4 725 833 12 554 Depreciation 1 708 1 372 1 083 979 1 013 Reserves retained* 1 560 4 972 3 642 (146) 11 541 15 811 18 755 15 181 15 380 29 750 * Deferred tax included. 73 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Developing social capital continued Promoting socio-economic Our 2012 performance on socio-economic development through investing development in communities During FY2012 overall Group expenditure on socioOur management approach to social economic development projects amounted to investment R90 million, down from R130 million in FY2011. Our strategic approach to investing in socio-economic An additional R430 million was spent on housing development initiatives is informed by our belief that development initiatives for the upgrading of employee the long-term success of a business is closely linked to housing, home ownership facilitation and conversion the success and wellbeing of the communities in which of legacy residences to single and family units (our it operates. housing programme is reviewed in more detail on page 82) at our South African operations. A detailed A technical team is responsible for implementing the breakdown of our community investments is presented projects, working together with the Stakeholder in the tables on pages 77 and 78. Engagement Department who assist with managing community relations. The identification of community An external consultant has undertaken an independent projects is an ongoing process based on need review and assessment of the socio-economic impacts analysis, in consultation with stakeholder of these investments. Based on the findings of this representatives from communities, local government review, the following is a brief summary of the identified and employees. The Sustainable Development project contribution associated with our investments: steering committee is responsible for reviewing the ЈЈ Our socio-economic development expenditure for proposed projects after due diligence. Once approved FY2012 benefited more than 68 000 people in by the project steering committee, the projects are South Africa and 800 in Zimbabwe; of these, more recommended to the Group Sustainable Development than 16 000 were community members that Forum, a multi-disciplinary executive-level benefited from improved infrastructure arising from management team that evaluates the merits of Implats’ investments. These include: the investing in each project. establishment of libraries, and the electrification of houses in the South African areas of operation; Over the past five years our expenditure in this area reconstruction of a primary school in Zimbabwe; has grown by more than 180% to R90 million in extensions to a clinic in Zimbabwe; construction of FY2012 (FY2007: R32 million), reaffirming our a police station in Zimbabwe; and electricity commitment to investing in our labour sending areas. connections to 2 900 houses in the villages around The investment strategy focuses primarily on our Marula operations. Our flagship infrastructure infrastructure, health, education, community project, the development of houses for our empowerment and income-generating projects. The Rustenburg employees, benefited a further strategy also aims to complement our housing 10 000 people, many of whom became initiatives, through the provision of schools, clinics and homeowners for the first time. other amenities. ЈЈ Infrastructure projects created 1 600 temporary construction jobs during the review period. During the reporting period we adapted our strategy Commissioning of Marula electricity project in Ward towards local economic development. Our focus will 8 and 10 employed 27 temporary jobs and 14 of move away from income-generating projects. We will the 27 went to local labourers. The Zimbabwean continue to contribute towards basic infrastructure, school construction project employed 31 labourers, education and healthcare. Through these projects we 26 of them from the local area. plan to establish infrastructure that will address urgent needs in mine communities with the focus on longerterm impacts. Typical projects will include: ЈЈ School upgrades and maintenance ЈЈ Educational support systems ЈЈ Basic infrastructure ЈЈ Upgrading of clinics and investments in healthcare support infrastructure and systems. 74 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 FOCUS TOPIC: Our response to indigenisation in Zimbabwe In March 2012 Implats management submitted a proposal to the Government of Zimbabwe in terms of which 51% of Zimplats will be transferred to Zimbabwean ownership. The proposal was accepted in principle by the government and a bilateral team is now working on the detail involved in arriving at a fair and independent valuation of the stake. In 2011 we had submitted an earlier proposal to the Zimbabwean authorities in which we suggested that 25% of “true” equity (financed by the vendor) would be allocated, and that this be shared between the Government of Zimbabwe (10%), communities (5%) and employees (a further 10%). In addition we proposed that credits be granted for the ground we had previously released to the state (19.5%) and for the significant social spend since Zimplats’ inception (6.5%), thus amounting to a total of 51%. Unfortunately our proposal was rejected by the government. Subsequently, various pronouncements were made to the effect that mining investors not submitting acceptable proposals would be deemed to have forfeited their majority stakes. It was against this backdrop that we submitted a revised proposal. Submission of the revised proposal followed regular meetings with the Government of Zimbabwe to establish perceptions and expectations and common ground. At all times Implats approached these meetings with a sincere intent to establish the parameters for negotiation and to achieve an outcome that, as far as possible, would benefit all interested stakeholders. Throughout these discussions we were regularly briefed by experts on the evolving political situation in Zimbabwe, on the domestic expectations ahead of national elections (due no later than October 2013), and on the Company’s rights and obligations in terms of international, South African and Zimbabwean law. We are confident that all the decisions taken with regard to the Zimbabwean indigenisation process were well informed and well considered. We were at all times guided by the need to safeguard short-term shareholder value, while at the same time ensuring the Company’s ongoing participation in the socially responsible extraction and beneficiation of an outstanding platinum resource. In terms of the proposal that has now been accepted, 10% of Zimplats will be issued to a trust representing communities bordering and directly affected by Zimplats operations, and a further 10% will be sold to an employee share ownership trust. Implats will receive fair value compensation in lieu of empowerment credits for previously released ground, and the government, through the National Indigenisation Economic and Empowerment Board, will buy a 31% stake in Zimplats. In the same month that the Zimplats proposal was accepted, the Zimbabwean government approved a similar proposal relating to 51% ownership of Mimosa, our joint venture with Aquarius Platinum. This followed the rejection of an earlier proposal. In terms of the accepted agreement, communities and employees will enjoy similar ownership in Mimosa, with 6% being owned by the Public Service Commission and 25% by the Indigenisation Board. Where previously Implats owned 87% of Zimplats, this will be reduced to some 42.6%. This is not considered an ideal outcome as the asset was developed entirely through expertise and effort funded by shareholders. However, such is the nature of the negotiation process that compromise is inevitable and such compromise has been accepted by all parties. We believe the upshot of the now-accepted indigensation proposal will be that investors will be fairly compensated for their investment in Zimplats and Mimosa and that we will continue to grow and expand these businesses to the benefit of new and existing shareholders. There has been much speculation in recent months around official statements that the government is entitled to a shareholding in mining companies other than that negotiated, based upon the value of resources being mined. Implats management and Board endorse the view that the citizens of Zimbabwe are entitled to enjoy the benefit of these resources, in the same way that our South African operations benefit South Africans. These benefits accrue through royalties, taxes, salaries and the payment of local suppliers, as well as through our significant social and environmental investments. With communities, employees and the state now directly invested in our Zimbabwean operations, these benefits will be magnified. In the context of the ongoing rhetoric around indigenisation, we recognise however that our providers of capital will not countenance commitments to capital expenditure beyond the already committed Phase 2 expansion until such time as suitable guarantees are forthcoming. With the planned implementation of the Phase 2 expansion at a cost of approximately US$460 million, production is geared to increase by 50%, resulting the potential creation of 1 100 new jobs by our operation. In addition to this a 35 000 megalitre dam is being constructed on the Minyuti River at an estimated cost of US$20 million as part of Phase 2 and will benefit both the operations and local communities. Given such guarantees, we look forward to an expanded involvement with Zimplats and Mimosa for decades to come. 75 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Developing social capital continued ЈЈ A further 110 permanent jobs were ЈЈ Geographically, most of the beneficiaries created or sustained through our (39%) were in and around our enterprise development initiatives. This Rustenburg operations. In addition, included funding for a business support 431 people in the Eastern Cape unit in Marula that facilitated the benefited from projects in the region in employment of 145 people in mining and line with our SLP commitments, while a construction, as well as Implats’ support further 22 000 in Limpopo benefited of six enterprises: two farms, a brickfrom projects around Marula Platinum. making organisation, a composting operation, supporting local SMMEs that Project ratings do business with Implats, and a chrome A total of 56 socio-economic development plant. During July 2012 the essential oils projects were externally reviewed during the farm that we had supported since 2009 year, covering most projects funded in was handed over to the Eastern Cape South Africa during the year as well as five Department of Agriculture in Zimbabwe. Projects were reviewed using Project ratings ЈЈ We are particularly proud of Makgomo one of three templates: infrastructure, Chrome, which is 50% owned by the enterprise development or social local community and that employs development. The templates cover 31 people, 15 of them from the 22 criteria against which the projects are communities surrounding the Marula reviewed in the following categories: operation. The community has received use of Implats funds, project design, R15 million in dividends from the chrome implementation, results, sustainability plant to date and on the back of this and risk. project Implats was awarded the 2011 Sunday Times Corporate Social The review templates were modified this Good 30 Investment Leadership Award year to include the achievement of Implats’ Adequate 23 Poor 4 ЈЈ More than 68 000 people benefited from objectives. Over 64% of project objectives Defective 1 Exemplary 1 our social projects in the areas of were fully achieved, with 35% partially education, health, sports development achieved and 1% not achieved. The and general community welfare. categories in which projects scored best Beneficiaries in this category include included use of project funding, risks and bursary recipients, home-based care sustainability. patients, and learners involved in literacy Beneficiaries by and sports programmes. In many of Overall 67% of the reviewed projects were demographic these programmes Implats is not the rated good or exemplary, 31% rated sole funder and therefore the total adequate and the remaining 2% were found benefit may not be attributable to to be poor or defective. Recommendations Implats, even though all the beneficiaries for all the projects rated adequate will be are counted taken into account so that the performance ЈЈ The demographic of beneficiaries shows and rating can improve in the coming years. that over 96% of the beneficiaries of our socio-economic development projects The review process has assisted in were black. Over 57% of these were collecting information, improving our project Black males youth 32 648 youth (35 years of age and under), design and impact as well as refining our Black females youth 32 008 Black males adult 12 645 making them the greatest pool of socio-economic development strategy. Black females adult 12 618 beneficiaries Disabled Other 421 76 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 South African operations socio-economic development expenditure 2012 2011 2010 2009 Programme Rm Rm Rm Rm Empowerment of community structures 17 31 21 18 Health, safety and environment 2 2 1 2 Education 15 17 16 14 Government and municipality support infrastructure 34 38 12 4 Sport development 10 11 15 11 Enterprise development 9 28 19 10 Community welfare, arts and culture 3 3 4 1 Total socio-economic development 90 130 88 60 Housing and living conditions 430 277 552 917 Total sustainable development 520 407 640 977 Socio-economic development projects – South Africa FY2012 Name of project Location Programme Impala Sports Academy North West Sport development Home Ownership North West Housing Divine Inspirations Garden Services North West Enterprise development Donation of shoes North West Community welfare KwaNyathi Library Eastern Cape Infrastructure Springs External Sport Gauteng Sport development Mathematics Science Schools Incubator Program Gauteng Education Marula Community Chrome Limpopo Enterprise development Electricity connections Limpopo Infrastructure Refer to our website www.implats.co.za for project details. 77 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Developing social capital continued Zimbabwean operations socio-economic development expenditure 2012 2011 Programme US$000 US$000 Zimplats’ socio-economic development expenditure Education 3 283 755 Health 873 223 Infrastructure 942 41 Government and municipality support infrastructure 469 – Enterprise development 47 303 Sport development 35 27 Community welfare arts and culture 60 – Total socio-economic development 5 709 1 349 Housing and living condition 49 000 – Total sustainable development 54 709 1 349* * Figures corrected Socio-economic development projects – Zimplats FY2012 Name of project Location Programme Msengezi High School poultry project Zimbabwe Education Nyangwene Primary School Zimbabwe Infrastructure Gum tree plantation Zimbabwe Enterprise development Refer to our website www.implats.co.za for project details. 2012 2011 Programme US$000 US$000 Mimosa’s socio-economic development expenditure Empowerment of community structures 698 213 Health, safety and environment 16 65 Education 1 120 2 049 Government and municipality support infrastructure 450 40 Sport development 1 125 32 Enterprise development 2 12 Community welfare arts and culture 10 401 Total socio-economic development 3 421 2 812 Housing and living conditions 16 560 15 500 Total sustainable development 19 981 18 312 78 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 FOCUS TOPIC: Promoting broad-based transformation – implementing the Mining Charter Our transformation strategy rests upon the seven key pillars of the Mining Charter, with housing and living conditions playing a pivotal role in five of these elements. Our approach to transformation is to strategically leverage each element of the Mining Charter in terms of our business performance and our potential to maximise value creation. Depending on the value proposition that each offers, our strategic response to each element varies between “cost focused”, “excellence” or “industry trend setting”. A brief review of our approach to each of the seven pillars is presented below. ЈЈ Ownership: Our ownership strategy has evolved over the years and is acknowledged as one of the best in the mining sector. Our focus has been to empower each of our underlying South African operations directly, rather than empowering the Group at the JSE-listed level. The exception has been the empowerment at Impala where the Royal Bafokeng Nation and ESOP were initially deemed shareholders at Impala in the amount of 26%, but at the request of the Royal Bafokeng Nation were ‘flipped’ to the Implats level. The entire shareholding of the Royal Bafokeng Nation and ESOP is attributed only to Impala. In addition to providing empowerment through our core activities in the PGM metals, we also have a strategy of empowering certain non-core activities around the various operations, by linking empowerment to downstream activities of the value chain, notably through the chrome processing operation at Marula and the chrome beneficiation project at our Rustenburg operations ЈЈ Management control and employment equity: Our employment equity strategy is focused on transforming from within, building the necessary skills and leadership capacity internally by leveraging our skills development initiatives and using our housing strategy as a means for better retention. A review of our progress and prospects on employment equity is provided on page 63 ЈЈ Skills development: Skills development speaks to our ability to enhance the inherent capacity of our human capital and develop new talent in hard-to-fill occupations where the external market cannot readily support the business needs. From a transformation perspective, skills development fundamentally supports the attainment of the Company’s employment equity targets/initiatives. Our recent skills development activities are reviewed on pages 60 and 61 ЈЈ Preferential procurement and enterprise development: This element has critical investment areas with stretched targets in the Mining Charter for +25% HDSA-owned companies. Enterprise development (ED) is the problematic area in this pillar, with no clear targets or provisions in the Charter. The current strategy for enterprise development has been limited to providing assistance to tender, loans, cashflow, mentoring and coaching where possible, with a very cost focused approach, ensuring that short-term wins are obtained. The long-term strategy approach was adopted during the last quarter of FY2012 and the implementation has commenced already. This is reviewed in more detail on pages 83 and 84 79 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Developing social capital continued FOCUS TOPIC: Promoting broad-based transformation – implementing the Mining Charter continued ЈЈ Housing and living conditions: The provision of housing forms the cornerstone of our strategic response to the Charter, as we believe it offers a clear opportunity to differentiate robustly and to build a sustainable competitive advantage. Housing supports skills attraction and retention, procurement and enterprise development initiatives, enhances community development in the areas of operation, presents strong business/ employee linkages, and provides important support for the other pillars of the transformation strategy. The nature of our significant investments in the provision of housing is reviewed on page 82 ЈЈ Community development: Community development initiatives offer critical investment opportunities with the potential to support enterprise development and basic infrastructure. An important challenge is to balance stakeholder expectations against viable projects and not to invest in unsustainable projects that might only benefit a few. The community investment initiatives throughout the Group are reviewed on pages 77 and 78 ЈЈ Sustainable development and growth: The Mining Charter also outlines certain expectations relating to mining companies’ environmental, health and safety performance. Noting our performance on these issues described in more detail on page 81 in this report, we believe that we are meeting the Charter’s expectations in these areas. 80 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 FOCUS TOPIC: Promoting broad-based transformation – implementing the Mining Charter continued Our transformational scorecard is shown below. Mining Charter Score Card Mining Charter Mining target Charter March Actual target 2014 2012 as at Performance calendar calendar FY June Parameter measure year (%) year (%) 2012 (%) Comments Ownership Equity 26 Show >26 Push down on RBH’s and ESOP progress shareholdings in Implats to Impala as agreed by the DMR in granting Impala its converted mining right: Impala 26.4%, Marula 27%, Afplats 26% and Two Rivers 55% Housing and One person per 100 50 79 Hostel conversion has been living condition room completed and the allocation process of one person per room will be finalised in December 2012 Procurement Capital goods 40 20 41 and enterprise Services 70 50 61 development Consumables 50 25 55 Employment Board 40 30 58 Board representation includes equity Exco 40 30 20 executive and non-executive Senior management 40 40 39 directors Middle management 40 40 43 Junior management 40 40 53 Core skills 40 30 90 Human Human resources 5 4 6 resources development development expenditure (% of wage bill) Sustainable Implementation Fatalities 100% Show 0 South African Operations FIFR development of Tripartite Action Compliance: Target 0.03 progress 0.11 target 0.03 and growth Plan on Safety and per million man-hours Health Silicosis 100% Show 100 No OEL exceedance within Compliance: No new progress mining environment due to very cases of silicosis among low levels of Alpha Quartz previously unexposed individuals NIHL 100% Compliance: Show 100 No new cases of noise induced No deterioration in progress hearing loss since December hearing greater than 10% 2008, but early deterioration of among occupationally hearing (less than 10% exposed individuals after deterioration) is evident December 2008 Mine community Up to date 100 100 86 Internally assessed and based development implementation of on Social and Labour Plans approved projects expiry dates Beneficiation Estimated baseline 10 % above 22 Baseline not stipulated but was baseline agreed upon with DMR during licensing process 81 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Developing social capital continued Continuing our strong focus on ЈЈ We assist all home ownership beneficiaries by housing and living conditions providing financial assistance in the form of Our management approach to housing interest-free loans for a portion of the purchase Our flagship investment in the wellbeing of our local price. communities is our significant commitment to the ЈЈ Implats received the Govan Mbeki Award – 2012 provision of housing for our employees and their Best Project utilising Financial Link Individual families. Through our investment in housing we aim to Subsidy Programme (FLISP) subsidy. create viable local communities in which employees ЈЈ Lowered the room density in residences to one are able to reside with their families in a stable, healthy person per room and secure environment within commuting distance of their place of work. At Zimplats 512 houses were built at a total cost of US$49 million. 395 of these were for the employee We believe that our commitment to housing provides a homeownership scheme. This included infrastructure clear opportunity for differentiation and to build a costs. sustainable competitive advantage amongst current and prospective employees and other stakeholders. At Mimosa 128 housing units have been built at a cost It presents a strong business/employee linkage and of US$17 million in FY2012, including infrastructure serves as a cornerstone of the other pillars of our development of roads, sewer systems and power. broader transformation strategy: it supports skills retention, procurement and enterprise development In addition to the above housing initiatives, we invested initiatives, as well as making a meaningful contribution a further R96 million in upgrading and converting the to community development. The housing strategy hostels in our Rustenburg operations to single embraces the organisation’s human capital vision that accommodation. We have converted 100% of the employees should be able to reside in decent other hostels to a one person-per-room. Our plan is to accommodation with their families, and it encourages ensure full occupancy on this basis in three residences home ownership and aims to build sustainable at Impala Platinum ahead of the 2014 target. The three communities. For those employees who cannot hostels that were converted into single occupancy access funding for home ownership, or who do not residences in FY2012 were officially opened by the wish to purchase a home, decent mine Deputy Minister of Department of Mineral Resources accommodation is provided as part of the strategy to and North West Provincial government officials. improve their living conditions and retain skills. Our housing focus for 2013 and beyond Our 2012 performance and achievements Our long-term goal is to have at least 50% of our on housing workforce at the mines residing with family by 2020. We are pleased to report that our housing project In realising this goal we have set ourselves the targets for 2012 have been achieved and that we are following commitments for 2013: on track to deliver on our objectives for 2020. ЈЈ The construction of 162 units for A, B and C In our South African operations: category employees in addition to the ЈЈ Reaching an agreement with the Rustenburg Local 1 555 bonded houses at Sunrise View reported Municipality to develop the Seraleng complex last year will be completed in FY2013 ЈЈ Complete a new primary and secondary school at ЈЈ The Company has commenced a R40 million home Sunrise View ownership project for A, B and C category ЈЈ Close Marlotti Camp at Marula and building of 152 employees at our Refining Operations in Springs new units at Motaganeng is planned and is planned for completion in FY2013 ЈЈ Complete the Rustenburg North and East upgrade ЈЈ We have provided category C and D employees projects who are residing in Rustenburg company ЈЈ Improve asset management by implementing the accommodation with the option of becoming SAP real estate module owners of these units at market prices. An ЈЈ Supply housing to critical staff, especially at the new additional project of 212 units for home ownership shafts for C and D category employees has commenced, ЈЈ Commence with the development of Platinum with the completion date planned for the end Village of 2014 ЈЈ Channel spends from our local economic development investments to Platinum Village. 82 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 These immediate objectives form part of our longerЈЈ Business advisory services/development term goals for our housing strategy, namely to: services: Through this service we will seek to assist ЈЈ Promote home ownership by developing further selected screened entrepreneurs to become active integrated residential suburbs in the mining industry. These services will mainly ЈЈ Provide quality single-person and family focus on two levels: a first level of focus will be to accommodation in line with the expectations of the develop, upskill, train and assist local entrepreneurs Mining Charter with existing businesses to become Implats ЈЈ Encourage skills retention by ensuring housing suppliers; secondly we will develop a service allocation to critical C and D level employees; that will navigate start-up entrepreneurs by ЈЈ Enhance home ownership opportunities particularly identifying where they can be given guidance on for A, B and C levels registering a business, preparing a business plan, ЈЈ Continue to build 2 400 units at Platinum Village. obtaining funding and complying with regulatory requirements. Once these start-up businesses In our Zimbabwean operations: have been capacitated the Enterprise ЈЈ Constructing approximately 2 000 houses at the Development Department will refer these Zimplats operations at a cost of US$85 million companies to the vendor registration process. ЈЈ Promoting home ownership through our housing scheme Promoting development and ЈЈ Providing decent accommodation for our transformation through our employees. procurement practices Our procurement contracts with suppliers stipulate Promoting enterprise development adherence to company policy, safety standards, Promoting enterprise development provides a key compliance with South African labour legislation mechanism for encouraging entrepreneurship and and conditions of employment. Suppliers who are contributing to the longer-term viability of local found to contravene these conditions, or who are communities. During FY2012 we revised our enterprise guilty of any unethical behaviour, face the risk of development strategy. It was decided to postpone the their services being terminated by Implats. During implementation of a physical business support unit and the year under review we terminated the services of the incubator project to a later stage. Implementation suppliers who had contravened the terms of our strategy started in late FY2012 and it will and conditions of our contracts; these contraventions continue into FY2013. included poor performance and substandard workmanship, unethical conduct and fraud. Through this revised strategy we will focus on: ЈЈ Establishing and maintaining a “supplier Encouraging transformation through development programme”: The main objective of procurement this programme will be to assist current suppliers to In the interests of good business practice and in line become more competitive. Participants in the with the requirements of the South African Mining programme will be selected from our current vendor Charter, our procurement policy grants preferential list or companies awarded tenders, with a specific status to suppliers accredited as being historically focus on local SMMEs and black-owned disadvantaged South Africans (HDSA). Included in the businesses already part of the system cost of sales is total discretionary spend of R5.3 billion, ЈЈ Developing a “business assistance programme”: of which 55% was spent with suppliers having HDSA This initiative will assist local and black-owned ownership of greater than 25% in the consumables businesses that are experiencing difficulties to meet category, and 61% on services (2011: R5.0 billion, their contractual obligations; there are currently five 48% on consumables and 59% on services). local businesses in this programme and this initiative will be expanded significantly in FY2013 The total South African operations’ discretionary ЈЈ Utilising new preferential procurement procurement for FY2012 was R9.4 billion of which opportunities: The main objective will be to link 51%, or R4.8 billion, was from companies in which local SMMEs and black-owned businesses with our HDSA ownership was greater than 25% (FY 2011: also business procurement opportunities. The R4.8 billion or 55%). HDSA spend remained flat with a Procurement Department will issue a preferential slight deterioration in the percentage (51% vs 55% in procurement yearly work-plan based on forecasted FY2011). HDSA procurement has grown by 71% since business requirements 2008, from R2.8 billion to R4.8 billion. 83 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Developing social capital continued Table 1: Percentage HDSA procurement (>25%) of category’s discretionary procurement (SA operations) Mining Charter target 2012 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Category % Rm % Rm % Rm % Rm % Rm % Capital 20 1.6 41 2.2 57 1.6 46 2.0 42 1.3* 42 Consumables 25 1.5 55 1.3 48 1.1 45 0.9 41 0.6 35 Services 50 1.7 61 1.4 59 1.1 59 1.2 54 0.9 45 Total operations 33 4.8 51 4.9 55 3.8 50 4.1 45 2.8 41 Note: Capital goods have been reported based on IFRS and Implats’ accounting policies recognition criteria for capital expenditure. Suppliers with a valid broad-based black economic empowerment (BBBEE) certificate at one point in the financial year under review, contributed to HDSA spend. Promoting development through local procurement We have recognised that there is scope for us to increase our local procurement spend as a means of supporting businesses in our surrounding communities. This approach is viewed as a business imperative in order to create sustainable communities, improve community relations, and to advance local economic development. In the year under review, R7.4 billion (FY2011: also R7.4 billion) was spent procuring from local suppliers within the province of operation, which constitutes 50% of the total procurement (FY2011: 53%). The number of local HDSA suppliers from which Implats procured remained the same at 473, while the number of national HDSA vendors grew by 2% to 988. For standardisation of future local reporting, spend has been categorised into three tiers indicated in table 3, below. Therefore, table 2 will be discontinued from next year as table 4 provides more meaningful information to measure local procurement performance. Table 2: Local procurement from all suppliers (all local procurement as % of total procurement: SA operations) Category 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Rbn % Rbn % % Rbn % Rbn % Impala Rustenburg 5.8 52 5.1 51 4.2 48 3.9 42 3.0 42 Impala Refineries 1.2 51 1.9 79 1.1 74 1.2 82 0.9 66 Marula Platinum 0.4 29 0.4 28 0.2 16 0.2 16 0.0 8 Total SA operations 7.4 50 7.4 53 5.5 48 5.3 43 4.0 42 Note:Local suppliers are all suppliers situated within the province in which the operation is situated. For Impala Rustenburg: North West province; Impala Springs: Gauteng province and Marula: Limpopo province. Table 3: Local areas classified as tiers 1, 2 and 3 Category Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Impala Rustenburg Mine lease area (Bafokeng Village) Rustenburg Municipality Bojanala district Marula Platinum Mine lease area (Four farms) Greater Tubatse municipality Greater Sekhukhune district Table 4: Local (tier 1, 2 and 3) HDSA procurement (>25%) as a percentage of total discretionary procurement 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Category Rm % Rm % Rm % Rm % Rm % Impala Rustenburg 1 911 25 1 557 22 1 067 17 n/a n/a n/a n/a Marula Platinum 130 21 103 13 103 13 n/a n/a n/a n/a 84 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 FOCUS TOPIC: Assessing our contribution to addressing national developmental priorities “By 2030, we seek to eliminate poverty and reduce inequality. We seek a country wherein all citizens have the capabilities to grasp the ever-broadening opportunities available. Our plan is to change the life of millions of our people, especially the youth; life chances that remain stunted by our apartheid history.” National Planning Commission: National Development Plan (November 2011) In November 2011 the South African National Planning Commission (NPC), a Presidential advisory body, published its National Development Plan. The plan presents the Commission’s response to nine key challenges identified in their earlier Diagnostic Report, and outlines their development priorities aimed at “charting a new path for the country”. These development priorities provide a useful yardstick against which to assess the nature of Implats’ contribution to the growth, development and wellbeing of South Africa and the region. While we recognise that mining has some significant social and environmental challenges, we believe that when managed responsibly mining can make a profound positive contribution to national and regional developmental priorities. Underpinning any such contribution is the need for a willingness to be transparent and accountable, to acknowledge and learn from mistakes, and to work collaboratively in identifying solutions to some of the complex systemic challenges that face the region and that have a direct bearing on the success of our business. Following is our brief assessment of how Implats is playing its role in addressing some of the principal developmental priorities identified in the NPC’s National Development Plan. An economy that will create more jobs: In 2030, the economy should be close to full employment, equip people with the necessary skills, ensure that ownership of production is more diverse, and be able to grow rapidly, providing the resources to pay for investment in human and physical capital. ЈЈ As a labour-intensive industry we have made an important contribution to this critical objective through the provision of more than 54 000 direct jobs in South Africa and more than 7 000 in Zimbabwe (page 90). In addition we have stimulated significant employment opportunities throughout our value chain, including through our procurement practices targeted at encouraging transformation and local economic development (pages 83 and 84) ЈЈ We have invested significant resources in enhancing employment opportunities through our skills development and training initiatives that include investments in primary education, adult literacy, technical skills and leadership development (page 60). These investments have been complemented through substantial tax revenues (page 73) facilitating public investment in the development of human capital. ЈЈ We have been starkly reminded this year of the fundamental importance of a well-functioning labour market and of the need for efficient and effective dispute resolution mechanisms (page 59). We remain particularly committed to finding an approach to collective bargaining that takes account of a multi-union environment, and to exploring opportunities for linking wages to productivity (an issue the NPC identifies as a priority). We hope that the lessons learned from our strike, and any resulting collaboratively developed solutions, will help to more broadly inform the functioning of the South African labour market. 85 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Developing social capital continued FOCUS TOPIC: Assessing our contribution to addressing national developmental priorities continued Improving infrastructure: To grow in a more inclusive manner the country needs higher levels of investment in economic infrastructure, as well as infrastructure that supports human settlements ЈЈ We have contributed to infrastructure development through our significant capital investments, as well as through our social investment initiatives in the communities that are home to our employees. Our capital investments have enhanced export opportunities, while our investments in health, education, basic infrastructure and community empowerment (pages 77 and 78) and in housing (page 82) have contributed directly to the development of human settlements ЈЈ We have recently shifted our social investment strategy to move gradually away from income-generating projects towards establishing infrastructure that will address urgent needs in mine communities with the focus on longer-term impacts. Typical projects will include: multipurpose information centres; school upgrades and maintenance; educational support systems; the provision of roads, water, electricity and renewable energy projects; and upgrading of clinics and investments in healthcare support infrastructure and systems ЈЈ Marula Platinum is currently implementing a R16 million investment in water infrastructure within its host communities, thereby contributing to the provision of affordable access to sufficient safe water and hygienic sanitation. In addition they have recently completed a R14 million electrification project within the host communities helping to meet the energy needs of poor households. Transition to a low-carbon economy: The country needs a coherent plan to use water more sustainably and to emit less carbon ЈЈ We recognise that mining is an inherently energyand water-intensive activity. Addressing the carbon intensity of the resource-dependent South African economy, while meeting other development priorities, will be a significant challenge. We are committed to working with government, through industry bodies, in identifying a policy approach that does not compromise the competitiveness of our sector, noting both our important developmental contribution as well as the role of platinum group metals in the transition to a lower carbon economy ЈЈ We share the government’s objective of reducing energy and water usage, as these are both rising cost areas for us in a sector that has been facing significantly declining margins. In addition to being fully transparent in our energy and water usage, we have implemented various efficiency initiatives (page 66), and are assessing the feasibility of using biomass as an energy source at our Rustenburg smelter. An inclusive and integrated rural economy: South Africa’s rural communities should have greater opportunities to participate fully in the economic, social and political life of the country through access to good quality education, healthcare, transport and other basic services ЈЈ In addition to the beneficial economic value-added arising from our core activities (page 73), our independently evaluated social investment activities have consistently made an important contribution to improving the wellbeing of communities in the rural and peri-urban areas around our mines, and in those rural regions of the Eastern Cape that are home to some of our employees (page 90). This year alone our socio-economic development expenditure benefited more than 68 000 people in South Africa and 800 in Zimbabwe through investments in infrastructure, education, health, housing, and enterprise and sports development (pages 77 and 78). The demographic of beneficiaries shows that over 95% of these beneficiaries were black, while more than 57% were youth (35 years of age and under). Reversing the spatial effects of apartheid: Settlement patterns should meet the needs and preferences of citizens taking into account broader social, environmental and economic interests ЈЈ The spatial impact of apartheid is one of its most visible legacies. Recognising the mining sector’s involvement in the migrant labour system, this is an issue for which the sector has particular responsibility and where it can play a valuable role. Our flagship investment in the wellbeing of our local communities is our commitment to the provision of housing for our employees and their families. Through this investment we are creating viable local communities in which employees are able to reside with their families in a stable, healthy and secure environment within commuting distance of their place of work. These projects are reducing employee travel time and costs, and increasing access to education opportunities and social amenities. 86 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 FOCUS TOPIC: Assessing our contribution to addressing national developmental priorities continued Improving education, training and innovation, and providing quality healthcare: Poor education and health significantly reduces opportunities for a productive life and undermines the dynamism of the South African economy ЈЈ Our contribution to building education is demonstrated by our investment, working jointly with the North West Department of Education in the construction of the Sunrise View School state-of-the art combined primary and secondary school at a cost of R80 million ЈЈ In addition to implementing measures aimed at reducing employee exposure to occupational illness, we have been active in addressing non-occupational health risks, most notably HIV and PTB (page 55). In addition we have partnered with the Department of Health in addressing community health issues; as part of an MoU with the Department this year we will refurbish and increase the capacity of the maternity ward at Job Shimankane Tabane Hospital in the Rustenburg area. Fighting corruption: High corruption levels frustrate the state’s ability to deliver on its development mandate ЈЈ By ensuring high standards of ethical behaviour throughout our activities we believe that this will contribute to combating corruption more broadly. Implats has a zero tolerance stance on fraud and corruption; all our employees, business partners, contractors and associates are required to conduct themselves in accordance with the Implats Code of Ethics and our fraud policy. Adherence to this Code is facilitated by a “whistle-blowing” helpline that enables the confidential reporting of alleged incidents (page 44). Transforming society and uniting the country: A more cohesive society is fundamental to eradicating poverty and inequality, and encouraging a more stable economy ЈЈ Our investments in employment opportunities, education, health, housing and infrastructure collectively provide a significant contribution to building social cohesion. These are supplemented by our commitment to promoting broad-based transformation (page 81) evidenced, for example, by the nature of our initiatives relating to ownership (where we are acknowledged as a leader), employment equity, skills development, procurement, and housing. 87 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Appendix 88 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 89 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Appendix Employee origin Our performance data 2012 RSA operations Investing in effective people People 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Total in service Impala Rustenburg Own employees 31 920 31 681 30 791 29 462 28 453 Contractor employees 14 381 13 541 13 443 11 862 14 206 Impala Springs Own employees 1 053 1 053 1 004 1 006 1 007 North West 51% Contractor Eastern Cape 15% employees 1 106 282 260 904 1 172 Limpopo 8% Lesotho 6% Marula Own employees 2 982 3 272 3 241 2 512 2 493 Mozambique 5% Northern Cape 4% Contractor Gauteng 4% employees 726 937 727 998 1 098 KwaZulu-Natal 2% Free State 2% Zimplats Own employees 2 791 2 757 2 418 2 136 1 584 Botswana 1% Contractor Mpumalanga 1% Swaziland 0,4% employees 6 412 2 610 1 262 3 323 3 998 Western Cape 0,1% Mimosa Own employees 786 784 788 812 771 Zimbabwe 0,1% Zambia 0,0% Contractor employees 100 115 113 20 126 Corporate Own employees 89 77 75 72 73 Contractor employees – 19 14 20 10 Group employees 39 621 39 624 38 317 36 000 34 381 Group contractor employees 22 725 17 504 15 819 17 127 20 610 Turnover (%) Impala Rustenburg 10.1 8.4 6.1 7.3 8.0 Impala Springs 5.3 5.4 6.7 8.6 9.0 Marula 11.0 21.7 4.8 10.0 13.0 Zimplats 4.2 4.4 5.3 10.7 11.0 Mimosa 4.2 3.4 6.2 6.2 12.0 Corporate 7.7 11.3 18.7 11.1 5.0 Group 10.0 8.3 6.0 7.8 8.9 Women turnover (%) Impala Rustenburg 0.3 0.4 0.2 0.3 – Impala Springs 1.7 0.7 2.0 1.4 – Marula 0.7 0.9 0.3 0.4 – Zimplats 6 – 5.2 – – Mimosa 0 0.4 – – – Corporate 2.2 5.2 12.0 16.9 – Group 0.8 0.4 0.6 0.4 – Unionised workforce (%) Impala Rustenburg 58.3* 72.9 73.1 70.3 – Impala Springs 69.5 61.8 84.3 59.9 – Marula 65 70.0 65.0 70.0 – Zimplats 52 37.0 26.5 25.3 – Mimosa 24 24.8 25.5 25.4 – *These figures are subject to verification following the resignation of members from the National Union of Mineworkers and the emergence of AMCU as the preferred union. 90 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Safety 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 FIFR Impala Rustenburg 0.12 0.06 0.17 0.11 0.06 Impala Springs 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Marula 0.13 0.00 0.00 0.13 0.37 Zimplats 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.13 Mimosa 0.00 0.10 0.00 0.00 0.19 Group 0.09 0.05 0.12 0.08 0.10 LTIFR Impala Rustenburg 5.99 5.68 5.35 3.63 3.80 Impala Springs 0.22 0.60 0.00 0.40 0.21 Marula 11.46 9.19 9.39 5.35 1.24 Zimplats 0.21 0.75 0.69 0.45 0.69 Mimosa 1.19 0.20 0.35 0.52 0.88 Group 4.96 4.94 4.61 2.92 2.92 TIFR Impala Rustenburg 11.22 12.60 15.41 15.16 16.09 Impala Springs 18.86 26.92 20.60 20.01 24.31 Marula 36.08 34.15 41.25 28.88 45.09 Zimplats 2.22 3.39 3.61 5.49 9.69 Mimosa 4.65 5.70 3.74 5.45 7.51 Group 11.19 13.47 15.21 13.95 16.97 MTCFR Impala Rustenburg 4.61 6.03 8.32 9.92 12.30 Impala Springs 18.41 26.12 20.38 19.00 24.10 Marula 17.06 17.99 20.15 17.25 43.85 Zimplats 1.70 1.79 1.98 4.20 9.00 Mimosa 2.59 4.15 2.92 4.40 6.64 Group 5.28 7.10 8.49 9.41 14.08 Health VCT Impala Rustenburg 7 792 12 647 6 236 5 595 2 808 Impala Springs 14 19 24 34 74 Marula 292 275 130 119 291 Zimplats 1 424 889 204 401 344 Mimosa 298 242 243 114 92 Group 9 820 14 072 6 837 6 263 3 609 People on ART Impala Rustenburg 3 222 2 488 1 709 872 632 Impala Springs 26 19 14 10 6 Marula 65 51 29 19 277 Zimplats 114 92 63 51 34 Mimosa 139 123 90 54 25 Group 3 566 2 773 1 905 1 006 974 91 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Appendix continued Health continued 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 TB cases Impala Rustenburg 352 318 352 380 286 Impala Springs 0 0 0 5 3 Marula 21 19 25 12 12 Zimplats 6 5 11 14 6 Mimosa 10 8 11 15 22 Group 389 350 399 426 329 NIHL Cases Impala Rustenburg 53 52 92 44 31 Impala Springs 0 0 0 0 0 Marula 10 4 14 1 0 Zimplats 0 0 0 0 0 Mimosa 0 1 1 0 0 Group 63 57 107 45 31 Skills development Expenditure (R million) Impala Rustenburg 313 312 233 229 164 Impala Springs 21 21 20 39 34 Marula 19 24 19 12 17 SA operations total (6% of wagebill) 353 357 272 280 215 Employee literacy (%) (ABET III and above) Impala Rustenburg 74 57 55 51 32 Impala Springs 93 92 90 90 89 Marula 92 88 88 88 87 Zimplats 99 99 99 99 99 Mimosa 99 96 96 95 96 Average group literacy 86 86 85 85 81 ABET training employees Impala Rustenburg 900 804 851 939 1 220 Impala Springs 7 13 58 61 89 Marula 0 25 32 42 23 SA operations total 907 842 941 1 042 1 332 Total number of employees trained (including ABET) Impala Rustenburg 23 477 24 178 24 751 22 042 23 040 Impala Springs 1 091 1 127 1 039 1 063 992 Marula 1 117 1 421 1 210 533 442 SA operations total 25 685 26 726 27 000 23 638 24 474 Value of ABET training (R000) Impala Rustenburg 10 220 11 157 10 002 11 315 – Impala Springs 578 1 600 4 161 5 862 – Marula 0 1 260 1 012 900 – SA operations total 10 798 14 017 15 175 18 077 – Hours of ABET training Impala Rustenburg 134 842 190 525 165 840 194 184 – Impala Springs 13 433 15 136 27 808 39 088 – Marula 0 14 450 24 422 13 920 – SA operations total 148 257 220 111 218 070 247 192 – 92 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Our performance data Our environmental performance Key production figures 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Ore milled (tonnes) 17 788 20 974 20 309 20 083 21 247 Tailings disposed on tailing dam (000 tonnes) 20 619 23 163 21 809 20 333 19 162 Dump slag treated (000 tonnes) 175 250 179 235 365 Furnace and converter slag generated and treated (000 tonnes) 772 880 844 842 903 Total slag treated (000 tonnes) 947 1 130 1 023 1 027 1 268 Platinum produced (000 oz) – – 1 741 1 704 1 865 Group material consumption Diesel (000 litres) 27 875 26 000 23 466 29 262 29 349 Petrol (000 litres) 1 237 1 666 1 250 1 621 1 206 Coal (tonnes) 161 563 170 000 159 240 164 378 160 947 Industrial burning oil (000 litres) 2 660 2 453 2 034 1 728 2 393 Energy (000GJ) Impala Rustenburg 11 360 12 220 11 295 11 138 10 875 Impala Springs 2 668 2 695 2 530 2 554 2 520 Marula 713 694 674 637 613 Zimplats 2 100 1 865 1 826 1 413 1 587 Mimosa 701 747 688 646 540 Group 17 542 18 222 17 013 16 388 16 135 Water (000kl) Total water withdrawn Impala Rustenburg 15 961 18 115 17 482 18 843 19 812 Impala Springs 792 769 715 758 752 Marula 1 989 1 817 1 494 1 169 1 001 Zimplats 4 408 4 007 4 729 2 685 2 386 Mimosa 2 124 2 337 2 659 2 328 2 019 Group 25 274 27 045 27 079 25 783 25 970 Total water consumed* Impala Rustenburg 26 012 28 044 22 859 26 401 29 530 Impala Springs 1 251 1 244 1 125 1 195 1 186 Marula 3 585 3 355 2 841 2 160 2 031 Zimplats 6 003 5 528 6 172 3 793 3 442 Mimosa 3 263 3 697 4 063 3 885 3 286 Group 40 114 41 868 37 060 37 434 39 475 Total water recycled Impala Rustenburg 10 051 9 928 5 376 7 557 9 719 Impala Springs 459 474 411 438 433 Marula 1 596 1 541 1 347 991 1 030 Zimplats 1 595 1 521 1 443 1 109 1 056 Mimosa 1 139 1 359 1 404 1 557 1 267 Group 14 840 14 823 9 981 11 652 13 505 *Total water consumed = total water withdrawn and total water recycled. 93 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Appendix continued Our performance data Our environmental performance Emissions 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Total direct CO2 (tonnes) Impala Rustenburg 193 317 208 463 186 193 203 541 187 538 Impala Springs 154 077 166 267 149 707 150 992 149 359 Marula 6 450 7 157 6 959 6 571 6 993 Zimplats 53 697 41 190 42 371 48 272 61 658 Mimosa 10 362 12 528 9 673 11 034 8 778 Group 417 903 435 605 394 903 420 410 414 326 Total indirect CO2 (tonnes) Impala Rustenburg 2 444 347 2 725 366 2 532 798 2 347 267 2 235 447 Impala Springs 147 166 155 388 150 433 138 343 139 022 Marula 170 958 168 970 163 747 149 570 139 378 Zimplats 374 016 375 408 355 287 201 849 188 299 Mimosa 152 087 161 491 156 493 133 757 109 469 Group 3 288 574 3 586 623 3 358 758 2 970 786 2 811 616 Total direct SO2 (tonnes) Impala Rustenburg 4 736 6 319 3 638 14 223 18 184 Impala Springs 256 462 839 455 342 Marula 0 0 0 0 0 Zimplats 13 471 12 100 12 449 6 474 7 951 Mimosa 0 0 0 0 0 Group 18 463 18 881 16 926 21 152 26 477 Land management Disturbed areas rehabilitated (ha) Impala Rustenburg 23.4 40.2 56 51 – Impala Springs 0 0 0 0 – Marula 0 0 61 0 – Zimplats 0 0 0 305 – Mimosa 0 0 0 0 – Group 23.4 40.2 117 356 – Rehabilitation liabilities/current costs (R000) Impala Rustenburg 716 708 768 520 540 Impala Springs 60 – – – – Marula 82 70 80 66 70 Zimplats 216 164 166 122 122 Mimosa 77 62 67 64 14 Group 1 147 1 004 1 081 772 746 Rehabilitation provisions (R000) Impala Rustenburg 520 455 432 289 227 Impala Springs 38 Marula 57 41 35 33 36 Zimplats 117 99 111 99 51 Mimosa 52 40 42 17 10 Group 784 635 620 438 324 *In line with financial accounting principles and not DMR requirements. 94 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Waste management Unit of Total Group Non-mineral/non-hazardous waste measure FY2012 Re-used Tonnes 7 051 Recycled Tonnes 11 864 Recovered Tonnes 0 Treatment Tonnes 0 Disposal Tonnes 8 044 On-site storage Tonnes 0 Unit of Total Group Non-mineral/hazardous waste measure FY2012 Re-used Tonnes 0 Recycled Tonnes 40 756 Recovered Tonnes 0 Treatment Tonnes 7 703 Disposal Tonnes 11 413 On-site storage Tonnes 28 Mineral waste (000 tonnes) 2012 2011 2010 2009 Accumulated tailings 20 619 22 878 21 809 20 333 Accumulated waste rock (on surface) 1 323 1 388 1 202 6 405 95 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 The GRI Guidelines and UNGC Communication on Progress Implats has followed the guidance provided by principles and criteria provided in the GRI’s G3 guidelines. A brief review of our application of the GRI reporting principles is provided below. A detailed response to each of the GRI reporting criteria (with hyperlinks to the corresponding sections of the report) is provided on our website, along with our Communication on Progress in terms of the UN Global Compact. Principles relating to the quality of this report ЈЈ Materiality: As outlined on pages 34 to 39 the issues covered in this report have been guided by a combination of feedback from stakeholders, the identification of material issues by the Sustainable Development Forum, and matters identified through the Group’s risk management process ЈЈ Stakeholder inclusiveness: The views and concerns of stakeholders have been considered in this report. ЈЈ Following the appointment of a stakeholder engagement manager in FY2009, this process has been formalised ЈЈ Sustainability context: The content of the report is informed by the nature of our products and markets, and with consideration to the social, economic and environmental context in which we operate. See for example page 85 where we provide a detailed review of our contribution to addressing national developmental priorities of South Africa ЈЈ Completeness: The Group’s revised approach to sustainability management was reported extensively in FY2009; only material changes from that basis were covered in this report ЈЈ Balance: The Group has endeavoured to report in a balanced manner, reflecting both achievements and challenges during the year ЈЈ Comparability: In almost all performance areas, comparisons with FY2011 have been made. Where possible and where the information is available, data has been provided over a period of five years ЈЈ Accuracy: Implats believes data has been provided in a format that is broadly acceptable and comparable against industry norms – where necessary definitions have been provided ЈЈ Timeliness: This integrated report is published annually, combining financial and non-financial performance ЈЈ Clarity: The Group has adopted a reporting style that is concise, but comprehensive enough to be understandable to the lay person ЈЈ Reliability: In FY2009, Implats implemented a sustainability toolkit to collate and verify data, and to ensure greater accuracy and reliability. Certain performance indicators have been verified by the external assurance provider. Principles relating to the boundaries of this report ЈЈ This report includes operations that are wholly owned or managed by the Group, as well as Mimosa mine, in which Implats has a 50% interest. The Two Rivers operation, in which the Group has a 40% interest and does not directly manage, is not directly covered. GRI application level GRI requires that the Company self-declares an application level ranging C B to A. The requirements for these levels are indicated below. The + symbol indicates external assurance. For 2012, Implats has declared an A+ level of reporting and this has been verified by a third party assurance provider (see statement on page 97). C C+ B B+ A A+ G3 profile Report on 1.1 Report on all listed Same as disclosures 2.1 – 2.10 requirement for 3.1 – 3.8 Level B 3.10 – 3.12 4.1 – 4.4 4.14 – 4.15 Report externally assured Report externally assured Report externally assured G3 management Not required Management approach Management approach Standard disclosures approach disclosures for each disclosed for each disclosures indicator category indicator category G3 performance Report on a minimum Report on a minimum Respond on each core indicators and sector of 10 performance of 20 performance G3 and sector supplement indicators including at indicators at least one supplement indicator performance least one from each of from each of the social, with due regard on the indicators the social, economic economic and materiality principle by and environment environment, human either rights, labour society, a) reporting on the product responsibility indicator or b) explaining the reason for its omission 96 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Independent Assurance Report on Selected Sustainability Information To the Directors of Impala Platinum Holdings Limited We have undertaken an assurance engagement on selected sustainability information as described below and presented in the 2012 Sustainable Development Report of Impala Platinum Holdings Limited (Implats) for the year ended 30 June 2012 (the Report). Independence and expertise We have complied with the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, which includes comprehensive independence and other requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. Our engagement was conducted by a multi-disciplinary team of health, safety, social, environmental and assurance specialists with extensive experience in sustainability reporting. Subject matter and related assurance We are required to provide assurance as follows: 1(a). Reasonable assurance on the following key performance indicators: Health and Safety Indicators Description Assured value Pg Contractor and employee fatalities 12 fatalities 29 Contractor and employee Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 4.96 51, 91 Total Injury Frequency Rate 11.19 51, 91 New cases of noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) 63 cases 54, 92 New cases of pulmonary tuberculosis diagnosed and treated 389 cases 55, 92 Employees on Antiretroviral Treatment (ART) – net enrolment at year-end 3 566 employees on ART 55, 91 Employee Voluntary Counselling and Testing Program Uptake (VCT) – tested cases 9 820 VCT tested cases 55, 91 Environmental Indicators Description Assured value Pg Total energy consumed 17 542 (000 GJ) 70, 93 Total water withdrawn 25 274 (000 kilolitres) 68, 93 Total water consumed 40 114 (000 kilolitres) 68, 93 Total indirect carbon dioxide emissions (CO2) 3 288 574 tonnes 70, 94 Total indirect nitrogen oxide(s) emissions (NOx) 13 953 tonnes 69 Total indirect sulphur oxide(s) emissions (SOx) 26 243 tonnes 69 97 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Independent Assurance Report on Selected Sustainability Information continued 1(b). Limited assurance on the following key performance indicators: Social and Labour Indicators (only applicable to the South African-based Implats’ operations) Description Assured value Pg Number of employees who are classified as historically disadvantaged South Africans (HDSA) and who are employed at management levels (excluding non-executive directors ) 361 employees 63 Number of women employees in management 141 employees 62 Total socio-economic development (SED) expenditure R90 million 77 HDSA procurement (>25%) as a percentage of total discretionary procurement Total – 51% 84 HDSA procurement (>25%) as a percentage per category Capital – 41% Consumable – 55% Services – 61% Environmental Indicators Description Assured value Pg Total direct carbon dioxide emissions (CO2) 417 904 tonnes 70, 94 Total direct sulphur dioxide emissions (SO2) (only Zimplats, Springs and Rustenburg operations) 18 463 tonnes 69, 94 2. Limited assurance on Implats’ self-declaration of the GRI A+ Application Level (page 3) Directors’ responsibilities The Directors are responsible for the selection, preparation and presentation of the sustainability information, the identification of stakeholder requirements and material issues, for commitments with respect to sustainability performance, and establishing and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control systems from which the reported information is derived, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the Report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The Directors are also responsible for the selection and application of the criteria detailed below: ЈЈ The GRI G3.1 Guidelines applied to the selected key performance indicators ЈЈ The GRI G3.1 Guidelines on Implats’ self declaration of the GRI A+ Application Level. Our responsibility Our responsibility is to express assurance conclusions on the selected sustainability information based on our work performed. We have conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000), Assurance Engagements other than the Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. That Standard requires that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain assurance about whether the selected sustainability information is free from material misstatement. Our procedures and the extent of our procedures depend on our judgement including the risks of material misstatement of the selected sustainability information. In a limited assurance engagement, the evidence gathering procedures are less than where reasonable assurance is expressed. In making our risk assessments, we considered internal control relevant to Implats’ preparation of the Report. We believe the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions. 98 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 Summary of work performed Our work included the following evidence gathering procedures: ЈЈ Interviewing management and senior executives at Group level to assess the application of the GRI G3.1 principles and to obtain an understanding of the general control environment relative to the reported sustainability information ЈЈ Obtaining an understanding of the processes and systems which generate, aggregate and monitor the selected sustainability information ЈЈ Inspecting supporting documentation and performing analytical procedures ЈЈ Visiting a risk based selection of four operation sites, including Rustenburg (mining, concentrating and smelting), Springs (refineries), Marula (mining and concentrating) and Zimplats (mining and concentrating) ЈЈ Conducting an application level check on the Report to ensure all disclosure requirements of the GRI A+ application level have been adhered to ЈЈ Evaluating whether the information presented in the Report is consistent with our findings, overall knowledge and experience of sustainability management and performance at Implats. Conclusions 1(a). On the selected key performance indicators on which we are required to express reasonable assurance In our opinion, the selected key performance indicators set out in 1(a) above for the year ended 30 June 2012 are fairly stated, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. 1(b). On the selected key performance indicators on which we are required to express limited assurance Based on our work performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected sustainability indicators set out in 1(b) above for the year ended 30 June 2012 are not fairly stated, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. 2. On Implats’ self-declaration on the GRI G3.1 A+ Application Level on which we are required to express limited assurance Based on our work performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Implats’ self-declaration of a A+ Application Level is not fairly stated, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. Other matters The maintenance and integrity of the Implats website is the responsibility of Implats’ management. Our procedures did not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly we accept no responsibility for any changes to either the information in the Report or our Independent Assurance Report that may have occurred since the initial date of presentation on the Implats website. Restriction of liability Our work has been undertaken to enable us to express the conclusions on the selected sustainability information to the Directors of Implats in accordance with the terms of our engagement, and for no other purpose. We do not accept or assume liability to any party other than Implats, for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions we have reached. KPMG Services (Pty) Limited Per PD Naidoo Director Johannesburg 19 September 2012 99 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Glossary of terms and acronyms ABET Adult Basic Education and Training AIDS Acquired immune deficiency syndrome ANCYL African National Congress Youth League ART Anti-retroviral therapy, provided for the treatment of HIV and AIDS (excluding state and private medical aid) BEE Black economic empowerment CAIA Chemical and Industries Association CBO Community-based organisation CO2 Carbon dioxide dB Decibels. Unit of measurement for sound DMR Department of Mineral Resources, South Africa DSM Demand-side management DWAF Department of Water Affairs and Forestry EIA Environmental Impact Assessment EMP Environmental Management Programme EMS Environmental Management System ESOP Employee Share Ownership Programme EXCO Executive Committee Executive Is employed by the Company and is involved in the day-to-day running of the organisation director FIFR A rate expressed per million man hours of any Implats employee, contractor or contractor employee or visitor who is involved in an incident while performing his duties at work and who sustains terminal injuries shall constitute a fatal accident. Any road-related fatal incident where the Company is in full control of the vehicle, the driver and conditions related to the road injury of an employee shall constitute a fatal incident. A fatal injury may occur when an employee is incapacitated for a period of time prior to expiration, thus requiring a revision of injury status from LTI to a fatality FLISP Financial Link Individual Subsidy programme FOG Fall of ground FY Financial year (to 30 June) GDP Gross Domestic Production GHG Greenhouse gases GJ Gigajoules. Unit of measure for energy GRI Global Reporting Initiative HDSA Historically disadvantaged South African HIV Human immuno-deficiency virus HSE Health, Safety and Environment IBT Impala Bafokeng Trust, socio-economic development vehicle jointly funded by Implats and RBH ICDT Impala Community Development Trust, vehicle for socio-economic development, now dissolved IDP Integrated Development Plan ILO International Labour Organisation Impala Impala Platinum Limited, comprising the Rustenburg operations and the Refineries in Springs Platinum Implats Impala Platinum Holdings Limited Independent Directors who apart from receiving directors’ remuneration do not have any other material directors pecuniary relationship or transactions with the Company, its management or its subsidiaries, which in the judgement of the Board may affect their independence. 100 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Sustainable Development Report 2012 ISO International Organisation for Standardisation JORG Australasian Code of Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves LED Local Economic Development Local Communities that are directly impacted on by our mining operations and are on or near the community mine lease area Lost time A work-related injury resulting in the employee being unable to attend work at his/her place of work, performing his/her assigned duties, on the next calendar day (whether a scheduled work day or not) after the day of the injury. If the appointed medical professional advises that the injured person is unable to attend work on the next calendar day after the injury, regardless of the injured person’s next roster shift, a lost-time injury is deemed to have occurred LSE London Stock Exchange LTIFR Number of lost-time injuries expressed as a rate per million hours worked and excludes Restricted Work Cases Marula Marula Platinum (Pty) Limited Materiality and Issues of materiality are those aspects that may have a significant impact on the organisation’s material issues reputation and may carry a financial and/or legal cost. These aspects are identified internally through the risk process and externally through ad hoc or routine engagements with a range of stakeholders Medical Employees who have applied to be boarded based on a medical condition approved by the Incapacitation company’s most senior medical person on site MRM Mineral Reources Management Medical A Medical Treatment Case is defined as a one-time treatment and subsequent observation of Treatment Cases minor injuries by an appointed medical professional. Such minor injuries may include treatment (MTCs) by the application of bandages, antiseptic, ointment, irrigation of the eye to remove nonembedded foreign objects or the removal of foreign objects from the wound. MTCs never involve a loss of one or more calendar days after the injury, regardless of the injured person’s next rostered shift or where the injured is unable to perform one or more of their routine functions normally connected with their work due to a restriction applied by an appointed medical professional MIGDETT Mining Industry Growth Development and Employment Task team Mimosa Mimosa Platinum (Private) Limited Mining Charter Broad-based Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter for the South African Mining Industry MPRDA Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act, 28 of 2002, which came into effect in South Africa on 11 May 2004 MW Megawatt, a measure of electric power NBI National Business Institute NGO Non-governmental organisation NHI National Health Insurance NIHL Noise-induced hearing loss Non-executive A director who is not involved in the day-to-day running of the organisation but is a nominee director director of a material shareholder. NOx Nitrous oxide NUM National Union of Mineworkers, South Africa ORAs Objective-based risk assessments PBC PGM Beneficiation Committee PGI Platinum Guild International PGMs Platinum group metals being the metals derived from PGE PPM Parts per million RBH Royal Bafokeng Holdings 101 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 Glossary of terms and acronyms continued RBN Royal Bafokeng Nation Reportable A reportable injury is an injury which results in: a) the death of the employee b) an injury, to any employee, likely to be fatal c) u  nconsciousness, incapacitation from heatstroke or heat exhaustion, oxygen deficiency, the inhalation of fumes or poisonous gas, or electric short or electric burning accidents of or by any employee and which is not reportable in terms of paragraph (d), or as required by the OHS Act where applicable d) a  n injury which either incapacitates the injured employee from performing that employee’s normal occupation for a period totalling 14 days or more, or which causes the injured employee to suffer the loss of a joint, or a part of a joint, or sustain a permanent disability Restricted Work A Restricted Work Injury is a work-related injury which results in the employee being able to Injuries return to his or her permanently assigned workplace, to perform his or her permanently (RWI) assigned work on the next calendar day, but where the injured is unable to perform one or more of their routine functions normally connected with their work due to a restriction applied by an appointed medical professional RLM Rustenburg Local Municipality SAMREC South African Code for Reporting Mineral Reserves and Resources SED Socio-economic Development SLP Social and Labour Plan SMMEs Small, medium and micro enterprises SO2 Sulphur dioxide TB Pulmonary tuberculosis, which in South Africa is considered an occupational illness when it is associated with the presence of dust in the workplace Total Injury All injuries expressed as a rate per million man-hours worked Frequency Rate Total water Recycled water and withdrawn consumed Traditional council Elected/appointed members of a community according to customs and practices. The tenure leadership of these leaders differ among communities. The chief King/Kgoshi/Kgosi or inKhosi is the head of the Traditional council leadership and the Chairman of the council UNGC United Nations Global Compact UNEP United Nation Environmental Programme VCT Voluntary counselling and testing, in respect of HIV and AIDS Basis of calculating both direct and indirect energy and resulting CO2 emissions Indicator Basis of calculation Indirect energy 2012 DEFRA Guidelines Indirect CO2 Eskom Integrated Report FY2012 (generated factor) Direct energy from diesel, petrol and IBO 2012 DEFRA Guidelines Direct CO2 from diesel, petrol and IBO 2012 DEFRA Guidelines Direct energy from Sasol Gas From Sasol Gas (supplier) Direct CO2 from Sasol Gas From Sasol Gas (supplier) Direct energy from coal consumption Supplier analysis Direct CO2 from coal consumption Supplier analysis 102 Implats Sustainable Development Report 2012 BASTION GRAPHICS www.implats.co.za
