AXFOOD 2011 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T –30% reduced energy use per square metre by 2015 Axfood´s goal is to be climate neutral by 2020 Employee Satisfaction Index score of at least 90% Årsredovisning SUSTAINABILITY REPORT2011 2011 Contents 2 Axfood´s sustainability goal 4 Corporate responsibility at Axfood 6 Environment 9 Customers 12 Suppliers 13 Society 15 Employees 18 GRI table Axfood’s sustainability goals Axfood’s sustainability programme covers a multitude of goals and sub-goals for both the nearand long term. Initiated in 2009, the programme is being developed in pace with the achievement of objectives and the emergence of new opportunities. A sampling of the programme’s points are outlined below. The entire sustainability programme can be downloaded from axfood.se Maximum material recycling Efficient, climate-adapted transports Climate neutrality is the goal shall be profitable Dagab and Axfood Närlivs should reduce All warehouses and Group-owned stores are their CO2 emissions from fuel by 20% per Axfood’s goal is to be climate neutral by to work with extensive waste sorting covertonne of goods by 2015, from Group-owned 2020. The sub-goal is to reduce energy ing all fractions, including biologically treatvehicles. A further goal is to reduce fuel conuse by 30% per square metre by 2015 able waste and other waste. sumption by 10% by 2015. (base year 2009). All companies in the Group should achieve better profitability in sales of waste Outcome 2011 Outcome 2011 fractions to material recycling contractors. During the period 2009–2011, both compaAt year-end 2011, Axfood’s energy use had nies reduced their CO2 emissions from fuel decreased by 0.3% per square metre comOutcome 2011 by 18.7% per tonne of transported goods pared with 2009 in the premises in which A Group-wide system was implemented for compared with 2009. measurement was possible. The reduction sorting of all waste fractions, which are hanDuring the year both companies began plan includes a review of lighting, ventilation, dled by three external contractors. A new porusing Evolution diesel, which is partly based refrigeration and heating. tal was opened, where the contractors are to on pine oil. In 2011 Dagab increased its use During the year, work was begun on evalreport what they have collected. This has made of rail transport for products coming in to uating the opportunity to install solar cells it possible to formulate quantitative goals and its warehouses from suppliers in Sweden as on the roofs of all warehouse buildings. follow up waste sorting on a continuous basis. well as from other European countries. 2 axfood SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Responsible production Axfood continued to purchase palm oil cerOutcome 2011 All of the Group’s suppliers in high-risk tificates for the volume of palm oil used in Work attendance during the year was 95.3%. countries have been required to undergo a the Group’s own products. The employee survey conducted during social audit by 2013 at the latest. One hunthe year showed an Employee Satisfaction dred per cent of the palm oil used in Garant Healthy, equal and knowledgeable Index score of 92%. products shall be sustainability certified by ­employees The share of women in management 2015. Axfood shall maintain a work attendance rate positions was 21.6% at year-end. of at least 95% and an Employee Satisfaction At year-end 2011, 82% of employees Outcome 2011 Index score of at least 90%. By 2015 the had completed basic environment trainNew purchasing guidelines, including life Company shall have achieved an even gender ing. At Willys, which has the largest number cycle analyses, have been gradually introbalance in management positions, i.e., within of employees, everyone had completed this duced in purchasing work and will continue a span of 40%–60%. All employees shall have training by year-end. in 2012. completed basic environmental training by In 2011, 17 social audits were performed, 2012 at the latest. including two in Sweden. Goals and outcome % 2011 2010 Reduce climate impact by 75% by 2020 (base year 2009) –20.8 –47.5 Reduce energy consumption by 30% per square metre in premises by 2015 (base year 2009) –0.3 +2.1 Dagab and Axfood Närlivs: Reduce CO2 emissions from Group-owned vehicles by 20% per tonne of transported goods (base year 2009) –18.7 –11.2 All employees to have completed basic environmental training by 2012 82.0 – Maintain work attendance rate of at least 95% 95.3 95.2 Maintain Employee Satisfaction Index score of at least 90% 92.0 86.0 Achieve even gender balance in management positions by 2015 21.6 19.4 axfood SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 3 Corporate responsibility at Axfood Axfood is one of Sweden’s leading food retail companies. The ability to take responsibility for sustainable development is essential for maintaining the trust of the Company’s stakeholders. Axfood believes that sustainability work and sound economics go hand in hand. By being a driver of sustainability issues, Axfood creates the right offerings for its customers, which in turn leads to better business. Axfood’s responsibility – goal is to be best in the industry Axfood’s goals and strategies rest on a congramme, which covers environmental matCode of Conduct for business ethics viction that the environment and social ters as well as social issues and animal welAccording to the Group’s Code of Conduct, responsibility, a strong customer orientafare. Through strongly rooted core values Axfood shall conduct its business in accortion, and proud and committed employees and corporate responsibility, value is also dance with generally accepted business are vital driving forces in the Company’s created for the shareholders. practice and high standards of business ethvalue creation. Axfood strives to be an active Axfood’s sustainability work is based on ics in relation to its suppliers and other busidriver of work on sustainable development the UN definition of sustainability: “Develness partners. To ensure uniform conduct and thereby be the best in the industry. opment that meets the needs of the present among all employees, Axfood adheres to a This work rests on a foundation of without compromising the ability of future policy that lays out the Group’s position on Axfood’s core values and Code of Conduct, generations to meet their own needs”. the offering and accepting of bribes, coralong with the Company’s sustainability proruption, and general collaboration within AXFOOD’S STAKEHOLDERS Axfood’s most important stakeholders are the groups of people most important provide guidance in Axfood’s work with sustainwho are affected most by and/or affect the Company’s business. ability and corporate social responsibility. The issues that are perceived by these stakeholders as being the Owners: Customers: Axfood shall create enduring value Axfood aims to offer its customers for its shareholders by exercising a wide range of environmentally corporate responsibility. adapted, healthy and safe products at competitive prices. Employees: Suppliers: Axfood wants proud and committed By making demands and conemployees, and to be a collaborative ducting a dialogue, Axfood strives and effective organization. to raise the level of its suppliers’ sustainability work. Society: Axfood strives to actively contribute to society by influencing and being responsive. 4 axfood SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 SUSTAINABILITY ORGANIZATION CEO EXECUTIVE committee AXFOOD’S ­SUSTAINABILITY WORK SUSTAINABILITY HEAD OF COORDINATORS ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental ­officers at stores AXFOOD’S BUSINESS the industry. This policy is updated annutainability work. Sustainability coordinaPrecautionary principle ally, and pertinent employees are required tors have been appointed in all of Axfood’s The precautionary principle is used in a proto certify in writing that they have read companies. It is also important to gradualactive sense in the Group’s sustainability and acknowledge the policy. These include ly raise the employees’ competence in the work. Examples in practice are that Axfood employees who have the right to authorize area of basic knowledge about sustainability has stopped buying baby bottles and cash payments for a profit centre or who in some issues as well as Axfood’s commercial beneregister receipts that contain BPA (bispheother way have a say in purchasing decisions fit from being an industry leader in sustainnol). Another example of proactive sustainfor goods or services. ability work. During the year, the focus on ability work involves conducting environIn 2011, 910 employees signed the policy. environmental training continued throughmental impact statements prior to major out the Group. To date, 82% of all employstructural changes. Axfood also wants to Organization and implementation ees have completed the training, which aims offer its customers opportunities to make Axfood takes a business approach to its to impart a fundamental understanding of wise and conscious choices by working with work on sustainability matters. A key stratAxfood’s sustainability programme. its offering of products, such as organic and egy is to integrate issues in the business Fairtrade Certified products, and with conactivities and to promote involvement Sustainability programme sumer information. throughout the organization. Axfood’s sustainability programme is an Axfood’s Executive Committee and Head important governance tool for the Group’s Reporting of Environment and Social Responsibility sustainability initiatives. The programme Axfood reports on its sustainability work in work on an overarching level with strategies, describes goals, strategies and follow-up accordance with the Global Reporting Initiaoverall goals and measures, and follow-up. of the Group’s sustainability work and is tive (GRI) guidelines, Level B. All indicators To be able to work in an integrated fashrevised once a year. must be relevant, correct and possible to ion, it is important that the individual comAxfood’s sustainability programme can monitor. Axfood’s sustainability work is curpanies within the Axfood Group have operbe read in its entirety at axfood.com. rently not subject to external audit. ational responsibility for their own susaxfood SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 5 Environment One of Axfood’s strategic objectives is to be an active driver of sustainable development in the environmental area and thereby be the best in the industry. In the day-to-day activities, sustainability aspects are integrated with purchasing and product selection as well as with logistics, transports, product flows and store operations. The environment – focus on the climate and recycling Energy consumption, transports and recycling ment process carried out in 2011, a system Electricity consumption for Group-owned systems are priority areas for Axfood’s susfor detailed measurement and control of elecstores and wholesale facilities1) MWh 2011 2010 2009 tainability work in the environmental area. All tricity consumption is being installed in all Retailing 291,741 304,481 289,272 of these areas are of major importance for Group-owned stores. This system will enable Wholesaling 34,694 37,221 36,961 Axfood’s business and have major potential central control and follow-up towards the goal Total 326,434 341,702 326,233 for improvement. Energy consumption has of reducing energy consumption by 30% per Number of stores 237 230 225 particularly high priority, since the cost of elecsquare metre by 2015. In addition, the store Electricity use kWh/m2, tricity as a percentage of total costs is rising. chains’ competency in the area of energy will stores 609 624 611 be strengthened at the central level in 2012. Electricity use kWh/m2, Energy consumption Dagab plays a highly important role in the wholesale facilities 233 249 248 One of the goals set in Axfood’s sustainability work on reducing energy use. As recognition Total CO2, tonnes2) 26,822 13,705 36,212 programme is for Axfood to be climate-neuof its success in this area, in 2011 the compa1) Partly estimated values. 2) Renewable electricity since 2010 for most of tral by 2020. The most important means of ny was named as Climate Comet of the Year Axfood’s facilities. The emissions factor for the achieving this goal is to reduce the Compaand was also the recipient of Haninge municiremaining facilities with a Nordic residual mix was ny’s own climate impact. A transition to pality’s 2011 environmental award. During 320 g CO2/kWh, compared with 185 g CO2/kWh in 2010. renewable electricity has already been carried the year, Dagab took steps together with propout. Important work lies ahead primarily with erty owners to reduce its electricity consumpenergy efficiency improvement and a changetion. Among other measures, the opportunity over to refrigerants that do not have an to install solar cells for electricity generation adverse climate impact. Following a procureon warehouse roofs is being evaluated. The energy challenge One of the most ambitious goals in Axfood’s sustainability programme is to reduce the Group’s energy consumption by 30% per square metre by 2015. To achieve this goal, Axfood has decided to work on a Group-wide basis under the coordination of a management team. Axfood’s President and CEO is a member of this team. New techniques for measurement and monitoring have been tested, a review of lease agreements has been conducted to ensure that financial incentives are in place, the stores with the highest energy consumption have been identified, and work on an improved operations programme has been carried out. In late 2011 a procurement process was concluded for a system for detailed ­follow-up and control of electricity consumption in Axfood’s Group-owned stores. Installation of the system in stores will begin in 2012 along with a strengthening of the chains’ central competency in the energy area. 6 axfood SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Transports • Maximizing load capacity, i.e., making In 2011 Dagab began using rail transport to Axfood’s business requires extensive product sure that delivery vehicles are always a greater extent for deliveries in to its wareflows. Axfood strives to ensure that these filled to capacity as much as possible. houses. Dagab now also uses environmental transports are long-term sustainable as far as • Reducing fuel consumption by setting a pallets made of plastic. possible and has raised its emission targets. maximum speed limit of 85 km/h. During the year, Dagab and Axfood NärAxfood manages its logistics flows • Restricting use of diesel fuel to “green” livs began using Evolution diesel, which is through Dagab and through a central purdiesel, which is based partly on pine oil. based partly on pine oil. Evolution diesel chasing and product range function. Transoffers 5%–16% lower CO2 emissions than ports are conducted under own manageBoth Dagab and Axfood Närlivs use sotraditional grades of diesel, depending on ment via Dagab and Axfood Närlivs as well called eco-driving techniques to reduce fuel seasonal factors. as through subcontracted freight compaconsumption in the companies’ delivery In view of the success achieved with the nies. Axfood’s own delivery fleet currently vehicles, and drivers receive training in this work on lowering transport-related CO2 includes 146 vehicles. technique. An incentive for drivers has been emissions, in 2011 the reduction target was All delivery trucks are to have well coupled to this: the savings achieved from raised from 10% to 20%. planned routes, and the goal is that they will lower fuel consumption are shared between always be driven as fully loaded as possithe company and drivers who save fuel. The CO2 emissions, transports¹) ble. When renewing the fleet, vehicles with goal is that these measures will reduce fuel 2011 2010 2009 the environmentally best and commercialconsumption by 10% by 2015. Total CO2, tonnes 9,960 10,198 10,476 ly most viable engines are to be chosen. All With the help of a new system for managCO2 kg/tonne products 19.77 21.6 24.32 new delivery trucks that are purchased are ing vehicle economy, temperature monitoring CO2 kg/SEK m in sales2) 827.62 833.83 899.96 equipped with breath alcohol ignition interand environmental reporting, called FleetTech, Vehicles in fleet 146 143 143 lock devices. Currently 85% of Axfood’s Dagab can monitor every single vehicle, which 1) Total volume for Dagab’s and Axfood Närlivs’ own vehicles are fitted with ignition interlock provides documentation for improvement delivery vehicles – transports from own warehouses to stores. devices. measures and follow-up. During the year, 2) Pertains to delivered value using own fleet. To minimize environmental impact, Dagab Dagab and Axfood Närlivs also improved their and Axfood Närlivs work continuously with a follow-up of the environmental standards that range of measures, including: have been set for subcontracted transports. axfood SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 7 Environment Business travel Since 2002 sorting instructions have been transport of the products to store shelves. Axfood strives to reduce the extent of busiprinted on the packaging of all of Axfood’s The climate impact that cannot be reduced is ness travel. In 2011 Axfood’s Executive Comprivate label products. compensated by financial support of a project mittee adopted a new travel policy with the in India. ambition of reducing the number of business Purchasing and product selection All fruit and vegetables purchased by trips by 20% through increased use of travelThe choice of products in Axfood’s offering Axfood are to be certified in accordance with free meetings, such as videoconferences. has an environmental impact in production, the rules for integrated production. This entails When travel is nevertheless required, rail and transport and consumption. Axfood theretaking environmental considerations into buses shall be used as the primary option. Air fore strives to purchase products that have account and avoiding the use of unnecessary travel shall be chosen only when warranted by the smallest environmental impact. In addipesticides. special reasons. When leasing a company car, tion, Axfood strives to make it easier for conAxfood’s employees are required to choose sumers to buy organic products. Uncertified palm oil to be phased out an environmental car according to the current During the year, Axfood began applying In 2011 Axfood continued to purchase green definitions. In 2011, environmental cars new purchasing guidelines based on envipalm oil certificates corresponding to the volaccounted for 99% of the company car fleet. ronmental and social responsibility conume of palm oil used in the production of its All Axfood employees with company cars are cerns, including life cycle analyses. The ­private label products, or substituted palm oil offered information on so-called eco-driving. guidelines are being gradually implemented with other vegetable oils. Axfood received recogin a continuous process that will continue in nition for this during the year with a green light CO2 emissions, business travel the years ahead. in WWF’s Palm Oil Buyers’ Scorecard 2011. 2011 2010 2009 The use of palm oil, which can be found in CO2 air travel, tonnes1) 868 762 770 Life cycle analyses reduce climate impact virtually any product that includes fat, is conCO2 rail travel, tonnes1) 0 0 0 A life cycle analysis entails a review of a multitroversial since in many locations, oil palm CO2 car travel, tonnes 738 772 1,030 tude of details which together can make a plantations operate on land that was once rain 1) Pertains to business travel booked by travel agencies. great difference regarding the climate impact forest. When a food manufacturer buys cerof purchases. To identify where the largest tificates, it entails that money goes to growers Waste and recycling CO2 emissions take place in the production who produce palm oil using sustainable proWaste sorting is currently practised at all of chain of Axfood’s private label products, duction practices. Axfood’s offices, stores and warehouses. The detailed analyses are performed with the Starting in 2015 all palm oil used in ambition is to improve waste sorting in all assistance of Tricorona Climate Partner and Axfood’s private label products is to be enviactivities. In 2011, practical implementation SIK (Institutet för Livsmedel och Bioteknik ronmentally certified. Today only about 10% was begun of a procurement process that was AB). To gain the most accurate calculation of all available palm oil is environmentalconducted a year earlier regarding very extenpossible, the entire life cycle has been ly c ­ ertified. Axfood’s goal should be viewed sive sorting of waste fractions. Three contracincluded: production, packaging, transports as an effort to spark a dialogue with suppliers tors take care of this sorting centrally for and stock-keeping. With the life cycle analyand get them to steer development towards Axfood’s operations nationwide. The aim is ses as a platform, it has become possible to the use of certified oil. to channel as much waste as possible that is identify the parts of the chain with the greatgenerated to material recycling and to capiest climate impact and to focus efforts on No red-listed fish talize on possible revenues from sorted waste, reducing climate impact where it is greatest. Axfood’s fish policy entails, among other such as shrink wrap and corrugated board. A considerable amount of work has been things, that fish and shellfish from threatened Food waste is sorted for biogas production in dedicated to life cycle analyses of the prodpopulations may not be sold in Axfood stores. the municipalities that have such facilities. ucts included in Axfood’s new Garant Såklart The WWF’s red list is used as a guideline for The new waste strategy includes the creation brand, which includes body care, cleaning which populations are threatened. The policy is of a new portal in which the waste handling and laundry products. The products are all dynamic and is updated in pace with changed contractors report what they have collected. ecolabelled with the Nordic Swan seal, allergy conditions regarding which types of fish are This, in turn, generates supplier invoices labelled and climate certified. The controls red-listed. The policy has also contributed to directly from the portal to Axfood. The portal include everything from extraction and procontinuous improvements in the offering of also enables better follow-up of waste sorting. cessing of raw materials to packaging and ecolabelled fish. PRIORITIES 2012 Continued focus on reducing energy use in stores, warehouses and offices. In 2012 installation will begin of a system for detailed measurement and ­control of electricity consumption in Group-owned stores. Increase waste sorting at stores, i.e., reduce the amount of material sent for ­combustion. Continue the successful work on lowering CO2 emissions from transports. 8 axfood SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Axfood’s customers expect Axfood to meet their demands for environmentally adapted, healthy and safe foods at competitive prices. Customers – a product range for conscious consumers Customers should feel confident about the In its procurement of conventionally proreasonable price. The products are sold in products they buy, which is why Axfood pays duced meat, Axfood adheres to the animal all of Axfood’s store concepts. great attention to strict quality control over welfare criteria that apply for pigs in the UK, Sales of organic products in relation to its private label products as well as namei.e., the requirements that have been set for total food sales in 2011 were 2.6%, compared brand products. Food safety is further safeDanish pork that is imported by certain growith 2.4% a year earlier. guarded through the Group’s internal concery chains in the UK. trol programme at stores and warehouses. Both PrisXtra and Hemköp have disconGarant Ekologiska varor ­products tinued selling eggs from caged hens. are described in more detail on Animal welfare ­t yckom­g arant.se/ekologiskt. Many people who buy organic food do so out Organic and Fairtrade Certified of concern for animal welfare. Axfood has product brands therefore invested in offering a wider selecGarant Ekologiska varor is Axfood’s own tion of organic beef and pork. Axfood gives organic brand. Coffee, tea and chocolate are Higher sales of organic products priority to organic meat with the Swedish examples of Fairtrade Certified products 6.3% KRAV certification, which has considerably sold under the Aware private label. The aim more stringent animal welfare standards of the Aware private label is to offer organic than other organic certifications. and Fairtrade Certified everyday foods at a Garant Såklart first with climate-certified products During the year, Garant Såklart was launched in stores, a The first step is to conduct a detailed analysis of the products’ line of cleaning, laundry and body care products. life cycle in order to minimize all emissions as far as possible. The brand represents a new way of taking greater care of the This analysis covers everything from extraction and processing environment and minimizing products’ environmental impact. of raw materials to packaging and transport of the products to Garant Såklart was the first in store shelves. For any remaining parts than cannot be reduced, Sweden to climate-certify all of Garant Såklart products are climate-certified through a cooperits products, which also bear the ation with Tricorona Climate Partner. ­Nordic Swan ecolabel and the seal of the Swedish Asthma and Allergy Association. Climate certification of products entails that steps have been taken to reduce or compensate for their climate impact. axfood SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 9 Customers Quality assurance of private label products with food, suppliers must be able to certify Budget products are blind-tested internally Axfood’s private label products are a vital that the product is made of approved matein Axfood’s own test kitchen to ensure that part of the Group’s work on offering the best rial in accordance with Normpack’s rules. they, as a minimum, are comparable to other possible customer benefit. Axfood has two For vegetables, root vegetables and fruit, budget products on the market. quality levels for its private label products: Axfood purchases only from suppliers that mid-range, encompassing the Garant brand are certified according to Global GAP or Quality assurance of private label products (which is gradually taking the place of the equivalent. Packing companies must be 2011 2010 2009 Willys and Hemköp brands), and discount, certified according to any of the standards Product recalls from stounder the Eldorado brand. Added to these approved by GFSI. res, private label 25 35 49 Product recalls from stoare Garant Ekologiska varor (organic prodSuppliers that have not completed certires, other 45 54 64 ucts), the Fairtrade Certified brand Aware, fication can request dispensation if they can Share of private label and the Garant Såklart range of climate-­ present a credible timetable for certification. suppliers approved ­according to GFSI, % 98 97 94 certified skin care and other products. To ensure the ongoing work on food safeRegardless of product, food safety is a ty for its private label products, each year Control programmes at stores and keystone on which no compromises can Axfood’s quality assurance inspectors con­warehouses be made. Suppliers of Axfood’s private duct their own analysis programme, includAxfood is increasingly performing internal label food products must have plants that ing microbiological and chemical analyses controls of various parts of its operations to are certified according to any of the stanof products based on the relevant risks for ensure compliance with regulatory requiredards sanctioned by the Global Food Safeeach individual product. ments and that its own quality standards are ty Initiative (GFSI). For household chemiPrior to launch, every mid-range prodbeing met. The Group’s internal control procal products, cosmetics and skin care product is blind-tested by an external consumer gramme is an important tool for such followucts, ISO 9001 or GPM standards apply. For panel of 65–80 people, and to make it all the up. Axfood conducts regular internal controls certain other nonfood products, such as way to store shelves, a product must receive in the areas of food safety, products with limtoys and electrical appliances, documencomparable marks to the market-leading ited shelf life and systematic fire safety work. tation and certification for CE labelling are product. required. For products designed for contact Hemköp Willys Willys Hemma PrisXtra 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Number of Keyhole-labelled1) products 1,348 1,279 2,015 944 905 1,260 622 488 586 829 918 787 Sales as % of total food sales2) 8.82 10.72 9.08 8.29 10.13 9.55 8.49 10.74 9.67 8.23 9.26 4.02 Number of organic products 1,331 1,108 1,120 608 552 549 361 235 208 657 669 522 Sales as % of total food sales2) 4.11 3.87 2.88 2.14 2.00 1.49 2.73 2.68 2.13 3.62 3.17 1.17 Number of Fairtrade Certified products 104 83 80 50 51 55 27 30 31 60 61 54 Sales as % of total food sales 0.20 0.19 0.13 0.13 0.12 0.10 0.16 0.17 0.15 0.14 0.14 0.04 Number of hypoallergenic products 637 259 369 452 179 230 277 77 86 418 167 117 1) New criteria for Keyhole labelling since June 2009. 2) For 2009, sales percentages are compared with total sales, while figures in 2010 and 2011 represent comparisons with food sales. Five customers comment on their choice of ­grocery store Adisa, Willys Mats, Willys Why do you shop at Willys? Why do you shop at Willys? – Good prices and a large selection of food from – It’s a very nice store that I can get to easily and other countries. They have most everything – from quickly. food to hygiene products. Plus, they have plenty of accessible parking. 10 axfood SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Food safety The same applies for all types of betting and • magazines with a pornographic content Axfood applies its internal control programme for certain types of lotteries. In its Group• cider and so-called alcopop (fruit drinks in both the retail and wholesale operations to owned stores Axfood has chosen to not sell with an alcohol content of more than ensure customers’ right to safe food. lottery tickets to youths under 18 years of 2.25%) In cooperation with the trade organization age. Axfood has also set a minimum age of • concentrated energy drinks (shots) Svensk Dagligvaruhandel and others, Axfood 15 to purchase energy drinks at its stores. • foie gras (goose liver) has participated in the creation of set of To ensure compliance with minimum age • fish and shellfish on WWF’s redlist. guidelines called “Safe food in your store”, requirements, Axfood conducts its own interIn addition, Hemköp and PrisXtra have which has been endorsed by the Swedish nal control programme for age-restricted stopped selling eggs from caged hens. National Food Administration. The proproducts, consisting of staff training and rougramme is in place at all of Axfood’s stores tines for verifying ages. Axfood requires all and serves as a platform for how the stores checkout employees to check IDs of customstructure their internal control programmes. ers purchasing age-restricted products who Under the control programme, stores perappear to be younger than 25. Internal conPRIORITIES 2012 form certain daily controls, delivery arrival trols are also conducted that measure stores’ Axfood will continue to prioritize a controls and temperature controls at the performance in requesting customer IDs in departmental level. Clear routines are in place accordance with this policy. larger selection of environmentally for handling unpackaged foods to ensure food adapted and healthy products to hygiene and the integrity of the cold chain. Ethical exclusions meet customer demand. Axfood also has a Group-wide agreement In its wholly owned stores, Axfood has with an external partner in the area of hygiene decided to avoid product groups that are and pest issues, which visits the Group-owned incompatible with the Company’s values. stores on a regular basis. During these visits, These include, among others: microbiological tests are taken and an assessment is made of the stores’ internal control work. In the internal “concept follow-up” activities that are also conducted on a regular basis, food safety is a key control point. Municipal environment and health departments conduct inspections at the Group’s wholesale and retail facilities. In connection with these inspections, controls are made to ensure that the facilities meet the statutory requirements for food handling and sales. Alcohol, tobacco, betting and ­pharmaceuticals Sweden has a minimum legal age of 18 for the sale of tobacco, alcoholic beverages and over-the-counter pharmaceuticals. Kristina, Willys Nadja, Hemköp Magnus, Hemköp Why do you shop at Willys? Why do you shop at Hemköp? Why do you shop at Hemköp? – The store has a good location, plus an exciting – It’s a nice store with a good product selection. It is – The product selection, without a doubt. I can find and surprising product offering. For example, today close to my work, so it is practical to shop here. everything I need here. I bought grapefruit juice and got a great deal on some black olives! axfood SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 11 Suppliers Axfood’s relations with suppliers are to be characterized by generally accepted business practices and high standards of business ethics. At the same time, it is important that suppliers of products and services comply with national laws and regulations and that international conventions are respected. Suppliers – increase in social audits A guiding point in these relationships is the The number of inspections has been increased in connection with social audits in the various Axfood Code of Conduct, which draws from gradually, and follow-up measures have been countries. This is resulting in a clearer picture internationally recognized conventions on improved, such as repeat visits that are to be of which type of remarks are being made, how human rights and workers’ rights as well as carried out within a year. A systematic risk many are made, and how serious they are. It is international environmental regulations. The country assessment has been produced, based also providing better guidance for Axfood’s Code of Conduct lays down Axfood’s position on a number of different indices. This assessown social audits. and commitment to its suppliers as well as to ment provides documentation for priorities Some of Axfood’s private label products are the individual employees and other partners. regarding inspections and also serves as a purchased via the jointly owned purchasing In 2011 the Code of Conduct was integrated in guide in purchasing. company United Nordic. United Nordic has its all of Axfood’s operations. Deviations from laws and conventions own code of conduct and is gradually increasCompanies that supply products or services are addressed in a dialogue between Axfood ing the number of social audits it performs. to Axfood Group companies are required to and the supplier and lead in most cases to Key persons in the Nordic food retail chains meet the requirements stipulated in the Code improvements at the companies visited. In who represent United Nordic meet regularly to of Conduct. In addition, all suppliers of prodthe event no improvements are made, Axfood ensure uniform standards and that the right ucts and services are responsible for ensuring terminates the cooperation. priorities are made moving forward. that their subcontractors also meet the Code’s Axfood’s representative office in Shanghai, requirements. China, plays a key role in improving risk Imports of private label products from ­ various regions assessments. The office participates in purNo. Shares, % Human rights inspections chasing from China and Southeast Asia, builds Europe, incl. Sweden 2,334 88.0 Axfood’s Code of Conduct stipulates that suppliup supplier contacts and monitors developAsia 281 10.6 ers that produce goods for Axfood’s stores must ments in markets in China and Southeast Asia. Africa 2 0.1 be in compliance with UN’s and ILO’s convenThe office is a vital resource for recruiting good North America 19 0.7 tions on human rights and rights of the child. suppliers and avoiding quality problems and South America 15 0.6 Together with local auditors, Axfood vissuppliers that do not live up to Axfood’s Central America 1 0.0 its production facilities of selected suppliCode of Conduct. Total 2,652 100 ers to see how well they comply with the laws During the year, a full-time auditor was in their own countries with respect to workhired at the representative office, and the numers’ rights and working conditions, as well as ber of social audits performed of Axfood’s supPRIORITIES 2012 to the above-mentioned UN and ILO convenpliers increased from 12 to 17. Major emphasis In 2012 Axfood will continue to accelerate tions. These visits are based on SA 8000, the has also been put on raising quality in such the pace of social audits. The new, environinternationally recognized standard for social areas as risk assessment, audits, monitoring mental purchasing guidelines are being audits. Axfood’s primary focus is on such facand action plans. Toward the end of 2011, a implemented in purchasing activities and in tors as child labour, workers’ rights, work new system for risk country assessment was the development of private label products. environment and housing conditions. procured, based on actual observations made The social audit process Axfood decides to conduct On-site meeting with Review of documents, such Concluding meeAn action plan is Within 6 to 12 a social audit of a partithe supplier’s manaas time cards, payroll slips, ting with supplier’s drafted through months after the cular supplier or producer. gement at the plant employment contracts and management to dialogue with the visit, a follow-up The decision on which suppalong with a review of policies. Inspection of the go through any supplier in the visit is made to lier to be visited is based on how the audit will be production facility’s deviations from event any deviaensure that the specific criteria that weigh in performed, based on ­premises and interviews the requirements tions have been action plan has such factors as risk country Axfood’s Code of Conwith employees. in the Code of discovered. been followed. and risk industry. duct. Conduct. ➔ ➔ ➔ ➔ ➔ ■ 12 axfood SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Axfood participates on a regular basis in consultations and discussions with various organisations and authorities on current issues. The Swedish National Food Administration, the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency are the main agencies whose purview concerns Axfood’s operations. Society – cooperation and involvement Industry-wide matters are conducted within Charter entails that all member-companies the framework of the trade organization The Haga Initiative sign a contract that they will work actively Svensk Dagligvaruhandel, which has its own with diversity based on set targets. environmental council. Examples of activities Axfood is one of the initiative-takers The Diversity Charter was founded in include the setting of standards as well as behind the Haga Initiative, a climate France in 2004 and is active in several other instructions on how to implement EU legislanetwork dedicated to reducing emisEuropean countries, with thousands of tion in Sweden’s national regulatory framesions from industry, advocating the member-companies. Other initiative-takers work. Other trade organizations, such as for climate issue and acting as a model include L’Oréal, Managing Diversity, Novarpackaging and newspaper recycling, are also for companies that take responsibiltis, Scandic, Sodexo, Skanska and Volvo Car contact interfaces with society at large. ity for climate concerns. Corporation. One requirement for memberDiversity network ship is that the company commits Retailers’ security work During the year, the Diversity Charter Sweden itself to reducing its carbon emisHandelns Säkerhetsgrupp (HSG), a security network was launched, with Axfood as one of sions by at least 40% by 2020. organization in which Axfood is a member, the initiative-takers. The aim of this company Axfood’s target is to cut its emisis a non-political association for security network is to share knowledge and experience sions by 75% by 2020. officers from retail chains throughout Swesurrounding diversity and thereby contribute Eight companies have joined the den. On behalf of the retail industry, HSG to successful and profitable work with diversity Haga Initiative: Coca-Cola Enterlobbies decision-makers and the media on issues. Axfood sees employee diversity as a prise Sverige, Fortum Värme, JM, security issues and strives to promote key to success and profitability, and therefore Lantmännen, Procter & Gamble cooperation between its members in develstrives for an embracing and inclusive comSverige, Stena Metal, Svenska Statoil oping security work. The overall objectives pany culture that will enable the Company to and Vasakronan. The network is of security work are to create greater secufully benefit from all its employees’ experience coordinated by Tricorona. rity for employees and customers, and to and competence. Membership in the Diversity create conditions for greater profitability. One requirement for being a member of the Haga Initiative is that the company is committed to reducing its carbon emissions by 40% by 2020 axfood SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 13 Society Non-profit organizations Cooperation and membership in organizations Axfood’s intention is to establish long-term Carbon Disclosure Project Swedish Society for ­Nature Conservation partnerships with non-profit organizations on Swedish Association for sustainability initiatives, such as the Swedish CSR Sweden ­Environmental Managers Society for Nature Conservation (SSNC) and Roundtable on Diversity Charter Sweden WWF. Sustainable Palm Oil As part of its effort to help protect the Global Compact Save the Children SOS Children’s Villages world’s rain forests, Axfood is a member of the The Haga Initiative ­Sweden Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). Handelns Säkerhetsgrupp RSPO’s mission is to establish a credible and practical system for trading in certified palm oil. Axfood is also a member of the Roundtable on Responsible Soy Association. It works according to the same premise as for palm oil PRIORITIES 2012 – to contribute to the development of sustainContinue developing the partnership with ability criteria for certification of soybean Save the Children, for whom Axfood is a plantations. main sponsor. Axfood does not ally itself with positions ­t aken by any political parties. stores, an auction at an Axfood Närlivs action plan has been presented for sports supplier expo, and collections among clubs, with practical advice on how to recemployees. When the alarm was sounded ognize and prevent bullying among chilfor the impending disaster in the horn of dren. The project will continue in 2012. More than SEK 4 m collected Africa, Axfood and Hemköp donated a Axfood has been working in partfor Save the Children lump sum to Save the Children. nership with Save the Children SweDuring the year, collection activities with The money has been used to help den since December 2009 and has customers, suppliers and employees children in both Sweden and abroad. been the organization’s main sponsor raised more than SEK 4 m for Save the During the peak of the famine in the horn since spring 2010. As one of the foreChildren. This represents a doubling of Africa, the money was directed to that most independent children’s rights orgacompared with a year ago. area. During the rest of the year, the colnizations, Save the Children is dedicatIt was mainly Willys customers who lections went to education and shelter for ed to ensuring children’s rights to food, donated bottle and can deposit money children in conflict-torn Ivory Coast. housing, healthcare, education and a life and bought selected Save the Children Axfood has contributed to the education without violence, assault or exploitation. products and thereby accounted for the project in Ivory Coast since 2009. In 2011 A total of SEK 4,036,634 was donated large increase in collections. Other activiAxfood also sponsored a project to comto Save the Children in 2011. The partties carried out during the year included bat bullying and discrimination in chilnership is being developed and expandcollection of deposits from PrisXtra dren’s and youth sports in Sweden. An ed with additional activities in 2012. 14 axfood SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Axfood wants proud and committed employees who work according to the Group’s core values in a collaborative and entrepreneurial organization. Employee pride and diversity lead to good business Proud employees, diversity and good career Employee Satisfaction Index score, which was Axfood’s employee initiatives in 2011 resulted paths create a positive spiral that leads to far higher than the industry average and indiin several gratifying distinctions, including: more satisfied customers and better business. cates that the employees feel a sense of • Axfood was the recipient of the Swedish With investments in knowledge-sharing, inclusion and that they are satisfied with their e-learning award in 2011 for its competraining and dialogue, Axfood strives to foster managers. At the same time, indications of tence development initiatives. The award a shared view on matters such as employeeareas for improvement are taken seriously. was presented by Promise and the ship, leadership and treatment of customers. During the year, the HR organization conSwedish Learning Association. For example, through a broad-based e-learntinued its coordination activities aimed at • Universum and Företagsbarometern ing initiative, most employees obtain a basic raising the quality and efficiency of work. (the Swedish Student Survey) nominated level of competence, which in turn increases Part of this includes an employee support Axfood as “Rocket of the Year” in the their opportunities to develop at Axfood. function that was established during the Most Attractive Employer category. Confirmation of Axfood’s attractiveness as year, where employees can turn for answers an employer can be found in the past year’s to their questions at one and the same place. Growing with Axfood The Axfood Academy is the Group’s that can be offered to all employees mandatory for new managers and concentre for training and trainee proregardless of their geographic location veys Axfood’s core values and view of grammes. The Academy provides trainacross the country. Since the introducleadership and employeeship, in line ing to all employees as well as develoption of this form of training in 2008, with Axfood’s manager profile. ment programmes for managers within 70,000 courses have been completed, Axfood takes a structured approach the Group. Training activities are and today more than 4,200 employees to management succession within the focused on ensuring basic competence are certified in knowledge about store Group in order to meet future competoward the goal of increasing sales and operations and perishables. tency needs. Every year an inventory conveying Axfood’s core values and In line with Axfood’s long-term enviis taken of potential managers within view of leadership and employeeship. ronmental work, focus on a Group-wide the Group and of which employees are In 2011, 3,325 employees particienvironmental training programme ready to take on a management role. pated in a total of 4,014 days of training. continued during the year. 82% of Each year Axfood’s Group trainee Implementation of Axfood’s new employees have completed the training. programme is carried out for aspiring business system entailed extensive store managers. The programme is training during the year. To take advanDevelopment and opportunities designed to secure access to competage of the potential inherent in this A manager profile has been created tent and committed employees with a change, some 500 employees received which shows the type of leadership breadth of knowledge about Axfood’s training in the SAP business system that Axfood encourages and provides operations. The 2010/2011 programme during the year. a model for further development and included both external and internal new recruitment of managers. Paralparticipants. e-learning lel with this, a new management trainE-learning is a cost-effective and enviing course entitled “Leading at Axfood” ronmentally friendly form of training has been developed. The course is axfood SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 15 Employees Four store employees on their ­workplace Sandra, Willys Anthony, Willys Why do you work for Willys? Why do you work for Willys? – The work is varied, with a lot of customer contact. – It’s a good job. I get to meet a lot of new people – You see results quickly, such as in a nice store and both customers and colleagues. satisfied customers. It’s a nice place to work, and every day presents a challenge. Satisfied employees Equal opportunity and diversity In early 2011 Axfood conducted the second employee survey During the year, Axfood adopted a Group-wide equal opportunity of its kind to measure the work climate, with leadership as a key and diversity policy. Based on this, all companies within the Group component. The results of the survey showed a high score, with are required to draw up plans to support their local equal opporan improvement in the Employee Satisfaction Index from 86 to tunity and diversity work. Diversity in society and among Axfood’s 92 in just one year. customers shall also be reflected in the diversity of Axfood’s employees. Active measures for creating greater diversity include standardized job notices, objective selection methods, and clear goals and key ratios. The Group’s explicit objective is to achieve an even gender balance in management positions, entailing representation of men and women within a span of 40%–60% by 2015 at the latest. At year-end the share of women in management positions was 21.6%. Read more on page 41. 16 axfood SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 PRIORITIES 2012 Strengthen recruitment and the introduction and development of grocers. Conduct training in perishables and private label products. Increase the number of travel-free meetings. Clara, Hemköp Per, Hemköp Why do you work for Hemköp? Why do you work for Hemköp? – We have a tight crew here, with good employees, – I’m a believer in Axfood’s core values, especially which I think shines through for our customers. We “the Store is the Stage”. They highlight Hemköp’s treat our customers well, because we like our work. long-term perspective and focus on the customer. Well-being at work Daily talks with the unions Axfood’s employees are encouraged to take the parental leave they are entitled to. Depending on what business they are engaged Among other measures, the Company tops up the state benefit so that employees in, Axfood AB and its subsidiaries are bound by receive 80% of their salary during leave if their salary exceeds the ceiling amount at least one of the three nationwide collective provided by the social insurance office. Axfood also encourages employees to particibargaining agreements for the retail trade, the pate in fitness activities through payment of a fitness subsidy. wholesale trade, or salaried employees. The All Axfood employees are required to participate in an annual performance review union counterparts for the first two of these are with their immediate superior. the Commercial Employees Union, and for the Company health services are provided in close proximity to the respective worklast one Unionen and Akademikerförbundet places, with a primary focus on preventive care. SSR. All employees are covered by collective Axfood conducts systematic work environment and safety activities to ensure safe bargaining agreements, since individual and sound workplaces. This work, which involves all employees, is based on identifyemployment contracts refer to such agreements ing risks as early as possible and ensuring that business is conducted in compliance with respect to general terms of employment. with the Work Environment Act and the regulations of the Swedish Work Environment The collective agreements stipulate the miniAuthority. As a rule, reporting is done to the respective companies’ boards to guaranmum level of employee benefits. Thus in certain tee that work environment matters are brought to the attention of management at the areas more favourable terms may exist than respective companies. those stipulated by the collective agreements. The collective agreements contain rules on notice periods, whose length varies from one to twelve months, depending on the employee’s age and length of employment. They also describe the importance of performance reviews for idenEmployee statistics tifying a need for competence-raising measures. 2011 2010 2009 Axfood has representatives in the collective Work attendance, retail, % 95.5 95.4 94.9 bargaining process that was started during the Work attendance, wholesale, % 94.1 93.9 93.9 year. Work attendance, staffs 96.9 97.3 97.1 Employee turnover rate, % 11.1 11.8 9.8 Men/women, % 10.8/11.4 10.8/12.6 9.5/10.0 Age category –29, % 16.1 16.2 13.2 Age category 30–49, % 8.2 8.8 7.1 Age category 50–, % 10.6 12.3 10.3 Average service time, years 9.8 9.1 8.9 Number of full-time employees 4,318 4,332 3,840 Number of part-time employees 3,484 3,486 4,298 Average number of employees1) 7,062 6,895 6,816 Number of men 3,268 3,214 3,135 Number of women 3,794 3,681 3,681 1) Based on 1,920 working hours per year. axfood SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 17 GRI table GRI table – Level B For the fourth year in a row, Axfood is reporting on its sustainabilthe report does not differ from Axfood’s previous reports and the ity work in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) methods used there. However, certain emission factors have guidelines, level B. Axfood is a participant in the Global Compact changed compared with the preceding year. In contrast to a year and adheres to its principles for its sustainability work. The calculaago, the reporting of EN16 does not include refrigerants. Axfood is tion methods for carbon dioxide emissions are based in part on the reviewing its data collection method for this. guidelines outlined in the Haga Initiative, which are based on the During the year, Axfood was not issued any fines or sanctions for GHG protocol. The calculation method used in the Haga Initiative is violations of environmental legislation, food safety or other legislation. described in more detail on Axfood's website: axfood.se. The table below references where the information is presented in The sustainability indicators listed below cover Group-owned the report. In addition to the profile and governance data prescribed retail and wholesale operations. The Group’s franchise stores curby the GRI, the table covers all core indicators as well as the comrently do not report sustainability data centrally to Axfood and are plementary indicators that are judged to be relevant for Axfood. The therefore not covered by the report. The same applies for external symbols show if the respective indicators are complete. transport contractors in the wholesale operations. In this respect, Fully reported Partly reported Not reported Page Page Axfood reference (AR) Degree Axfood reference (AR) Degree Profile 1. STRATEGY & ANALYSIS 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS & ENGAGEMENT 1.1 CEO statement 2–3 Governance 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and 4–5, 14–17, 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 33, 56 opportunities 30–31, 50–52 4.2 The Chairman of the Board's role in the organization 58 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board 58 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE members 2.1 Name of the organization Cover flap Mechanisms for shareholders and employees 4.4 to provide recommendations to the board 58 Cover flap, 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services 13, 18–19 4.5 Principles for compensation to senior executives 60–61 Cover flap, Processes for avoiding conflicts of interests 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 18–19 4.6 in the board 58–59 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Back cover 4.7 Processes for determining the qualifications of 58 board members 2.5 Countries where the organization operates Cover flap 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. 8, 32–33, 50 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Cover flap 4.9 The board’s monitoring of the sustainability work 56, 62–63 2.7 Markets Cover flap Processes for evaluating the board’s 2.8 Scale of the organization Cover flap 4.10 own performance 60 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 2–3, 48 Commitments to external initiatives 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period 3, 28, 34, 48 Explanation of whether and how the 4.11 ­precautionary principle is applied 33 3. REPORT PARAMETERS Endorsement of external voluntary codes, 4.12 ­principles or other initiatives 38–41, 108 Report profile 4.13 Memberships in associations 13, 41–42 3.1 Reporting period 48, 108 Stakeholder engagement 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 108 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 32 3.3 Reporting cycle Administration report 108 Basis for identification and selection of 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 106 4.15 ­stakeholders with whom to engage 32 Report scope and boundary 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 12, 32, 41–42 3.5 Process for defining report content 30–33 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised 32, 38–39, 3.6 Boundary of the report 108 through stakeholder engagement 44–45 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or 108 boundary of the report 5. ECONOMIC INDICATORS Basis for reporting on joint ventures, Sustainability governance, Finance 8–11 3.8 subsidiaries, etc. 76–77, 108 EC1. Direct economic value generated and distributed 68–75 Data measurement techniques and 3.9 calculation principles 76–83, 108 Risks and opportunities for the organization due EC2. to climate changes 34–35, 41 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of 3.10 information provided in earlier reports 108 EC3. Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 93 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting 76–108 periods regarding scope, boundaries, etc. EC4. Financial assistance received from government 92 GRI content index EC6. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers Table identifying the location of the Standard 3.12 Disclosures in the report 108–109 Local hiring and proportion of senior management EC7. hired from the local community 43 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking 3.13 external assurance for the report 33 EC8. Infrastructure investments and services provided for public purposes 18 axfood SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Page Page Axfood reference (AR) Degree Axfood reference (AR) Degree 6. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS LA8. Education, training, prevention and risk-control programmes in place Sustainability governance, Environment 8–11, 30–33, 34 LA9. Health and safety topics covered in formal agree45 EN1. Materials used by weight or volume ments with trade unions EN2. Percentage of recycled input materials LA10. Average hours of training per year per employee 43 EN3. Direct energy consumption by primary source 34–36 LA12. Employees receiving regular performance and 45 EN4. Indirect energy consumption by primary source 341) career development reviews EN5. Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 34–35 LA13. Composition of governance bodies and employ44–45, 64–67 improvement ees according to diversity indicators EN7. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 34 LA14. Ratio of basic salary of men to women and results Human rights EN8. Total water withdrawal by source HR1. Investment agreements that include human 40 EN11. Location/scope of land owned near protected rights clauses areas/areas of biodiversity value HR2. Suppliers that have undergone screening on 40 EN12. Impacts of products or operations on ­human rights, and actions taken biodiversity HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and EN16. Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, 34–361) actions taken by weight HR5. Operations where freedom of association and 40 EN17. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions, 35–36 collective bargaining may be at significant risk and result and actions taken EN18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 34–36 HR6. Operations identified as having significant risk for 40 EN19. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances incidents of child labour and actions taken EN20. NO, SO, and other significant air emissions, by HR7. Operations identified as having significant risk 40 weight per type for incidents of forced or compulsory labour and actions taken EN21. Total water discharge, quality and recipient Society EN22. Waste by type and disposal method 36 SO1. Programs for evaluating the operation’s impacts EN23. Number and volume of significant spills on communities EN26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of 37–39 SO2. Business units analyzed for risks related to 52 products and services ­corruption EN27. Products sold and their packaging materials that 36 SO3. Employees trained in the organization’s 32–33 are reclaimed ­anti-corruption policies and procedures EN28. Fines and/or non-monetary sanctions for 108 SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of ­non-compliance with environmental laws ­corruption EN29. Environmental impact of transports 35–36 SO5. Participation in public policy development and 41–42 lobbying 7. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SO8. Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with 108 applicable laws Sustainability governance, Social 8–11, 30–33, 40, 43 Product responsibility Employment conditions and terms PR1. Life cycle stages in which health and safety 37–39 of employment ­impacts of products and services are assessed LA1. Total workforce by employment type, contract 18–19, 45 PR3. Type of products and service information required 7–39 and region by procedures, and percentage of products ­subject to such information requirements LA2. Rate of employee turnover by age group, gender 45 and region PR6. Programmes for adherence to laws, 39 ­standards and voluntary codes for marketing LA3. Benefits to full-time employees 45 c­ommunications LA4. Percentage of employees covered collective 45 PR9. Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with 108 bargaining agreements regulations concerning the use of products and LA5. Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational 45 services changes 1) Pertains to trading operations, not staff functions at head offices. LA6. Percentage of total workforce represented in 45 formal joint management-worker health and safety committees LA7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 45 work-related fatalities Text and production: Hallvarsson & Halvarsson in cooperation with Axfood. Design and DTP: Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Photos: Mats Lundqvist. English translation: NewStart Communications. Printing: Larsson Offsettryck AB, Linköping 2012. axfood SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 19 Axfood AB Axfood IT AB Hemköpskedjan AB Dagab PrisXtra AB SE-171 78 Solna SE-171 78 Solna SE-171 78 Solna Box 640 SE-171 78 Solna SE-136 26 Haninge Visitors' address Visitors' address Visitors' address Visitors' address Hemvärnsgatan 9 Hemvärnsgatan 9 Hemvärnsgatan 9 Visitors' address Hemvärnsgatan 9 Lillsjövägen 7 Tel +46-8-553 990 00 Tel +46-8-553 990 00 Tel +46-8-553 990 00 Tel +46-8-553 990 00 Jordbro Företagspark Fax +46-8-730 03 59 Fax +46-8-730 40 51 Fax +46-8-730 30 37 info@axfood.se Tel +46-8-500 710 00 info@axfood.se info@axfood.se info@hemkop.se www.prisxtra.se Fax +46-8-730 20 03 www.axfood.se www.hemkop.se info@axfood.se Axfood Sverige AB Axfood AB Willys AB Axfood Närlivs SE-171 78 Solna Shared Service Center SE-412 86 Göteborg Box 1742 SE-701 17 Örebro Visitors' address SE-551 93 Jönköping Visitors' address Hemvärnsgatan 9 Falkenbergsgatan 3 Visitors' address Visitors' address Handelsgatan 5 Tel +46-8-553 990 00 Bataljonsgatan 12 Tel +46-31-733 31 00 Fax +46-8-730 03 59 Fax +46-31-733 31 80 Tel +46-19-603 03 50 Tel +46-36-36 41 00 Fax +46-19-603 03 06 info@axfood.se Fax +46-36-36 41 91 info@willys.se www.willys.se info@narlivs.se info@axfood.se www.narlivs.se www.snabbgross.se www.netxtra.se
