CONTENTS About Us 02 A Message from Kris Canekeratne 03 About this Report 08 People 11 Planet 16 UN Global Compact 19 Profit 20 GRI Index 27 Report Application Levels 30 1 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 ABOUT US PEOPLE PL ANET FY12 Performance 21% Carbon Footprint* per Revenue 8% Carbon Footprint* per Person 13% Energy Consumption per Person 12% Water Consumption per Person * Scope 1 and Scope 2 PROFIT 2 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 A Message from Kris Canekeratne It gives me great pleasure to present our Sustainability Report for 2011/2012. At Virtusa, our aim is “to reduce our environmental footprint with Ethical Maturity, Respect and Dignity to all”. Our approach is to reduce the environmental footprint of our services delivered to clients by leveraging tools and processes to improve the following quality metrics: “reduce cycle time”, “increase right-first-time” and “reuse at source.” Our sustainability report is a mechanism to ensure transparency and accountability in our organizational activities. In 2011/2012, we further integrated sustainability into our practices. We strengthened our Environmental Management System through the external verification of environment data for Sri Lanka and India. We also made progress towards obtaining ISO 14001:2004 and BS OHSAS 18001:2007certifications for our facilities in Hyderabad, Chennai and Bangalore. At Virtusa, our aim is ‘to reduce our environmental footprint with Ethical Maturity, During the reporting period we introduced several people initiatives. Women of Virtusa (WoV) was launched in March 2012 to encourage Respect and Dignity to all’. Our approach is and facilitate more diversity across all tiers and geographies Virtusa to reduce the environmental footprint of our operates in. We also introduced a Management Trainee program to services delivered to clients by leveraging tools nurture emerging leaders. As part of talent recognition, we revamped the Recognize and Appreciate Everyone (RAVE) Awards and introduced the and processes to improve the following quality Personal Excellence Awards (PEP). metrics: ‘reduce cycle time’, ‘increase right-firsttime’ and ‘reuse at source’. We will continue to improve our practices to be more sustainable. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we remain committed to practicing and promoting the principles endorsed by the UNGC in our sphere of influence. Kris Canekeratne Chairman & CEO 3 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 Our Mission Our Values TO BE THE PARTNER OF CHOICE for corporations in PURSUIT OF EXCELLENCE Expand the contours of what is possible through pursuit of excellence. creating competitive advantage through technology excellence. TO CREATE THE CONDITIONS FOR INTEGRITY Be forthright and honest in all interactions ensuring integrity. PROFESSIONAL SUCCESS and quality of life for all Virtusans. RESPECT Respect clients and fellow team members. TO BE A SOCIALLY CONSCIOUS AND RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN IN ALL LEADERSHIP Inspire others through empowerment and COUNTRIES OF OPERATIONS. leadership. Founded in 1996, Virtusa Corporation (NASDAQ: VRTU) is a global information technology (IT) services company providing IT consulting, technology and outsourcing services. Headquartered in Massachusetts, we have offices in the United States, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany and Singapore with global delivery centers in Hyderabad, Bangalore and Chennai, India; Colombo, Sri Lanka; and Budapest, Hungary. 4 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 Operational Structure Detailed information of our service offerings is available on our website, We view our operations and manage our business as one operating www.virtusa.com segment. Our primary operations are in India, Sri Lanka and the United Kingdom. Our corporate structure also spans multiple jurisdictions, Our Clients with Virtusa Corporation incorporated in Delaware and its operating subsidiaries organized in India, Sri Lanka, the United Kingdom, Hungary, We serve clients in the communications and technology; banking, Germany, Singapore, and the Netherlands. financial services and insurance (‘‘BFSI’’); and media and information industries. A majority of our revenue for the fiscal year ended March On July 1, 2011, we acquired ALaS Consulting LLC, a provider of 31, 2012 was generated from Forbes Global 2000 firms or their consulting and advisory services to financial services companies. The subsidiaries. acquisition expanded our position within the banking and financial services industries (BFS) by adding capital markets and investment IT Services Market banking domain expertise, and consulting and program management skills. ALaS provided Virtusa with approximately 150 practitioners, The IT services market is highly competitive and includes offshore IT including former senior Wall Street professionals with significant outsourcing firms and consulting and systems integration firms. We also industry experience, driving critical initiatives in areas such as regulatory occasionally compete with in-house IT departments, smaller verticallycompliance; trading desk operations improvement and controls; focused IT service providers and local IT service providers based in the software package selection, program management and functional geographic areas where we compete. We expect additional competition testing; and increasing automation to reduce costs. from offshore IT outsourcing firms in emerging locations such as Eastern Europe, Latin America and China, as well as offshore IT service For more information, visit: providers with facilities in less expensive geographies within India. http://www.virtusa.com/aboutus/management-board.asp Primary Services We provide a broad range of IT services, either individually or as part of an end-to-end solution, from business and IT consulting and technology implementation to application outsourcing. Using our enhanced global delivery model, innovative platforming approach and industry expertise, we provide cost-effective services that enable our clients to use IT to enhance business performance, reduce their total cost of ownership, accelerate time-to-market, increase productivity and improve their end customers’ experience. We apply our innovative platforming approach across all of our services. We help our clients combine common business processes and rules, technology frameworks and data into reusable application platforms that can be leveraged across the enterprise to build, enhance and maintain existing and future applications. Our platforming approach enables our clients to continually improve their software platforms and applications in response to changing business needs and evolving technologies while also improving business agility and realizing long-term and ongoing cost savings. 5 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 AWARDS & RECOGNITION Ranked 42 in The Boston Globe’s Globe 100 List, a prestigious ranking of the best-performing publicly traded corporations in Massachusetts. The 2012 Globe 100 honors companies that delivered exceptional financial results during 2011. Named to Forbes’ List of the “100 Best Small Public Companies in America.” The list recognizes 100 companies across the U.S. that have withstood economic challenges to achieve impressive sales and earnings growth. Certified by the Corporate Research Foundation (CRF) Institute as one of Britain’s Top Employers for 2011. The company was recognized for its outstanding HR policies and exceptional working conditions. Top Ten Gold Award Winner at the Sri Lankan National HRM Awards, organized by the Association of Human Resource Professionals. Virtusa also won the Employee Relation and People Administration award. Recognized as a key R&D service provider for 2012, in the category of Independent Software Vendors (ISV) Enterprise Software by Zinnov. Virtusa was recognized in the prestigious “Execution Zone” of Zinnov Zones for its high level of R&D practice maturity and distinguished innovative practices for the second year in a row. Presented with a Silver Stevie® Award in the Human Resources th Department of the Year category in the 10 Annual American Business Awards. Recognized by American Banker, Bank Technology News, and IDC Financial Insights on the 2011 FinTech 100 List. The list ranks the most successful financial services technology vendors around the world based on their calendar year 2010 revenue from financial services. This is the fourth time in five years that Virtusa has been named in the ranking. Recognized for the 3rd consecutive year amongst Top 20 Best IT Employers in India. Dataquest (DQ)-CMR in its 2011 Best Employer Survey ranked Virtusa at the 9th position. 6 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 AWARDS & RECOGNITION Certified by the Corporate Research Foundation (CRF) Institute, for the second year in a row, as one of Britain’s Top Employers for 2012. Virtusa scored exceptionally well in the categories of Secondary Benefits and Working Conditions, Training and Development, and Career Development. Recipient of Pegasystems’ first annual Partner Excellence Awards. The awards recognize Pegasystems’ partner organizations that drive customer success by delivering solutions that increase customers’ agility and competitive edge. Virtusa was acknowledged for excellence in the category of solution delivery. Recognized in the 2011 Global Services 100 List (GS100) by Global Services, in association with NeoGroup. The company was also featured in the category of Top Specialty Product Engineering Vendors. The GS100, which honored Virtusa for the fourth consecutive year, represents companies that demonstrate excellence in delivering IT outsourcing (ITO) and BPO services globally using matured models of service delivery. Honored by the Project Management Institute Atlanta (PMI) as the winner of its 2011 Manufacturing Project of the Year Award. The award recognizes the accomplishments of a Project and the involved Project team for superior performance and execution of exemplary Project Management. Ranked as the most preferred IT/BPO Employer in Sri Lanka, in the first Employer Branding Study in Sri Lanka conducted by TNS. The study also listed Virtusa within the top five preferred employers in Sri Lanka. Virtusa’s Solution for a Global Bank was selected as a Finalist in 2011 Adaptive Case Management Global Excellence Awards. Co-sponsored by the Workflow Management Coalition (WfMC) and KMWorld magazine, these prestigious awards recognize user organizations that have demonstrably excelled in implementing innovative adaptive case management (ACM) solutions. Virtusa was recognized in the highly-contested “Customer Facing” category for its work on behalf of a global banking firm. 7 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 ABOUT THE REPORT 8 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 the G3.1 Guidelines and Indicator Protocols, while the previous report was based on the G3 Guidelines and Indicator Protocols. As our previous report, this report also conforms to Level C of the GRI Report Application Levels. Pages 35-36 contain the applicable GRI Index. This report also outlines our progress in embedding the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Process for Defining Report Content Our goal is to improve our reporting systems so as to report against a greater number of disclosure criteria in the medium term as well as work The reporting period for this report is April 2011 to March 2012. We towards obtaining external assurance. have made every effort to submit a comprehensive report with regard to dimensions of scope and boundary for the reporting period. Principles and Reporting Guidelines: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and UN Global Compact (UNGC) Materiality This is the second sustainability report we have produced based on Given the nature of Virtusa’s business -as a services company providing the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. There have been no software development and consulting services, not all of the GRI core significant changes in the scope, boundary, or data measurement indicators are applicable or directly relevant. The following table outlines methods from the previous report. However, this report complies with the indicators that are material to our operations: Applicability Economic Social Environment EN3 EN4 EN5 EC1 EC3 LA1 LA4 LA10 EN7 EN8 EC7 LA11 LA12 LA13 Very Important EN16 PR5 PR8 S02 EC8 EN 18 EN28 EN29 LA2 HR5 HR6 HR7 EN24 Important EC2 EC6 SO5 PR6 As a company with global operations, the scope disclosure differs social and environmental indicators reported are relevant only for our in each operational center. While economic, labor, and product operations in India and Sri Lanka. responsibility indicators are reported at a global level, human rights, 9 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 Operational Focus Area of Disclosure Financial Global Human Resources and Human Resource Development Product Responsibility Societal Performance – Campus Reach, Tech Reach, Digital Reach and India and Sri Lanka other community based initiatives Environmental Performance Code Green Data Measurement Techniques CO2 emissions monitoring is carried out using the guidelines and procedures of the Green House Gas Protocol Initiative for purchased electricity, shuttle transport and business air travel. The calculations are verified by the EU SWITCH-Asia Funded EEPEx Project. During the reporting period, we were able to extend data verification to include our ATCs in India. Previously, it was carried out only at our Sri Lanka ATC. Data related to activities such as human resource development and training is collected on a daily basis as well as periodically through surveys, etc. In 2011, for the first time, the Global Team Member Survey was conducted with the assistance of a firm of external consultants, AEON Hewitt. Contact Point for Questions Rasika Withanage Manager–Marketing, Sustainability & Communications RWithanage@Virtusa.com 10 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 PEOPLE 11 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 recruit and hire laterally and use employee referrals as a significant part of our recruitment process. Performance Management All employees in our permanent cadre have regular performance appraisals, on which career development, compensation and promotions are based. Our compensation philosophy rewards performance by linking both variable compensation and salary increases to performance. In addition to compensation, other schemes for employee recognition include Personal Excellence Awards (PEP), Recognize and Value Everybody Awards (RAVE) and Long Service Awards. The Delivery Employee Engagement Excellence Awards recognize contribution at team level. Engagement Method/Policy Training and Development • GTMS • Open Door Policy We conduct training for all campus hires and lateral hires through a focused Onboarding program. Apart from this, all employees have • Yammer access to training programs covering both technical subjects and soft • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics skills so that they can gain the skill competencies needed for career • Harassment-Free Workplace Policy management. • Environment, Health and Safety Policy Employee Training Hours Per Year Per Employee • Whistleblower Policy Category • Intellectual Property India Sri Lanka US & Europe Tier 4 92558.7 16881.75 263.5 Tier 3 32549.9 4181.45 688.5 Tier 2 15385.2 5015.8 1572.5 As an equal opportunity employer, our policy is to recruit and reward Tier 1 5258.3 1837.3 1488.5 based on individual capabilities, merit, achievements and experience. Tier 0 2577.5 558 1385.5 Our people management strategy is based on six key components: Table: Average hours of training per year per employee by recruitment, performance management, training and development, employee category employee engagement and communication, compensation and We do not track training hours by gender as we provide equal training retention. opportunities for our male and female employees. Recruitment Employee Engagement and Communication We recruit from leading universities in India and Sri Lanka. Through our Campus Reach program, we maintain a visible position in universities We have regular company-wide updates from senior management, through a variety of specialized programs, including IT curriculum complemented by team member sessions at the regional, local and development, classroom teaching and award sponsorships. We also account levels, as well as regular town hall sessions to provide team members a voice with management. We also have open forums such as Yammer, No Meeting Fridays, where the Management Committee is available for discussion and Europe Voice. 12 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 The Global Team Member Survey (GTMS) is one of the main Compensation mechanisms through which our Human Resources team obtains feedback on HR processes. In 2011, for the first time GTMS was Our compensation philosophy rewards performance by linking both conducted with the assistance of external consultants, AON-Hewitt. variable compensation and salary increases to performance. Based on the GTMS results, nine work groups representing a cross section of employees were formed to analyze feedback from GTMS Retention and develop recommendations based on them. The recommendations were then presented to the Management Committee and organized We remain committed to improving and sustaining our voluntary attrition according to priority areas. levels in-line with our long-term stated goals. During the twelve months ended March 31, 2012, we experienced voluntary team member attrition at New employees can provide feedback through the Two Month a rate of 15.5% and involuntary team member attrition at a rate of 5.0%. We Completion Survey and Five Month Completion Survey. define attrition as the ratio of the number of team members who have left us during a defined period to the total number of team members that were on our payroll at the end of the period. Workforce India Sri Lanka US & Europe US Other Category Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Permanent Cadre 26% 74% 31% 69% 10% 90% 24% 76% Contract 33% 67% 47% 53% 12% 88% 11% 89% Outsourced 16% 84% 19% 81% 8% 92% 0% 0% Table: Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender Employee Turnover India Sri Lanka US & Europe US Other Category Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Under 30 36% 64% 33% 67% 33% 67% 50% 50% 30-49 20% 80% 28% 72% 14% 86% 32% 68% Over 50 0% 100% 0% 100% 15% 85% 11% 89% Table: Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region New Hires India Sri Lanka US & Europe US Other Category Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Under 30 28% 72% 37% 63% 9% 91% 4% 96% 30-49 16% 84% 21% 79% 9% 91% 13% 88% Over 50 0% 100% 5% 95% 0% 100% Table: Total number and rate of new employee hires by age group, gender, and region 13 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 None of our team members are covered by a collective bargaining Industry and Social Partnerships agreement or are represented by a labor union. This is partly due to the Sri Lanka India open communication and cordial relations maintained with employees. Sri Lanka Association of Software National Association of Software A flat structure and open door policy are the main factors contributing and Service Companies and Services Companies to such positive relations. In addition, in India and Sri Lanka where (SLASSCOM) (NASSCOM) the majority of our workforce is, labor unions are rare in white collar AMCHAM Sri Lanka AMCHAM India industries. Information Technology & Sarvodaya Fusion Services Industry Association of Andhra Pradesh (ITsAP) Diversity and Equal Opportunity Central Environment Authority Participation of women is low across the IT industry. Of Virtusa’s global workforce, 30% are women. While Virtusa encourages all its employees to accept challenging roles and leadership positions, statistics show that Many of our executive officers are on the boards of industry associations the number of women holding executive positions is low. and academic institutions and are therefore conduits in shaping public policy. The Women of Virtusa (WoV) initiative was launched in March 2012 in an effort to facilitate longer, more fruitful careers for the women of Virtusa. Roger Keith Modder, President, Asia and Executive Vice President WoV was launched under the patronage of Kris Canekeratne, Chairman Global Services, is a member of the National Council for Economic and CEO of Virtusa. Development (IT/BPO cluster) in Sri Lanka whilst Darshana Pai, Vice President and Delivery Head of Hyderabad ATC was nominated to the NASSCOM’s Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) core team. Madu Ratnayake, Challenges Vice President and General Manager of Virtusa Sri Lanka, is the Director and the Vice Chairman of SLASSCOM. As a constantly growing organization, Virtusa strives to balance the needs of the company against those of its employees. Working on large projects of a global scale, spanning geographies and time zones requires flexibility. One of the challenges that arise due to this is managing extended work hours and project deadlines while ensuring that employee burnout does not occur. Employee work hours are tracked with weekly reports being sent to managers, and safeguards are in place to ensure no employee works long hours consistently. Employees who are part of projects that are working to meet tight deadlines are encouraged to take paid leave subsequent to the end of the project. The management constantly engages with clients to manage client expectations in order to negotiate manageable deadlines. Furthermore, employees have been given the opportunity to work from home or carry forward leave that is unutilized. 14 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 People Virtusa’s Campus Reach goes from Strength to Strength Virtusa assists 2000 children in the South of Sri Lanka A team of Virtusans visited Paraliya Jinarathana Maha Vidyalaya and Dutugamunu Maha Vidyalaya, Lunama, Ambalanthota in the Southern Province in early 2012, to hand over computers which would be used in the maths labs of the respective schools. Digital Reach aims to promote digital literacy by creating access to Information Technology and seeks to build a more digitally-inclusive society, gearing them towards an allinclusive knowledge economy. During FY11/FY12 we continued to partner with universities and Virtusa develops open source School Management System academic institutions across India and Sri Lanka to provide curriculum enhancements, internships, teacher training seminars and knowledge ÀKURA, a school management system, developed at the request of sharing sessions. Overall, we provided 90 internships and reached St Joseph’s College, Sri Lanka is now being used in schools all over 5700+ undergraduate students through 78 events. the world. Built entirely by a team of Virtusa volunteers, the intention behind ÀKURA is to provide schools with an efficient system to manage Virtusa lends helping hand to students through “Pen Your Future” the daily administrative tasks and monitor student progress. Due to its success in Sri Lanka, AKURA has been made available as free and Virtusa extended a helping hand to students in Cuddalore, Tamil Nadu, open source software and has seen 5000+ downloads from India through the “Pen Your Future” program. The destruction caused http://Sourceforge.net throughout the world, with most downloads by cyclone Thane in the Cuddalore district in December 2011 left many being from India. In a region where many schools have limited budgets, students who were facing their board exams without even basic writing ÀKURA provides a cost effective and efficient solution. material and books. To help them get their education back on track, Virtusa took the initiative to provide basic necessities to 225 Standard Virtusa joins battle against Cancer by participating in the PMC X students and 75 Standard XII students at Anna Gramam Higher bike-a-thon Secondary School. Virtusan Michael Picard along with his POWERCure team members Virtusa donated writing material and notebooks to over 300 students in th completed their 7 Pan-Massachusetts bike-a-thon challenge. This the cyclone hit village of Anna Gramam through the “Pen Your Future” annual event is nationally recognized as a model in fundraising efficiency program. Volunteers from the Chennai Advanced Technology Center where “every rider raised dollar” goes directly to the Jimmy Fund to visited Anna Gramam Higher Secondary School on Friday, January 27, support Dana-Farber Cancer Research activities. 2012 and handed over the material to the students. 15 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 PL ANET 16 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 FY12 Performance 21% Carbon Footprint* per Revenue Energy Management We have had a targeted per capita energy reduction of 22% over the last four years. 8% Carbon Footprint* per Person 13% Energy Consumption per Person 12% Water Consumption per Person * Though we failed to achieve the reductions we had intended to, we Scope 1 and Scope 2 believe that the aggressive targets that we set ourselves have yielded the reductions we have seen. During the reporting period, we continued to reinforce our Environmental Management Framework so as to responsibly manage the impact of our Water Management operations. We are currently on the path to certifying this framework for ISO 14001 across all our Advanced Technology Centers (ATCs). During The water management data given below is for our operations in Sri the period of reporting, the Sri Lanka Center was certified by the British Lanka and our “Campus” facility in Hyderabad. This water does not Standards Institute. include drinking water, which we do not target to reduce. The statistics reported herein (except for water) involve our operations We have reduced our per capita water usage by 12% through efficient within our ATCs, which host about 90% of our headcount. housekeeping measures, raising awareness and wastewater recycling (in our Campus facility). Climate Change Management In 2011, we made our first submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project. We report under the GHG Protocol and have calculated our emissions for Scopes 1, 2 and 3. Our scope 3 emissions result from business travel and transport. The emissions footprints (MT of CO2eq) are given below: Total General purpose water consumption – SLATC and Hyderabad Campus Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Emissions 472 9,536 2,509 12,517 The total of our Scope 1 and 2 emissions reduced by 21% per revenue, and 8% over the year. 17 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 Gaps and Continual Improvement Continual Scope Gap Identified Improvement for FY13 Have all ATCs Environmental Not standardized certified for ISO Management across locations Planet 14001 in FY13. E-Waste Management Set reduction targets Targets for Targets for for FY13 for CO2 Environmental Environmental emissions, water and We were a pioneer company in Sri Lanka to sign up with the Performance set only Management e-waste provided in government’s e-waste program. for Energy the next section. Last year, we submitted over 3611 kg of e-waste for disposal. Water consumption Measure Water Management not measured for all consumption across geographies all ATCs. There were no instances of monetary or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations during the reporting period. Performance Targets for FY 13 The following reduction targets have been set for FY13: Virtusans Participate in Chennai Beach Cleanup Per capita CO2 Emissions 10% reduction on FY12 levels More than 50 volunteers from Virtusa Chennai took part in th the beach cleanup activity in Besant Nagar on Saturday, 7 July 2012. The theme for this event was Our Place…Our Per capita Energy Consumption 10% reduction on FY12 levels Planet…Our Responsibility. Per capita Water Consumption 10% reduction on FY12 levels Waste sent for landfill 5% reduction on FY12 levels 18 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 The UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses principles, Virtusa has embedded the sustainability precepts laid out by that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten the UNGC into the approach in which it conducts its daily business. As universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, a member of the UNGC, Virtusa issues an annual Communication on environment and anti-corruption. Essentially a voluntary disclosure Progress (COP), a public disclosure to stakeholders on progress made process, the UNGC has been adopted by corporates across the in implementing the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, and in world as a common platform for the participants to advance their supporting broad UN development goals. commitments to sustainability and corporate citizenship. Virtusa has been a signatory and a member of the United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact was initiated in Sri Lanka in (UNGC) since the year 2008. 2007/2008 and formed into a legal entity in 2011, known as the Global Compact Network Ceylon (GCNC). Virtusa has been a member of the Virtusa embodies and practices the 10 principles through its Steering Committee of the Sri Lankan Network since 2010. The Board management approach to sustainability and sustainable business of Directors of the Network, on which a representative from Virtusa sits, and in view of its intention to adopt the precautionary approach to was formalized in early 2011. Through its work with the GCNC, Virtusa management. With employee commitment gained through awareness has supported and encouraged the activation of both the network and building and orientation of the work ethic towards the adoption of the 10 the UNGC principles in Sri Lanka. Relevant GRI Indicators Category UNGC Principle Page Disclosed Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; And Human Rights Principles 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and LA4 the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of HR7 forced or compulsory labour; Labour Standards Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child HR6 labour; Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination LA2, LA14, in respect of employment and occupation. HR2, HR4 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Environment EN4, EN5, EN18 environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Anti Corruption SO2 including extortion and bribery. 19 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 PROFIT 20 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 We aim to conduct our business operations in a sustainable and ethical issues facing us, and is most capable of effectively identifying strategic manner, and this is embedded in our corporate governance, business priorities and leading the discussion and execution of strategy. This practices and client engagements. also enables Kris Canekeratne to act as the key link between the Board of Directors and other members of management. To assure effective We adhere to International Labor Organization standards and independent oversight, the Board of Directors annually appoints a internationally proclaimed human rights in our day to day operations. As lead independent director. Mr. Martin Trust currently serves as the lead a technology services company, child labor, forced labor and bonded independent director. labor are not significant risk factors in our operations. Executive Officers and Directors Board Leadership Structure The following table sets forth the executive officers and the directors of Kris Canekeratne, a founder of our company, serves as our Chief Virtusa, and the positions currently held by each such person. Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. The Board of Directors believes that having our Executive Officer as Chairman of the Board facilitates the Board of Directors’ decision-making process because Kris Canekeratne has first-hand knowledge of our operations and the major Kris Canekeratne Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Class III Director Thomas R. Holler Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer Roger Keith Modder Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Raj Rajgopal Executive Vice President, Business Development and Client Services Ranjan Kalia Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary Samir Dhir Senior Vice President, Global Delivery Head and Head of India Operations Robert E. Davoli (1) Class I Director William K. O'Brien (3) Class I Director Al-Noor Ramji (1) Class I Director Izhar Armony (2) Class II Director Martin Trust (1)(3) Class II Director Rowland T. Moriarty (1)(2) Class II Director Ronald T. Maheu (2)(3) Class III Director Table: Executive Officers and Directors (1) Member of the compensation committee (2) Member of the nominating and corporate governance committee (3) Member of the audit committee 21 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 The Board of Directors and its Committees The Board of Directors has the following standing committees: Audit Committee; Compensation Committee; and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, each of which operates pursuant to a separate charter that has been approved by the board of directors. Chairperson Member Financial Expert Nominating and Corporate Audit Committee Compensation Committee Governance Committee Izhar Armony Robert E. Davoli Ronald T. Maheu Rowland T. Moriarty William K. O'Brien Martin Trust Kris Canekeratne Al-Noor Ramji Table: The Board of Directors and its Committees Communication with the Board of Directors Any of our stockholders who wish to communicate directly with the board of directors or an individual member of the board of directors may do so by sending such communication by U.S. Mail (including courier or expedited delivery service) addressed to the chairman of the board, as a representative of the entire board of directors, or to the individual director or directors, in each case, c/o Secretary, Virtusa Corporation, 2000 West Park Drive, Westborough, Massachusetts 01581. We will forward any such stockholder communication to the chairman of the board of directors, as a representative of the board of directors, or to the director to whom the communication is addressed, on a periodic basis. Code of Ethics We have adopted a “code of ethics,” as defined by regulations promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Exchange Act, that applies to all of our directors and employees worldwide, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and controller, or persons performing similar functions. A current copy of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available at the Corporate Governance section of our website at http://www.virtusa.com. Whistleblower Policy Virtusa adopts a whistleblower policy that encourages our employees to report instances of corruption and behavior that contravene the code of ethics. 22 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 Marketing & Communication Ethics Virtusa ensures that it complies with and adheres to laws and standards that are applicable in each of its operational environments/ geographic locations. We take a measured and formalized approach towards regulating our marketing and communications efforts, and follow a voluntary code to ensure responsible advocacy. Anti-corruption Our Finance and Administrative systems are regulated to ensure that anti-corruption practices are maintained in all transactions performed within. Economic Sustainability Currently, we have not formalized the integration of Climate Change Management with our business processes. We are working towards this outcome in FY13. However, Climate Change has figured prominently as part of our Environmental Management. Since we are a services company, Climate Change is one of our key environmental aspects and we have been working towards managing our impact on the climate as part of our environmental impact management. For FY12, the primary risk we assessed was customer behavior changes during the year, we provided six of our clients with details of our climate change and our environmental management system. We recognized the significance of the subject for our clients. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, we had revenue of $277.8 million and income from operations of $23.9 million. In our fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, our revenue increased by $59.8 million, or 27.4%, to $277.8 million, as compared to $218.0 million in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. Our net income increased from $16.2 million in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 to $20.0 million in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. The key drivers of the increase in revenue in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, as compared to our fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, were as follows: • Broad based growth of our clients existing at March 31, 2011, including our top ten clients collectively. • Broad based revenue growth from clients in our banking, financial services and insurance (“BFSI”) and communications and technology (“C&T”) industries. • Revenue from clients obtained in connection with the acquisition of ALaS in July 2011. The key drivers of our increase in net income in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, as compared to our fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, were as follows: • Higher revenue, partially offset by higher onsite effort, increased use of subcontractors, increased compensation costs related to our IT professionals and an increase in visa costs. • Increased efficiencies in selling, general and administrative expenses over a larger revenue base, partially offset by higher tax expense due to expiration of certain of our tax holidays in India. High repeat business and client concentration are common in our industry. During our quarter ended March 31, 2012, 90% of our revenue was derived from clients who had been using our services for more than one year. 23 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 Consolidated Statements of Income Data Fiscal Year Ended March 31 (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) 2012 2011 2010 Revenue $ 277,771 $ 217,979 $ 164,365 Costs of revenue 177,434 134,496 94,142 Gross profit 100,337 83,483 70,223 Operating expenses 76,438 65,697 57,330 Income from operations 23,899 17,786 12,893 Other income 2,547 441 56 Income before income tax ex26,446 18,227 12,949 pense Income tax expense 6,411 2,027 820 Net income $ 20,035 $ 16,200 $ 12,129 Net income per share of common stock Basic $ 0.81 $ 0.68 $ 0.52 Diluted $ 0.79 $ 0.66 $ 0.50 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding Basic 24,643,063 23,783,457 23,153,973 Diluted 25,383,650 24,714,808 24,032,675 Table: Consolidated Statements of Income Data For the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013, we plan to: • Continue to invest in our talent base, including new onsite campus recruitment programs. • Continue our focus on client generation and expansion of revenue gained from existing clients. • Invest in healthcare solutions as well as leverage our expertise in customer relations management and business process management. • Deepen our domain expertise in our service offerings related to mobile applications, social media and cloud computing. • Broaden our consulting and solutions capabilities related to our service offerings. • Pursue opportunistically acquisitions that would improve or broaden our overall service delivery capabilities, domain expertise and / or service offerings. • Implement resource and operating optimization initiatives to improve operating efficiencies. Markets Served We serve clients across North America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, revenue generated outside of the United States accounted for 22%, 26% and 26% of total revenue, respectively. 2012 2011 2010 Customer Revenue North America $ 215,723 $ 162,528 $ 121,727 Europe 49,839 45,065 39,322 Other 12,209 10,386 3,316 Consolidated revenue $ 277,771 $ 217,979 $ 164,365 Table: Revenue Breakdown According to Geographic Breakdown 24 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 Post-retirement Benefits Effective January 1, 2011, the Company’s subsidiary, InSource, froze their 401(k) Plan and all eligible employees can now participate in the Virtusa has noncontributory defined benefit plans (the “Benefit Plans”) Company’s 401(k) Plan. covering its employees in India and Sri Lanka as mandated by the Indian and Sri Lankan governments. Benefits are based on the employee’s years of service and compensation at the time of termination. The Supply Chain Company uses March 31 as the measurement date for its plans. The Company’s plan assets are being managed by insurance companies in As a services company our supply chain is minimal. However, we India and Sri Lanka. follow ethical practices in all our sourcing and attempt to ensure that our suppliers adhere to accepted standards in labor and human rights. The Company’s benefit obligations are described in the following tables. Our policy is to depend on local suppliers at all locations of operations Accumulated and projected benefit obligations (“ABO” and “PBO”, unless doing so would be a cost disadvantage. respectively) represent the obligations of a pension plan for past service as of the measurement date. ABO is the present value of benefits Client Satisfaction earned to date with benefits computed based on current compensation levels. PBO is ABO increased to reflect expected future compensation. As a services company, Virtusa strives towards excellence in all aspects of delivery. Our global delivery process ensures quality is built into the software development lifecycle from inception to completion. 2012 2011 Measuring and ensuring high client satisfaction is an integral part of Accumulated benefit obligation $ 1,404 $ 1,385 delivery at Virtusa. The Client Delight Index (CDI) is a key performance Projected benefit obligation measure that has Board-level visibility. Client feedback is collected each Balance at April 1, 2011 $ 2,178 $ 1,404 quarter from stakeholders identified for each account and a consolidated Service cost 502 363 report is published for each Advanced Technology Center. The survey Interest cost 176 124 can be customized depending on the project or project phase. Actuarial (gain) loss 70 487 Benefits paid (427) (362) Other adjustments — 129 Intellectual Property and Client Data Exchange rate adjustments (317) 33 Our clients usually own the intellectual property in the software Balance at March 31, 2012 $ 2,182 $ 2,178 applications we develop for them. We generally implement safeguards Table: Accumulated Benefit Obligation and Projected Benefit designed to protect our clients’ intellectual property in accordance with Obligation their needs and specifications. (15) 401(k) Plan During the year under review no complaints were recorded related to breaches of customer privacy, loss of customer data, and Virtusa sponsors a defined contribution retirement savings plan, qualified noncompliance with laws and regulations with regard to our services. under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code (the “401(k) Plan”). Eligible employees may defer a portion of their compensation into the Company’s 401(k) Plan on a pre-tax and/or Roth basis. The Company’s 401(k) Plan currently offers a safe harbor match feature that provides Company matching contributions for certain employee contributions. For the periods ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company recorded $614 and $456 for the employer match, respectively. The Company’s 401(k) Plan may be amended at the direction of the Company’s Board of Directors to discontinue the safe harbor match program at any time. 25 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 Policies A range of policies define our approach to sustainable business practice. Whilst most are applicable globally some are specific to a geographic location. Stakeholder Policy Location of Applicability Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Global Whistleblower Policy Global Employees Policy Governing Director Qualifications and Nominations Global Environment, Health and Safety Policy Global Harassment-Free Workplace Policy Global Stakeholder Policy Location of Applicability Green Procurement Policy Sri Lanka, India Suppliers Policy on Procurements Sri Lanka, India Environment, Health and Safety Policy Global Stakeholder Policy Location of Applicability Interest Clients Client Delight Index Global Stakeholder Policy Location of Applicability Interest Environment, Health and Safety Policy Global Environment 3R policy (Reuse, Reduce, Recycle Sri Lanka, India More Information Detailed information on corporate governance is available in the Proxy Filings under Investors/SEC Filings of our website http://www.virtusa.com/ 26 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS PAGE 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 3 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 23 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organization 4 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 5 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and 2.3 5 joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 4 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations 2.5 4 or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 5 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 24 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 5, 12, 24 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 5 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 6-7 REPORT PARAMETERS PAGE Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period 9 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 9 3.3 Reporting cycle 9 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 10 Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content. 9 3.6 Boundary of the report. 10 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 9-10 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities 3.8 9 that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques under3.9 10 lying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for 3.10 such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measure9 ment methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods ap3.11 9 plied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 28-29 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 9 27 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, AND ENGAGEMENT PAGE Governance 21-22, Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body respon4.1 Proxy sible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Statement 21, Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their func4.2 Proxy tion within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). Statement 21-22, For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the high4.3 Proxy est governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Statement Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest gov4.4 22 ernance body Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and Proxy 4.5 executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and Statement environmental performance). Proxy 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Statement Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest govProxy 4.7 ernance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Statement Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to econom4.8 4, 22 ic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management Proxy 4.9 of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherStatement ence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to ecoProxy 4.10 nomic, environmental, and social performance. Statement Commitment to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 19 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which 4.12 19 the organization subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organi4.13 14 zations. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 26 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder 4.16 12, 26 group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization 4.17 12, 13 has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. ENVIRONMENTAL PAGE Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 17 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 17 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 17 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 17-18 28 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 17 Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 17 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 17-18 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the EN24 18 Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with EN28 18 environmental laws and regulations. Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the EN29 17 organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. HUMAN RIGHTS PAGE Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and colHR5 14 lective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child Labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measHR6 21, 25 ures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Forced and Compulsory Labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory HR7 21, 25 labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK PAGE Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. 13 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 13 Labor Management and Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 14 Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 12 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees LA11 12 and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. 12 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to LA13 21 gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 29 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 SOCIETY PAGE Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 23 Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 14 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PAGE Product and Service Labeling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 25 Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, PR6 23 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer PR8 25 data. ECONOMIC PAGE Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 24 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 23 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 25 Market Presence EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. 25 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations EC7 12 of significant operation. Indirect Economic Impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit EC8 15 through commercial, in kind, or pro bono engagement. Report Application Levels C C+ B B+ A A+ Mandatory Self Declared Third Party Checked Optional GRI Checked 30 VIRTUSA CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011/2012 This report is available on Virtusa’s Corporate website: www.virtusa.com © 2012 All rights reserved. Virtusa and all other related logos are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Virtusa Corporation in the United States, the European Union, and/or India. All other company and service names are the property of their respective holders and may be registered trademarks or trademarks in the United States and/or other countries.
