Lundin Petroleum AB’s Communication on Progress 2011 Lundin Petroleum AB Hovslagargatan 5  SE – 111 48 Stockholm, Sweden Telephone: + 46 8 440 54 50 Fax: + 46 8 440 54 59 E-mail: info@lundin.ch  Website: www.lundin-petroleum.com 27 April 2012 Lundin Petroleum’s Commitment to the United Nations Global Compact & Communication on Progress 2011 Dear Mr Secretary General Lundin Petroleum celebrated its tenth anniversary in 2011. The year also represented Lundin Petroleum’s first full year as a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, which it joined in May 2010. I am pleased to confirm that adhering to the Global Compact has been of benefit to Lundin Petroleum; from an internal perspective, it has brought more structure and focus in the manner in which corporate responsibility issues are addressed at the different levels of the organisation, from the field to the Board of Directors, and it has provided a better communication tool with stakeholders through, among others, the Communication on Progress. As Lundin Petroleum has evolved as a company over the years, so has its corporate responsibility approach. In the early days, corporate responsibility meant ensuring that the Company remained true to its values and principles while working in challenging socio-political environments. The development of a Code of Conduct giving overall guidance to employees, contractors and partners on how the Company is to conduct its activities in an economically, socially and environmentally responsible way together with stakeholder engagement and local community development projects, were the key corporate responsibility achievements at the time. A Human Rights Primer was issued at the time and presentations on the link between human rights and business were given to corporate and country based staff. As the Company’s geographical focus shifted to Europe and South East Asia, Lundin Petroleum further elaborated policies, processes and procedures to preserve the health and safety of its staff and contractors and to protect the environment, managing its risks while maintaining an open dialogue with its stakeholders, carrying out community development projects and making sustainable investments. In terms of the Global Compact, Lundin Petroleum’s focus during the first year of participation was to revisit the first two principles regarding human rights. Measures undertaken to promote and implement these principles included presentations of the two principles, given to the Board of Directors and to corporate and operational staff throughout the Group. Lundin Petroleum further issued new Guidelines on Sustainable Investments, aimed at ensuring that the Company has a positive impact on people and the environment. The Guidelines provide for assistance in the form of community development projects or corporate donations and contributions have, for example, been made to charitable organisations and projects to improve people’s access to basic health, clean water and education, as well as to reduce poverty, ensure child welfare, women empowerment and provide financial assistance to disaster relief. Registered office: Stockholm, Sweden Organisation no: 556610-8055 In the second year of membership in the Global Compact, particular attention was given to the tenth principle regarding anti-corruption. The Code of Conduct has since the beginning contained a clear anti-corruption commitment to “act in an honest way” and “refrain from accepting or offering improper payments, gifts or engaging in bribery or corrupt business practices”. To reinforce this commitment, the Board of Directors approved in December 2011 an Anti-Corruption Policy and Guidelines. The Policy and the Guidelines have been communicated throughout the Group, presented to Group Management and staff and are subject to continuous monitoring through internal audits, authorisation and accounting procedures, etc. During 2011, to mark the tenth anniversary of Lundin Petroleum, the Board of Directors approved a revised Code of Conduct, which confirms Lundin Petroleum’s continued commitment to the values and principles expressed in it and to carrying out activities in an efficient and responsible way, and includes Lundin Petroleum’s commitment to uphold and promote the ten principles of the Global Compact. In addition to this letter, Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress for the year 2011 includes the attached sections from the Annual Report 2011, which further describe the company’s corporate responsibility policies and goals, and actions undertaken to implement the Global Compact principles, measurements of outcomes and communications with stakeholder. I would also like to draw your attention to the corporate responsibility section of our website www.lundin-petroleum.com for additional information about Lundin Petroleum’s corporate responsibility approach and activities. It contains key documents such as the Code of Conduct and core policies, as well as information on HSE (health, safety and environment) management, sustainable investment projects, climate change, etc. Finally, I would like to confirm that Lundin Petroleum will continue to support the ten principles of the Global Compact and remains committed to the initiative and to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of Lundin Petroleum. Sincerely yours, C. Ashley Heppenstall Lundin Petroleum AB President and Chief Executive Officer OUR PEOPLE Committed to value LUNDIN PETROLEUM’S PEOPLE PRINCIPLES: creation » Link reward and variable compensation to individual pre-determined performance objectives to encourage outstanding commitment and delivery, thereby enhancing value creation across all parts of Lundin Petroleum. Lundin Petroleum recognises that the quality of its employee » Engagement, participation and involvement through our Performance base has been its single greatest factor in delivering its success. Management Process. We have been fully committed to investing in our talented and » Support and encourage ongoing training and professional experienced employee base and the rewards are evident in the development. results that the Company has delivered. » Pursue innovative recruitment and retention strategies. » Promote a safe and respectful working environment for all employees Over the last ten years, Lundin Petroleum has been very where Health, Safety and Environment (HSE), diversity and equal successful in attracting and retaining the best possible industry opportunities are paramount to all and are enshrined in our Code of talent. This has been achieved in spite of the skills shortage Conduct and the Lundin Petroleum Green Book. facing the industry. This shortage will become more acute in the » Continue to maintain a strong stability index across our people. coming years. Lundin Petroleum has been able to grow a sound employer branding and reputation in many of its areas of operation, making it the employer of choice in the current market place. During the coming years Lundin Petroleum and the industry will The Company offers opportunities for personal growth and continue to face major challenges: development across the range of professional disciplines that » The ever aging workforce in the sector will continue to enable the Company to attract and retain a » Too few new entrants to the geoscience/technical roles world class work force. » Intense competition from other upstream, exploration and production companies At the end of 2011 Lundin Petroleum directly employed approximately 300 people along with a further 200 consultants This clearly recognised industry skills gap will be profoundly and contractors across our operations. This skill base of highly felt across the coming years as senior, highly skilled geoscience qualified and experienced industry professionals is without and technical specialists retire from the industry. Only those doubt the essential and driving factor in the collective companies who are committed to employee retention and achievements of our successes to date. engagement will overcome this skills attraction and retention challenge. Lundin Petroleum will continue to recognise that its people will remain its most important asset for the delivery of future successes. Lundin Petroleum continues to maintain a strong and enviable stability index that is a key driver of our ongoing success and future operating The Company’s primary people strategy is to deliver value capabilities. creation for all stakeholders through the alignment of EMPLOYEE STABILITY INDEX 90 % pre-determined business goals and objectives for each employee through our Performance Management Process. This framework will enable us to achieve and exceed our stated corporate goals 100 and objectives going forward. This strategy will concentrate on 80 the following key elements: Stability Index (%) 60 » Remuneration and variable reward Ensure that we continue to remain competitive by offering 40 remuneration packages that attract and retain the best skill, talent and leadership available, whilst enhancing 20 shareholder value creation through the linking of fixed and variable remuneration to pre-determined, business focused 0 ce sia ala No rw ds performance criteria. Fran ne ys ia lan Ru ay ss Indo M er Sw itz er ia Ne th Tu lan ni sia d » Career development Promote the evolving and exciting progression opportunities Stability Index (%) = that the employee base enjoys in the fast growing, Number of employees with service of one year or more x 100 entrepreneurial environment of Lundin Petroleum. As the Total number of employees in post one year ago Company evolves, so must the people. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Ten years of Corporate Responsibility at Lundin Petroleum In its first annual report in 2001, Lundin Petroleum defined In practice it means seeking to achieve social, environmental Corporate Responsibility (CR) as “more than words, it is an and economic benefits simultaneously. As Lundin Petroleum has attitude and a commitment translated into action”. This evolved as a company, so has its CR approach. In the early days, statement remains true today; what is critical for Lundin CR meant ensuring that the Company remained true to its values Petroleum is that throughout the Group, at all echelons of the and principles while working in challenging socio-political organisation, from the Board of Directors to staff on the drill floor, environments. The development of a Code of Conduct, CR is integrated in decisions and work execution. stakeholder engagement and local community development projects were the key CR achievements at the time. As the Lundin Petroleum fully endorses the definition of Social Company’s geographical focus shifted to Europe and South East Responsibility developed by the International Organisation Asia, Lundin Petroleum further elaborated policies, processes for Standardisation in ISO 26000: “the responsibility of an and procedures to preserve the health and safety of its staff organisation for the impact of its decision and activities on and contractors and to protect the environment, managing its society and the environment, through transparent and ethical risks while maintaining an open dialogue with its stakeholders, behaviour that contributes to sustainable development, takes carrying out community development projects and making into account the expectations of stakeholders, complies with sustainable investments. applicable law and is consistent with international norms of behaviour and is integrated throughout the organisation and Lundin Petroleum’s commitment to its staff, shareholders, practised in its relationships”. host governments and communities, and society to act as a responsible corporate citizen takes place by making the right choices in the board room and on the ground, day after day. The Corporate Responsibility section of the Annual Report is an important way for Lundin Petroleum to communicate to its stakeholders on CR issues it has addressed during the year. It is also submitted as part of its Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact since 2010. The section below provides an overview of the CR actions highlighted in the Company’s Annual Reports over the past ten years. TEN YEARS OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTING AT LUNDIN PETROLEUM 2001 Lundin Petroleum’s Code of Conduct and CR Commitment translate into concrete projects under the Company’s Community Development and Humanitarian Assistance Programme in Sudan. 2002 Lundin Petroleum’s Policies on Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) are implemented in its newly acquired Coparex assets in France, Indonesia, the Netherlands and Tunisia. 2003 Lundin Petroleum develops its company-wide HSE Management System (the Green Book) modelled after ISO 14001. 2004 Lundin Petroleum introduces tracking of HSE Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), i.e. Fatalities, Lost Time Accidents and Oil Spills/Gas Leaks. The Norwegian Petroleum Safety Authority reviews the Company’s corporate HSE culture and Management Framework and visits its operations in France, prior to agreeing to Lundin Petroleum’s acceptance as an operator in Norway. 2005 Internal HSE reporting is expanded to include actions taken in furtherance of Green Book requirements; third party HSE audits are conducted in France, Tunisia and the UK. 2006 CR analyses and stakeholder engagement take place prior to the initiation of operations in new areas and HSE issues are further streamlined in the conduct of worldwide operations. Projects are carried out under Lundin Petroleum’s Corporate Donations Programme. 2007 In view of the expansion of Lundin Petroleum’s activities in Africa, Europe and South East Asia, the Company aligns its CR framework with international initiatives, such as the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol, the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative, the Voluntary Principles for Security and Human Rights and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals. 2008 Lundin Petroleum initiates a comprehensive review of its HSE framework requirements to align them with international standards like ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. 2009 The management of HSE issues at corporate and operational levels is systematised through the establishment of HSE Plans, the holding of regular HSE Teleconferences and Management Meetings, the elaboration of HSE Management System Requirements and the introduction of leading HSE KPIs and greenhouse gas emissions’ reporting. 2010 Lundin Petroleum formally becomes a member of the UNGC; the CR section of the Annual Report is submitted as a Communication on Progress and describes the steps the Company has taken to integrate the Principles in its strategy and day to day operations. “ In the past ten years, Lundin Petroleum has revised its CR framework on a continuous basis to ensure it addresses relevant issues in its current and prospective areas of operations; the process has involved defining internal values, principles, systems and procedures, integrating external standards and initiatives, maintaining active local and international stakeholder CHRISTINE BATRUCH VICE PRESIDENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY engagement and making contributions to support environmental, social and governance causes. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY THE CR FRAMEWORK that they will be protected from reprisals or victimisation for The Code of Conduct whistleblowing in good faith. Lundin Petroleum’s Code of Conduct, which is at the core of its CR commitment details the Vision, Values and Principles by Anti-Corruption which the Company is guided, as well as Responsibilities towards Lundin Petroleum’s Anti-Corruption Policy elaborates on its shareholders, staff, host countries, host communities and the Lundin Petroleum’s Code of Conduct commitment to “act in an environment. honest way” and to “refrain from accepting or offering improper payments, gifts or engaging in bribery or corrupt business A formal review of the Code of Conduct was conducted in 2011, practices”. The Policy was issued together with Anti-Corruption on the occasion of Lundin Petroleum’s 10th anniversary. The Guidelines (see below The Corporate Guidelines) as part of its Values, Principles and Responsibilities remain essentially the same UNGC commitment. as they continue to reflect Lundin Petroleum’s CR commitment. The Code now includes endorsement of the United Nations The Anti-Corruption Policy and Guidelines were adopted by the Global Compact’s (UNGC) Ten Principles on Human Rights, Board of Directors in December 2011. Labour Standards, Environment and Anti-Corruption, as well as a statement regarding Climate Change. THE HSE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM The Green Book The new version of the Code of Conduct was approved by Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) Management the Board of Directors in May 2011 and can be found on the System, the Green Book, sets corporate requirements for the Company’s website under Corporate Responsibility. systematic and comprehensive integration of HSE issues in the management of the Company’s worldwide operations. It In order to familiarise staff with the Code of Conduct and aims to achieve continuous improvement of HSE performance provide them with the necessary tools to exercise CR leadership through a pro-active management process covering planning, in relation to other staff, contractors and stakeholders, Lundin implementation, monitoring and review activities. Petroleum conducts staff inductions and provides staff with an induction presentation and an Employee Handbook, which The HSE Goals detail requirements under the Code and Policies. In order to reinforce commitments made in Lundin Petroleum’s Code of Conduct, HSE Policies and the Green Book and to The Staff Induction documentation was amended in 2011 to avoid potential negative impacts on people, assets and the reflect CR framework document updates. environment, the Company promotes the following high level HSE goals throughout its operations: THE POLICIES » Zero fatalities Health & Safety » Zero incidents Lundin Petroleum’s Health & Safety Policy commits to conduct » Zero harm to the environment all operations in a manner that protects people and property and complies with applicable legislation. The principal health The HSE Goals have been communicated throughout the Group, and safety objective is to provide a safe working environment together with suggested “Promote, Prevent & Reduce” actions. for employees, contract personnel and members of the general public. The Corporate HSE Plan Lundin Petroleum issues a Corporate HSE Plan on a yearly basis. Environment The purpose of the Plan is to have a systematic approach to HSE Lundin Petroleum’s Environmental Policy commits to protect management, to increase HSE awareness among staff within the the environment and to ensure that exploration, development, Company and involve them in planned activities, to promote and production operations are conducted in compliance with a sound HSE culture at corporate management level and to applicable environmental laws and regulations and meet reinforce the Company’s corporate HSE goals. The Corporate company-specified environmental requirements. HSE Plan is developed in relation to the Company’s activities throughout the Group. Community Relations Lundin Petroleum’s Community Relations Policy commits to The Corporate HSE Plan covers actions required in relation to enhance the living standards and well-being of the people in general, management system, audit and verification, as well as the areas it operates by, for example, hiring local staff and/or office activities; it is reported on to senior management and the participating in community projects. Board of Directors at least quarterly. Whistleblowing A key 2011 HSE Plan activity was the carrying out of HSE Lundin Petroleum’s Whistleblowing Policy and Procedure Management System audits of all Lundin Petroleum’s operated provides an avenue for employees and contracted personnel assets, namely France, Indonesia, Malaysia, Norway, Russia in the Group to raise concerns about improper, unethical or and Tunisia. The audits were conducted against corporate illegal conduct in the workplace and to obtain reassurance Management System Requirements (MSR) and Self-Assessment Forms. All assets were found to generally conform to corporate expectations in terms of HSE management systems, processes The Guidelines on Sustainable Investments assist country and procedures and to meet the eight MSR requirements on: management to determine ways in which they can positively leadership and commitment, responsibility, local management, impact the people and the environment in their areas of planning and implementation, contractor management, operations either through community development projects communication and training, risks assessments, emergency or donations to sustainable organisations and causes. General response and audits, monitoring and evaluation. Audit findings Managers are required to submit their suggestions to the Vice of “best practice” processes and procedures were shared President Corporate Responsibility (VPCR) prior to their budget throughout the Group. Recommendations for improvement submissions to the Investment Committee. measures issued for each asset will form the basis of further audits in 2012. The newly issued Guidelines on Anti-Corruption provide guidance on identifying and dealing with potential corruption The Country HSE Plans issues; they are a means to reinforce Lundin Petroleum’s Country management is required under the Green Book to have anti-corruption commitment and to assess, monitor and country and/or asset HSE Plans as a means to manage HSE issues ensure compliance with the law and the Company’s Policy. on a pro-active basis, setting HSE goals and objectives, and The Guidelines were presented to the Board, senior corporate ensuring that HSE issues are addressed by line management. management, General and HSE Managers in 2011. They will be Corporate Group management keeps track of progress against presented to the staff in all Group companies in the course of country HSE Plans through operations’ monthly reporting and 2012. through the yearly audits/reviews conducted in 2011. The Corporate HSE Procedures The Corporate Guidelines Lundin Petroleum’s corporate requirements and procedures The purpose of the Guidelines is to assist country operations in are in place to ensure that operations are conducted in a safe addressing CR/HSE issues in line with corporate expectations. and responsible manner throughout the Group. The HSE Management System Requirements (MSR) provides guidance on The Guidelines for HSE Managers for the Budgeting Process the specific requirements on operations under the Green Book. assist HSE managers, through a series of questions, to ensure In 2011, the HSE MSR Self-Assessment Form was used as a basis themselves that HSE issues have been properly addressed and for the formal HSE Management System audits conducted in all integrated in operational budgets. HSE managers are required to operated assets. report to corporate that they are satisfied with the operational budgets prior to their submission for approval to the Investment The corporate HSE Reporting Template which, in accordance Committee. with the HSE Reporting Requirements, all operated assets submit to Group management on a monthly basis, were updated in 2011 The Guidelines on Oil Spill Preparedness constitute an additional to include Progress against HSE Plans, Changes to Country Major control mechanism to ensure that Group companies have the Risks, and yearly environmental indicators (oil in water discharges proper response equipment, plans, capability and third party and waste segregation) for operated drilling and/or producing arrangements in place. All operated drilling and production assets. This enables Lundin Petroleum to track HSE performance activities are covered under a corporate contract with Oil on a monthly basis and obtain yearly environmental data which Spill Response Ltd. HSE managers are required to report on it can aggregate and compare against previous years. conformity with the Guidelines at minimum each year end. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Lundin Petroleum’s Emergency Response Plan (ERP), in place to ensure business continuity in the event of a problem either in a country of operations or at Group level was fully revised in 2011, to provide further guidance to operations in managing and reporting emergencies. It was rolled out to the Group at an HSE teleconference. In 2011 all Group companies carried out at least one emergency drill involving corporate management, in order to test the effectiveness of the ERP and of communications between Group and country management during emergency situations. The Country HSE Procedures There are operational HSE procedures in place for operations conducted by every Group company covering the full spectrum of exploration and production activities, as required, from environmental, risk, security or social studies and assessments, to permit-to-work systems, Job Safety Analyses, oil spill and emergency response preparedness as well as HSE and business The HSE Network continuity plans. All procedures are tested and verified on an Lundin Petroleum gathers the HSE Network on a bi-monthly ongoing basis, through local drills as well as internal, external basis at an HSE teleconference. Initially destined as to be a and/or regulatory audits. forum for HSE managers, in view of the interest the Network generated, it was extended in 2011 to senior Group and country In addition, it is a corporate requirement for all operated assets management. to have a personal behaviour safety system in place such as DuPont’s Safety Training Observation Programme, STOP and to Each HSE teleconference includes a review of main concerns/ pro-actively analyse their content to prevent incidents. issues of the month, a status and discussion of HSE KPIs, lessons learned, and a presentation by Group corporate or country THE HSE STRUCTURE management. Seven teleconferences were held in 2011. The HSE Board Representative Lundin Petroleum’s Board of Directors has an overall supervisory The topics of country presentations were: role regarding HSE issues. It also has a dedicated CR/HSE Board » HSE Plan Development (Malaysia) Representative. In addition to regular contacts between the » Storage Tank Cleaning (France) Board’s CR/HSE Representative and the VPCR, as of mid-2011 a » HSE Workshop for Contractors (Malaysia) report which reviews HSE performance, progress against the HSE » Near Misses (Norway) Plan, updates on stakeholder issues and sustainable investments » HSE Management System (Indonesia) is submitted to the Board on a quarterly basis. » Emergency Response and Lessons Learned (Tunisia) The HSE Quarterly Management Meeting The topics of corporate presentations were: Lundin Petroleum’s HSE Quarterly Management Meetings » United Nations Global Compact Principles convene Group senior, HSE and operational management to » Climate Change review HSE performance in the Group, progress against HSE Plan, » Lundin Petroleum’s Anti-Corruption Policy and Guidelines and discuss HSE implications of planned operational activities » Oil Spill Preparedness and other matters of interest. Two formal meetings were held in 2011. HSE management and performance issues were also All HSE corporate, operational and industry documents as well as addressed in individual meetings between the Vice President teleconference materials including presentations are posted on Corporate Responsibility (VPCR) and the CEO, COO, the Senior a dedicated HSE web forum, accessible by General, Operations, Vice President Operations and/or the Group Human Resources Drilling and HSE managers throughout the Group. Manager as well as in HSE teleconference meetings. LUNDIN PETROLEUM’S 2011 HSE PERFORMANCE The HSE Committee The HSE KPIs Lundin Petroleum’s HSE Committee, consisting of the Senior The Company tracks a number of HSE Key Performance Vice President Operations, the VPCR and Human Resource Indicators (KPIs) for its operated assets as a means to monitor Manager, is tasked with addressing HSE matters on a needs the status of performance throughout the Group and establish basis. Meetings can cover a number of issues such as KPIs, the HSE priority areas. At minimum, all incidents with a high impact implication of an accident, the HSE implications of planned or or high potential are the subject of thorough investigations and current operations, including human resources implications and follow up measures. training requirements, and potential problem areas. In 2011, meetings focussed on means to improve HSE performance in France, the only country which recorded Lost Time Incidents in the Group in 2011. In 2011, two additional environmental indicators were HSE INDICATOR DATA 2011 2010 2009 introduced: oil in water discharges (for producing assets) and Employees 1,036,831 731,793 905,166 waste segregation (for drilling and producing assets). These Exposure Hours Contractors 2,354,452 2,336,409 3,454,980 indicators will be used in the future to set further targets. Employees 0 0 0 Fatalities Contractors 0 0 0 HSE 2011 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) Employees 3 2 2 There were no major incidents in the Group in 2011, and none of Lost Time Incidents 1 Contractors 3 2 1 any kind in Malaysia, Russia and Tunisia. Employees 0 0 1 Restricted Work Incidents 2 There were incidents of minor gravity in France, Indonesia Contractors 3 7 0 Employees 1 0 2 and Norway, but none had a lasting impact on the individuals Medical Treatment Incidents 3 concerned or on the environment nor represented any risks to Contractors 4 17 7 the pursuit of operations. In accordance with Lundin Petroleum’s Employees 0.58 0.55 0.44 Lost Time Incident Rate 4 HSE reporting requirements, LTIs, Near Misses with High Potential Contractors 0.25 0.17 0.06 and Oil Spills were investigated upon and gave rise to immediate Total Recordable Incident Employees 0.77 0.55 1.10 and long term corrective measures. Rate 4 Contractors 0.85 2.23 0.46 No. 7 1 1 Even if the level of activities was greater than in previous years, Oil Spills Vol. (m3) 33 10 40 Group management is not satisfied with 2011 KPIs; it has No. 2 1 2 identified specific measures which will be implemented in 2012 Chemical Spills Vol. (m3) 3.50 7.70 129.78 to improve HSE performance. No. 0 0 1 Hydrocarbon Leaks Mass (kg) 0 0 4 Group HSE KPIs in 2011 were as follows: Near Misses with High No. 3 3 24 Potential Fatalities: zero Non-compliance with There have been no work related fatalities to date in any of No. 0 6 19 Permits/Consents Lundin Petroleum’s operations. 1 Lost Time Incident (LTI) is an incident which results in a person having at least Lost Time Incidents (LTI): six one day away from work. All the LTIs occurred in France; they involved three staff and three 2 Restricted Work Incident (RWI) is an incident which results in keeping a person contractors. No serious injuries resulted from these incidents. from performing one or more routine functions. 3 Medical Treatment Incident (MTI) is a work related injury or illness that does not Restricted Work Incidents (RWI): three result in a job restriction or days away from work. Two RWIs involved seismic contractors in Indonesia and one 4 Lost Time Incident Rate and Total Recordable Incident Rate are calculated on involved a drilling contractor in France. The incidents temporarily the basis of 200,000 hours. restricted the ability of the injured person from carrying out all their routine tasks, but were of minor gravity. Medical Treatment Incidents (MTI): five Health & Safety KPIs Four MTIs occurred in Norway and one in France; they involved The Health & Safety indicators tracked on an ongoing basis four contractors and one staff. All incidents resulted in minor throughout the Group and reported on a monthly basis to injuries and did not stop the persons from performing their tasks. corporate are Fatalities, Lost Time Incidents (LTI), Restricted Work Incidents (RWI) and Medical Treatment Incidents (MTI) Oil Spills: seven among staff and contractors. Coupled with the number of hours A total of 33 m3 of oil spilled, of which 23 m3 in France and 10 m3 worked, these indicators enable the Company to determine its in Norway. The spills were managed according to respective Oil Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) per 200,000 hours worked. Spill Response Plans and thus had no permanent impact on the In addition to these lagging indicators (reporting incidents that environment. have occurred), the Company also tracks leading indicators such as Near Misses with High Potential. The importance of leading Chemical Spills: two indicators is that they throw a light on potential problems areas Both chemical spills occurred in Norway due to leaks on the and enable the Company to take pro-active measures to avoid acoustic BOP control system (total volume of 3.5 m3). The cause them from developing into incidents. of the leaks was identified and the problem repaired. Environmental KPIs Hydrocarbon leaks: zero Up to 2011, the environmental indicators reported included oil and chemical spills over 1 m3, hydrocarbon leaks above 1 kg on Near Misses with High Potential (NMHP): three a monthly basis and greenhouse gas emissions (CO2, NOX, SOX, The three NMHP which occurred in Norway involved falling CO, N2O, CH4, nmVOC) on a yearly basis for producing assets. objects; one at Lundin Petroleum’s offices and two on the CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Bredford Dolphin. They were reported due to the potential funding or taking part in projects which promote environmental damage they could have caused if they had fallen on a person. protection, positive values and welfare in society (see below). Non-conformances with permits/consents: zero As part of its operations in Sudan and to respond to the precarious socio-economic conditions of the local community in TRANSPARENCY its concession area, Lundin Petroleum elaborated a Community Lundin Petroleum believes that open dialogue with stakeholders Development and Humanitarian Assistance Programme (CDHAP) not only helps the Company in identifying and addressing which included projects in the field of freshwater supply, health, CR issues but also enables stakeholders to better understand education and capacity building. CDHAP projects were carried the reality of its activities and its way of dealing with its CR out by dedicated and qualified staff. The Company also put in challenges. Stakeholder engagement takes, among others, the place an extensive stakeholder engagement programme in following forms: order to learn from others’ experience and expertise and to » participation in international or country initiatives (UNGC, promote a peaceful resolution of the conflict. The commitment Petronas HSE Forum) to have a positive impact on society continued as Lundin » participation in workshops (Business and Humanitarian Forum, Petroleum’s activities shifted to Europe and Southeast Asia. In Institute of Graduate Studies) 2004 the Company devised a Donations’ Policy which elaborated » participation in surveys (Carbon Disclosure Project, on the criteria to follow in selecting projects, and in 2010 it Sustainalytics, Sustainable Value Creation, Trucost, Vigeo, etc.) issued Sustainable Investment Guidelines which outlined two » CR presentations in academic institutions (University of categories for contributions: community development projects Geneva, IMD Lausanne, IMI-Kyiv, Institute of Graduate Studies, and corporate donations. etc.) » individual meetings with shareholders, NGOs and media on CR Community development projects take place in countries issues, etc. of operations; they are part of the assets’ work programme » responses to individual inquiries from media, NGOs, students, and budget and their extent is related to the country’s etc. socio-economic context and the level of the Company’s activities. » reporting in Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative Corporate donations are issue, rather than geographically, based; compliant country (Norway) they are an expression of Lundin Petroleum’s commitment to positively impact societal issues of global concern, as expressed EMPLOYMENT PRACTICE in the United Nations Global Compact and the Millennium In accordance with its Code of Conduct commitment, Development Goals. Lundin Petroleum seeks to ensure equal opportunity without discrimination on the basis of age, culture, disability, gender, race, The projects described below reflect the types of issues which religion, etc.; the overriding criterion is the person’s competence Lundin Petroleum has addressed through community projects, and qualifications to perform the job. donations or personal participation during the course of 2011. Other than gender, which the Company reports on under the Child Welfare Financial Statements for the Group of its Annual Report, the Children represent the future; their welfare is an important Company does not distinguish employees based on any of the sustainability issue: Lundin Petroleum has supported SOS above listed attributes. Children’s Villages, Sweden (SOS) from the start of its Corporate Donations Program in 2006. Over the years, the Company has The percentage of women working for Lundin Petroleum Group contributed to children’s villages in operated (Indonesia, Tunisia) as wide in 2011 was 32 percent (versus 30 percent in 2010), with well as non-operated (Vietnam, Cambodia) areas. The uniqueness country percentages ranging from 19 to 57 percent (versus 16 to of SOS’s approach and its evident impact on the welfare of children 57 percent in 2010). has been recognised by visiting Group and country-based staff. In 2011, Lundin Petroleum continued to support SOS Villages SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENTS in Indonesia and Tunisia, affording staff the possibility to get From its inception Lundin Petroleum has been committed to personally involved with the organisation and the children. finding oil and gas in a responsible way and to positively impact people and the environment. Through its subsidiary in Norway, the Company contributed to Save the Children Norway, whose mission is to provide emergency Its main contribution to the people in the area it operates relief and long term aid to children. is through the economic windfall oil represents; the Johan Sverdrup discovery in 2011 in Norway, for example, is expected Through its subsidiary in Russia, the Company contributed to the to produce significant revenues in the decades to come for the running costs of the Sasykol orphanage in 2011, an orphanage it Norwegian government and its people in the form of taxes. had helped refurbish in 2009 and 2010. Lundin Petroleum’s main contribution to the environment is to Lundin Petroleum also made a financial contribution to limit its footprint by using environmental friendly equipment Stockholm’s International Women’s Club’s fund-raiser for the World and products. Lundin Petroleum, however, also contributes by Childhood Foundation. Social Welfare capacity building. In 2011, the Company’s capacity building Lundin Tunisia contributes on an annual basis to the Association projects included: des Amis du Belvedère which maintains a park situated in the » covering part of the fee for a Master’s Degree in Community heart of Tunis. In addition to protecting flora from the five Development student (South Sudan) continents, the association has initiated a number of renewable » covering the costs of the internship of a Petroleum Engineering energy projects, from solar to wind energy, and has introduced student (Malaysia) environmental protection projects such as the planting of » covering the cost of the internship of a Petroleum Engineering trees and the recycling of waste. In 2011, Lundin Petroleum student (France) provided seed money to establish family plots for neighbouring » establishing two scholarships at the Bandung Institute of communities and training them in environmentally friendly Technology (Indonesia) farming techniques. » contributing to the retraining of pirates from the Gulf of Aden (Norway) Lundin Indonesia upgraded a 1.2 km water pipeline and the » covering the cost of training students in a natural reserve existing water supply system, and drilled four water wells in (Russia) three villages in the Padeglang region where its Rangkas Block is situated. It contributed 1,500 milk boxes for pregnant woman Staff Contributions in the Natuna region where its South Sokang Block is situated. In Lundin Petroleum’s commitment to positively impact society the Anambas Island region where the Baronang, Cakalang and includes promoting personal implication of Company staff, by Gurita blocks are situated, Lundin Indonesia donated food, milk matching their personal contributions and by supporting their and vitamins for infants and pregnant women, as well as two participation in charitable or environmental events. dental chairs with sets of dental tools and a sterilising cabinet. Matching contributions Lundin Petroleum made a financial contribution to Situation At a corporate level, the Company in 2011 matched the following Stockholm, a Swedish journal for the homeless. staff contributions: » financial support to Libya SOS, whose mission was to provide Environmental Protection medical equipment to civilians during the uprising in Libya Preservation of the environment is a key policy goal for Lundin » financial support to the Red Cross’ mission in New Zealand as a Petroleum and is embedded in its daily operations through, result of the earthquake in Christchurch amongst others, its zero discharge goal, emergency and oil spill » financial support towards the purchase of tents to preparedness, the use of environmentally friendly technologies accommodate refugees from Libya in Tunisia and products. Environmental protection was also promoted through community development projects in 2011. At country level, the Company in 2011 matched the following staff contributions: The Company reiterated its support in Astrakhan, Russia to » financial support equivalent to one to three days’ salary of “Operation Delta” consisting in a group of 20 students who onshore and offshore staff in Tunisia, to purchase tents to collect over a period of three weeks rubbish left by tourists and accommodate refugees from Libya local residents on river banks of the Volga Delta. For the first time, Lundin Petroleum’s Astrakhan staff took part in the initiative Personal participation by spending a day helping the students and participating in a Lundin Petroleum covered the costs related to staff participation meeting focusing on means to protect the environment. in: » “Courir pour Aider”, a run for charity, whose benefits were Preservation of biodiversity is also part of Lundin Petroleum’s donated to a Swiss association helping children with cancer environmental commitments. In France, the commitment » “Bike to Work”, a Swiss environmental initiative intended to consisted in planting trees on a former well site. In Russia, the encourage people to bike to work Company continued its support to two projects, one involving » “Operation Delta”, the clean-up of Volga river banks the artificial breeding of sturgeons, whose population in the Volga Delta area is decreasing due to poaching activities and Governance the other involving the nesting of Siberian cranes, a critically Lundin Petroleum has elected to contribute to the debate on threatened species according to the International Union for governance in the oil sector by funding academic research. As Conservation of Nature. a result of the research and workshop it funded at the Institute of Graduate Studies in Geneva in 2010 on “Global and local Climate Change remains an important consideration for Lundin governance in the energy sector”, a special issue was published Petroleum, which tracks greenhouse gas emissions throughout by the Journal of Global Governance in April 2011 on “the its operations. Lundin Petroleum participated for the third time Governance of Extractive Resources”. As a follow up, Lundin in the Carbon Disclosure Project obtaining the best disclosure Petroleum funded another research project on “The Impact score among Nordic oil and gas companies. of Natural Resource-Richness and Governance on Sustainable Development as Measured by ANS”. The results of the research Capacity Building will be presented in a conference and published in an academic Lundin Petroleum considers that one of the best ways to journal in 2012. contribute to the improvement of local conditions is through www.lundin-petroleum.com
