Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 PDF versions available  in English and German at: Facts and Figures Facts and Figures 2011 www.credit-suisse.com/facts Brochure 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report and Responsibility Chronicle For a detailed presentation on how the bank assumes its diverse social and environmental responsibilities when conducting its business activities, refer to the Corporate Responsibility Report, available for the first time as an iPad version. This publication is complemented by our Responsibility Chronicle that adds a multimedia dimension to the publication by providing a selection of reports, videos and picture galleries that focus on our international projects and initiatives. www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle Cover: Yves-Alain Sommerhalder, Head UHNWI Solutions for Private Banking Asia Pacific, pictured in the streets of Hong Kong. Back cover: City view, Hong Kong Company Profile For insights about the work of each of the bank’s divisions, including Shared Services, and its regions, refer to the Company Profile. For the first time, this is also available as an iPad version, which includes additional photo and video material beyond what appears in the print version. A summary of the bank’s financial performance during the year, the Business Review, is also included in the publication. Annual Report For a detailed presentation of the Group’s annual financial statements, company structure, corporate governance and compensation practices, treasury and risk management framework, and a review of our operating and financial results, refer to the Annual Report. Contents Foreword 2 Our Understanding of Corporate Responsibility 4 Responsibility 6 in Banking Trust and Expertise 7 Corporate Governance 10 Due Diligence and Sustainability 11 Sustainable Products and Services 17 Responsibility 22 in Society Our Role in the Economy and Society 23 Our Social Commitments 26 Sponsorship 32 Responsibility 36 as an Employer Responsibility as an Employer 37 Global Diversity and Inclusion 40 Responsibility 42 for the Environment Environment, Climate and Operational Ecology 43 Dialogue and Transparency 50 Dialogue with Stakeholders 51 Sustainability Reporting and Ratings 57 For the purposes of this report, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Credit Suisse Group,” “Credit Suisse,” “the Group,” “we,” “us” and “our” mean Credit Suisse Group AG and its consolidated subsidiaries. The business of Credit Suisse AG, the Swiss bank subsidiary of the Group, is substantially similar to the Group, and we use these terms to refer to both Booklet – Focus Themes when the subject is the same or substantially similar. Education II We use the term “the bank” when we are referring only to Microfinance IV Credit Suisse AG, the Swiss bank subsidiary of the Group, Employee Engagement VI and its consolidated subsidiaries. 2 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Foreword Foreword Dear Reader 2011 was a challenging year for financial institutions globally. At Credit Suisse, we had to address issues in three main areas. The first was the extremely adverse operating environment triggered by the sover­­­eign debt crisis in Europe, historically low interest rates and volatile financial markets. These factors impacted investor confidence and significantly reduced levels of client activity. The situation was exacerbated by the further strengthening of the Swiss franc. Second, 2011 brought new and far-reaching regulatory developments. As well as preparing for Basel III, we had to address the impacts of Switzerland’s new “Too Big to Fail” legislation, which imposes a substantial capital surcharge on major banks. The third challenge related to the cross-border wealth management business. Here, the main themes were the bilateral tax treaties signed by Switzerland with the UK and Germany, as well as the US tax matter, which have significant implications for the entire financial center. Against this backdrop, we remained focused on our first respon­ sibility as a global bank of operating profitably across the economic cycle, taking actions to generate sustained value for our clients, shareholders and employees. In view of the challenges facing our business, we took proactive steps to further evolve our integrated strategy. These include measures to enhance profitability in Private Banking, to reduce risk-weighted assets in Investment Banking and to redeploy resources to faster-growing and large markets. As part of these steps, we also announced a reduction in the size of our global workforce. Brady W. Dougan, Chief Executive Officer (left), This was a very difficult decision, particularly in view of our commitment and Urs Rohner, Chairman of the Board of Directors to being a reliable long-term partner to our employees. We are approaching this measure in the most fair and responsible way possible. As well as posing a challenge at an operational level, the adverse environment in 2011 accentuated political and public concerns about the stability of the financial system and provoked an intense debate about the role of banks and their business models. In view of the high degree of skepticism facing the financial sector and the continuing controversy over compensation, it is crucial for our industry to learn the necessary lessons and act appropriately. At Credit Suisse, we recognize the need for banks to build sustainable business models. This is vital for the long-term success of our industry. For the past five years, we have been adjusting our business model, strengthening capital and liquidity, reducing risk and exiting businesses that are no longer viable in the new environment. We have worked with regulators to help build a more stable financial system and adopted the relevant measures at an early stage. To rebuild trust, we have also intensified our dialogue with stakeholders. This dialogue must be used first and foremost to promote a better understanding of the pivotal role that banks play in the economy and society as a whole. Credit Suisse’s dialogue with stakeholders 3 takes many forms. One example is our role in the regulatory debate – Employee engagement is another important element of our social particularly in Switzerland, where we continued to engage in intensive commitments: many of our people want to make a personal contribudiscussions with politicians, regulators and other industry repre­sen­ tion by participating in social projects or volunteering schemes in our tatives to help formulate proposals for the new “Too Big to Fail” individual regions. In 2011, 17,415 Credit Suisse employees worldwide legislation in 2011. Having expressed our willingness to embrace volunteered a total of 189,000 hours to help others. tougher regulations, we translated our words into action through Our philanthropic commitments are complemented by the work our early adoption of new capital rules as well as the private placement of the Disaster Relief Fund of the Credit Suisse Foundation, which of CHF 5.9 billion Tier 1 Buffer Capital Notes and the public issue offers financial aid to the victims of natural or manmade disasters of USD 2 billion Tier 2 Buffer Capital Notes – demonstrating the such as the earthquake and tsunami in Japan. In addition, our regional viability of the market for contingent convertible bonds and reaffirming foundations support a broad range of charitable activities – particularly our position as a first mover. in the field of education – in their respective areas of operation. Our dialogue with clients is more critical than ever at times such Credit Suisse’s focus on environmental and climate protection is as these. We listen carefully to our clients in order to understand their also a critical aspect of our corporate responsibilities. We are comevolving requirements, gauge their level of satisfaction and find ways mitted to sustainability and to conducting our business in an environof enhancing our products and services. Our cross-border platform is mentally friendly manner. We therefore operate an ISO-certified an important part of the way we serve private banking clients around environmental management system, which helps us to make more the world, and we made good progress in further reinforcing our comefficient use of resources throughout the company, reduce the pliance and control culture in this area during the year. environmental impacts of our activities and comply with green stanWe know from our dialogue with the public that business practices dards. Our efforts to protect the environment are also reflected in the finance industry are coming under increased scrutiny amid in many of our client-facing activities: our Green Business Initiative calls for a more responsible and sustainable approach to banking. plays a key role here, bringing together experts from across the At Credit Suisse, we are committed to operating in strict accordance bank to promote products and services in areas such as renewable with the applicable rules and regulations in all our markets globally. energies and clean technologies. We also routinely assess trans­ We believe that each and every employee has a role to play in this conactions with clients that could pose environmental or social risks using text. In 2011, we adopted our revised Code of Conduct, which provides our internal risk review process and apply our own policies and the framework for our approach to corporate responsibility. It defines guidelines – such as the forestry and mining policies we revised in a series of ethical values and professional standards that are binding 2011 – to business activities involving sensitive industries. Credit Suisse on all Credit Suisse employees worldwide and guide us in our daily has been active in the area of climate protection for over a decade. work. The Code of Conduct also sets out our commitment to sustainDuring this time, we have not only succeeded in reducing our greenability and our pledge to uphold key agreements such as the United house gas emissions while growing our business but have also intenNations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and the sified our focus on climate-related aspects in our provision of products UN Global Compact. and services − as demonstrated by our market-leading position as a As a global bank, we are very conscious of the importance of supplier of financing for the wind and solar energy sectors. a stable social environment for our long-term success. We recognize As you read this report, you will see that we take our corporate the need to help build strong communities where individuals and responsibilities seriously at Credit Suisse: they are part of our culture businesses can thrive. From our dialogue with young people – of which and help to shape the way we create value for our stakeholders. our international Youth Barometer survey is one example – we know This publication is also a tangible expression of our commitment to that unemployment is one of the greatest concerns among today’s engaging in an open and constructive dialogue. An active exchange younger generation. As well as offering attractive apprenticeships, of views is more critical than ever in today’s closely interconnected training positions and career start programs for high school and uniworld if we are to collectively find solutions to the challenges we versity graduates, we have continued our efforts to tackle youth all face. In this spirit of dialogue, we welcome your feedback on the unemployment in our Swiss home market − funding coaching for topics presented in our report. school-leavers seeking employment and providing risk capital to small and medium-sized enterprises that can create jobs. Our social commitments also extend beyond our core activities Best regards as a bank. For many years, we have been committed to improving the life chances of disadvantaged individuals around the globe. Here, our activities focus on two main themes – education and microfinance – and are designed to empower people to find a way out of poverty and realize their aspirations. Our Global Education Initiative works on the Urs Rohner Brady W. Dougan principle that access to schooling gives young people a brighter future, Chairman of the Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer while our Microfinance Capacity Building Initiative aims to help those at the base of the income pyramid by promoting financial inclusion. March 2012 4 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Our Understanding of Corporate Responsibility Our Understanding of Corporate Responsibility At Credit Suisse, we are convinced that our responsible approach to The Responsibility Chronicle adds a multimedia dimension to our business is a decisive factor determining the long-term success reporting for 2011. It features articles, videos, podcasts and picture of our bank. As well as complying with the professional standards galleries about international projects and initiatives. To ensure we and ethical values set out in our Code of Conduct, we strive to can supply the breadth of information required by our stakeholders, the assume our corporate responsibilities in every aspect of our work. full contents of this report, as well as additional information and data We do so based on our broad understanding of our duties as a on all the themes discussed within it, can be found on the Internet at: financial services provider, member of society and employer. Our www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility approach also reflects our commitment to the environment and the importance we assign to our dialogue with our stakeholders Our Corporate Responsibility Report forms part of the Credit Suisse (see chart on page 5). The Corporate Responsibility Report is series of annual reporting publications, which provide detailed inforstructured according to these five topics. mation about the Group’s strategy and business model, as well as our 2011 financial results. The Responsibility Chronicle can be Responsibility Chronicle accessed within the iPad app ”Corporate W e report on the topic of corporate responsibility throughout the year. Our stakeholder magazine “bulletin” features articles about our wide-ranging Responsibility Reporting by Credit Suisse”. activities across our regions, and we publish material on our website on a weekly basis. The Responsibility Chronicle provides readers with a selection of reports, articles and videos about our support for social and environmental initiatives in 2011. The QR code refers you to the full article, video etc. You can directly access the Responsibility Chronicle on your iPad or at: www.credit-suisse.com/ chronicle How to use the QR codes in this report 1. Download the QR code reader 2. Open the QR code reader 3. The content will open automatically to your smart­phone. For example and scan the code. after scanning the code. the free app BeeTagg. 5 Our Understanding of Corporate Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility in Banking in Society  Trust and Expertise  Role in Economy and Society  Corporate Governance  S ocial Commitments  D ue Diligence and Sustainability  Sponsorship  Sustainable Products and Services Our greatest responsibility is to ensure Credit Suisse sees itself as an integral that we manage our company successfully part of society and recognizes its responon a long-term basis for the benefit of ­sibilities beyond banking. That is why our clients, shareholders, employees and Dialogue and Transparency we support a number of humanitarian and society as a whole. Competence, diligence charitable organizations and projects and responsible conduct are key to the around the world, as well as cultural and success of our business. We also strive to sporting events. We also encourage take social and environmental aspects into our employees to volunteer their time to account when carrying out our operations.  D ialogue with Stakeholders assist charitable projects.  Reporting on Corporate Responsibility We cultivate an open dialogue with our clients, shareholders Responsibility and other stakeholders by participating in events, engaging Responsibility in personal discussions and contributing to the public debate. as an Employer for the Environment This increases mutual understanding and helps us to identify the needs of our stakeholders, while rapidly responding to new trends.  Credit Suisse as an Employer  Environment, Climate and  Global Diversity and Inclusion Operational Ecology Qualified and motivated employees are The protection of the natural environa vital success factor. We want to be ment is one of the most pressing issues an employer of choice worldwide and of our time. At Credit Suisse, we take therefore offer our people progressive our responsibilities seriously by proworking conditions, attractive training moting the efficient use of resources programs and varied career opportunities and by engaging in a dialogue with our in a multicultural environment. stakeholders. We also develop products and services that focus on environmental themes for our clients. Code of Conduct Our Code of Conduct, which sets out binding principles Our Ethical Values: for all our operations worldwide, increases the personal  Integrity  Responsibility  Respect  Compliance  Confidentiality  Trust responsibility of all our employees and Board members and creates a framework where each individual is familiar Our Professional Standards: with Credit Suisse’s corporate responsibilities.  Service and Excellence  Risk Culture  Transparency  Adherence to Laws and Regulations  Sustainability  Commitment 6 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility in Banking Responsibility in Banking Nicole Pauli is Head of Investment Services and Products in Private Banking. Her team provides the best possible infrastructure, advisory tools and investment products for relationship managers. To read the article about the work of Nicole Pauli and her team, scan the QR code or refer to the Responsibility Chronicle. www.credit-suisse.com/ chronicle 7 Trust and Expertise The long-term success of our business depends on our ability to inspire trust. We want to act as a reliable and professional partner to our clients − placing their interests first and delivering expert advice to help them realize their financial objectives. We are also convinced that our capital strength and strict compliance and control culture give stakeholders confidence in our bank. Gaining and maintaining the trust of our stakeholders is thus providing clear and objective information to support critical to the long-term success of our company. As a client investment decisions. global bank, we strive to act as a trusted and pro­fessional In Investment Banking, our client-focused strategy financial partner to our clients worldwide − private indi­ forms the basis for the long-standing relationships we viduals, companies, institutions and governments − in every have cultivated with many of our key clients. We are able phase of the economic cycle. We aim to inspire confidence to deliver expert advice to these com­panies because by executing our core activities skillfully and responsibly − we know their businesses intimately and can work with providing access to capital, managing assets, steering them as partners − and our relationship evolves alongside capital flows and assessing risks. Our integrated model, them. Trust is built continuously with each successful which combines our Private Banking, Investment Banking transaction. and Asset Management businesses, delivers the entire The suitability and appropriateness of the advice expertise of our global team of specialists to our clients. Our offered to clients is an increasingly prominent theme in our know-how and the relationships of trust we have built industry, where measures are being taken to strengthen become even more critical in economically challenging times investor protection and regulate the client consultation such as 2011, as clients seek additional support and advice. process. Credit Suisse is committed to ensuring that clients have a full understanding of the financial products offered Analyzing Our Clients’ Needs to them and can bear the associated risks. The structured advisory process in Private Banking is one example of our client-centric approach; it helps us to Financial Strength Inspires Trust understand our individual clients and to gain an insight into Credit Suisse has been pursuing an integrated clienttheir overall financial position in order to develop holistic oriented and capital-efficient strategy since 2007. Capital solutions to meet their needs. The advisory process is based strength and stability are other critical factors that many on a series of clearly defined steps, making it trans­parent clients now consider in their choice of financial partner − and giving clients a greater sense of security and confidence. especially in the current climate of change and uncertainty. The quality and depth of our advice is enhanced through Our focus on prudent capital management − coupled instruments such as our Portfolio Risk Analyzer. This tool is with our conservative funding position and robust risk used to assess whether a portfolio matches the client’s oversight − have served the bank well during a period of profile and to identify the returns that can be expected in unprecedented market volatility. As a result, we attracted mild markets or the potential risks in volatile markets − Continued on page 8 Ensuring Advisory Quality: Certification of Relationship Managers As part of our commitment to continuously improving clients with clear and comprehensive information in the presence of financial experts. In 2011, a total the quality of advice we offer our clients in Private about products, explain potential investment risks of 1,824 relationship managers successfully passed Banking, Credit Suisse runs a mandatory certification and returns, and tailor their offering to individual the certification process. Credit Suisse intends to program for employees with direct client contact. client needs. The certification process entails three complete the certification of all frontline employees The certification, which is valid for three years, forms components: two Web-based modules to test in Private Banking by the end of 2012. part of the Frontline Training initiative launched in the candidates’ knowledge of subjects related to 2009 to ensure all relationship managers can provide their function and a Client Interaction Simulation 8 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility in Banking CHF 40.9 billion of net new asset inflows in 2011 from strengthen our cross-border framework. We want to clients seeking the professional service and advice maintain the highest professional standards while operating of a solid and stable global bank. The numerous accolades in different legal and regulatory environments around we received during the year − including the prestigious the world. Our cross-border framework helps us to achieve Euromoney awards for Best Global Wealth Management this by providing training, practical information and House, Best Private Bank Globally and Best Bank in country-specific guidance to employees with direct client Switzerland − are also an expression of our clients’ satiscontact to make sure they understand which activities faction with our offering and their high level of confidence are permissible in which countries. We continuously monitor in our bank. developments relating to this field and adjust our internal policies accordingly. Committed to Compliance and Control Maintaining a robust compliance and control culture is A Pioneering Response to New Regulations another important way in which we gain the trust of clients, The need to restore trust in the global financial system as well as investors and regulators. At Credit Suisse, remained a dominant theme through 2011. At Credit Suisse, we strive to conduct our activities according to the highest we played a constructive part in the debate about banking standards of due diligence and in strict compliance with supervision and supported regulatory reforms within our legal and regulatory requirements in all our markets globally. industry. For example, we continued to engage in intensive We expect each employee to be personally accountable discussions with politicians, regulators and other parties for ensuring the activities within their remit are compliant in Switzerland surrounding proposals for the new “Too Big with our internal rules and policies and for reporting or to Fail” legislation during the year. We also played a pioescalating issues of concern. This is essential to safeguard neering role in the development of contingent convertible the interests of clients and investors and to protect our bonds − announcing the private placement of CHF 5.9 bilown business activities and reputation. Our focus on lion Tier 1 Buffer Capital Notes and the public issue of compliance is also mirrored by our proactive steps to further USD 2 billion Tier 2 Buffer Capital Notes in February 2011. Global Service Monitor Program: Evaluating Client Satisfaction Four-year trend: overall satisfaction Very satisfied 59% 55% 56% 61% 91% 91% 93% 95% Satisfied 32% 36% 37% 34% Not satisfied 9% 9% 7% 5% 2008 2009 2010 2011 We take the issue of client satisfaction very seriously. and service users worldwide – to assess their overall an individual level if respondents share their names We want to ensure that our products and services level of satisfaction with our offering based on a set with the company or we implement measures meet the needs of our clients, that our value propoof “experience criteria” and to find out whether they at market, divisional or regional level in the case sition is clearly visible and that client relationships would recommend Credit Suisse as a financial partof other feedback. The results of the 2011 Global are managed professionally and responsibly. Each ner. We also look at the main factors driving the Service Monitor Program indicate that 95% year, our dedicated Client Insight Management team acquisition of new clients and benchmark our perforof our Private Banking clients are satisfied with conducts the Global Service Monitor Program – a mance against our competitors. Our findings are our offering. study of more than 20,000 Private Banking clients then translated into action. We may take steps at 9 Developments in Global Banking At Credit Suisse, we view our business from a global as its efficient system of universal banking − perspective. We offer products and services on a with the hallmarks of expertise, reliability and cross-border basis − known as international banking quality − as well as favorable framework conditions − as well as on a local basis, referred to as onshore such as political and economic stability, a strong banking. In response to changing client needs, currency, first-class services and highly-qualified Credit Suisse has been growing its global presence employees. The banking services offered out and onshore services for many years. We are of Switzerland will therefore remain important − now active in 48 countries worldwide, including our particularly in response to the needs of sophisticat­ Swiss home market. We operate 21 booking ed clients in emerging markets. Ensuring strict centers outside Switzerland, which means that we compliance with all applicable legislation when can administer our clients’ assets in their home offering cross-border services is an indispensable country or in an international hub. At the same time, part of our business model at Credit Suisse. We the Swiss financial center remains attractive to have therefore been working intensively for years international clients in the area of our cross-border to make sure that all our activities adhere to the Credit Suisse’s principal locations are: business in view of its numerous strengths relative applicable rules and regulations in Switzerland and Zurich, Geneva, London, New York, São Paulo, to other financial centers around the globe, such abroad. Hong Kong, Singapore and Tokyo. This transaction was a landmark moment in the establishChallenges and Responses 2011 ment of the market for contingent convertible bonds and represented a further step in Credit Suisse’s early transition to the new Swiss capital requirements. We anticipate that Challenge: Address cross-border legacy and tax compliance 2012 and 2013 will be years of significant transformation issues. Response: Credit Suisse addressed these issues in various within our industry and we intend to further evolve our ways: We included an explicit statement in our Code of integrated strategy in line with these changes. At the same Conduct not to assist clients in activities intended to breach time, we will continue to support the process of regulatory their tax obligations. We continued to support the withholdreform, which we regard as an essential factor in rebuilding ing tax concept as well as the related tax treaty negotiations of the Swiss government with Germany and the UK. In confidence and creating a more sustainable banking connection with the government discussions about legacy sector. Maintaining our strong compliance and control culture issues relating to the Swiss banks’ cross-border business, throughout the bank remains a priority in 2012. we supported the ongoing efforts of the US and Switzerland www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/banking to reach a resolution that is acceptable to both countries. We continued our considerable efforts to establish the origin of the funds that Private Banking clients deposit with the bank, e.g. through anti-money laundering measures. Challenge: Find a solution to the “Too Big to Fail” issue while maintaining the international competitiveness of the Swiss banks. Response: We participated constructively in the Swiss Expert Commission and in the parliamentary debate about the “Too Big to Fail” issue, providing input and proposals and offering an international perspective. We were also actively involved in the relevant consultations and com­ municated our views either directly or through industry associations. In addition, we played a pioneering role in the development of contingent convertible bonds, announcing the private placement of CHF 5.9 billion Tier 1 Buffer Capital Notes and the public issue of USD 2 billion Tier 2 Buffer Capital Notes in early 2011. 10 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility in Banking Corporate Governance The way we interact with our stakeholders is fundamental for our business and our success. We strive to act with integrity, responsibility, fairness, transparency and discretion at all times in order to secure the trust of our clients, shareholders and employees, as well as other stakeholders. Credit Suisse’s corporate governance complies with standards of compliance with all legal, regulatory and interinternationally accepted standards. We fully adhere to the nal requirements. They are asked to observe strict standards principles set out in the Swiss Code of Best Practice, of professional conduct at all times. Compliance considerincluding its appendix stipulating recommendations on the ations are critically important when selecting employees, process around setting compensation for the Board of developing training tools, and defining processes and rules, Directors and the Executive Board. In connection with and are a vital element of all our supervisory and control our primary listing on the SIX Swiss Exchange, we are systems. subject to the SIX Directive on Information Relating to Corporate Governance. Our shares are also listed on the Shareholder Rights New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in the form of American As part of our continued efforts relating to good corporate Depositary Shares. As a result, we are subject to certain governance, we encourage investors to participate in the US rules and regulations. Annual General Meeting and to execute their voting rights. To support their decision-making process, we are committed Our Governance Framework to ensuring the accuracy and transparency of our reporting Our corporate governance policies and procedures are laid publications and our Investor Relations website. We are out in a series of documents governing the organization committed to producing precise, reliable and comprehensible and management of Credit Suisse. The Board of Directors financial reports that clearly explain our performance, has adopted a set of corporate governance guidelines our mission and our strategic rationale. Moreover, we are aimed at explaining and promoting an understanding of our committed to employing a responsible compensation governance structure. Other important corporate goverapproach that ensures a prudent approach to risk-taking nance documents include the Articles of Association, the and aligns our employees’ interests with those of our Code of Conduct, the Organizational Guidelines and shareholders, thus motivating the creation of sustainable Regulations, the Charters of the Board of Directors and shareholder value (see box). In line with best practice, of each of its committees, and the global Compensation the Board of Directors submits the compensation report Policy. Adherence to our Code of Conduct is binding for all of Credit Suisse to its shareholders for a consultative vote employees and members of the Board of Directors. at the Annual General Meeting. Furthermore, our employees must maintain the highest Managing Risk Our Risk Management function plays a central role in our Taking a Responsible Approach to Compensation organization as it fosters a disciplined risk culture and creates appropriate transparency, providing a sound basis for management to define a suitable risk profile. Risk Credit Suisse is committed to pursuing a responsible approach to compensation that focuses on long-term performance and aligns the interests of employees and shareholders. Management is instrumental in ensuring a prudent and For 2011, we reduced discretionary variable incentive awards (variable compensation), intelligent approach to risk-taking that appropriately balreflecting the lower absolute performance of the Group compared to 2010. Variable comances risk and return and optimizes the allocation of capital pensation awarded for 2011 was down 41% compared to 2010. For the Group overall, throughout the Group. Moreover, through a proactive 49% of variable awards for 2011 were deferred. Each member of the Executive Board had 100% of their variable compensation deferred. For 2011, deferred variable awards were risk management culture and the use of state-of-the-art granted in the form of share awards, of which the majority are performance share awards quantitative and qualitative tools, we strive to minimize that are subject to claw-back provisions, and in the form of 2011 Partner Asset Facility the potential for undesired risk exposures in our operations. (PAF2) awards for senior employees. PAF2 units are linked to a diversified portfolio of derivative counterparty risks. The PAF2 plan is therefore a transfer of risk from the Group Further information on corporate governance can be found to employees, thereby contributing to risk reduction and capital efficiency. in the Annual Report 2011 of Credit Suisse Group or at: www.credit-suisse.com/governance 11 Due Diligence and Sustainability Credit Suisse has to continuously earn the trust of clients and other stake­holders to achieve long-term success. We therefore expect our employees to meet the highest standards of conduct and professionalism and to comply with legal regulations, due diligence requirements and industry guidelines. When perform­ing our core business activities, we also take account of environmental and social issues. At Credit Suisse, we are convinced that we can only achieve Respecting Human Rights long-term success by adopting a responsible approach At Credit Suisse, we recognize our responsibility to respect to business. This includes striving to meet the highest human rights in line with the principles on human and labor standards of trustworthiness, integrity, risk awareness and rights set out in the UN Global Compact and the UN’s transparency when performing our activities. We therefore Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We also base our expect our employees to approach their work in a highly approach on the Protect, Respect and Remedy Framework professional, fair and prudent manner. Our Code of Conduct drawn up by the former UN Special Representative provides us with a binding framework of ethical values on Business and Human Rights, Prof. John Ruggie, which and professional standards that apply to all employees defines the responsibilities of states and companies worldwide and to the members of our Board of Directors. for human rights and sets out the corresponding guiding The obligation to observe the Code of Conduct is an principles to implement them. To support the adoption integral part of our employment contracts and is included of these principles in the banking sector, Credit Suisse and in the annual employee review process. The Code of other European banks are currently working proactively Conduct also sets out Credit Suisse’s commitment to with academic experts to develop industry-specific recomsustainability and our pledge to uphold the corresponding mendations for how they can be applied in practice. national and international agreements. In addition, The area in which Credit Suisse has the most direct our Statement on Sustainability sets out our objectives, impact on the protection of human rights is in its relationship principles and processes in this field. In 2011, we upwith employees. This includes aspects such as guaranteedated this document to take account of factors such as our ing fair working conditions, equal opportunities and internal sustainability management and our conscientious protection against discrimination, as well as recognizing the approach when addressing sustainability-related risks. right of employees to join or establish a union. Even if Credit Suisse only has indirect influence over Upholding International Agreements suppliers and external service providers, this is nevertheless A key international sustainability agreement for banks is an area in which human rights issues can arise. In 2010, the United Nations Environment Programme Finance we introduced our Suppliers Code of Conduct that prescribes Initiative (UNEP FI), of which Credit Suisse was one of the new standards with the goal of ensuring that our suppliers first signatories in 1992. More than 200 banks, insurers and service providers also respect human rights, labor rights, and investment funds are now involved in this initiative to employment laws and environmental regulations and, promote a sustainable approach to business within the in particular, do not tolerate the use of child labor or forced finance industry. As well as participating in the UNEP FI labor. We also encourage our business partners to make Global Roundtable, Credit Suisse contributed to the continuous improvements in this area and to go beyond the work of groups of experts on topics such as biodiversity minimum legal requirements. and human rights. Another important agreement is Another area in which Credit Suisse could be indirectly the UN Global Compact, of which we were one of the first confronted with human rights issues is in our relationship signatories in 2000. Together with over 6,000 other with clients. Challenges arise if clients engage in activities companies, we have pledged to observe 10 principles in that could lead to potential violations of these rights − as in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environthe case of major resettlements or measures affecting the mental protection and anti-corruption efforts (see table on sacred sites of local communities or indigenous peoples. page 58). In such cases, Credit Suisse examines sensitive aspects of 12 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility in Banking Assessment of Sustainability Risks within the Reputational Risk Review Process (RRRP) 1. Risk classification and responsibility 2. Assessment and recommendation 3. Review and decision Potential risk Specialist Elements to examine against with regard department: sector policies to environmental Sustainability and social Affairs impacts Analysis of Inquiry into Decision Decision transaction the identity and by independent by regional activities of the risk officer CEO, CRO and potential client (approval/approval Reputational Risk with conditions/ Optional Sustainability rejection) escalation Committee (RRSC) (approval/approval Taking the Analysis of with conditions/ Other potential Various regulatory, political environmental and rejection) reputational risk specialist and social context social aspects departments into account of client operations Transactions assessed on the basis of potential environmental and human rights risks in 2011 295 63% 20% 17% transactions assessed approved approved with rejected or not pursued conditions the transactions in a clearly defined, comprehensive risk ed annually on our efforts to implement them. Since 2010, review process and rejects transactions that do not meet we have been actively involved in the Equator Principles our standards. Steering Committee, as well as in some of its working groups to discuss the scope of the Principles and to conduct Voluntary Industry Standards a dialogue with non-government organizations (NGOs). As well as observing international agreements, Credit Suisse As a member of the Governance Task Force, we are also complies with voluntary industry standards that set out specontributing to the development of the Equator Principles III. cific due diligence requirements for certain areas of business. By adopting the Carbon Principles in 2008, Credit We conduct our project finance activities in accordance with Suisse pledged to implement an additional industry the Equator Principles, which are based on environmental standard for managing carbon-related risk in the US power and social standards defined by the World Bank Group. generation sector. A key feature is an enhanced due More than 70 international financial institutions have pledged diligence process that applies when a client is planning to to examine the possible human or environmental effects of build new coal-fired power plants. In 2011, Credit Suisse resource or infrastructure projects on the basis of social and was involved in three transactions that were subject to the environmental impact assessments and to call on clients to Carbon Principles and its due diligence process, which develop specific measures to reduce or correct any potential calls for the use of shadow carbon pricing to understand negative consequences before agreeing to provide finance how the future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions or advice. Credit Suisse was one of the first companies to sign may affect power plants. up to the Equator Principles in 2003 and we have since reportContinued on page 14 13 Key Elements of Sector Policies and Guidelines Introduction community health and safety; public involvement, Hydropower Guidelines We recognize the economic importance of various consultation and disclosure. industry sectors for the global economy. Future  R RRP mandatory for the mining of coal, asbestos economic growth will partly depend on the supply and uranium (or other radioactive materials). of energy or raw materials by these sectors. At  No financial services for operations in protected the same time, it is vital for them to operate in a areas. sustainable manner. Our sector policies and guide No financing of operations where mountain top lines set out the environmental and social standards removal mining practices are used or of operations that we expect clients in certain sensitive sectors to that include tailings disposal in riverine or shallow  Take account of New Framework for Decisionobserve when conducting their activities. They also sea environments. Making by the World Commission on Dams (WCD). exclude certain activities. Exceptions may only be  No financial services for companies against which  N o financial services for projects or activities granted individually based on our Reputational Risk there is credible evidence of involvement in grave prohibited by host country legislation and interReview Process (RRRP). Summaries of these human rights abuses or for operations that require national conventions relating to the protection policies and guidelines are available online at: the resettlement of substantial numbers of people. of biodiversity resources and cultural heritage. www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/doc/  No financial services for projects or activities policy_summaries_en.pdf Oil and Gas Policy located in or involving clearing of primary tropical moist forests or other HCVF, UNESCO World Forestry and Agribusiness Policy Heritage Sites and Biosphere Reserves, or Ramsar wetlands. Nuclear Power Guidelines  Responsible management of the following issues: water contamination and use; air emissions; habitat  Responsible management of the following issues: depletion, fragmentation and degradation; waste habitat depletion; fragmentation and degradation; management; oil spill prevention, preparedness and water contamination and usage; hazardous materials response; site decommissioning and remediation; management; air emissions; worker and community worker and community health and safety; public  Transactions/projects must be in line with the health and safety; public involvement; consultation involvement, consultation and disclosure. latest regulatory, technological and safety and disclosure.  R RRP mandatory for oil sands and oil shale standards and are subject to approval through N  o financial services for operations in primary development, Arctic oil and gas development, and our RRRP. tropical moist forests or other High Conservation transnational pipelines.  Host country ratification required of the key Value Forests (HCVF), or on land that was cleared  No financial services for operations in protected international conventions and treaties related to of HCVFs after 2005, unless such operations areas. nuclear (Convention on Nuclear Safety, Joint are certified according to the Forest Stewardship  No financial services for companies against Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel ManageCouncil (FSC) or the Roundtable on Sustainable which there is credible evidence of involvement in ment and on the Safety of Radioactive Waste Palm Oil (RSPO), or if substantial and demonstrable human rights abuses or operations that require Management, Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, progress has been made towards such certification. the resettlement of substantial numbers of people. Vienna Convention on Civil Liability for Nuclear N  o financial services for operations in protected Damage). areas (such as UNESCO World Heritage Sites, Palm Oil Guidelines  No financial services for projects or activities Ramsar wetlands). located in or involving the clearing of primary  No financial services for activities involving illegal tropical moist forests or other HCVF, UNESCO logging or uncontrolled and/or illegal use of fire. World Heritage Sites and Biosphere Reserves,  No financial services for companies against which or Ramsar wetlands. there is credible evidence of involvement in grave human rights abuses or for operations that require the resettlement of substantial numbers of people.  M embership in and certification according Mining Policy to the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) or time-bound commitment towards RSPO certification.  No financial services for projects or activities prohibited by host country legislation and inter­ national conventions relating to the protection of biodiversity resources and cultural heritage.  No financial services for projects or activities   Responsible management of the following issues: located in or involving the clearing of primary tropical water contamination and use; habitat depletion, moist forests, involving illegal logging or uncontrolled fragmentation and degradation; waste management; and/or illegal use of fire. site decommissioning and remediation; worker and 14 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility in Banking Sustainability Risk Assessments in 2011 Guidelines for Sensitive Industries We are aware of our increased responsibilities when doing business with clients that operate in sensitive industries Transactions assessed 1 Equator Principles transactions 2 such as oil and gas, mining, hydropower, forestry or palm oil 2011 2010 2011 2010 production. In the case of potential transactions with clients Number 3 Volume 4 Number 3 Volume 4 from these sectors, we have introduced specific policies and guidelines that apply to our business globally and require By region 282 279 13 4,388 5 336 these clients to minimize the environmental effects of their Americas 44 47 0 0 1 30 operations, to ensure the health and safety of their employAsia Pacific 86 105 7 443 0 0 ees, and to respect the human rights of the population living Europe, Middle in the surrounding areas (see summary on page 13). These East and Africa 71 58 2 1,020 0 0 industry-specific policies, which are in line with the standards Switzerland 81 69 4 2,925 4 306 applied by international organizations such as the UN and the World Bank Group, also feature a list of activities and By sector 282 279 13 4,388 5 336 business practices that we explicitly will not finance. Mining 104 105 8 463 4 161 Forestry 21 38 0 0 0 0 Further Development of Policies and Standards Oil and gas 52 50 3 275 1 175 As part of the further development of our guidelines for Energy 16 24 2 3,650 0 0 these sectors, we extended our forestry policy in 2011 to Hydropower 1 2 0 0 0 0 include agricultural operations such as plantations or Chemicals 18 9 0 0 0 0 cattle ranching on land that has been cleared of forests. Defense 16 15 0 0 0 0 In our policy on mining, we state that we will not finance Other 54 36 0 0 0 0 the practice of mountain top removal − a process used in coal mining that is harmful to the environment (see box By category 5 13 4,388 5 336 on page 16). The strict position adopted by Credit Suisse Category A 4 2,820 2 225 in this area has been recognized by environmental protection Category B 9 1,568 3 111 groups such as the National Resources Defense Council Category C 0 0 0 0 (NRDC) and Rainforest Action Network (RAN). Following the entry into force of the International Convention on By financial Cluster Munitions, Credit Suisse has taken steps to ensure product type 13 4,388 5 336 that it does not engage in any business relationships with Project finance 12 3,388 5 336 the manufacturers of these types of arms and that any such Project finance business activities are being terminated. Furthermore, advisory 1 1,000 0 0 Credit Suisse will not hold any securities on its own account in companies that manufacture these munitions or include 1 Excluding Equator Principles transactions. them in investment funds that it actively manages or in client 2 More comprehensive data on Equator Principles transactions is available on our website (https://www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/en/banking/equator_principles.jsp). portfolios covered by discretionary portfolio management 3 Transactions screened for the first time in the reporting year. 4 In USD million. agreements. 5 Equator Principles projects are divided into different risk categories (A– C; A being the highest risk), At Credit Suisse, we endeavor to systematically take and additional clarifications and action are initiated if required by the degree of risk involved. account of themes such as human rights, biodiversity, the scarcity of resources and climate change when assessing risks in our business relations with clients. This poses a number of challenges that we will continue to address in the future to make progress in this area. The very nature of our business means that it is sometimes necessary for Credit Suisse to take decisions on controversial trans­ actions, the environmental and social impacts of which can be viewed very differently depending on the opinions and standpoints of the relevant stakeholders. We are committed to transparency and we engage in an intensive dialogue with a broad range of stakeholders to deepen our understanding of the issues concerned and to make it easier for external parties to understand our processes and standards 15 (see page 52). We encourage our clients to follow the not pursued, this was primarily due to adverse market same approach. conditions or the fact that significant additional investigations were required, the outcome of which was uncertain. Risk Review Process These statistics do not include potential transactions or We expect all our employees to preserve the integrity of business relationships that were submitted to the relevant our bank and to safeguard its reputation. Credit Suisse’s relationship manager but were not subsequently included business policy therefore excludes the provision of serin the formal risk review process. This reflects the fact that vices or the execution of transactions that are not compatible they were immediately identified by the relationship manwith the agreements in place or with our own internal ager or his or her line manager as being non-compliant guidelines and policies, or that could pose unacceptable with the bank’s requirements and guidelines and were risks. If we have grounds to believe that a transaction therefore rejected. could pose such a risk, Credit Suisse first carries out a detailed internal risk review process − consulting with Risk Review Tools independent external specialists where necessary. During We further refined our risk review tools in 2011. For this process, detailed assessments are carried out example, factors such as Credit Suisse’s role in the regarding the nature and purpose of the transaction, the transaction, the industry sector and country of operation, identity of the potential client and the regulatory, political client commitment and capacity are now systematically and social background, as well as the potential environ­ taken into account using our risk assessment tool. mental and social impacts of the client’s activities. We also made technical enhancements to our intranetIf the transaction entails a potential risk for environbased risk review system. In addition, we developed mental or human rights-related reasons, the analysis is a new learning module that focuses on sustainability risks performed by Sustainability Affairs. This internal specialist and implemented a training concept that includes the unit evaluates whether the potential client complies with following three modules: the relevant industry standards and whether the transaction  General training on Credit Suisse and sustainability. is compatible with Credit Suisse’s policies and guidelines  Training on the risk review process for employees for sensitive sectors. It also examines whether, for example, with client contact. any disputes have arisen between the client and local  Sector-specific training courses on the risk review communities or NGOs. process for relationship managers serving clients The findings of this review process are submitted to a in industries that are of relevance for the environment. regional officer within Legal & Compliance or Risk ManageAs well as further developing our guidelines and ment who − independently of the client-facing unit − can policies for sensitive industries, we will continue to develop assess the transaction and decide whether to approve it, our processes in line with evolving challenges in the approve it subject to the fulfillment of certain conditions, future. In 2012, we will strive to identify and address issues or reject it. In the case of especially complex or interregional such as climate risks even more systematically using transactions, the final decision may be referred to the our risk review process by examining aspects such as the Reputational Risk Sustainability Committee (RRSC), which CO2 intensity of companies, their energy efficiency and is the most senior decision-making body in the reputarelated future targets. tional risk review process and develops the strategy for this area. The RRSC consists of members of the Executive Preventing Misuse of Our Products, Board and cross-divisional specialist units (including Legal Strengthening Our Control Culture & Com­pliance, Risk Management, Communications and The legal and regulatory environment in which global banks Public Policy) and is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer of operate has continued to evolve over the past few years. Credit Suisse. In this new environment, Credit Suisse remains committed In 2011, we analyzed a total of 295 transactions using to adhering to the laws and regulations that are applicable the risk review process to determine whether they posed to our businesses, and we expect all our employees worldan environmental or human rights-related risk. In total, 246 wide to meet the highest standards of integrity. To secure (83%) were approved − including 59 (20%) that were the long-term success of our business and protect our authorized subject to certain conditions − and 49 (17%) reputation, employees must comply with applicable laws were rejected or not pursued further. In most cases where and regulations and prevent the improper use of our transactions or clients were rejected, this decision was products and services by third parties. To support these reached because they were not compliant with Credit Suisse efforts, we implement internal controls, work with the policies and guidelines or because they presented an relevant authorities and adopt important rules such as those unacceptable risk for the bank. Where transactions were relating to business relations with politically exposed 16 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility in Banking Credit Suisse’s Position on Mountain Top Removal Mountain Top Removal (MTR) is a form of surface impacts, such as the loss of biodiversity, as well as Policy. In 2011, the US NGOs Rainforest Action mining that involves removing surface layers being detrimental to human health due to exposure Network and the Sierra Club once again produced a of coal-rich areas using explosives to expose the to polluted streams or the inhalation of toxins Mountain Top Removal (MTR) Policy Scorecard coal seams beneath. Once the coal has been and dust. Recognizing the social and environmental to assess the position of 10 leading banks in this extracted, the debris − generally laden with mining effects of this mining practice and the regulatory, area. In view of our strict stance and the clear way in by-products − is often dumped in neighboring reputational and financial risks it poses, Credit Suisse which it is enforced within our business, Credit Suisse valleys, potentially contaminating streams. Studies strengthened its position on MTR in 2009 by excludwas again assigned the grade “A–” in 2011 – the have shown that MTR can have severe environ­mental ing financing MTR operations in its Global Mining highest ranking of all the banks covered. persons and those relating to the prevention of money Challenges and Responses 2011 laundering and terrorist financing. International regulatory authorities have emphasized the need to prevent acts of corruption in recent years. Challenge: The nature of certain areas of business means In response, we have revised our global minimum standards that we must sometimes take decisions on controversial transactions, the environmental or social impacts of which relating to the prevention of corruption. Our employees can be viewed differently by various stakeholders. are required to regularly complete online training on subjects Response: We are aware of these challenges and therefore such as the prevention of money laundering and terrorist conduct a detailed risk review process, consulting with financing, as well as legislation relating to compliance with independent specialists where necessary. We strive to comply with laws, regulations and strict industry standards sanctions and the prevention of corruption. Credit Suisse when reviewing risks, and we consistently adapt our internal also contributes to the further development of industry stanprocesses to reflect new developments. dards concerning the issues of money laundering and terrorist financing through our involvement in the Wolfsberg Challenge: A business transaction may be legal but could nevertheless have negative consequences for the bank Group, an association of 11 global banks. by posing a financial risk or a reputational risk due to its More generally, Credit Suisse employees are required environmental or social impacts. to report instances of potential legal or regulatory infractions Response: We apply our bank-wide risk review process and or cases of possible ethical misconduct to their line manager policy to thoroughly examine actions and transactions before they are executed. A total of 295 transactions were or the General Counsel division. Credit Suisse employees examined in 2011. worldwide can also report any such incidents or concerns by contacting our Integrity Hotline, where they can speak to an advisor anonymously. Finally, our Internal Audit department monitors the bank’s compliance with our policies on an ongoing basis. www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/banking 17 Sustainable Products and Services Sustainability is viewed by investors as an important megatrend and increasing numbers of them are showing an interest in investments that incorporate economic, environmental and social considerations. At Credit Suisse, we offer a broad range of sustainable products and services that give investors access to these new market opportunities. We have continuously expanded our range of products and  Sustainable Investments, which target maximized riskservices that focus on environmental and social themes adjusted financial returns via sustainability trends such as across our divisions in the last 10 years. Our investments renewable energy. target sustainable companies and technologies and, at In the area of Philanthropy Services, Credit Suisse has, the same time, accommodate the growing client interest in for many years, been assisting clients in Switzerland who this area. When developing products and services in wish to support charitable causes (see box on page 19). In this field, Credit Suisse works with experts from research 2011, we launched SymAsia − the first charitable foundation institutes, non-governmental organizations and leading for our Asian clients. Another new initiative is the Global think-tanks. These partnerships enable us to meet our clients’ Philanthropy Campus held in New York in September 2011, need for the latest information on promising, futurewhich provides a platform so that clients can engage in oriented business opportunities. philanthropic endeavors and establish international contacts. In terms of Impact Investments, our flagship activity is Private Banking our microfinance platform (see page 19), which was launched Credit Suisse recognizes that investors may have unique in 2002 and encompasses activities in all three of our investment goals when selecting solutions that meet business divisions − including investment funds for clients their financial and extra-financial goals. To help investors who want to make a lasting and measurable impact on navigate this potentially complex field, our Responsible the lives of people in emerging and developing economies. Investment and Philanthropy Services (RI-PS) Framework In the area of Sustainable Investments, Credit Suisse (see page 21) maps investment solutions based on three has built on the CS Solutions (Lux) Megatrends Fund − an pillars: investment fund focusing on the three global megatrends  Philanthropy Services, including both the establishment “Multipolar World”, “Demographics” and “Sustainability” of trusts or foundations and the provision of services identified by our Private Banking Global Research team. such as asset management for entities where the investors’ By launching the megatrend theme “Sustainability”, which priority is to support social and/or address environmental integrates socially responsible investment strategies into causes through charitable donations. Credit Suisse’s megatrend concept, the awareness for  Impact Investments, which seek to generate a social and/ environmental, social and governance issues was further or environmental impact combined with moderate financial Continued on page 18 returns. Socially Responsible Investments Assets under management with high social/environmental benefits compared to 2010 2011 in CHF million 4,047 + 1.4% 2010 in CHF million 3,992 18 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility in Banking increased among financial analysts, relationship managers clients to provide more than USD 220 million in late-stage and clients. Our Global Research team analyzes these funding for renewable energy projects. Since 2009, the megatrends and develops a sustainable investment strategy STG has committed over USD 700 million to our clients. based on the selection of stocks. Asset Management Investment Banking Our Asset Management division offers investment solutions Credit Suisse’s Investment Banking division has the largest and services worldwide and invests in a broad range of asset market share in the wind and solar energy arenas, making classes, including alternative investments: it the global leader in the renewable energy sector. For  The Customized Fund Investment Group (CFIG) has example, we served as joint global coordinator for the Global USD 700 million of client commitments for investments in Depository Receipt listing for the largest solar equity clean technology, making it one of the leading private financing transaction in 2011 by the Korean silicon producer equity investors in this sector. CFIG invests in funds and OCI. The transaction was executed successfully in a companies that actively invest and operate in a wide highly volatile market environment. We also served as lead range of renewable energy and cleantech sub-sectors, left arranger and joint bookrunner for Invenergy Wind including solar, wind, waste-to-energy, smart meter Power’s USD 200 million senior secured notes offering and and transpor­t­ation. Examples include a 70-megawatt solar as lead left bookrunner on First Wind Capital’s USD 200 milpark in Italy and the provision of EUR 15 million of financing lion 10.25% senior secured notes offering. In addition, for a 153-megawatt wind park in France. we were joint bookrunner for the USD 150 million IPO  In February 2011, we issued the Exchange Traded Fund of the next-generation biofuels producer KiOR in June 2011. (ETF) on the Credit Suisse Global Alternative Energy The Credit Suisse Power & Renewables Group advises Index − an exchange-traded investment fund on an index of buy-side and sell-side clients on mergers and acquisitions, 30 companies in the fields of wind energy, solar energy, project finance and measures to raise capital in the debt bioenergy, natural gas, geothermal energy, hydroelec­tricity, and equity markets for the wind, solar, geothermal, biofuel cells and batteries. mass, biofuels and smart grid sectors. With deals totaling  The sustainable Swiss real estate fund Credit Suisse USD 15.6 billion, we led the trend in renewable energy Real Estate Fund Green Property established in May mergers and acquisitions and were named top advisor of 2009 recorded CHF 300 million of asset inflows in 2011. 2011 by Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The fund invests exclusively in real estate in Switzerland The Strategic Transactions Group (STG) within the that meets the strict criteria of the “greenproperty” quality Fixed Income business worked in close cooperation with seal − an initiative launched by Credit Suisse. Examples Credit Suisse Sustainability and Thematic Indices Index name Description Credit Suisse 60 businesses that adhere to the 10 principles Social Awareness Index of the UN Global Compact Credit Suisse 30 businesses that distinguish themselves through the efficient utilization Global Resource Efficiency Index and recycling of environmentally relevant resources Credit Suisse 40 businesses that are active in renewable fuels or electricity, Global Warming Index emissions limitation or demand management Credit Suisse 30 businesses in the fields of water generation, preservation, infrastructure, Water Index treatment and desalination Credit Suisse 30 businesses in the fields of wind energy, solar energy, bioenergy, Global Alternative Energy Index natural gas, geothermal energy, hydroelectricity, fuel cells and batteries Credit Suisse 25 businesses in the fields of nano materials, nano information technology, Global Nanotechnology Index nano health, nano energy and nano instruments Renewable Energy Index Economic indicator for turnover, order backlogs, delivery periods, Switzerland inventories and employment in the sustainable energies market 19 include the Foyer office complex in Zug, which aims to many microfinance institutions have found that women are achieve our highest certification − greenproperty Gold − more conscientious when it comes to using and repaying and the Swiss Minergie ® -Eco and LEED Platinum their loans. The success of microenterprises run by women certifications. Since 2010, all new buildings in our Real appears to have a positive impact on their families and on Estate Asset Management business’ portfolio of investthe communities in which they live, as women tend to invest ment products and mandates must apply for the greentheir earnings in better health care and schooling for their property seal. The tallest building in Switzerland − Swiss children. In our Private Banking division, a team of analysts Prime Site’s Prime Tower in Zurich − has already received specializing in microfinance provides in-depth analysis and a triple certification with greenproperty Gold, Minergie ® insights on the sector through monthly publications on and LEED Gold. topics such as the portfolio diversification potential offered by microfinance investments or the special features of Green Business Initiative the microfinance segment in Sub-Saharan Africa. We established the Green Business Initiative in 2009 In 2011, Credit Suisse launched and invested in an with the aim of optimizing and expanding our range innovative product, the Local Currency Microfinance Note, of green products and services to meet the diverse needs in close cooperation with the microfinance institution of our clients. This internal forum enables specialists FINCA International, which is a long-standing partner of from all our regions and divisions to combine the expertise our Microfinance Capacity Building Initiative. This innovaavailable within the bank and to cooperate in the promotion tive product, funded by Credit Suisse and our Private and development of new products in clean technology, Banking clients, addresses the strong and untapped including alternative energy, water technologies and sustaindemand for local currency financing in the microfinance able agriculture. Our activities have also been recognized sector in eight developing countries including Kyrgyzstan by external parties such as Bloomberg Markets magazine, and Uganda. which graded Credit Suisse in the top tier of its inaugural Continued on page 20 ranking of the world’s greenest banks. The publication identified the greenest banks based on their investments in clean energy and efforts to reduce their environmental impact. Charitable Giving by Our Clients Microfinance: Enabling Economic Development Credit Suisse recognized the potential of microfinance at an early stage and has been active in this segment for 10 years. T hrough the Swiss charitable foundations Accentus, Symphasis and Empiris, which were established over 10 years ago, we offer clients in Switzerland the Microfinance, the term used to describe the provision of opportunity to establish sub-foundations to achieve small loans, insurance products and other financial services their own charitable aims. Credit Suisse assumes most of the related administration costs. More than 1,000 to economically disadvantaged people in emerging and projects worldwide have been supported by our clients’ developing countries, is a proven means of helping people sub-foundations over the last decade (see image to help themselves. For example, microloans can help below: Lomadef project). In 2011, we became the first individuals to build up a small business and to thus establish bank to launch a charitable foundation for clients in Asia Pacific. SymAsia provides a suitable infrastructure to a basic livelihood. In this way, it also plays a role in achievallow our Asian clients to make strategic, ing the UN Millennium Development Goals including the structured charitable donations. eradication of poverty and the provision of universal primary education. As a leading bank in the microfinance arena, Credit Suisse joined forces with other banks in 2002 to establish responsAbility Social Investments AG, one of the principal social investment companies focused on developing countries and emerging markets. Today, all three of our business divisions offer microfinance-themed products and services. In Private Banking, our current microfinance offering includes several global microfinance funds and To read more about projects a private equity fund of fund that enables investors to parsupported by the client foundations, ticipate in small businesses serving economically disad­ scan the QR code or refer to vantaged people in emerging and developing countries. the Responsibility Chronicle. We have also added a new product focusing on www.credit-suisse.com/ chronicle women – the IC Asian Women Microfinance Fund – since 20 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility in Banking Together with our clients, we can thus offer microfinance with our microfinance partners, assisting them in areas such institutions the opportunity to reduce their currency risks as the development of financial management systems while strengthening our own position in emerging markets. to improve efficiency and transparency, the development In addition to our current range of microfinance funds of an auditing and financial management tool and the that enable microfinance institutions to raise capital, implementation of credit scoring methodologies. our Asset Management division manages the custody and In an effort to build on a decade of leadership in microadministration of a number of large microfinance funds. finance and to broaden our focus on the base of the By the end of 2011, the volume of assets invested in these economic pyramid, Credit Suisse collaborated with the funds managed by Credit Suisse totaled USD 1.1 billion. Schwab Foundation for Social Entrepreneurship in This sum is divided between more than 500 microfinance 2011 in the presentation of the Swiss Social Entrepreneur institutions in more than 50 countries and benefits over award. The Credit Suisse Research Institute and the 700,000 microentrepreneurs. Schwab Foundation also developed a publication entitled Our Investment Banking division offers a range of “Investing for Impact: How Social Entrepreneurship is advisory services on IPOs and other capital market transRedefining the Meaning of Return”, which was presented at actions to the microfinance sector. the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, in The microfinance sector has evolved and experienced January 2012. strong growth in recent years. This rapid expansion has, however, given rise to challenges in areas such as client Environmental, Social and Governance Factors protection and institutional governance. Credit Suisse At Credit Suisse, we recognize that environmental, social therefore contributes to the responsible development of and governance (ESG) factors can have a material the industry. The Microfinance Capacity Building Initiative effect on economic and social value. Our sustainable invest(see Booklet, page V), established in 2008 and funded ment approach allows us to systematically integrate on a not-for-profit basis, provides human and financial ESG criteria into the investment process in an effort to resources to enhance the management and processes in improve long-term risk-adjusted financial returns. microfinance institutions and to promote industry dialogue We have continuously refined the tools we use to offer and best practices. In addition to our projects involving clients professional and forward-looking advice about microfinance institutions, we published a study on the sector sustainable investments. This includes the full integration based on input from microfinance investors and their of ESG indicators into our existing Stock Navigator and advisors in Europe, the US and Asia. The findings revealed Bond Finder tools. that the respondents continue to take a positive view of Our systems now enable relationship managers to the microfinance sector and would like to see more products screen client portfolios for a wide range of ESG criteria. in this area but are also demanding increased transparThis includes conducting best-in-class assessments of ency on key issues such as overindebtedness and social managerial capability, excluding specific business activities performance. (e.g. the production of alcohol, tobacco or arms) and To help microfinance institutions address such issues identifying sensitive ESG issues. In addition, we strive to and to supply them with the relevant expertise, Credit systematically apply ESG considerations to all asset Suisse officially launched the Global Citizens Program in classes, including alternative investments. This enables 2011 after completing a pilot in 2010 (see Booklet, page VII). us to identify suitable investment solutions for each client Several employees completed three-month placements and to offer tailored investments in this area. Barrier-Free Banking Services Credit Suisse is committed to ensuring that our we have implemented a barrier-free design for our The program will be made available in 2012 to all products and services are accessible to everyone. website and our online banking service. In 2011, employees who require it for their work. In 2011, More than 50 of our ATMs in Switzerland have we focused on creating barrier-free documents and Credit Suisse once again took steps to increase been positioned so that wheelchair users can commissioned the programming of software that employee awareness about the issue of accessibility: operate them easily, and we have installed over enables PDF documents to be generated that are during the year, more than 700 employees in 400 talking ATMs. The accessibility of our accessible to visually impaired readers. To assist Switzerland attended disability awareness training branches and office buildings is also constantly the employees who maintain Credit Suisse’s website, courses. To date, a total of 2,900 employees in being improved. In addition, we issue bank we have also tested a software program that autoSwitzerland have been trained in how to address the statements printed in Braille and large type, and matically checks whether Web pages are barrier-free. needs of people with disabilities. 21 The Responsible Investment and Philanthropy Services Framework Philanthropy Services Impact Investments Sustainable Investments Client objectives Client objectives Client objectives Investor priority is social/environmental support Main goal is social/environmental change, Main goal is maximized risk-adjusted financial and change through charitable donations. combined with moderate financial returns. returns via sustainability trends through investments in sustainability products. Solution Solution Solution  Philanthropy advisory (e.g. asset optimization)  Microfinance  Investment products that demonstrate  Trust and foundations  Investment in social enterprises an evident ESG screening process for  Venture philanthropy, social entrepreneurship (e.g. health care, education, agriculture) underlying securities  Values-based investment (e.g. Sharia compliant)  Sustainability thematic products as defined by the Megatrends Sustainability theme Charity (social return) Profit (financial return) Source: Credit Suisse Research Institute, “Investing for Impact. How social entrepreneurship is redefining the meaning of return”, January 2012. Research and Publications Challenges and Responses 2011 Throughout 2011, Private Banking Global Research produced regular publications on sustainability topics, including a special focus on clean mobility and a series on the Challenge: Increasing need for funding in local currencies impacts of the Fukushima nuclear accident. The Global in the microfinance sector. Response: We launched the Local Currency Microfinance Research team provides thematic coverage and thought Note to help microfinance institutions in eight developing leadership on sustainability issues including alternative countries to reduce their currency risks. energy, resource efficiency and clean technology. A team of dedicated thematic analysts and strategists identifies Challenge: Growing demand for information on non-financial factors potentially affecting investment decisions. long-term environmental trends and challenges and transResponse: We integrated environmental, social and lates them into actionable green investment ideas. governance (ESG) indicators into our Stock Navigator In 2011, Credit Suisse collaborated with the World and Bond Finder tools. Wildlife Fund (WWF) on a study about the role of banks in Challenge: Supply capital to fund the development of the transition to a low-carbon economy, including the renewable technologies to meet global energy needs. opportunities and risks associated with climate change and Response: We actively pursued advisory, lending and the steps that can be taken to address them. Approaches underwriting opportunities for renewable energy companies, include mobilizing new capital sources or focusing real estate projects and technologies. For example, we were named top advisor in renewable energy mergers and acquisitions funds on sustainable properties. Furthermore, at the emin 2011 by Bloomberg New Energy Finance. ployee event “Crops, Capital and the Environment” in New York, an expert from WWF US and a representative of Credit Suisse’s Investment Banking Equities Research unit explored the topic of sustainable agriculture from both a conservation and a financial perspective, identifying areas of common ground. www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/banking 22 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility in Society Responsibility in Society Zahra Darvishi, Head Corporate Citizenship Switzerland, talks to young people at the AMIC children’s home in Larga, Moldova, that Credit Suisse supports as part of the “2 x Christmas” campaign. To watch a video report on “2 x Christmas”, scan the QR code or refer to the Responsibility Chronicle. www.credit-suisse.com/ chronicle 23 Our Role in the Economy and Society We strive to create value for our clients, shareholders and employees by performing our core functions as a global bank responsibly and efficiently. At the same time, we want to support the economy through our activities and to play a constructive role in the broader social environment. At Credit Suisse, we are committed to conducting our enhance profitability in our Private Banking business, and business in a way that serves the best interests of the redeployment of resources to faster-growing and large our clients, shareholders and employees − thus fulfilling markets such as Brazil, China and Russia. our primary responsibility as a global bank. At the Industry reforms were another dominant topic for banks same time, we are very conscious of the fact that we are in 2011, as regulators and politicians around the globe inextricably linked with the economy and society. pursued their efforts to strengthen the stability of the finanThis high degree of interconnectedness is evident at many cial sector with a particular focus on capital, leverage and levels. For example, in our function as a financial inter­ liquidity requirements. At an international level, regulatory mediary, we align the financing and investment needs of developments centered on the Basel III framework that companies, private individuals, institutions and the public is designed in part to increase the resilience of systemically sector. This includes supplying vital capital to businesses important financial institutions. In Switzerland, the “Too to help finance their expansion and foster innovation – Big to Fail” debate was once again a major theme in 2011. ultimately driving economic growth and the creation of jobs. Here, Credit Suisse engaged in a constructive dialogue The role we play in the economy is also illustrated by the with poli­ticians, regulators and other industry representafact that in our Swiss home market, we are a partner to over ti­ves − contributing our financial expertise to the discussions one-third of all companies and are especially committed (see also page 52). This process culminated in the adoption to supporting the export sector. In addition to providing of the corresponding legislative proposal by the Swiss international payment operations, trade finance and other Federal Parliament in September 2011. At Credit Suisse, services that are essential to do business in the global we essentially support the new “Too Big to Fail” bill in marketplace, we helped Swiss exporters to address the view of the particular importance of the major banks for the impacts of the strong Swiss franc in 2011. Supplying Swiss economy. We believe that we can meet the new financial expertise and advice to the economy is another requirements within the prescribed timeframe by building aspect of our work. capital through earnings and by issuing contingent capital or other instruments that qualify for the various buffers Challenges in an Evolving Industry Continued on page 24 The global banking industry was confronted with significant challenges in 2011. From an economic perspective, the year was dominated by the escalating debt crisis in Europe, Credit Suisse as a Client and Contractual Partner which was accompanied by a general slowdown in the global economy, historically low interest rates and volatile In 2011, Credit Suisse purchased over CHF 7 billion of goods, services and licenses financial markets. The resulting climate of uncertainty across our four regions. We are committed to conducting our business in an ethical, undermined investor confidence and significantly reduced legal, and socially and environmentally responsible manner. As part of our relationships levels of client activity − forcing banks to adapt their cost with major suppliers, we require them to acknowledge their corporate responsibilities in areas such as employee health and safety and environmental protection. We build structures in line with declining revenues. At Credit Suisse, sustainable relationships with these suppliers to not only ensure that quality and we responded to these challenges by announcing steps value are delivered but that they continue to manage their corporate responsibilities to further evolve our integrated business strategy − including appropriately. In connection with these efforts, we run various targeted programs, a significant reduction of risk-weighted assets in our Investincluding those that promote collaboration with firms owned by women or individuals from ethnic and other minorities across an increasing number of geographies. ment Banking business, the implementation of measures to 24 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility in Society and progressive capital components. At the same time, Listening to Young People we believe that adequate consideration of regulatory developments in other countries is also necessary to preserve A s an integral part of society, we consider it important to listen to the views and needs of the general public and to hear their thoughts on a range of current the international competitiveness of the Swiss financial center. In this context, the strict financial reforms proposed issues. In Switzerland, one of the ways we gauge public in the UK in summer 2011 are evidence that a more level opinion is through our annual Worry Barometer survey. playing field is gradually emerging. In 2012, Credit Suisse Recognizing the important role that young people will will continue to implement the previously announced play in our future social, cultural and economic development, we are especially interested in hearing their measures to proactively adjust our business model to the views. In 2010, we launched an online Youth Barometer new industry landscape. At the same time, we want to survey to assess the attitudes and concerns of people play a constructive role in the ongoing regulatory debate, aged between 16 and 25 in Switzerland, the US and which is of immense importance for the future shape of Brazil. The findings will enable us to address the needs of our younger clients and junior employees in a more our business and the strength of the financial and economic targeted manner. The 2011 survey once again showed system worldwide. A further priority for our company is to that unemployment remains one of the primary concerns help to resolve challenges such as the cross-border legacy among today’s youth − particularly in view of the shortissues facing the Swiss banking sector (see page 9). age of training places and jobs following the financial and economic crisis. At Credit Suisse, we want to help tackle youth unemployment and have taken steps Our Role in Switzerland in Switzerland to assist job seekers who wish to find an Our activities in our Swiss home market demonstrate the apprenticeship and enter the labor market. Working importance of Credit Suisse from both an economic with partner organizations, Credit Suisse has made CHF 30 million available over five years to fund this initiaand social perspective. In 2011, we continued to perform tive. In 2011, a total of 1,811 individuals received support a range of systemically important functions such as from the various programs. managing client deposits, operating our credit business and executing payment transactions. As a lender, we currently have around CHF 170 billion of loans outstanding, comprising mortgages and loans to corporate, public and private clients. Of this sum, CHF 32 billion comprises loans to small and medium-sized enterprises. We manage CHF 590 billion of assets deposited by private and institutional clients in Switzerland. With 21,200 employees based in Switzerland, we are also one of the country’s largest employers. We play a key economic and social function by providing attractive career opportunities across the full spectrum of banking, paying To read the findings of the appropriate compensation and offering development prosYouth Barometer, scan the QR code or refer to the pects for talented individuals. In 2011, we further increased Responsibility Chronicle. the number of apprenticeships we offer young people by www.credit-suisse.com/ 50 to 650 and provided a total of 1,400 training positions chronicle in Switzerland. 25 Credit Suisse as a Taxpayer We are also committed to assuming our responsibilities Working with Swiss Business as a taxpayer. As a profitable firm, Credit Suisse has paid to Drive Growth an average of CHF 1.0 billion in corporate income tax worldwide over the last five years. In addition, it is subject to other taxes that are not related to income and that I n the current economic climate, we believe that one of the most important roles a bank can play is to supply the capital needed to finance economic growth exceeded CHF 400 million in 2011 alone. On behalf of emand thus secure jobs. Credit Suisse recognizes that ployees, Credit Suisse pays payroll withholding taxes SMEs form the backbone of the Swiss economy and is committed to helping them access the funding they and social security contributions, as well as other statutory need for their expansion and for succession planning. levies. In 2011, these additional taxes and contributions In this way, it can support the growth of their business amounted to over CHF 3 billion globally. and help to secure jobs and create new employment. www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/society In May 2010, we established the fully owned subsidiary SVC Ltd. for Risk Capital for SMEs and supplied it with CHF 100 million of capital to help new or established companies in all sectors with a proven client offering Challenges and Responses 2011 to achieve growth. In 2011, around CHF 24 million of capital was committed to 15 innovative Swiss firms with sustainable business models − bringing the total capital commitment to around CHF 35 million at the end of Challenge: Find solutions to reduce the negative impacts December 2011. These companies are active in a range of the strong Swiss franc on the Swiss economy. of industries − including cleantech, information and Response: We helped export-based corporate clients in communication technologies (ICT) and consumer goods. Switzerland to implement measures to mitigate the impacts One example is the firm agrofrucht-Inn AG (pictured of the strong Swiss franc on their business. Credit Suisse below), which has developed a new process to produce representatives also participated in high-level discussions dried fruit. with government bodies and offered their expertise on various monetary policy options. Challenge: Support the economy by helping businesses that have difficulties obtaining funding to grow and create jobs. Response: We supply essential capital to businesses to help finance their expansion and to drive innovation. In 2011, our subsidiary SVC Ltd. for Risk Capital for SMEs continued to supply capital to young Swiss firms with sustainable business models to help them expand. To read more on SVC Ltd. for Risk Capital for SMEs, scan the QR code or refer to the Responsibility Chronicle. www.credit-suisse.com/ chronicle 26 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility in Society Our Social Commitments Credit Suisse and its employees have been working with selected partner organizations around the world for many years to help address social challenges. We support a variety of humanitarian and charitable projects to improve the lives of disadvantaged people. At Credit Suisse, we believe that a sound social environand the emerging markets a direct insight into the world ment creates economic stability, which is key to the of business and finance. long-term success of our business. This is why we work The financial support we offer to charitable projects with selected non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and initiatives worldwide is complemented by the volunteer to address social issues at an international level. We help work performed by our people. In 2011, we took steps to tackle challenges such as youth unemployment and we to increase employee volunteering – including skills-based support efforts to realize the UN Millennium Development assignments – to benefit a variety of worthwhile causes. Goals − including the eradication of poverty and the provision of universal primary education − through diverse Thinking Globally – Acting Locally projects and initiatives. Our company operates in both Our aim is to implement our global strategy as effectively industrialized and emerging market economies, and we are as possible in all the regions where we operate, ensuring that committed to engaging in activities that go beyond our our resources are deployed efficiently and that the projects core business to support the economic and social developwe support generate long-term benefits. We have therefore ment of these regions and to act as a reliable local partentered into strategic partnerships with leading international ner to help improve the living conditions of disadvantaged and national non-profit organizations that have an extensive people. knowledge of specific local requirements and of the political We focus on building long-term relationships with situation and cultural conventions in different countries. our partner organizations so that we can work together to The foundations and committees in our four regions develop and extend programs that bring about lasting work with over 300 partner organizations globally and change. We regard microfinance and education as effective are responsible for coordinating grants, donations and the tools to promote economic growth and development and volunteer efforts of our employees. For example, the have continued to focus our social commitments on global Americas Foundation in New York and the Credit Suisse initiatives in these areas. EMEA Foundation in London plan and implement charitable Through our Microfinance Capacity Building Initiative, projects in their respective regions, while the regional Credit Suisse provides financial and human resources to management team directs projects in Asia Pacific. Our Corimprove management training and development and to porate Volunteering team and the Credit Suisse Foundation drive product and process innovation in microfinance instituJubilee Fund coordinate and implement partnerships and tions to give people at the base of the income pyramid volunteering initiatives in Switzerland. In addition, the Credit better access to banking services. We supported 1.8 million Suisse Foundation allocates funds to projects that address microentrepreneurs and their families worldwide in 2011. our focus themes of education and microfinance and manIn recognition of these efforts, Credit Suisse received the ages the Disaster Relief Fund (see page 27). Opportunity International Award. Through our Global Education Initiative, Credit Suisse Personal Support for Worthwhile Causes assists international organizations in giving thousands Companies essentially have the same choices available to of children and young people access to education and in them as private individuals if they wish to address social improving the quality of educational opportunities in develissues: they can make financial contributions or invest time oping countries in particular. This global initiative focuses in charitable projects. As an employer, Credit Suisse also on providing scholarships, learning materials and specialized aims to assume its social responsibilities by encouraging its teacher training and on ensuring the sustainable developpeople to enhance the value of its financial contributions ment of educational infrastructures. We also run widethrough their own personal support for worthwhile causes. ranging regional educational projects with the aim of giving We therefore give all employees the opportunity to dedicate children and young people in both industrialized nations an entire working day on full pay to assist with charitable 27 projects. As part of the Global Citizens Program, suitably ing organizations we work with to 80. The number of hours qualified employees are offered the opportunity to spend dedicated to volunteer work by our employees rose by several weeks working on projects run by our global initiaaround 20% in Switzerland in 2011. Our long-standing tive partner organizations in emerging and developing collaboration with the Swiss Red Cross was also expanded markets (see below). Credit Suisse is convinced that emin 2011. Volunteering activities included our employees’ ployee volunteering creates mutual benefits. By participatsupport for a blood donation campaign as well as the inteing in the charitable projects run by our partner organi­ gration project “Mitten unter uns” (In Our Midst) for immigrant zations, we can gain a better insight into the needs of the children. Volunteers meet with the children on a regular people in the communities in which we live and work and basis, offering them an opportunity to improve their Germanbuild mutual trust. At the same time, these activities further language skills. Moreover, these encounters encourage the enhance the interpersonal skills of our people and promote formation of a new social network and help to overcome team spirit – ultimately strengthening our corporate culture. Continued on page 28 We consult with employees when selecting the organizations that we support. We also encourage them to take up positions on the Management Boards and Boards of Trustees of our partner organizations. Disaster Relief Fund We closely monitor the development of our various global and regional partnerships and programs. To ensure that our social commitments are having a lasting impact, T he earthquake and tsunami that triggered the accident at the Fukushima nuclear reactor in March 2011 presented huge challenges for international disaster we systematically record all volunteering activities in a global relief organizations. The Credit Suisse Foundation’s database and regularly collect feedback from our partner Disaster Relief Fund is continuing to provide support to affected regions through the national and international organizations and employees. Red Cross and Red Crescent organizations. Some of the financial aid was donated to specific projects in Japan Expanding Our Activities to benefit children who were particularly impacted by the We are constantly adding to the list of countries where we disaster. By combining donations from employees, the matching gift from the Credit Suisse Foundation and participate in social initiatives and increasing the number of the immediate corporate contribution, Credit Suisse was projects we support worldwide. An important milestone able to donate a total of USD 5.5 million (CHF 5 million). in 2011 was the expansion of our Global Citizens Program We also donated over USD 200,000 (CHF 180,000) volunteering initiative, which was launched in 2010 and to various aid organizations that played a major role in the clean-up operations. Over 30 employees volunteered focuses on promoting the transfer of knowledge and experto assist with this process. Credit Suisse also responded tise between our employees and our partner organizations immediately to the energy reduction targets issued by in the areas of education and microfinance. This program the Japanese government and reduced energy usage at enables employees to make targeted use of their skills to our Tokyo offices by 15% in 2011 to contribute to the national effort to cut energy consumption in the wake of support the further development of our partners’ initiatives the catastrophe. In addition to the aid efforts in Japan, by helping to optimize processes or enhance efficiency. The contributions from the Disaster Relief Fund were used to Global Citizens Program has now been extended to a total assist people affected by the drought in the Horn of of 17 countries, including India, China, Brazil and Mexico. At Africa in 2011. the same time, the number of participants has increased from 18 in 2010 to 31 in 2011. We also launched a successful pilot virtual volunteering program in 2011. Virtual volunteering allows a larger number of suitably qualified employees to use their expertise to support our microfinance partner organizations without having to take extended leave from work. In 2011, we renewed our commitment to two existing global volunteering partnerships: Habitat for Humanity International, which seeks to combat homelessness and improve precarious living situations, and Junior Achievement To read the article on disaster Worldwide, which focuses on promoting business skills relief efforts in Japan, scan among children and young people. the QR code or refer to the We also made significant progress in our different Responsibility Chronicle. www.credit-suisse.com/ regions. In Switzerland, we increased our existing partnerchronicle ships from 11 to 15, bringing the total number of volunteer28 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility in Society stereotypes. Various educational schemes in 2011 also development through partnerships with selected orga­ enabled employees to share their expertise and experience nizations. In connection with further projects, it supports with young people (see page 31). We received the Swiss schools that provide children from socially disadvantaged Employee Volunteering Award in 2011 in recognition of families and economically deprived communities with our volunteering activities in Switzerland from the Philias alternative development opportunities and chances to Foundation. succeed (see page 29). At the East Harlem School in New In our Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region, York, which was supported by Credit Suisse, 98% of the an external evaluation covering the period from 2008 –2011 students went on to graduate with a high school diploma. underlined the achievements of the Credit Suisse EMEA In the Americas region, our people continued to comFoundation. We have provided support for 39,000 young plete a large number of volunteering hours and assignments people since 2008 through various education and training in 2011. Our activities in the area of employee engagement programs focusing on the development of business skills. were not restricted to New York City, with employees The total volunteering hours performed by our employees volunteering in the Bahamas and Cayman Islands for the rose by 16% in the EMEA region in 2011. first time. In the Bahamas, employees renovated a school We also intensified our charitable activities in emerging in a 12-day initiative completed in stages over a period markets such as Russia, South Africa and the Middle East of five weeks and equipped it with computers. The City Year and established our first Philanthropy Committee in Poland. New York partnership, which has successfully supported In South Africa, 46% of our local employees invested their City Year Corp members serving in local schools and employtime and expertise in volunteering, including six employees ees executing various volunteer initiatives over the past who provided one-to-one support for young people through five years, spread to the EMEA region with the launch of the Clouddog program, which consists of a variety of activities in London. community and environmental initiatives. Our cooperation In Asia Pacific, efforts centered on the provision of with the international organization Habitat for Humanity funding for larger-scale partner projects. The aim is to help saw 133 employees from our EMEA region undertake drive lasting social change in the Bharatpur district of assignments in Armenia, South Africa and Poland. Rajasthan in India with the support of Plan India and the Employees participated in construction projects aimed at local charitable organization Gram Niyojan Kendra. helping disadvantaged people (see Booklet, page VI). The region faces severe social challenges and has high Programs in the Americas focused on the themes levels of crime, which impact women and children in of employee engagement and education in 2011. The particular. We not only provide educational programs for Americas Foundation’s Education Program, launched in school-age children but also support training courses 2010, makes targeted investments in teacher training and that show adults ways to generate an income and escape EMEA Education Project: Swiss Education Project: Promoting Young Entrepreneurs Promoting Young Talent in IT Y outh Business Russia (YBR), a Youth Business International (YBI) project, is a global network that T here will be a shortage of 32,000 IT specialists in Switzerland by 2017 unless targeted measures are taken to encourage young people to pursue a career in IT. As one of Switzerland’s largest IT employers, Credit Suisse is actively committed to supporting training programs for young supports young entrepreneurs. The project was extended to the Novosibirsk region of Russia thanks to talent to produce the IT specialists required. As part of this commitment, we are supporting the the support of the Credit Suisse EMEA Foundation. “IT Professional Training Switzerland” foundation with up to CHF 10 million over the medium term. Its objective is to make low-interest loans available to The foundation’s goals are to ensure the training of sufficient numbers of young people in IT, to young entrepreneurs for start-up companies, while share IT expertise and to strengthen Switzerland’s position as a center of IT education. To intensify also providing them with training, mentoring and busiour efforts to counter this shortage of specialists, some Credit Suisse IT employees also launched ness support programs. The project aims to help young the Lego Mindstorms project at a Swiss high school in June 2011. They volunteered to provide workpeople to establish a livelihood and to manage their shops for students on Lego Mindstorms programmable robots, complementing the teaching of IT in start-up companies professionally and efficiently. an exciting and hands-on way. The volunteers’ visits and dynamic approach to technology gave the This, in turn, creates employment opportunities and students a valuable insight into IT that is intended to inspire them to subsequently pursue a career in helps to revitalize local economies. this field. To read the article on To read the article on the Lego Mindstorms Youth Business Russia, scan pilot project, scan the QR code the QR code or refer to or refer to the Responsibility Chronicle. the Responsibility Chronicle. www.credit-suisse.com/ chronicle www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle 29 from poverty. We also grant microfinance loans to help lay the foundations for economic independence, thus improving Americas Education Project: general living conditions. Our priority is to safeguard the Master’s Degree for Teachers basic rights of children in Bharatpur by investing in primary education. This has a positive long-term impact on their communities, both socially and economically. As well as A s part of the Americas Education Program, Credit Suisse provided support in 2010 and 2011 for the Relay Graduate School of Education in New York, which providing grants to support charitable projects, Asia Pacific runs a practical Master’s course for teachers who have achieved a 57% increase in employee volunteering hours. already started their careers. The support from Credit Suisse has helped the Relay Graduate School to develop best-in-class courses that focus on practical applicaGrowing Level of Volunteering tions. The largely Web-based courses give teachers the Credit Suisse recorded a 15% increase in employee volunopportunity to build on their existing knowledge on a teering globally in 2011 compared to 2010, resulting in a flexible and individual basis and to immediately apply the insights they acquire in the classroom. Initial results volunteering rate of 32% and a total of 189,000 volunteershow that 91% of all teachers trained by the Relay ing hours. Reflecting the importance we assign to employee Graduate School successfully convey mandatory subject volunteering, we have included this aspect in our annual matter to their students. This represents a high standard performance evaluations since 2010. Volunteering has also for communities where students are often two or three years behind their peers and where, in the past, less than been an integral part of the professional training of Credit 50% graduated from high school. Suisse’s young talents in Switzerland since 2008. Our aim in 2012 is to encourage even more of our workforce to act To read the article on the Relay as volunteers in all business regions and to further improve Graduate School of Education, scan the QR code or refer to the cooperation with our partner organizations. Responsibility Chronicle www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/society www.credit-suisse.com/ chronicle Asia Pacific Education Project: Schools for Disadvantaged Children Challenges and Responses 2011 I n 2011, Credit Suisse supported the external education program of the Children’s Fund in Cambodia, enabling 120 disadvantaged children to attend school regularly. The Children’s Fund also offers various supplementary Challenge: The challenging economic climate has increased programs to allow older children who have missed out on the pressure on partnership funding. part or all of their schooling to receive targeted support Response: We intensified our focus on key long-term and complete their education on time. Three satellite partnerships that center on our three focus themes Employee schools for over 300 children are being built in connection Engagement, Education and Microfinance and bring about with this program. By completing their education, these lasting change in our regions. children can later go on to learn a profession, establish a stable income and gain financial independence, thus Challenge: Support the development of a sound social securing a better future for them and their families. environment to help promote economic stability in the emerging markets in which we operate. Response: We continued to grow our social commitments in these regions with new microfinance projects in China and Brazil, ongoing education projects in Brazil, Mexico, India and China, and increased regional employee engagement in Asia Pacific. Challenge: Motivate employees to volunteer for long-term assignments despite difficult market conditions and business pressures. Response: We successfully launched a pilot virtual volunTo read the article on the Children’s teering program in 2011 to allow a greater number of Fund in Cambodia, scan the QR employees to use their expertise to support our microfinance code or refer to the Responsibility partner organizations without having to take extended Chronicle. leave from work. www.credit-suisse.com/ chronicle 30 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility in Society Participation of Our Employees in Projects Supported by Credit Suisse Worldwide Americas Europe, Middle East Switzerland Asia Pacific and Africa 5,524 3,312 6,050 2,529 58,418 35,286 67,911 27,278 Relay Graduate School, New York Habitat for Humanity, Armenia Workshop Lego Mindstorms, Zurich Earthquake and tsunami, Japan Worldwide 17,415 189,000 Volunteering metrics related Habitat for Humanity Junior Achievement to global partnerships International Worldwide (included in regional figures above) 1,122 261 13,985 4,318 Volunteers Time dedicated to voluntary work (in hours) 31 Selected Projects in 2011 Project Sunshine, US, since 2009 Result: Support provided for the re-branding and Young Enterprise Switzerland, since 2008 Aim: Assist in educational, recreational and social national rollout of Futureversity, enabling young Aim: To help young people develop business programs for children facing medical challenges. people to take part in courses, including the Credit acumen, an entrepreneurial approach and effective Result: One employee initially volunteered to spend Suisse Ideal Applicant Course. interpersonal skills. a week working at a holiday camp for children Result: 71 employees worked with a total of suffering from cancer. Her commitment inspired Scope, UK, since 2010 1,330 students in 71 different classes in 2011, others to follow her example and the level of Aim: Support a pilot employability program for investing 2,640 hours of their time. employee engagement has steadily increased. young people with disabilities in Tower Hamlets. Result: The first year of the program was Swiss Youth Music Competition, since 2004 FIRST, New York, US, since 2006 successful, attracting 71 Credit Suisse volunteers Aim: Support young musicians at grass-roots level Aim: Give employees the opportunity to volunteer in 2011. by identifying talented individuals aged 8 to 20. using their technology skills to inspire an interest Result: Around 1,200 children and young people in science and technology among students. Mosaic, Middle East & North Africa, since 2010 across Switzerland took part in the 2011 contest. Result: 114 volunteers, primarily from our IT Aim: Work with young people to develop leadership department, took part in the program in New York, skills by supporting Mosaic’s Leadership Summit. Children’s Cancer Foundation Fundraising Princeton, New Jersey and Raleigh. Result: 16 young leaders from UAE, Qatar, Saudi Campaign, Singapore, since 2008 Arabia and Oman attended the summit in Qatar Aim: Raise funds for initiatives and services to help City Harvest, New York, US, since 2002 in November 2011. children suffering from cancer and their families. Aim: Help City Harvest to collect excess food Result: 31 employees shaved their heads and and deliver it to soup kitchens, senior centers Portofranco, Italy, since 2010 160 employees took part in the Hair for Hope and homeless shelters to feed the hungry. Aim: Provide assistance to young people aged fundraising campaign in Singapore, raising over Result: 246 employees volunteered over 1,000 between 13 and 18 to help them remain in the USD 100,000 (CHF 90,000). hours to help City Harvest sort and deliver nearly education system and to realize their potential. 29 million pounds of food to 600 food programs. Result: 20 young people received intensive tutoring. Sampoerna Foundation Integrated Literacy Program, Indonesia, since 2004 The Nonprofit Board Training Program, Fundacion Prodis, Spain, since 2010 Aim: Encourage reading and improve the literacy US and Canada, since 2010 Aim: Help to improve the integration of children standards of children affected by a volcanic eruption. Aim: Give senior executives the opportunity to use and young adults with learning difficulties at home, Result: Six mobile libraries with over 300 books their expertise to help others and teach more junior at school, in the community or in the workplace. were made available for 500 children living employees about being an effective Board member Result: 45 young people took part in the Promentor in temporary housing in Merapi, Indonesia. to add value to non-profit organizations. employability program. Result: Program expanded to Raleigh, Boston, The Playgroup Children’s Foundation, Los Angeles and Toronto. Over 300 employees Swiss Red Cross, Switzerland, since 2008 Australia, since 2011 were trained in 2011; 15% of all employees Aim: Support health and integration programs Aim: Replace equipment in children’s playgroups in trained are now serving on a Board of a non-profit run by the Swiss Red Cross. regions affected by flooding and hurricanes. organization. Result: 1,924 employees worked as volunteers Result: Over 200 children benefited from the for a total of 13,254 hours, supporting programs project thanks to the provision of teaching materials Rebuilding a school in the Bahamas, such as a driver pool to provide transport and equipment in 17 playgroups. since 2011 services, “2 x Christmas”, “Mitten unter uns” Aim: Improve facilities in a local school to provide (In Our Midst) and the “Redog” rescue dogs YMCA Singapore Reading Program, since 2009 children with a better learning environment. organization. Aim: Help to develop the literacy and numeracy Result: Over a period of five weeks, 20 volunteers skills of pupils with special needs. spent evenings and weekends rebuilding and UNICEF (Swiss Committee), since 2009 Result: 73 pupils who require special support were refurbishing three classrooms, as well as purchasing Aim: Encourage children to contribute to UNICEF provided with structured learning content to improve new computer equipment for the school. by realizing their own fundraising projects. their proficiency in reading and arithmetic. Result: In 2011, around 7,000 children from all ProEducation, Mexico City, Mexico, since 2008 over Switzerland raised more than CHF 430,000 Little Sister Pre-school with Half the Sky Aim: Provide enhanced learning opportunities for for a UNICEF project in Africa. Foundation, China, since 2008 marginalized children by training teachers and Aim: To enrich the lives and enhance the prospects parents and creating a true educational community. Bergwaldprojekt (Mountain Forest Project), of orphaned children living in China’s social welfare Result: By expanding the Americas Education Switzerland, since 2008 institutions. Program to Mexico, we helped ProEducation to Aim: Gain an insight into mountain forests and Result: A grant of CHF 134,000 enabled work with 41 schools, benefiting 13,596 students. help to maintain their various protective functions. 53 teachers and carers to be trained to help Result: Around 910 employees spent a day enhance the emotional and physical development The Children’s Trust, UK, 2011 Charity volunteering in the Swiss Alps. This equates to of 158 children with special needs. of the Year a total of 16,054 hours of volunteer work. Aim: Raise awareness of the work of The Children’s Cathy Freeman Foundation, Australia, since 2011 Trust and engage in fundraising activities. Ernst Schmidheiny Stiftung (ESST), Aim: To close the education gap between Result: Employees raised GBP 873,659 Switzerland, since 2010 indigenous and non-indigenous children and provide (CHF 1,200,000) through a variety of activities. Aim: Promote an interest in business and pathways to success. economics, particularly among young people. Result: A CHF 100,000 grant to the foundation Futureversity, UK, since 2003 Result: Since the establishment of the partnerbenefited 600 indigenous children on Palm Island. Aim: Improve future prospects and employment ship, eight employees have volunteered a total The Horizons Program motivates, supports and opportunities for young people using unconventional of 360 hours as teachers in various schools. rewards students who display a positive attitude and learning methods and innovative partnerships. achieve good academic progress. 32 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility in Society Sponsorship Credit Suisse wants to contribute to society through various national and international sponsorship projects. In addition to our partnership with Roger Federer and his foundation, we focus our sponsorship activities on classical music, jazz and the fine arts, as well as golf, equestrian sports and football. We assign particular importance to the promotion of young talent and the inter­national exchange of cultural experiences. Sponsorship is an important marketing tool used by the Credit Suisse Young Artist Award, which we present Credit Suisse. It also enables us to offer our clients and in conjunction with the Lucerne Festival and the Vienna a broader public the opportunity to enjoy exceptional Philharmonic. We have also launched two new cultural cultural, musical or sporting events. When selecting our awards in Switzerland to promote activities in the fields of international sponsorship commitments, we focus on jazz and video art. cultural and sporting institutions that share the same core As the main sponsor of the Swiss Football Association, values as Credit Suisse by striving to achieve outstanding we support all junior national football teams. In 2011, performance and long-term success. This approach allows the Swiss U21 team reached the finals of the European us to benefit from the excellent reputation of the organizaChampionship in Denmark and thus qualified for the tions we support while, at the same time, making a 2012 Olympic Games in London. contribution so that our partners can continue to focus fully Our sponsorship commitments in the field of culture on their cultural and sporting activities, even in challenging focus on classical music and the fine arts. The promotion of economic times. international cultural exchanges is one of the principal goals of our sponsorship philosophy. One of the ways we Supporting the Development of Young Talent achieve this is by supporting global tours by our partner We assign particular importance to nurturing young talent orchestras − primarily the New York Philharmonic Orchestra, and we therefore engage in various programs around the of which Credit Suisse is the exclusive global sponsor, as world that help to develop the skills and abilities of young well as the Sydney Symphony Orchestra. In addition, we artists or junior sportsmen and women. Examples include support renowned classical music festivals such as the the Credit Suisse Today Art Award, which is presented in Lucerne Festival. As its resident sponsor, we fund the collaboration with the Today Art Museum in Beijing, and Vienna Philharmonic’s annual residency at the Festival, which is one of the highlights of the event. In 2011, we renewed our partnership with the internationally acclaimed Supporting Music and the Arts in Asia Pacific Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow, which reopened its doors after seven years of extensive renovations. In London, Credit Suisse partners with the National Our interest in Asia Pacific is not restricted to business: we are also committed to supporting classical music and the arts in the region. Credit Suisse has been the first Gallery, which attracted record numbers of visitors to its long-term corporate sponsor of the Singapore Art Museum in its history and has recent Leonardo da Vinci exhibition. By supporting leading supported the exhibitions held as part of the collaborative Credit Suisse Innovation in Art museums in Switzerland and abroad, Credit Suisse underSeries. Other sponsorship commitments in the region include our work with the Taipei scores its commitment to the fine arts. One of our main Fine Arts Museum, the Shanghai Museum and the Today Art Museum in Beijing. In the field of classical music, Credit Suisse supports the Hong Kong Arts Festival and the partners is the Kunstmuseum Zurich, which unveiled the Beijing Music Festival, which are two of the region’s most prominent cultural events. world premiere of the Nahmad Collection in 2011. We also Additionally, Credit Suisse is continuing to partner with the Bangkok Symphony work with the Singapore Art Museum and supported its Orchestra and the Sydney Symphony Orchestra in Australia, including its highly regarded Biennale 2011 exhibition. Associate Conductor and Fellowship educational programs. www.credit-suisse.com/sponsorship 33 Working with the Roger Federer Foundation to Promote Education I n 2011, Credit Suisse continued its long-term partnership agreement with Roger Federer. As part of this collaboration, Credit Suisse provides support for the Roger Federer Foundation, which promotes education projects for children mainly in southern Africa. Thanks to this partnership with Credit Suisse, a 10-year initiative providing support in early childhood was launched in 2011. Over 50,000 children between the ages of four and six will receive help in preparing for their transition A childhood center supported by the to primary school education. The Foundation’s local Roger Federer Foundation in Malawi. partner is the NGO ActionAid Malawi. Credit Suisse provides regular updates on this new initiative in Malawi through the documentary series “Growing up in Malawi”. To watch video reports on projects Janine Händel (right), Managing conducted by the Roger Federer Director of the Roger Federer Foundation, scan the QR code or Foundation, with the Honorable refer to the Responsibility Chronicle. Theresa Gloria Mwale, Minister www.credit-suisse.com/ of Child and Community Developchronicle ment, at the launch of a project in Malawi. Villagers making adobe bricks to build a new childhood center in Ng’andu, Malawi. Credit Suisse Foundation T he Jubilee Fund of the Credit Suisse Foundation (see page 26) also assigns considerable importance to the promotion of culture. Since 2000, it has been fostering musical talent through the Credit Suisse Young Artist Award and the Prix Credit Suisse Jeunes Solistes, which are presented in alternate years. The awards include generous prize money and the opportunity for the winners to perform at the internationally acclaimed Lucerne Festival. The Jubilee Fund also lends its support to the Musikkollegium Winterthur and the Swiss Youth Music Competition Foundation. To watch a video report on the cellist Mi Zhou, scan the QR code or refer to the Responsibility Chronicle. www.credit-suisse.com/ chronicle Chinese cellist Mi Zhou, winner of the Prix Credit Suisse Jeunes Solistes 2011. In December 2011, Norwegian violinist Vilde Frang was named the winner of the Credit Suisse Young Artist Award 2012. Credit Suisse is convinced that microfinance can play a role in achieving the UN Millennium Development Goals such as the eradication of poverty and hunger. We have therefore been active in this area for almost 10 years. Microloans are a proven means of helping people at the base of the income pyramid to help themselves, e.g. by enabling them to build up a small business and to thus establish a basic livelihood. Picture: The owner of one such small business at Lake Malawi sells kapenta. These small sun-dried fish are one of the staple foods in Malawi, Southeast Africa. Focus Themes 2011 Blindtext Igentum, simus velectoris sin nonserem nis moluptae plant venis inihit plit et omnim et, to invende moluptae dolori con nos ipsapisti dolorunt ommodi qui as ese as et et int solest Themes Focus aborepu – Social dantia consenis as dolorio eiciis rest, num reseque laborae Commitments natis assum que rene simosam quatia aliqui ut eum veliquia eos aut parum dolescid quodis At quia Credit sant we aut believe Suisse, that dolor atur? Quia sit,social a sound ipit vollaciis utem repelit and economic aturemqui environment omnia to the long-term is essential success of ouralissequam verchic iduciis business. Together withsinvellecus. dest quiam, our employees − and working in close cooperation with selected At ulpariorganizations partner ullitia venduciet − we excerio berferio blautam have therefore usciene tumquiatint been committed reritis samsociety to helping strengthen quia by addressing que magnis social issuesetur solecae for many cusae years. quo beaquiam In addition fugitaspidem to providing a voloreh direct financial endaestius support, et we encourage our people to eiusam,inetvolunteering assitam alisactivities engage ad ma cor andasto que paris share eturemporum their skills and expertise perestrum quo quiawith inus We regard microour partners. aut accullacea finance a doluptiasquas and education particularly eroraecusdam sunderfeffective tools to promote porion harchicae economicnempore growth and social development repeditatur, and therefore si continued asi quod modit volent to focus ourvolo corrum quias beroinitiatives global on these areasaut ad endus exerciur, in 2011. We also support various aceatio nsequunt regional projects andque initiatives. nobis ea diTogether withvelenient beruptisque quoditassit our employees hilit, nus, and partner organizations, we strive to ommoluptio. improve the living standards of disadvantaged people worldwide. II Credit Suisse Focus Themes 2011 Education It All Begins with A, B, C The organization Room to Read is dedicated to supplying books to children in the most remote corners of the world and to creating spaces in which they can learn to read. In Zambia, where the organization also supports national education programs, progress has been achieved astonishingly quickly as a result of joint initiatives. “Our organization’s original mission was to build child-friendly Room for Development libraries in countries such as this,” explains Samantha Chuula, “In most developing countries, the school buildings aren’t Room to Read’s Country Director in Zambia. “But then we particularly child-friendly,” comments Samantha Chuula. realized that many children simply couldn’t read at all. Room to However, things are very different today at the Kacheta Basic Read therefore developed a variety of programs to address School: Once lessons are over, many of the children choose this problem. This was a huge challenge in Zambia because to stay for a while because the school now has a room with a many children live in remote areas that may be several days’ wide variety of books where they can sit and read. In fact, walk from the nearest town. School buses are scarce and there is so much interest in reading that the children even come only better-off families can afford a bicycle. Although primary to school on weekends, often accompanied by their parents. education is compulsory in Zambia, there is often a shortage Levy Chilekwa is in the ninth grade and helps out as a library of funding to build classrooms or provide teaching materials. assistant: “I come here every day and open up the library for In many cases, up to seven children have to share a single the children and their parents – on Saturdays, too.” schoolbook. This makes it impossible to assign homework, as only one child can take the book home with them. “Despite A School for All Ages all our efforts, we are unable to meet the needs of the If these programs are to be sustainable, it is essential for population in more rural areas. This is why the projects and them to have the backing of the children, their parents and, initiatives run by Room to Read are really important to us,” above all, the community. “Room to Read supports schools says Bradford Machila, a member of parliament representing for a period of three years, so we need to ensure that the the Kafue district. community will keep up the good work afterwards,” explains Samantha Chuula. Time after time, she is impressed by Literacy – a Key Pillar of Education the determination and support shown by the local community. The various programs supported by Room to Read include the One of the most remarkable stories she has experienced construction of libraries, which are then equipped with books, in her time in Zambia has had an impact on the organization and the provision of teacher training. In Zambia, Room to Read itself: One of the students always went home and told his also works closely with the government to achieve long-term grandmother what he’d learned at school that day. She started improvements in teaching practices. Mumba Nkoloma, educato study with him and enjoyed it so much that, without tion officer for the Kafue district, recalls: “In the past, children hesitation, she decided to join in the lessons herself. During learned entire words and sentences by heart. This meant that the breaks, she helped to keep an eye on the children and they never learned to spell properly and, as a result, could not gave the teachers a hand. During lessons, she sat in class like read or write well.” Together with the government, Room to Read any other student. Word soon spread and suddenly large developed a new curriculum and a new textbook for primary numbers of adults wanted to join in and learn too. “There are school children. The students in the first grade at the Kacheta now evening classes for parents,” says Samantha Chuula. Basic School in the Kafue district were among the first to try “The reading program has been a resounding success, and them. For Mary Situmbeko, who manages the new school library we are delighted that Credit Suisse is helping us to roll it out built by Room to Read, the progress was soon visible. She in more schools in Zambia.” explains: “The first-graders can now read better than older students in the school because they can also learn at home.” III Room to Read is convinced that change begins with education. To watch a video report on Room to Read in Zambia, scan the QR code or refer to the Responsibility Chronicle www.credit-suisse.com/ chronicle Mildred Malambo Himoomba, a teacher at the Kacheta Basic School (above). Febby Munkondya Mainza, whose son is making good progress with his reading at the Kacheta Basic School (left). Credit Suisse Is Committed to Education The Credit Suisse Global Education Initiative resources. Credit Suisse is committed to addition, we continued to support Catholic supports selected international non-profit long-term partnerships to enable sustainability Relief Services, Children in Crisis, Leonard organizations with the aim of improving access of outcomes. To pursue this goal more Cheshire Disability and Pestalozzi World to education and the quality of educational effectively, our partners engage with the local through 2011. opportunities for thousands of children and young community and educational authorities at people. The programs supported by the local, national and regional levels to raise awareYou can find out more about this topic in initiative focus on interventions that are proven ness of the issues in education. the Corporate Responsibility Report (pages to have a direct impact on quality and access, In 2011, we continued working with our long26–31) and at such as financial support for students, teacher term partners Camfed, CARE, Plan International, www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/ training, specialist facilities and learning Room to Read, Teach for All and Worldfund. In focusthemes Selected Figures for the School Year 2011–20121 43 71,865 12,736 367 countries in which students will benefit from teachers will schools will the Global Education improved access to be trained benefit from Initiative is active education and/or improved our support quality of education 1 Denotes actual figures for October–December 2011 as well as estimated figures for 2012. IV Credit Suisse Focus Themes 2011 Microfinance Microfinance: Building a Better Future Credit Suisse’s microfinance partner FINCA International has been active in Malawi since 1994. Today, around 22,000 people in this country in Southeast Africa use banking services and insurance products supplied by the microfinance institution. Regular training sessions help its employees to adapt in this constantly evolving field. Tiyamike is a small village in the south of Malawi, where houses Larger Loans for Established Businesses line a dusty road that runs in the direction of Mozambique. The range of products and services offered by FINCA in The small marketplace contains an old corn mill – the largest Malawi is not limited to microloans. One of its clients is Maggi building in the village. At a food stall at the entrance to Bhakali, who has been running the TK Maxx Clothing Shop Tiyamike, a large cooking pot stands ready on a scorching in a suburb of Blantyre together with her husband for several wood stove. Next to it, Patricia Bakari can be seen neatly years. To purchase clothing stock from South Africa, she chopping vegetables, while her husband helps out in the backhas taken out larger FINCA loans amounting to hundreds of ground. Villagers and travelers stop to enjoy the food freshly dollars and has always repaid them promptly. Their business prepared by Patricia. is thriving: Maggi and her husband are already considering the possibility of opening further stores, for which they would Gaining Trust require a loan of at least one million Malawi kwachas (around Patricia Bakari is a member of the FINCA Women’s Group in USD 6,000). They are optimistic about what the future holds: Tiyamike. Once a fortnight, its members gather for a meeting “We are not only trying to develop our business but to also help led by Chairwoman Catherine Comacoma, who runs a small the entire country to move forwards. We might eventually grocery store from her home. She has been chairing the group be able to build a house, buy a car and send our children to a of around two dozen women for over 10 years, or 40 loan better school.” cycles. All of the members run small businesses that they were able to establish thanks to a microloan of USD 50–100 from Continuous Employee Training Makes a Difference FINCA. Since each loan is guaranteed by the entire group, To ensure that FINCA’s clients in Malawi – who now number only those women within the village who have gained the trust over 22,000 – benefit from high-quality service and advice of Catherine Comacoma and the community are able to join. that is always improving, FINCA holds regular training sessions for mid-level managers. The training is conducted in the In-Depth Advice before Obtaining a Loan FINCA Development Academy, which was established in 2011 The meetings are also attended by the FINCA credit officer and is supported by Credit Suisse. The feedback from the Chisomo Mphande from Blantyre. She discusses the exact participants is very positive: “These types of courses make all terms that apply to new loan requests or outstanding payments the difference and have helped our organization to advance. with the women and advises them on problems and new Our managers now have a better understanding of how they challenges that have arisen in their different businesses. “She should lead their staff – and that means we can achieve calculates and explains exactly how much interest we will better results,” states loan analyst Alexon Mwakhula. He explains have to pay each week and what the repayment installments that better training leads to increased motivation. At the same are,” says Catherine Comacoma. During her time as Chairtime, regional manager Peter Gama believes that FINCA has woman, Catherine has seen many women who have been able enormous growth potential in Malawi – a country that is home to really improve their lives with the help of these loans and to over 14 million inhabitants. But not everyone can obtain a who routinely conduct banking transactions today. These are loan: responsible growth is important, according to Gama. women who, in the past, would not even have been allowed A high level of optimism is evident among much of the group. to enter a bank in many cases. When asked about their personal career prospects, branch manager Rose Chanza laughs and declares that anything is possible. Maybe that could include taking on a management position at FINCA International in another country? At the FINCA Women’s Group meeting in V Tiyamike, problems and challenges are being discussed (far left). Successful microenterprises can improve the living standards of entire families (left). To watch a video report on FINCA International in Malawi, scan the QR code or refer to the Responsibility Chronicle. www.creditsuisse.com/chronicle Microfinance Microfinance refers to microloans, savings, many initiatives run by the Center. In addition, integration of the Chinese microfinance sector insurance and other financial products and Credit Suisse’s support for microfinance within the banking system and developing, services targeted at low-income clients. It employee training centers in India and China implementing and promoting key solutions that enables individuals to make the most of their has been expanded to include Africa and Latin will become references in the sector for risk potential and is a catalyst for establishing America. management best practices. entrepreneurial activities and an effective www.accion.org www.planetfinance.org means of helping people in developing countries to help themselves. Ensuring the FINCA International Swisscontact growth of a strong and responsible microThe FINCA Development Academy (FDA) The East Africa microleasing project is focused finance industry and institutions is vital, which initiative will create an in-house training on replicating an innovative social enterprise is why we launched our Microfinance Capacity institution to systematically deliver high-quality which aims to provide full finance leasing for Building Initiative in 2008. Following the success training to hundreds of existing and prospecthe acquisition of business assets to those at of the first three-year cycle, a second cycle tive mid-level microfinance managers between the base of the income pyramid, especially the was launched in 2011 that will continue to 2011 and 2014. FINCA’s market intelligence rural small-scale farmers. The South Africa focus on developing the people and processes and social performance initiative will strengthen Financial Access and Youth Entrepreneurship involved in microfinance institutions, as well FINCA’s ability to better understand and program promotes entrepreneurship and as their product offering, so that these serve client needs. creates opportunities for income generation organizations can strike an effective balance www.finca.org among youth in townships. between their social and financial objectives www.swisscontact.ch and their clients’ needs. Credit Suisse now Opportunity International works with six partner organizations that have The Electronic Wallet programs in Africa and Women’s World Banking been selected for their expertise and positive Latin America are providing low-income clients The Making Financial Products & Services impact on the industry and their ability to with a new means of accessing financial inforWork for Women & Girls project contributes replicate their achievements in different mation and services. This innovative program to women-focused research, product innomarkets and regions. In addition, Credit Suisse uses a combination of channels such as ATM vation and the dissemination of lessons learned, also participates in several collaborative machines, smart cards, mobile banks, pointwhich will inform and activate the development industry-wide initiatives such as the Swiss of-sales devices and cellular banking. The Next and delivery of financial products and services Capacity Building Facility and the Microfinance Generation Banker program is a two-tiered that meet the needs of low-income women Communications Council. approach to enable Opportunity International and girls around the world. to develop highly skilled, values-driven employwww.swwb.org ACCION International ees across its operations in Africa, Asia and The founding partner of the Center for Latin America. You can find out more about this topic in the Financial Inclusion, a unique “solutions lab” www.opportunity.org Corporate Responsibility Report (pages that brings together microfinance organiza26–31) and at: tions, the private sector, policymakers and PlaNet Finance www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/ practitioners. The Smart Campaign, a global The Microfinance Robustness Program focusthemes consumer protection initiative, is one of the supports the long-term success and Selected Figures for 2011 8,600 481,478 1,900,000 local employees electronic transactions of the world’s poorest people trained made benefited as a result of improved microfinance services VI Credit Suisse Focus Themes 2011 Employee Engagement A Helping Hand to Create New Homes Credit Suisse employees invested their time and energy in building or renovating homes for low-income families around the world in 2011. Their volunteer efforts were organized in conjunction with our global partner Habitat for Humanity. Mixing concrete, laying bricks and painting walls – beads of Repairing Damaged Homes sweat run down the faces of the volunteer builders but all are In addition to the volunteers’ work in Armenia in June 2011, focused intensively on the task in hand and are in good spirits. Habitat organized further projects in Credit Suisse’s other Most of the helpers are Credit Suisse employees from Russia regions: In Asia Pacific, volunteers traveled to Batam in but they are also joined by colleagues from Switzerland, the Indonesia to assist the reconstruction efforts following the UK and Kazakhstan to construct homes for two families in devastating earthquake, and a team from Hong Kong restored Yerevan (Armenia). “In two days, the team did 15 times as the traditional wood homes of five families in Tai O on Lantau much work as we could have afforded to pay for,” says Island near Hong Kong. “With its houses built on stilts in Nahapet Davtyan, one of the two homeowners, as he points the water, Tai O is known as the Venice of the East,” states to the newly insulated loft of his house that can now be used Julia Chan, a Credit Suisse employee from Hong Kong. as living space. Together with his wife Gayaneh and their “It also has the last houses to have been built according to the children Khachik and Tatevik, aged 14 and 10, as well as traditional Chinese style of architecture. The problem is that his brother’s large family, they had previously lived in a single these buildings on stilts are unable to withstand the storms room in the house – the only one fit for habitation. and landslides that often affect the area. And since the families don’t have much money, they cannot usually repair Making Houses Habitable their damaged homes. This is why we are helping with the “In Armenia, there is a very large number of unfinished or old rebuilding process in Tai O.” houses that need to be renovated,” states Paul Butler, Country In South Africa, 26 employees joined forces with young Coordinator of Habitat UK. “In view of the difficult economic people from the local community in June 2011 and spent five climate, many people simply cannot afford to pay for professional days building a house in a township 45 kilometers outside builders or building materials.” His colleague Seda Arzumanyan Johannesburg for a family of three generations that previously explains: “During the Soviet era, a lot of house-building programs lived in a shack with a roof that provided limited shelter from were started. After the Soviet Union collapsed, the houses the rain. were never completed. Habitat for Humanity is now helping to make these structures – some of which are just shells – fit Building Team Spirit for habitation to help numerous families faced with hardship.” Romania is another country in which a team from Switzerland lent a helping hand: “In mid-September 2011, 17 volunteers worked on the interiors of four houses,” states Martin Koblet, Credit Suisse and Habitat for Humanity the Project Coordinator for Corporate Volunteering in Eastern Europe at Credit Suisse. Several of the volunteers visited one of the families in their home before starting work. Once again, Credit Suisse and Habitat for Humanity entered into an international partnership in 2009. Our employees have since been participating in several generations could be found living under the same roof projects around the world to construct homes for low-income families. in a tiny apartment. After seeing the hardship they faced, the As part of our cooperation, Credit Suisse also provides funding to meet volunteers were eager to improve conditions for the family as the costs of building materials. In 2011, 1,122 volunteers spent a total of quickly as possible. “I was especially impressed by the team 13,985 hours building new homes or renovating houses that are unfinished or in need of repair at 23 locations around the world. spirit that developed among everyone who was helping out,” recalled Lars Häfner, one of the volunteers from Switzerland. Further information on this topic is available in the Corporate Responsibility He added: “Everyone showed a lot of initiative and we quickly Report (page 26–31) and at: got to grips with the work that needed doing. By working www.credit-suisse/responsibility/focusthemes together to benefit others, we soon formed a highly efficient team.” VII Traditional homes on stilts in Tai O, Lantau. Credit Suisse employees lend a hand building and renovating homes for To watch a video report on families in Armenia (above) and Tai O, volunteering in Armenia, scan Lantau (right). the QR code or refer to the Responsibility Chronicle. www.credit-suisse.com/ chronicle Employee Engagement Many of our employees volunteer their time people and non-profit organizations. An period of up to three months. Assignments and expertise to help good causes – not only important milestone was the expansion of the focused on implementing best practices in adding value to our financial contributions but Global Citizens Program (GCP), which was areas such as cash and risk management, also helping our employees to develop their launched in 2010. The GCP provides opportucredit scoring and client research to support interpersonal skills and team spirit in the nities for qualified employees to go on assignour partners in achieving their social and process. We also offer each employee the ment in-country and use their professional skills financial goals. We intend to expand the Global opportunity to dedicate an entire working day to build the capacity of our partner organizaCitizens Program in 2012 to enable more of on full pay to charity work as part of our tions working in the areas of education and our employees to volunteer their skills and support for social initiatives. microfinance. expertise to help ensure that the projects run In addition to our two global volunteering proIn 2011, the number of participants increased by our partners deliver lasting benefits. grams, which we continued in 2011 in confrom 18 to 31. Last year, 26 Credit Suisse junction with our partners Junior Achievement volunteers were sent to 14 countries to complete You can find out more about this topic Worldwide and Habitat for Humanity Interassignments with our six education partners. in the Corporate Responsibility Report national, we work with selected organizations The volunteers performed a broad range of (pages 26–31) and at in all our regions to coordinate employee tasks from developing a marketing strategy and www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/ volunteering. materials to strengthening HR or financial focusthemes In 2011, we continued to concentrate on management systems. Five of our employees volunteering programs that promote the were deployed with four of our microfinance transfer of skills and knowledge between our partner organizations in four countries for a Selected Figures for 2011 17,415 189,000 50 employees participated in hours were countries in which projects around the world spent helping Credit Suisse employees supported by Credit Suisse others engaged in volunteering 36 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility as an Employer Responsibility as an Employer Alice Ng, an employee in the Central Compliance Group, and Michael Lung, a trainee at the Compliance Academy, during a workshop in Singapore. To read the article on the Compliance Academy, scan the QR code or refer to the Responsibility Chronicle. www.credit-suisse.com/ chronicle 37 Responsibility as an Employer Our investment in our people is important to secure the long-term competitiveness of our bank. We are committed to attracting and retaining talented professionals with the expertise, creativity and dedication needed to offer our clients high-quality products and services and to manage our global operations for the benefit of our shareholders. To position Credit Suisse as an employer of choice, we provide progressive working conditions, wide-ranging devel­ opment opportunities and excellent career prospects. The performance and long-term success of our company ensure that they are delivering results and contributing to the are ultimately determined by the skills and expertise of our realization of our business objectives. In 2011, we introduced people. Credit Suisse is committed to being an employer an enhanced performance management system that enables of choice in order to attract and retain highly-qualified, us to systematically assess how well our people are performdedicated professionals who can deliver the best possible ing. Supporting the professional and personal development of service and advice to our clients. all employees at every level of the company is an important Recognizing the importance of job satisfaction in element of our human capital strategy. Based on an open driving employee motivation and performance, we provide dialogue between employees and line managers, we strive a stimulating working environment, attractive employment to identify each individual’s talents, to understand what conditions and wide-ranging training and development motivates them, and to provide the challenges and support opportunities. To gain an understanding of the views of our they require to realize their full potential. Performance people on a range of work-related topics, Credit Suisse measurement is also an important element in determining conducts regular employee engagement surveys in conjuncour compensation. We consider it important to offer fair tion with an independent consulting firm. Based on our compensation that recognizes the individual performance findings, we strive to make improvements in the areas highand commitment of our employees (see page 10). lighted by employees. Our bank-wide engagement survey, which we launched in a new format in 2011, had a 73% Career Opportunities, Learning and Development engagement score based on an overall response rate of Employee learning and development is of strategic 78%. This indicates that the level of satisfaction among our importance in allowing Credit Suisse to constantly improve employees is higher than the industry average of 66%. the quality of service and advice we offer to clients and to remain at the forefront of developments in today’s rapidly Measuring and Managing Performance changing industry. To address these different needs, As a global bank with a workforce of almost 50,000 employCredit Suisse offers a broad range of training programs in ees in around 50 countries, it is imperative that we manage the form of traditional classroom instruction, e-learning and the performance of our people effectively and consistently to Continued on page 38 Cost Reduction Measures Impact on Employees Credit Suisse was confronted with a challenging a very difficult decision that affected employees we are assisting affected employees in their search operating environment in 2011, reflecting economic at all levels of our company. We are committed to for a new position within Credit Suisse or outside the uncertainties and the European and US sovereign ensuring that this process is implemented as company. As part of their professional reorientation, debt crises, as well as factors such as the strong carefully and responsibly as possible. This includes these individuals receive personal counseling from Swiss franc and rising costs due to regulatory working closely with employee representatives a team of specially trained advisors and support in changes. To adapt our business to these adverse and internal and external partners. Wherever possible, the areas of retraining, professional education and conditions, we announced significant expense we will absorb the impact of the reduction in continued development. Our social partners agree reduction measures, including a decrease in the size employee numbers through internal transfers and that our plan of action goes well beyond our legal of our global workforce of around 7%. This was natural turnover. In Switzerland and in the UK, obligations. 38 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility as an Employer video-based courses to strengthen the specialist knowlprogram, at the end of which they will receive a certification edge and skills of our people. For example, in 2011 our from the International Compliance Association. Private Banking division integrated the latest regulatory Gaining international or cross-divisional experience is insights and developments into its ongoing Advisory Process also an important aspect of the professional and personal training program. Investment suitability was a core theme development of our people. Our Internal Mobility program of the training courses we held in Private Banking in gives employees the chance to explore new challenges within Switzerland, with all employees receiving special training the company − whether it is in a different function, business to ensure that the investment advice, products and area or geography. Individuals who take the opportunity to services we offer are suitable and appropriate for each client move within the company benefit by acquiring new skills (see page 7). We also launched our own Compliance and by gaining a better understanding of different businesses Academy (see Responsibility Chronicle) to attract and and cultures, as well as by broadening their network of develop more talent for compliance functions. In contacts (see box on page 39). 2011, 20 employees in Singapore embarked on a two-year Investing in Junior Talent Our strategy of investing in the skills and education of young people not only helps us to lay the foundations for our Number of Employees long-term success but also generates benefits for society Full-time equivalents as of December 31, 2011 as a whole. We offer a wide variety of career options with a particular focus on attracting individuals with development potential to our company. We expect line managers at Credit Suisse Credit Suisse to view the development of young talent as an integral part of their role and we take account of their ability to cultivate the skills and abilities of their people when evaluating their leadership performance. In Switzerland, many of our junior employees join Credit 49,700 Suisse through our apprenticeship program. Since 2009, we have increased our number of apprenticeships by 25% to develop talent for the financial sector. In 2011, 83% by division of our apprentices continued their career at the bank after completing their training. We also offered training positions of between 12 and 18 months for 260 university graduates and increased the number of internships for students from 25,200 20,900 2,700 900 180 to 250. A further 120 high school graduates were given Private Banking Investment Banking Asset Management Corporate Center the opportunity to work at Credit Suisse as part of our Junior Banking Program. The success of our efforts to position the bank as an attractive employer for people by region starting a career is illustrated by the fact that we were named the second most popular employer overall and the most attractive employer among banks by economics graduates in Switzerland in 2011 (Universum Award). 11,700 7,600 9,200 21,200 Additionally, we host a variety of events at leading Americas Asia Pacific Europe, Middle East Switzerland universities worldwide to establish and maintain contact and Africa with students who are close to completing their degree and are interested in a career in the finance industry. In 2011, we held a range of distinctive campus events and launched a new marketing campaign to heighten awareness of Credit Talent Development 2011 Suisse among graduates. We also intensified our recruiting efforts in strategically important emerging markets. We consider it important to ensure that all new 679 96,000 90,200 673,000 employees feel welcome within our company and can classroom participants in classroom-delivered participants in integrate easily into their new teams. We have therefore leadership instructor-led training days e-learning courses training courses including mandatory developed a global onboarding program to help them rapidly sessions modules familiarize themselves with our approach to business, 39 immerse themselves in our culture and understand our Examples of Internal Mobility values and our responsibilities as a company. “I began my career as an analyst in Investment Banking in London Leadership and Management in 1998. My first internal mobility opportunity arose in 2000, We recognize the need to have experienced professionals when I moved to Palo Alto, California, to join Credit Suisse’s with proven management qualities to drive our business Technology M&A team. I’ve since completed international assignments in London, New York and now Hong Kong, where I forward and to help strengthen our competitive position. cover energy clients in Asia Pacific. All of these internal moves Each year, Credit Suisse runs targeted training courses have had a profound impact on the development of my career and to strengthen our managers’ leadership skills at each stage have enabled me to build a strong internal network that helps of their career. In 2011, we further refined our management me to serve our clients, who are truly global.” development curriculum and now provide tailored training Christian Deiss, Investment Banking, Hong Kong approaches that take account of specific requirements in our individual regions or countries. As part of our inclusive “I think internal mobility has given me a valuable chance to and consistent approach to succession management and our develop and to gain a better understanding of how things work at Credit Suisse. I’ve performed five different roles across two commitment to ensuring that key positions are filled with different continents since joining the company in 1998. I now lead the right people, Credit Suisse conducts regular talent a Risk Management team in Singapore. I’ve always been open reviews. In 2011, around 63% of our entire workforce was to new opportunities that can help me to grow professionally. By included in this review process. leveraging knowledge and relationships from previous roles, I can do my current job even more effectively. I keep in touch with former Reflecting the importance that we assign to the managers and colleagues and find that I can benefit from their cultivation of a partnership culture within our integrated bank advice and support in my new function.” and the role that managers can play in promoting the Carole Ng, Risk Management, Singapore active transfer of knowledge between employees in different businesses and geographies, we established a Global Leadership Council in 2011 to bring together 200 of the Underscoring our commitment to taking employee needs bank’s most senior leaders and encourage them to properly into account, Credit Suisse has, for many years, collabo­rate beyond their own business divisions and across cooperated closely with organizations that represent their countries to deliver on our commitment to clients. interests. They include the Credit Suisse Staff Council in Switzerland and the European Works Council. Employee Satisfaction www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/employer We know that when employees are motivated and satisfied with their work, this has a decisive impact on their performance. We therefore offer attractive employment conditions Challenges and Responses 2011 and recognize exceptional performance and committed service to the company − including through the presentation of our annual CEO Leadership Awards. Employees can also Challenge: Cost pressures due to subdued markets, lower access a variety of other benefits ranging from pension revenues and factors such as regulatory changes, increasing infrastructure requirements and controls forced us to provision and maternity and paternity leave to childcare announce significant measures to enhance efficiency and programs, employee assistance and study grants. reduce costs in the second half of 2011, including a 7% In our role as an employer, we want to actively promote reduction in the size of the global workforce. the health and wellbeing of our people. We therefore run Response: We are committed to implementing the headcount reduction as responsibly as possible and have worked a variety of courses that provide advice on health issues, with employee representatives and social partners. In Switzernutrition and stress management, as well as offering sports land, employees are receiving support in their professional and exercise programs. In Switzerland, we launched a new reorientation, such as professional advice and counseling health initiative in 2011 to provide free medical check-ups from a specially trained team. Our social partners agree that the action plan goes well beyond our statutory obligations for employees in a mobile prevention and diagnostic center. and is in line with our social responsibilities. In addition, 2,231 employees accepted our offer of in-house flu vaccinations during the year. Challenge: Better leverage our talent around the world and We also seek to help employees achieve a healthy work/ optimize the deployment of the bank’s resources to support our global business while driving cost efficiencies. life balance and to combine their family and professional Response: We continued to grow our teams of talented commitments. Measures include the provision of flexible or employees in our five Centers of Excellence (CoE) worldpart-time working arrangements (see page 41). In addition, wide, which now account for almost 20% of our global long-serving Credit Suisse employees are offered the workforce. The CoEs help to maximize the full potential of the bank across all relevant time zones, supporting opportunity to take a sabbatical of up to three months. revenue growth and sustaining efficiency. 40 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility as an Employer Global Diversity and Inclusion To deliver the best possible service to our clients and to work together effectively across our regions, we require people with different mindsets and wide-ranging experience. Diversity provides us with richer insights and a better understanding of evolving client needs. We believe it also opens up a broader range of business opportunities and breeds creativity and innovation − contributing to the success of our company. The diverse backgrounds of our employees therefore represent a key competitive advantage for Credit Suisse in today’s global business environment. As an integrated global bank, we serve clients across lished throughout our workforce, we run mandatory many different geographies and cultures. To understand online training courses for all employees worldwide to their diverse needs and aspirations and to provide them educate them about equal opportunities and dignity in with individual financial solutions and advice, our em­ployees the workplace. require detailed knowledge of regional markets and different cultural aspects. These insights not only help us Support Programs and Mentoring to strengthen existing client relationships but also to Promoting equal opportunities remains a key issue at Credit connect more effectively with prospective clients. In view Suisse. Women account for 37% of our total workforce of the international nature of our business, it is also imand 16% of our senior leadership (Directors and Managing portant for our employees to be able to work together closely Directors). We want to further increase the proportion of across divisions, regions and cultures to manage our bank women in specialist and senior management positions within in the most effective way possible. We value the diverse the bank and we run programs to attract talented female back­grounds of our people and believe that the varied professionals to our company. For example, our Banking experiences and perspectives they bring represent a success on Women initiative in Investment Banking aims to more factor for our bank. We therefore strive to attract and than double the number of women in officer positions within retain diverse talent and to offer career opportunities in an five years. At a regional level, we have implemented a inclusive, multicultural environment. leadership program for female Vice Presidents and Directors in Asia Pacific, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) An Integral Part of Our Corporate Strategy and the Americas to support their personal development. We are committed to providing equal opportunities for all In Switzerland, we introduced a personal development our employees, irrespective of factors such as ethnicity, program for women at all levels of the company, which was nationality, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, attended by 130 participants in 2011. age, marital or family status, disability or any other status Our efforts to support the advancement of women protected by local law. The promotion of diversity and inclusion are also reflected by our mentoring activities, which are is therefore an integral part of our corporate strategy. Our another element of our diversity and inclusion strategy. global Diversity & Inclusion team partners with our business In 2011, Credit Suisse launched a new mentoring program leaders to ensure that we have the necessary competenfor 30 of the bank’s most talented female senior managers cies, structures and resources in place to build a diverse and to prepare them to assume senior leadership roles. The inclusive environment that underpins our client focus and program includes a specially tailored 18-month learning business strategy. We have established a Diversity Council and development curriculum to accelerate their career for each of our four regions in order to embed diversity progression within Credit Suisse. We also ran a crossfurther in the business. Each Council is chaired by the divisional mentoring program for 100 female members of regional CEO and consists of other senior business leaders our middle management in Switzerland to promote internal in that region, who work together to define specific activities mobility and encourage collaboration across businesses. for their area and act as role models in promoting inclusive A range of mentoring programs is available for other behavior. To ensure that an inclusive culture is firmly es­tab­ groups of employees across our different regions and 41 divisions. As well as making them more aware of their Recognition for Our Efforts to Promote strengths and of how they can be put to optimal use, an Inclusive Working Environment these initiatives are designed to help employees to reach their potential.  One of the 100 best companies for working women with children (Working Mother Magazine) Encouraging the Exchange of Ideas  One of the top-50 employers for women in the UK (The Times) Our employee networks provide a platform for the exchange  One of the 50 best companies for Latinas to work (Latina Style Magazine) of knowledge and experience between employees in  Recognition for promotion of gender equality different businesses and geographies, thus fostering mutual (Australian government) understanding and encouraging the flow of ideas. In this  One of the top-100 employers for LGBT staff way, the networks strengthen cooperation and help to build (Stonewall Workplace Equality Index)  Corporate Equality Award 2011 for promoting LGBT issues a diverse and inclusive culture. In 2011, Credit Suisse had (Human Rights Campaign) a total of 38 employee networks that are dedicated to women, families, lesbians, gay, bisexual and transgender individuals (LGBT), people with disabilities, sports, US veterans and employees from various ethnic backgrounds, to name but a Credit Suisse. The concept is based on the provision of few. These networks organized around 250 events during different work areas to meet the changing needs of the year that were attended by employees from across the employees throughout the day, including collaborative, bank. Additionally, Credit Suisse has a Center of Compeindividual and creative workspaces. Based on the success tence for Cross-Cultural Collaboration that offers a range of of this pilot project in Zurich, Smart Working was rolled courses to promote cultural sensitivity and raise awareness out in other locations worldwide in 2011. of specific issues that can arise when working with people Globally, Credit Suisse offers a variety of employment from different cultures. This is particularly important for options such as part-time working, job sharing, compressed employees wishing to pursue internal mobility opportunities. working weeks and remote working. These models provide greater flexibility in terms of when and where employees can Sharing Best Practices, Learning from Others work − helping them combine their personal and profesCredit Suisse enters into partnerships with a variety of sional commitments more effectively. We also have designated organizations to help promote a dialogue about diversity and services to support individuals with personal, health or inclusion. In 2011, we lent our support to organizations financial problems and we provide special facilities to ac­comincluding the civil rights group The National Urban League, mo­date the needs of specific groups of staff, such as as well as Catalyst, which aims to build inclusive environnursing rooms for mothers returning to work or prayer rooms ments and expand opportunities for women. In Switzerland, for employees wishing to practice their faith. we were involved in the launch of the Gender Equality www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/employer Project at the World Economic Forum, and we were the key sponsor of the Women Leaders of New Asia conference in Singapore hosted by the Asia Society. These partnerships also enable us to benchmark our performance against others so that we can learn and improve our approach. Examples include our membership of the Diversity and Inclusion in Asia Network and our involvement in the Interbank Diversity Forum, of which we are a founding member. We are also active in the EMEA Challenges and Responses 2011 Diversity and Inclusion Forum that promotes best practice across various industries in Europe. Challenge: Ensure that our commitment to diversity is firmly Smart and Flexible Working implemented at every level of the organization and that we continue to work according to this principle at all times. We are committed to offering our employees different Response: We have a Diversity Council in each of our regions working environments and arrangements to take account in order to implement our culture of diversity deep in our of their diverse working styles, patterns and preferences – business. The members of the Councils define specific activthus increasing employee motivation, wellbeing and ities for their region and act as role models in promoting inclusion. Additionally, we conduct mandatory bank-wide productivity. In 2010, we introduced a pilot project called online training on the topic of equal opportunities and Smart Working, which provides specially designed office dignity in the workplace. space to enable more flexible and mobile working within 42 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility for the Environment Responsibility for the Environment Andrew Aulisi, a specialist in the Public Policy – Sustainability Affairs unit, talks about the function and conservation of forests and about Credit Suisse’s interest in this topic. To read the interview with Andrew Aulisi, scan the QR code or refer to the Responsibility Chronicle. www.credit-suisse.com/ chronicle 43 Environment, Climate and Operational Ecology At Credit Suisse, we are committed to taking environmental issues into account when performing our core business activities. We implement operational measures to improve our environmental performance, develop products and services that combine economic, environmental and social requirements, and consider sustainability criteria when managing risks. As part of our approach to supporting environmental protection, we also participate in international discussions to promote climate-friendly business practices. Tropical deforestation, species loss and ocean degradation wide risk review process. This review is aligned with are among many of today’s pressing environmental issues, international industry standards such as the Equator with climate change continuing to feature as a leading Principles and Carbon Principles. In addition, we have concern. Following weeks of difficult negotiations at the 2011 drawn up internal sector-specific policies and guidelines UN Climate Change Conference in Durban, the state for the areas of forestry, palm oil production, mining, oil parties agreed on a compromise in the form of a follow-on and gas, nuclear energy and hydropower to ensure that treaty to the Kyoto Protocol, under which a new binding the potential impacts of transactions on the environment, climate agreement for all countries is to be developed by climate and biodiversity are examined (see page 13). 2015. Climate change is a challenge for global society as a whole. At Credit Suisse, we believe it is both in our Biodiversity and Natural Capital own interests as a company and in the interests of our The term “biodiversity” denotes the variety of life and its clients to take steps to prevent these developments from processes. It includes the diversity of living organisms, the causing further environmental, social and economic harm. differences between them, and the ecosystems and communities in which they exist. Both ecosystems and the Products and Risk Management biodiversity contained within them provide valuable services Thanks to our position as market leader in the financing to humankind and business: they supply wild food and of renewable energies and our range of sustainable medicine derived from plants, they filter pollution and store products and services (see page 17), we can offer clients CO2 and they regenerate soils and recycle nutrients. The the opportunity to invest in these areas and can thus methods used to determine the value of this natural capital, open up sources of finance for the development of future as well as the economic costs of species loss and a reducmarkets. We are also committed to taking climate issues tion in the capacity of ecosystem services, are still in their into account when performing our core activities as a infancy. As a financial services provider, we believe that financial intermediary. For example, we assess transactions such financial valuation methods are vital to adequately and other business activities to identify any risks they assess the risks and returns of the economic activities could pose to people or the environment using our bankand investments that are dependent on those services. Continued on page 44 Research and Thought Leadership  In 2011, economiesuisse commissioned the in particular, by the number of patents that have Zurich Uni­versity of Applied Sciences to assess KOF Swiss Economic Institute to conduct a study been registered in the last few years, which is also the quality of sustainable buildings. The second with support from Credit Suisse that shows that a sign of the potential of the cleantech market. study by the international research project INSPIRE cleantech − i.e. the development and application of  Also in Switzerland, the bank was involved in two — part of the EU Eracobuild program — examined energy-saving and resource-saving products and scientific studies on the topic of sustainable the best combination of measures to achieve signif­technologies − is of importance for many industries. buildings. The first study was conducted by the Swiss icant energy savings or greenhouse gas reductions The momentum of the cleantech sector is mirrored, Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) and the when renovating buildings. 44 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility for the Environment At Credit Suisse, we are taking steps to incorporate the Credit Suisse Cares for Climate protection of biodiversity into our sustainability activities. We have been active in the area of climate protection for Together with other banks, we actively participate in the over a decade. The Credit Suisse Cares for Climate (CSCfC) Biodiversity Working Group of the United Nations Environinitiative and our four-pillar strategy to reduce the greenment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and house gas emissions resulting from our business operations contribute to related studies and initiatives. To raise employee (see page 46) provide the framework for our efforts to awareness of the biodiversity of forests, we conducted achieve greenhouse gas neutrality. We reached an important various activities to support the UN International Year of milestone in 2006, when Credit Suisse became the first Forests in 2011. We organized a seminar with an expert major company in Switzerland to achieve greenhouse gas from a leading conservation organization, took employees neutrality. We realized this goal for all our operations on guided forest tours and issued a publication about worldwide in 2010 and 2011. We further reduced our gross the diverse functions of forests and how Credit Suisse greenhouse gas emissions, which declined by 1% globally contributes to their preservation. Furthermore, we lent our in 2011 to 382,440 metric tons. support to local initiatives such as high conservation value Our four-pillar strategy focuses on: optimizing operahabitat mapping in East Kalimantan, Indonesia, with WWF. tions, capital expenditure, substitution and compensation. Data generated from surveys of high carbon forest stock This means that we continuously optimize energy consumpsupported by Credit Suisse were a factor in the area being tion in all our locations and we invest in energy-saving selected to receive a share of a USD 28.5 million grant technology and an energy-efficient IT infrastructure as well for conservation efforts under the debt-for-nature swap as using highly insulating materials in new or renovated agreement run by the Indonesian and US governments. buildings. We also source renewable electricity from climateAs part of our commitment to the preservation of biodiversity friendly energy sources such as wind, hydro and solar power and in response to an appeal led by WWF Hong Kong and wherever available and financially viable. Our remaining the Hong Kong Shark Foundation, Credit Suisse in Asia emissions are offset through the purchase of emissions Pacific requested that all employees refrain from consuming reduction certificates. shark fin. An estimated 73 million sharks are killed through finning each year. Scientific evidence shows that over Environmental Management 180 shark and related species are now listed as being At Credit Suisse, we strive to continuously improve our threatened with extinction on the Inter­national Union for environmental performance in order to make more efficient Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List. use of resources and to reduce our level of greenhouse Raising Employee Awareness of Climate Protection At Credit Suisse, we know that we can only improve  WWF Earth Hour 2011: Millions of people in to motivate employees to reduce their CO 2 emissions our environmental performance if we also encourage more than 3,000 cities across 134 countries turned to 1 metric ton of CO 2 per person per year. our employees to make careful use of natural off their lights for one hour to make a statement resources and ensure that our commitment to climate about the need to protect our climate and to use  Volunteer work: Employees in Asia Pacific, toprotection is an integral part of our corporate culture. sustainable forms of energy. As part of the Credit gether with their families, dedicated more than We therefore conduct various activities to raise Suisse Cares for Climate initiative, we once again 1,000 hours to outdoor environmental causes in Hong awareness of environmental and climate issues. In joined this symbolic WWF campaign at 44 of our Kong, such as cleaning beaches and planting trees. 2011 they included: offices worldwide and encouraged employees to set an example. The highlight was the Singapore “Walk  e-bike pilot project: To gain insights and  Earthwatch scientific field research expedition in the Dark” event, which attracted a few thousand experience regarding the suitability of e-bikes for on climate change: A group of Credit Suisse participants, including around 250 Credit Suisse emeveryday use, the pilot project we launched in 2010 employees took part in a one-week expedition ployees and their friends and families. was extended to include six locations, 30 e-bikes organized by Earthwatch in the Brazilian coastal and 150 participants. The project attracted a great forest Mata Atlântica. Earthwatch is the largest citizen  CO 2 Monitor: This online platform was made deal of interest and resulted in a high utilization rate. science organization in the world and offers volunteers available by Credit Suisse to enable employees to a chance to perform field research work. Since their calculate their personal CO2 emissions quickly and  bike to work: Since 2008, we have encouraged return, participating employees have helped to raise easily. In the US, each person produces an average our employees in Switzerland to cycle to work in the awareness of environmental and social issues among of 24 metric tons of CO 2 each year, compared to month of June to support this national campaign. In their Credit Suisse colleagues. 11 metric tons in Switzerland, 12 metric tons in Europe 2011, around 300 employees took part and covered and 6 metric tons in Asia. CO 2 Monitor was used a distance of more than 30,000 kilometers. 45 gas emissions. Our environmental management activities Credit Suisse’s Greenhouse Gas Emissions focus primarily on energy management, since energy consumption is the area in which our operations have by far Energy use of buildings Business travel Paper, waste, water the greatest impact on the environment. Our environmental management system governs the relevant responsibilities, 2011 processes and operational measures within our company. In 1997, Credit Suisse became the world’s first bank to obtain 3% ISO 14001 certification for its environmental management 19% Paper, waste, water system, which we have been developing ever since. For Business travel example, we revised our Sustainability Management Policy in 2011 and defined sustainability-related responsibilities in more specific terms, now explicitly covering Information 78% Technology (IT) and Supply Management (see page 49). In Energy use of buildings areas such as Facility Management, where environmentally relevant activities are performed by external service providers, we also include these operations in our environmental management system. In 2011, we once again passed the annual surveillance Regional breakdown of CO 2 equivalents 1 in metric tons audit conducted by the external certification company SGS 175,000 without any need for corrective action. 150,000 Improving Our Environmental Footprint As well as adapting the heating, air-conditioning and ventilation 125,000 systems within our buildings to lower our energy consump100,000 tion, we took steps in other areas to reduce our impact on the environment and our level of greenhouse gas emissions: 75,000  Business travel: In order to conduct our business 50,000 activities and to maintain direct contact with our clients, business travel is often essential. It continues to represent 25,000 a major part of our greenhouse gas emissions, accounting for approximately 19% of our total output. In an effort 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 to reduce the number of business flights taken by our Switzerland EMEA Americas Asia Pacific employees as far as possible, we promote train travel for shorter distances. For example, employees traveling between Paris, Brussels and London are encouraged to Regional breakdown of electricity 1 in MWh take the train rather than to travel by air, thus reducing our 210,000 carbon footprint. We also encourage the use of telephone and video conferencing, which save both time and money, 180,000 and we are continuously extending the relevant technical infrastructure. In 2011, Credit Suisse employees further 150,000 increased their use of video conferencing by around 15% 120,000 to a total of 115,500 hours compared to 2010. As part of our strategy to achieve global greenhouse 90,000 gas neutrality, all the emissions from our international air 60,000 travel have been offset since 2010. To raise employee awareness of this issue, the level of CO2 emissions incurred 30,000 as a result of each flight is specified on every airline ticket. By purchasing “carbon-neutral tickets”, we offset approxi0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 mately 63,340 metric tons or 16% of our global greenSwitzerland EMEA Americas Asia Pacific house gas emissions in 2011.  IT servers: In 2011, we further optimized our IT infra1 Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) for 2009 and 2010 were updated and recalculated following the updating of the VfU key performance indicators for 2010. During the collection of data in 2011, minor structure and, through virtualization, switched off the errors that occurred in prior years were corrected. In addition, the GHG factors for electricity in the UK were adapted based on the DEFRA Guidelines and the impacts on the purchase of electricity from Continued on page 48 renewable sources in the UK were no longer taken into account. 46 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility for the Environment Four-Pillar Strategy to Achieve Greenhouse Gas Neutrality 1. Optimizing operations Efficiency gains and reduction of energy consumption through optimization of installations Reduction of own energy and material consumption 2. Capital expenditure Reduction of energy consumption through energy-saving Reduction of own greenhouse investments gas emissions 3. Substitution Reduction of greenhouse Use of climate-friendly energy gas emissions each time Greenhouse gas neutrality sources energy is consumed 4. Compensation Compensation of remaining Purchase of reduction greenhouse gas emissions certificates to offset greenhouse gas emissions Portfolio of purchased emissions reduction certificates (ERC) 2011 2% Hydropower 15% Landfill gas 43% 40% Biomass/biogas Wind Credit Suisse Cares for Climate Initiative: Achievements 2009–2011 Switzerland EMEA Americas Asia Pacific Baseline 2009, all figures in % 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 Achievement: GHG emissions GHG emissions (change) –1 –6 – 18 – 14 –2 –4 +7 +4 Achievement: main GHG drivers Renewable electricity ratio to total electricity consumption 100 100 5 3 9 9 3 1 Energy % change, kWh per employee (FTE) –1 –6 –1 0 –6 –8 –6 – 14 Business air travel % change, flight km per employee (FTE) – 15 0 + 28 + 25 +3 +8 + 15 +4 The CSCfC achievements in the period 2010–2011 in the majority of the regions. However, business EMEA GHG emissions achievements would have demonstrate that the globally established four-pillar air travel, which is often essential to maintain direct been –31% in 2010 and –41% in 2011. The explicitly strategy within the Credit Suisse Cares for Climate contact with our clients, remains a challenge in documented renewable electricity ratio would have initiative — which focuses on operations optimization terms of our efforts to reduce our GHG emissions. been 5% for 2010 and 48% for 2011. and investment in energy-efficient equipment and EMEA: For the UK, the DEFRA grid rolling average All regions: The above figures include the GHG systems — has a positive impact on our environmenfactor 2009 was used to calculate GHG emissions footprint of wholly-owned Credit Suisse subsidiaries. tal performance. The greenhouse gas (GHG) for 2010 and 2011. Taking account of the actual emissions as well as energy use per FTE decreased purchased green electricity mixes for the UK, the 47 Measures to Reduce Our Carbon Footprint in 2011 1. Optimizing Operations below) was completed at the beginning of 2012. 3. Substitution Energy consumption represents by far the largest The Uetlihof 2, providing over 2,000 workspaces, is We encourage the use of climate-friendly energy direct impact that Credit Suisse has on the environcurrently the largest building in Switzerland consources such as wind, hydro and solar power, and ment. The continuous optimization of our operations structed according to the Minergie-P-ECO specificawe specifically replace fossil fuels with renewable to increase energy efficiency is therefore a key element tions governing environmental and health aspects. energy. of our environmental strategy. For example, the specification stipulates that buildings must have a compact design with a highly insulated Increasing the proportion of renewable energy: Increasing the energy efficiency of buildings: facade, an efficient ventilation system and a very high We examine whether it is possible to obtain green We implemented a series of targeted optimization proportion of natural daylight at workspaces. It also electricity whenever we negotiate new electricity measures in our real estate portfolio and our IT makes strict demands regarding the use of non-hazardsupply contracts. All Credit Suisse locations in infrastructure that enabled us to save energy worldous building materials to ensure a healthy working Switzerland, as well as our office in Frankfurt, obtain wide and to realize further substantial improvements environment. Credit Suisse employees will be able to their electricity exclusively from renewable sources. in energy efficiency, which contributed to our CSCfC gradually move into their offices in Uetlihof 2 from In many locations, electricity from renewable results in the period from 2009 to 2011 (see the first quarter of 2012. The newly created sources also accounts for part of the energy mix page 46). workspaces will replace older and less energyprovided by the local utility. In 2011, a total of 199 efficient premises in the city of Zurich. million kilowatt-hours of electricity consumed by E-Maximo goes global: E-Maximo enables us to Credit Suisse was generated from renewable enumerate efficiency targets for individual buildings sources. This corresponds to 33% of our global and to analyze the impact of operational enhanceelectricity consumption. In 2011, most of the ments and energy-related investments. Following its renewable energy we consumed originated from successful rollout in 400 business premises across hydropower, solar power and biomass. Switzerland, this specially designed energy and resource management software program underwent 4. Compensation further development to allow it to be deployed We can reduce the level of greenhouse gas emissions globally. In 2011, it was beta-tested in the Americas. resulting from our business activities through the The program records and stores information on all Construction of new premises according to optimization of operations, capital expenditure and relevant energy and resource consumption. This Minergie-ECO requirements in Gümligen near substitution measures. However, it is not possible greatly simplifies and accelerates the quality control Berne: At the end of 2011, the construction of to eliminate them entirely. We therefore offset our process. As a result of the improved representation an office complex in Gümligen, near Berne, was remaining emissions by purchasing emissions of information (e.g. building footprints) using the completed according to Minergie-ECO specificareduction certificates (ERC) to offset the remaining automatic reporting function, E-Maximo optimizes tions. The new building, which provides 900 348,500 metric tons of net greenhouse gas emisboth the analysis and communication of data. In workspaces, has been leased by Credit Suisse. sions in 2011. This figure represents the emissions 2012, the software will be implemented in all our from our business activities in our four regions, regions and we will run training sessions for users. Reinvestment of CO 2 tax refund in operational including global business travel. climate protection measures: In 2011, we once Total costs in 2011 CHF 2 million 2. Capital Expenditure again reinvested the entire tax refund we received When constructing new premises or renovating from the Swiss CO 2 incentive tax system in projects Costs per employee (FTE) in 2011 CHF 40 existing buildings, we focus on installing energythat support the goals of CSCfC. Examples include Costs per hour flown CHF 0.50/hour saving heating, air-conditioning and ventilation investments in the transition to renewable energies systems and on complying with strict energy standards when upgrading heating systems, the installation In 2011, our portfolio of emissions reduction certifi­such as the Swiss Minergie standard, or with interof efficient lighting systems and the use of optimized cates comprised approximately 83% wind and national standards such as LEED. We also invest in cooling systems in data centers. Many of these biomass/biogas projects, with the remaining 17% energy-saving technology and IT infrastructures investments generate business for specialized Swiss consisting of the recycling of landfill gas as well and make use of highly insulating materials. companies, thus directly benefiting the local as hydropower projects (see chart on page 46). In economy and some of our clients. We also contributed terms of project quality, approximately 17% of the Uetlihof 2 – completion of the largest building to national research projects with the aim of lowering certificates meet the Gold Standard, 19% the Social in Switzerland constructed according to the CO 2 emissions in the construction sector. Carbon Standard and the remainder relate to Minergie-P-ECO standard: The extension of our climate protection projects verified by independent Uetlihof 2 administrative center in Zurich (see image third parties. 48 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility for the Environment equivalent of 5,600 servers. The virtualization rate increased proportion of the paper we use in Switzerland (71%) from 34% in 2010 to 42% in 2011. This led to a reduction comprises FSC-certified paper produced from sustainably in energy usage of 12 gigawatt-hours globally. managed forests.  Paper: We continued our efforts to further improve our environmental footprint in the area of paper consumption. Involvement of External Partners In 2011, this included measures such as the use of environWe are committed to maintaining a fair and professional mentally friendly and recycled paper, the digitalization of working relationship with our suppliers. We expect our documents and double-sided printing. Compared to 2010, partners to observe ethical standards and to conduct their we reduced paper usage in Switzerland by 2.4% to business in an ethical and socially and environmentally 3,910 metric tons, which corresponds to the consumption responsible manner that complies with applicable legislation. of 180 kilograms of paper per employee (FTE). A major We also expect them to address risks in a responsible Environmental Management in Our Regions Our regional activities focused on the following points, reduced lighting and airconditioning usage, refurbishment is projected to achieve a 10% measures in 2011 (see page 47 for information shifting select IT operations to off-peak hours decrease in annual energy consumption. on our activities in our Swiss locations): and a swifter transition to the use of more energyefficient office equipment. The Japanese financial Americas Europe, Middle East and Africa regulator expects banks to voluntarily continue with  The relocation of our Houston office in 2011  Credit Suisse (UK) ranked third among financial the 15% reduction in energy consumption, which provided an opportunity to strive for increased services institutions and 91st in the 2011 performance we have successfully achieved for both our premises operational efficiency. A lease was negotiated that league table of the Carbon Reduction Commitment in Japan. We are currently reviewing a list of selected includes the sub-metering of chilled water, enabling Energy Efficiency Scheme (CRC). The UK governmeasures that could be implemented on a long-term the office to realize cost savings. In addition, the ment launched the mandatory CRC Scheme in an basis. use of air-conditioning outside regular business hours effort to drive large public and private sector organiza In March 2011, our offices in Singapore were was reduced by grouping together in the same office tions to reduce emissions and to improve their awarded the BCA (Building and Construction zone employees in business areas that conduct a large energy efficiency. Authority) Green Mark “Platinum” award for the new proportion of their work outside these hours. This  In the UK, Credit Suisse achieved the 2011 Carbon office design implemented in levels 2 and 3 of the project has a two-year return on investment (ROI) Trust Standard, which is awarded to organizations Serangoon building. This follows the successful and is projected to deliver USD 700,000 in operational that have reduced their carbon footprint in absolute completion of improvements to the regional data savings over the 10-year lease. terms and can demonstrate good carbon management. center, which received the “Platinum” award in 2009.  At our data center in Princeton, four cooling  By separating refuse materials into plastics, paper, In addition to energy and water efficiency, the award systems were replaced with more energy-efficient metals and food waste, we increased the recycling reflects aspects such as the choice of location, models in 2011. We also implemented further rate for office waste at our premises in London from environmental protection, innovation and the working optimization measures such as the use of ambient 91% to 96% in 2011. In addition, a Credit Suisse thirdenvironment (e.g. use of 100% LED lighting). An air and water for cooling purposes, the automatic party refuse company separates and dries organic audit will be conducted every three years to ensure fine-tuning of installations in line with frequency of food waste from the kitchens, enabling methane to be the building still meets the relevant criteria. use, and operational adjustments to reduce energy generated, which is then sold on to a gas company.  In 2011, we refurbished our offices in Sydney consumption outside of normal working hours. These according to Australia’s Environmental Sustainable measures are being supported with USD 1.86 million Asia Pacific Design (ESD) standards and received an award of energy efficiency incentives from local utilities and  Following the Japanese earthquake and tsunami, from the Master Builders Association of New South public programs and are projected to achieve the government issued energy reduction targets Wales for best interior fit. The redesign included the 2,380,000 kilowatt-hours in energy savings annually for summer 2011. Credit Suisse took prompt action installation of energy-efficient lighting and lighting and USD 4.9 million in operational cost savings over to comply with the 15% peak-load energy demand control systems, the targeted monitoring of electricity the 20-year equipment lifespan. reduction target at its Tokyo offices without disrupting consumption (sub-metering), 100% reuse or recyits business activities. We achieved this through cling of excess materials and construction waste, and measures such as the use of higher temperature set a wider range of videoconferencing facilities. The Awards and Recognition for Environmental and Climate Protection 2011  Best Global Green Brand: Credit Suisse ranked Hong Kong branch received a joint silver medal in was awarded a grant for the energy-efficient resecond globally among international banks in the recognition of its environmental awareness and comdesign of the lighting system in a multi-story “Best Global Green Brands” rankings produced by mitments for the previous year – the highest award car park in Geneva. ProKilowatt is an initiative that Interbrand. The awards are based on the public presented to a company in the financial sector. The promotes the identification of, and the provision perception of each company’s sustainability efforts Awards for Environmental Excellence are intended of support for, projects that contribute to the sustainand its actual green performance. to motivate companies to think and act sustainably. able, low-cost generation of energy savings in the  Hong Kong Awards for Environmental  ProKilowatt: As part of a competitive tender run manufacturing and service industries, as well as in Excellence: In the 2011 awards ceremony, our by the Swiss Federal Office of Energy, Credit Suisse domestic households. 49 Key Performance Indicators for Operational Ecology1 manner. Our global Supplier Code of Conduct introduced in 2010 provides detailed information on these standards and defines our requirements relating to business ethics and 2011 2010 integrity, employment and social standards, environmental Absolute per FTE 2 Absolute per FTE 2 protection and general business principles, as well as the corresponding management systems. To motivate firms to Energy kWh 710,912,000 14,006 725,399,000 14,479 assume their environmental and social responsibilities, the Business travel km 601,419,000 11,849 580,390,000 11,585 code also requires suppliers to deliver services that, in some Paper kg 6,339,000 125 5,517,000 110 cases, exceed local legislative requirements. We encourage Water m3 1,332,000 26 1,529,000 31 our partners to strive for high standards in this area and to Waste kg 14,121,000 278 15,000 289 continuously improve their environmental and social performance. 1 According to VfU standard. 2 Annual average; employees (full-time equivalents). Sustainable Supply Management Examples  We have negotiated a new executive car services contract for our London offices which includes a “green” hybrid Environment and Sustainability: Key Figures technology car offering as an option for end-users.  In Switzerland, we purchase 100% certified hydropower for the entire region as part of our current electricity 2011 2010 contract.  The 2,000 workspaces in our new Uetlihof 2 building Environmental/sustainability specialists1 55 50 have been equipped with innovative LED standard lamps Employees trained in environmental issues 2 2,517 1,692 that provide improvements in terms of lighting quality, Training time (in hours) 3,700 3,230 energy efficiency, sustainability and cost-effectiveness.  An extension to the existing waste management contract 1 Full-time equivalent composites, including the corresponding fixed mandates of externals. for London incorporated a commitment to reduce the 2 e-learning not included; training for bank operations as well as relevant bank products included. amount of waste sent to landfill, which totaled 3% at the end of 2011, to 1% by the end of 2012 and 0% by the end of 2013. www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/environment Operational Ecology: Selected Figures for 2011 Challenges and Responses 2011 Challenge: Address the challenges of climate change 115,500 hours 571 million kilometers through our products, services and research. Use of video conferencing – Business air travel (global greenhouse gas Response: We developed environmentand climate-related 15% increase compared to 2010 neutrality through purchase of emissions products and services. We also produced and published reduction certificates, as of 2010) a research report on the role of banks in transitioning to a low-carbon economy together with WWF. Challenge: Continue to reduce CO 2 emissions with fluctuating headcount and a business-driven increase in air travel. Response: Our CSCfC achievements for the period 2009– 2011 show that our global four-pillar strategy is proving effective. The greenhouse gas emissions resulting from 5,600 our total energy consumption in 2011 decreased by around Servers no longer in use as a result 7,000 metric tons globally compared to 2010. The specific of virtualization, corresponding energy use per employee (FTE) decreased or was stable in to a reduction in energy usage of all regions. Reducing emissions from business air travel – 12 gigawatt-hours globally primarily to retain direct contact with clients – remains one of our greatest challenges in this area. 50 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Dialogue and Transparency Dialogue and Transparency Daniele Caverzasio (left), a relationship manager in Private Banking Switzerland, and Sergio Morisoli, Market & Business Development for Private Banking Switzerland, Ticino region, are members of the Ticino Parliament. To read the article about employees who hold a public office, scan the QR code or refer to the Responsibility Chronicle. www.credit-suisse.ctom/ chronicle 51 Dialogue with Stakeholders The long-term success of our bank depends on our ability to gain and maintain the trust of our stakeholders. We lay the foundations for this relationship of trust by providing transparency about our business activities and by engaging in a regular and open exchange of views and ideas. This dialogue with our clients, shareholders, regulators and other groups of stakeholders within society enables us to promptly identify their needs and expectations and to find constructive solutions to current challenges. To promote mutual understanding and to build the trust “Too Big to Fail” that is essential for our business, we strive to provide The fact that Credit Suisse has never had to turn to the the greatest possible level of transparency about our government for support at any point in our history of more activities and we cultivate an open dialogue with all our than 150 years demonstrates that we are able to conduct stakeholders. Our exchange of views with our clients, our business activities while maintaining a solid capital base shareholders, employees, regulatory bodies, politicians and sound risk appetite and proactively meeting the and other representatives of society enables us to demands of investors and regulators. recognize key issues, opportunities and even potential In 2011, we were once again involved in the intensive risks and to respond to them appropriately. dialogue conducted both in Switzerland and internationally As an integral part of society and as a global bank, about the “Too Big to Fail” issue, drawing on our experience Credit Suisse actively participates in political discussions in order to support efforts to find a solution under which about current issues such as the international debt crisis systemically important banks could be allowed to fail withand works with the authorities to develop sustainable out the entire economy being jeopardized. solutions to preserve and strengthen the stability of the We basically share the public view that it should be financial system. possible for even systemically relevant financial institutions to fail without having to resort to bailouts that are funded International Coordination of Regulatory Measures using taxpayers’ money. For example, we worked construcTo maintain financial market stability while ensuring a level tively with the Expert Commission appointed by the Swiss playing field for international financial centers, it is essential Continued on page 52 for regulatory measures to be coordinated globally. This is especially critical in view of the cumulative effects that stricter bank regulations can have on the economy. For Current International Regulatory Developments example, the restriction of banking activities as a result of higher regulatory requirements can stifle economic growth, The international reforms in the area of industry regulation are aimed at increasing the with negative consequences for the labor market. Credit stability and integrity of the global financial system. The initiatives that are most relevant Suisse strives to balance the interests of its shareholders for Credit Suisse concern the following issues: and the concerns of the regulatory authorities, legislators  Prudent capital and liquidity standards for systemically relevant banks (especially Basel III)  Improvement of consumer protection and increased market transparency and other stakeholders within society, while focusing on (Dodd-Frank Act in the US; MiFID [Markets in Financial Instruments Directive], UCITS IV the needs of clients. As a member of various global, national [Undertakings for Collective Investments in Transferable Securities], AIFMD [Alternative and regional industry organizations, we therefore once Investment Fund Managers Directive] and EMIR [European Market Infrastructure again actively participated in discussions about the archiRegulation] directives in Europe)  Compensation systems (G-20, FSB [Financial Stability Board], FINMA [Swiss Financial tecture of the international financial system with bodies Market Supervisory Authority]) such as the G-20, the Financial Stability Board (FSB), the  Taxation (OECD model agreement, OECD Art. 26 standard [Organisation for Economic OECD and the EU in 2011. Cooperation and Development]; capital gains withholding tax with Germany and the UK; US FATCA legislation [Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act], tax negotiations with the US) Further reforms relate to areas such as macroprudential regulation or the shadow banking system and are being driven by the FSB. The implementation of international standards in various countries also has significant implications for Credit Suisse. 52 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Dialogue and Transparency Our Stakeholders As a globally active bank, Credit Suisse cultivates a dialogue with its stakeholders on a range of topics through various channels: Marketplace Society Clients Media s Shareholders ue Local communities is s Financial analysts i c General public NGOs Ec o Credit Suisse no Code of Conduct m Products and services Social issues Environmental management system Responsibility in society Operating environment Employer/ workplace Legal & Compliance E nv Supplier guidelines Governments and regulators iro Suppliers HR policies Legislators nm Employees nt e al Unions is s ue s Federal Council to develop recommendations to address lution tools aimed at ensuring the orderly wind-down of the “Too Big to Fail” issue in Switzerland and supported the failed banks to avoid bailouts at the cost of taxpayers. formulation of a balanced package of measures in 2011. In terms of additional capital requirements and resolution Under the new legislation approved in September 2011, tools, the EU discussions lag behind the debate in SwitzerSwitzerland imposes significantly higher capital requireland but legislation for both of these aspects will be put ments on its big banks than those prescribed by the interbefore EU institutions in 2012. Credit Suisse has responded national standard driven by the Basel Committee on to consultations on all three major topics and has particiBanking Supervision. Credit Suisse essentially supports pated in industry bodies to provide thought leadership on this these measures because we recognize the responsibility critical aspect of the financial regulatory reform agenda. that we have toward society in our role as a major bank. We are also closely monitoring global regulatory developTo preserve the international competitiveness of the Swiss ments and contributing our expertise to the worldwide financial center, it is, however, also necessary to take debate to help build a more robust finance industry. account of international developments in the area of bank capital requirements. Our Stakeholders Credit Suisse has been preparing for the stricter Through our role as a global financial services provider, we regulatory environment for a long time and is thus well play an important part in the economy and society. As a positioned to meet the new requirements in Switzerland result, we are sometimes confronted with very different and abroad within the relevant timeframes. In February demands and expectations. We cultivate a constructive 2011, we already took an important step toward meeting dialogue with all our stakeholders by attending or hosting the stricter capital rules with the successful placement events and engaging in discussions in order to identify of Buffer Capital Notes and thus demonstrated our their needs and interests and to jointly develop solutions to constructive approach to finding a solution to the “Too Big current challenges wherever possible. to Fail” issue. Credit Suisse has worked closely with the  Clients The achievement of client satisfaction is a key Swiss regulatory authorities to develop this competitive factor determining the success of our business. One of solution. the ways we ensure that our products and services meet Credit Suisse has actively participated in the “Too Big the needs and expectations of our clients as effectively to Fail” debate at European level in view of the importance as possible is by conducting an annual study of over of our operations in the EU. Similar to in Switzerland, the 20,000 Private Banking clients and service users worldEU approach to the “Too Big to Fail” issue revolves around wide (see page 8). As well as advising our clients on three axes: additional capital, recovery planning and resoContinued on page 54 53 Engaging in a Dialogue with Stakeholders Politicians and Regulators cantonal or commune level. Credit Suisse has decided  Global Financial Markets Association (GFMA) Credit Suisse maintains close contact with represento make a maximum of CHF 1 million of financial The GFMA was established to join together the tatives of regional, national and international political support available each year, corresponding to an common interests of financial institutions around the and regulatory bodies. We hold regular meetings at average share of CHF 200,000 for each of the world in response to the increasingly globally which we cultivate a constructive dialogue with legislargest parties. This is a long-term commitment and interconnected nature of financial market regulation. lators and the regulatory authorities and exchange will be reviewed regularly. We are active in the regional arms of the GFMA: knowledge and information.  Meeting for employees who hold an elected AFME (Association for Financial Markets in Europe), We regard our support for the Swiss political system office: To contribute to the functioning of the “militia SIFMA (The Securities Industry and Financial Markets – known as the “militia system” – and for the functions system” in Switzerland, Credit Suisse also supports Association) and ASIFMA (The Asia Securities of state performed by the political parties as part of employees who voluntarily assume a public role. We Industry and Financial Markets Association). our responsibility toward society (see below). In view allow all employees who hold an elected office, e.g.  International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) of the unique nature of the political system in our in their local community, to devote up to 20% of their As a member of the ICC, we are committed to home market, the support we provide in this area is working hours to this voluntary function while promoting free international trade and participate in exclusive to Switzerland. This means that our receiving their full salary from the bank, irrespective working groups on the topics of banks, economic company does not offer financial support to political of which political party they may represent. Each policy, energy and climate issues. parties in other countries. In the US, we offer year, our Public Policy department organizes a meet Institute of International Finance (IIF) employees the option of collecting personal donations ing for around 300 employees in Switzerland who The IIF represents the interests of globally active within Credit Suisse through a Political Action hold an office in the cantonal authorities or at commune financial institutions. We are represented on its Committee (PAC). These are not company funds; level. The event incorporates workshops and Board of Directors and in various committees and they consist entirely of voluntary private donations provides a platform so that they can share their working groups, including the Special Committee made by senior officer employees in the US. experiences and exchange their views and ideas for Effective Regulation and the Cross-border with the bank’s top management. In 2011 − an Resolution Working Group. Strengthening of the Swiss Political System election year in Switzerland − the use of social media  Swiss Association of Employers  Financial support for parties: A distinctive in politics and the organization of political campaigns This overarching employer organization represents feature of the Swiss political system is the fact that were the main themes of this meeting. the interests of employers across all industries and citizens assume roles in political bodies at federal, regions vis-à-vis the public, politicians, the authorities cantonal or commune levels in parallel to their regular Business Organizations and administration, and other public bodies. Credit professions – an approach known in Switzerland A stable economic environment is important to Credit Suisse is represented on its Board of Directors. as the “militia system”. Consequently, members of Suisse in view of our different roles as a global  Swiss Bankers Association (SBA) parliament in Switzerland are not professional financial services provider, taxpayer and employer. This organization is committed to improving operating politicians and the parties do not receive state We therefore participate in industry associations, conditions for banks in Switzerland. Credit Suisse funding. To strengthen this system and promote umbrella organizations, regional financial center is represented on the SBA Board of Directors and political diversity in Switzerland, where Credit Suisse bodies and bilateral chambers of commerce to maintain various specialist committees. Through our role in has its roots and is headquartered, the company a dialogue with governments and regulatory the SBA, we also participate in the European Banking essentially offers support to all political parties as authorities. They include the following organizations: Federation. part of its commitment to society. Financial  economiesuisse  World Economic Forum (WEF) contributions are provided in response to requests This umbrella organization represents the interests We have been a member of the WEF for over for funding and do not give rise to any obligations of Swiss businesses in the political process and 20 years and have been a strategic partner since on the part of the political parties that receive them; works to create an optimal operating environment. 2006. The forum provides a platform for leading they are made irrespective of their political agenda We are represented on its Board of Directors and economics experts, politicians, academics and and position. The only factor that influences the play a role in expert commissions and committees journalists from around the globe to come together support provided is the number of parliamentary − including at an international level in the Business to debate the most pressing issues facing the mandates held by each party at cantonal and federal and Industry Advisory Committee to the OECD. world. At the annual meeting in Davos in 2011, level; to receive support, a party must have at least  European Financial Services Round Table (EFR) we were involved in sessions on topics including five seats in the Federal Assembly (parliament). The EFR supports the formation of a truly single sovereign debt, financial market regulation, This transparent approach based on objective criteria European market for financial services and family-run businesses, social entrepreneurship and enables Credit Suisse to make a politically neutral encourages national and European opinion leaders philanthropy. contribution to support the work of the parties in to work toward the development of internationally performing functions of state – whether at federal, consistent financial regulations and supervision. 54 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Dialogue and Transparency Selected Sustainability Networks, Initiatives and Working Groups UN Global Compact Banking Environment Initiative In 2000, Credit Suisse was one of the first companies Founded in 2010, this initiative develops strategies on to sign up to this leading international agreement, which how capital flows can be redirected from activities that promotes a sustainable approach to business. We have are harmful to the environment and climate toward pledged to uphold the UN Global Compact’s sustainable activities. Credit Suisse and 10 other global 10 principles relating to human rights, labor standards, banks participate in the initiative. environmental protection and anti-corruption efforts. As an active member, we report annually on our progress, Equator Principles regularly attend UN Global Compact events and We conduct our project finance activities in emerging participate in its national networks in Switzerland and economies and developing countries in accordance with Singapore (see also pages 58). the Equator Principles, which are based on environmental and social standards defined by the World Bank United Nations Environment Programme Finance Group. Credit Suisse was one of the first companies to Initiative (UNEP FI) sign up to the Equator Principles in 2003 and we report Credit Suisse became one of the first signatories of annually on our efforts to implement them. Since 2010, UNEP FI in 1992. More than 190 participating banks, we have been actively involved in the Equator Principles insurers and asset managers have made a voluntary Steering Committee. As a member of its working commitment to promote a sustainable approach to groups, we also contribute to the further development business within the financial sector. In 2011, we once of this initiative and help to promote a dialogue with again participated in UNEP FI meetings and played an NGOs (see also page 55). active role in working groups on biodiversity and human rights. Round Table on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Credit Suisse is an Ordinary Member of the RSPO in ASrIA – Association for Sustainable and Responthe “Banks and Investors” membership category and is sible Investment in Asia committed to working with clients and other industry As a member of this initiative, Credit Suisse has pledged stakeholders across the palm oil industry supply chain to to promote sustainable investments in Asia and to promote the RSPO’s vision and mission (see page 13). contribute to the exchange of information and experience about this topic. In 2011, Credit Suisse sponsored the Swiss Association for Environmentally Conscious evening event at the ASrIA Conference held to mark the Management (Öbu) 10th anniversary of the organization in Hong Kong. This national network consists of over 400 Swiss firms The event was attended by over 250 participants, who that work together to promote the sustainable developdiscussed the further expansion of sustainable investment of the economy. It fosters the exchange of knowments in Asia. The ASrIA Sustainable Finance in Asia ledge and campaigns for the development of a political Awards 2011 were presented by Credit Suisse Asset framework to enable the business community to work Management, and Credit Suisse was also among the both sustainably and profitably. In 2011, Credit Suisse panelists discussing the topic “Scaling up Sustainable attended the annual conference “Forum ö” held by the Finance in Asia”. Swiss Association for Environmentally Conscious Management and delivered a keynote speech on the role of the state in building a sustainable economy. financial matters, we regularly organize conferences and and Institutional Investor, confirming the quality of its discussion-based events to promote an exchange of views services. and ideas. One example is the Credit Suisse Salon, which  Employees Credit Suisse has, for years, been working was launched in 2008 and provides a platform for selected closely with bodies that represent employee interests such clients to meet with opinion leaders and experts from a as the Credit Suisse Staff Council (PKOM) in Switzerland, wide range of industries, as well as Credit Suisse managers, national employee associations and the European Works to discuss key social, economic or political topics. In Council to ensure that the needs of our people are taken mid-2011, Mohammed El-Baradei, the Egyptian politician properly into account. In conjunction with an independent and former Director General of the International Atomic consulting firm, we also regularly conduct internal surveys Energy Agency (IAEA) was a guest speaker at the eighth to assess our employees’ level of satisfaction with their Credit Suisse Salon entitled “The Middle East – Quo Vadis?”. working environment, their opportunities for professional  Investors We maintain an intensive dialogue with development and our corporate culture. Their feedback investors, analysts and the financial media. Our Investor provides us with a valuable indication of the aspects that Relations department has gained a high level of recognition we need to address to bring about improvements. The bankfor its work in industry circles. In 2011, it once again achieved wide engagement survey conducted in 2011 indicated that top rankings in the surveys conducted by Thomson Extel 55 the level of satisfaction among Credit Suisse employees working group established by the United Nations Environwas higher than the industry average (see page 37). ment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) that focuses  Society Credit Suisse is an active member of society and on biodiversity. In both cases, we seek to provide a finance engages in a direct dialogue with many politicians, legislators, industry perspective on the topics in question and contribmembers of the business community, academics and nonute our expertise to the debate. governmental organizations (NGOs). We also participate in discussions about economic, political, environmental and Listening to Public Concerns social issues with associations and think-tanks. As part of 2011 saw the emergence of the Occupy Movement, which this social dialogue, we contribute our viewpoint and articulated fundamental concerns about free market experience as a global bank and offer our expertise on a societies and the stability of the financial system and of the range of topics. banking industry. We take the demands voiced by the protesters very seriously – especially their call for a more Dialogue about the Environment stable financial system and for banking resolution regimes Credit Suisse also actively participates in the debate about Continued on page 56 environmental themes and in discussions on how to promote a more sustainable, climate-friendly approach to business. In addition, we exchange knowledge with various Events on Environmental and Social Themes in 2011 organizations and groups of experts (see also page 53). For example, Credit Suisse participates in a working group  Asian Investment Conference (AIC) of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) that The AIC, which is organized by Credit Suisse in Hong Kong, is now regarded as one of the addresses energy and climate issues, as well as in a most important investor conferences in Asia Pacific, attracting around 2,000 business leaders, academics, politicians and regulators, as well as institutional and high-net-worth investors. In 2011, the conference enabled the participants to meet with experts to discuss global economic developments, to increase their knowledge about investment opportuniDialogue with NGOs ties in Asia Pacific and to attend presentations by leading listed companies.  Lifefair Forum Credit Suisse hosted four Lifefair Forums in Switzerland on the topics “Green Economy – In 2011, a wide range of topics was discussed with national Opportunities and Risks”, “Smart Grids”, “Energy Transition and Carbon Compensation” and international NGOs covering the environmental and/or social and “Rio +20”. The Lifefair Forum is a thought leadership platform supported by the conferdimensions of sustainability. ence organizer Lifefair in collaboration with Credit Suisse and economiesuisse, the Swiss business association. A common feature of all these events is that they provide a platform Issue Organization for keynote speakers to explore the prerequisites for an economically and ecologically Agriculture and WWF successful approach to sustainability and the resulting opportunities. soft commodities Friends of the Earth  China Sustainable Banking Strategy Forum Climate change WWF Credit Suisse gave two presentations about our sustainability commitments at this forum in BankTrack Beijing. Participants in the event underscored the importance of considering environmental and social criteria to support the future development of the Chinese financial sector. On the Coal financing Friends of the Earth second day of the Forum, Credit Suisse took part in an event organized by the environmental Greenpeace groups Greenpeace, Friends of the Earth and International Rivers at which we discussed Urgewald sustainability issues in banking with various NGOs. Forestry, palm oil and Bruno Manser Fund  “Crops, Capital and the Environment“ biodiversity Greenpeace As part of a collaboration between Credit Suisse and WWF to promote sustainable The Nature Conservancy agriculture, we organized an event for employees in New York to focus on the agricultural World Resources Institute sector, its significant impacts on the environment, and the implications of sustainability WWF on competitiveness within the sector.  Carbon Thought Leadership Mountain top removal Natural Resources Defense Council We organized an event in New York with presentations about energy generation in the US coal mining Rainforest Action Network using emerging extraction technologies with a focus on shale gas. The US has seen a Sierra Club boom in the use of this type of gas, although it poses certain environmental risks – espeNuclear power Greenpeace cially for groundwater. Urgewald  Climate Change Conference COP-17 Friends of the Earth Together with other representatives of Swiss businesses, Credit Suisse gave video Unconventional oil and gas Natural Resources Defense Council presentations at the COP-17 in Durban on its commitment to addressing environmental and climate issues and showcased its expertise in financing renewable energy. Human rights Amnesty International  2,000 Watt Society Berne Declaration Credit Suisse participated in an exhibition of the 2,000 Watt Society project in the city of Controversial arms Netwerk Vlaanderen Basel. According to an energy use model developed by the Swiss Federal Institute of IKV Pax Christi Technology (ETH), it should be possible to reduce per capita energy consumption to a maximum of 2,000 watts without experiencing any real inconvenience in our daily life. 56 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Dialogue and Transparency Reports and Publications that do not require direct financial support from governments and taxpayers. We believe that we can achieve more tangible progress by interacting with NGOs that can commit Contributing to the Public Debate In 2011, we once again contributed our expertise to the public debate and to concrete measures, rather than a people movement. supported the formation of public opinion, as well as helping to find solutions to Credit Suisse therefore engages in a dialogue with a broad current problems. We regularly publish studies, analyses and specialist articles range of NGOs to remain informed about environmental on important economic, political and social issues. This information not only assists and social developments and issues that may be relevant clients and investors when making decisions but also attracts the interest of politicians, business representatives and the media. for our clients or the bank. These organizations may specialize in certain topics or have more general knowledge about themes of mutual interest. Such exchanges of Credit Suisse Barometers opinions occur at conferences or bilateral meetings. In some For more than 30 years, Credit Suisse has conducted an plus Seit 1895 das Magazin der Credit Suisse annual representative survey to evaluate the issues that instances, NGOs contact us to discuss their concerns about a specific transaction or to elicit our opinion on a topic Credit Suisse Sorgenbarometer 2011 are of most concern to the Swiss public and to examine aspects of the Swiss national identity. The findings provide or trend that they view with concern. Despite the fundamenan insight into the current mood in the country and are tal differences between the mission of an NGO and the a source of information for politicians, the business Schwe weiizer S Soorgen community and the media. Credit Suisse also conducts mandate of a corporation, these exchanges are not only Erkenntnis als erster Schritt zur Lösung a Youth Barometer − a comprehensive representative characterized by divergent opinions but can often also lead survey to provide an insight into the lifestyles, problems to agreement on a number of points. and attitudes of young people in Switzerland, the US www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/dialogue and Brazil (see page 24). 1RYHPEHU Credit Suisse Research Institute The Credit Suisse Research Institute produces in-depth analyses of fundamental social, economic, environmen5HVHDUFK,QVWLWXWH tal and demographic trends that are expected to impact 7KRXJKWOHDGHUVKLSIURP&UHGLW6XLVVH5HVHDUFK DQGWKHZRUOGŒVIRUHPRVWH[SHUWV global markets. This thought leadership initiative brings together our own global network of analysts and some )URP6SULQJ of the world’s most distinguished experts, the Senior WR5HYLYDO 5HJLPHFKDQJHDQGHFRQRPLF WUDQVIRUPDWLRQ Advisors to the Research Institute and independent academics. The publications issued by the Research Institute are made available not only to clients but also to the public. The Research Institute also organizes workshops and audio conferences on current events. Challenges and Responses 2011 Investment Research Credit Suisse economists, strategists and investment specialists in our various Research units in Switzerland Challenge: Engage with stakeholders such as NGOs and Global Investor 2.11, November 2011 Expert know-how for Credit Suisse investment clients and international locations produce a global economic special interest groups to increase mutual understanding assessment and market outlook on a monthly basis. While and, at the same time, uphold our duties of confidentiality. these publications are primarily geared toward our clients, Response: We continued to foster a dialogue with different Inheritance Bridging past and future members of the public with an interest in these subjects groups of stakeholders to the greatest extent possible while also make extensive use of our research. In addition, we respecting confidentiality requirements. Expert roundtable The pain and the glory: A primer on handing over a family business to the next generation. Kenneth Scheve and David Stasavage History has something surprising to say about inheritance taxation. Jens Beckert Inheritances do not increase social inequality but rather propagate it through the generations. Kishore Rao How a move to save the Abu Simbel temples provide regular information on how investors can apply our became an international mechanism for preserving the world’s heritage. research findings. As part of our “Global Investor” series, Challenge: Maintain a constructive dialogue with we publish regular background analyses on current topics government and regulatory bodies on regulatory topics. and longer-term trends, as well as their potential impacts Response: We participated constructively in the “Too Big to on the financial markets and investments. Fail” debate both in Switzerland and internationally, drawing on our experience and expertise to help develop appropriate “bulletin” and online articles solutions that will strengthen the financial system while In addition to economic analyses, Credit Suisse produces safeguarding the competitiveness of the banking industry. further publications that are geared toward a broad readership. Our international award-winning client magazine Challenge: Promote political diversity in Switzerland and The Credit Suisse Magazine Since 1895 Issue 5 International Edition / English December 2011 / January 2012 “bulletin” contains articles on feature topics as well as help to strengthen the “militia system” of politics through background reports on socio-political issues, economic measures including the provision of transparent and neutral trends and our environmental and social commitments. financial support for political parties that focuses exclusively In 2011, the different issues of the publication were on their role in supporting the state. Time Perceived Realities dedicated to the themes Youth, West, Roots and Wood. Response: We have developed a transparent and comprehenThe Art of Forgetting Exploring the human memory’s limits and why we need to forget / Philanthropy Campus How to give effectively / High & Mighty Equestrian sporting highlights / Roger Federer More popular than the Dalai Lama / Zurich Film Festival The Green Carpet Our weekly online articles provide readers with up-to-date sible system to provide financial support to political parties. information on a range of current topics. Our approach is politically neutral, is based on objective criteria and is open to all parties that perform functions of state. 57 Sustainability Reporting and Ratings Our Corporate Responsibility Report is designed to inform our stakeholders about the principles that guide us in our daily work and to illustrate the ways in which we address current economic, environmental and social challenges in our business activities. We want to create long-term value for our clients, shareThis internationally recognized voluntary standard deholders, employees and other stakeholders within society fines principles and indicators that companies can use to and believe that the only means of achieving this is by measure and report on their economic, environmental adopting a sustainable approach to business. We not only and social performance. The GRI guidelines are currently strive to uphold the professional standards and ethical observed by over 3,000 organizations in 60 countries, values defined in our Code of Conduct but also regard helping to increase the transparency, uniformity and comthe assumption of our corporate responsibilities as the parability of corporate responsibility reports. Detailed basis for all aspects of our activities. Consequently, we information about Credit Suisse’s GRI indicators can be take account of economic, environmental and social found at: aspects when performing our core business operations. www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility The Corporate Responsibility Report forms part of Credit Suisse’s annual reporting suite (see inside cover for Credit Suisse had its GRI Content Index reviewed and further details) and presents the principles, goals and chalassessed for the first time in 2010. For 2011, GRI has lenges that we face in the area of corporate responsibility. verified Credit Suisse’s compliance with the GRI G3 It offers an overview of our main activities in this area and Guidelines and has given Credit Suisse the disclosure of the progress we achieved in 2011. It also documents our level of A+. In addition, Credit Suisse’s corporate reprogress in implementing the 10 principles prescribed by sponsibility reporting was externally assessed and indethe UN Global Compact in our capacity as a signatory to the pendently assured for the first time for the Corporate agreement (see page 58). Unless stated otherwise, the Responsibility Report 2011. The assurance was conducted information contained in this report relates to the year 2011. by SGS, which confirmed that Credit Suisse’s corporate It is only possible for us to portray a selection of our acresponsibility disclosure meets the requirements of GRI tivities in the printed publication due to the limited amount level A+. The results of SGS’ assessment are docuof space available. The Responsibility Chronicle, which is mented in the assurance statement on page 62 and at: available for the iPad or as an interactive PDF, therefore www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility offers interested readers a vibrant multimedia insight into our global projects and initiatives through a series of more In a separate engagement, SGS has certified Credit in-depth reports, videos, podcasts and image galleries. Suisse’s environmental management system globally in To ensure that we can supply the full breadth of inforaccordance with ISO 14001:2004 (see page 45). mation required by our stakeholders, the contents of this Continued on page 59 report, as well as additional information and data on all the themes discussed within it, can be found on the Internet at: Carbon Disclosure Project www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility In 2011, Credit Suisse took part in the Carbon Disclosure Project for the 10th conWe regard transparent reporting as an important basis for secutive year. This organization, which represents more than 550 institutional the cultivation of a dialogue with our stakeholders and investors with invested assets of around USD 71 trillion, aims to provide guidance to welcome input on our activities. Feedback can be sent to: investors on climate-related opportunities and risks for companies. In 2011, around 3,700 firms worldwide disclosed information on their climate strategies and greenhouse responsibility.corporate@credit-suisse.com gas emissions. Credit Suisse scored 81 out of a possible 100 points – an increase of 13 points compared to 2010. The improved 2011 disclosure score not only reflects an Global Reporting Initiative and External Assurance increased level of disclosure but also an improvement in internal data management Our Corporate Responsibility Report reflects the requirepractices to understand global greenhouse gas emissions and a greater insight into the risks and opportunities that climate change presents to Credit Suisse’s business. ments set out in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 58 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Dialogue and Transparency Implementation of the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact UN Global Compact Examples of implementation at Credit Suisse Human rights1 Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect  Credit Suisse adheres to the UN Universal Declaration the protection of internationally proclaimed of Human Rights human rights; and  Involvement in the formulation of sector-specific recommendations for the application of the UN Human Rights Framework and the Guiding Principles  Partnership with International Humanitarian Forum in Lucerne (IHRF)  Participation in the UNEP FI working group on human rights Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit  Application of Reputational Risk Review Process in human rights abuses.  Implementation of sector-specific policies Labor standards 2 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom  Staff Council in Switzerland (internal employee representation) of association and the effective recognition  European Works Council of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced  Progressive working conditions for own staff and compulsory labor;  Supply Management: Credit Suisse Supplier Code of Conduct 3 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor;  Implementation of sector-specific policies and  Supply Management: Credit Suisse Supplier Code of Conduct 3 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect  Global Diversity and Inclusion of employment and occupation.  Accessibility Environment 4 Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary  Application of Reputational Risk Review Process approach to environmental challenges;  Implementation of sector-specific policies Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater  Credit Suisse Cares for Climate (CSCfC) initiative environmental responsibility; and  Global greenhouse gas neutrality since 2010  ISO 14001-certified environmental management system Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion  Use of clean energy technologies in our operations of environmentally friendly technologies.  Offering of environment-related products and services  Participation in the UNEP FI working group on biodiversity Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption  Active member of Wolfsberg Group in all its forms, including extortion and  Further development of internal standards and training bribery. courses for employees 1 See pages 11–16. 2 Pages 36–41. 3 Pages 48–49. 4 Pages 11–16 and 42–49. 59 External Assessments of Our Reporting Sustainability Ratings and Indices Credit Suisse was assigned first place in Switzerland and Investors are increasingly interested in environmentally and second place globally among banks in the Best Global socially responsible investments and therefore not only Green Brand rankings published by the consulting firm consider financial data but also sustainability criteria when Interbrand for 2011. The rankings are based on the quality reaching investment decisions. The analyses and ratings of the companies’ communications as well as the public produced by specialized sustainability rating agencies and perception of their sustainability efforts and their actual index providers serve as a guide in this context. Credit green performance. Our online corporate responsibility reSuisse has been included in leading sustainability indices porting achieved second place in Switzerland and 22nd such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices and the place in Europe in the 2011 CSR Online Awards presented FTSE4Good Index Series for a number of years. The by the communications agency Lundquist Communication. Credit Suisse Group share is therefore included in various sustainability funds. Sustainability Ratings Assigned to Credit Suisse in 2011 Carbon Disclosure Project (UK) oekom research (D) 1 (rating scale: 1 to 100; average: 59) (rating scale: A+ to D–) 81 points C– Medium (Not Prime) MSCI ESG Research Intangible Value Assessment 20112 SAM (US/Switzerland) (rating scale: AAA to CCC) (economic dimension 81%; environmental dimension 75%; social dimension 74%; industry average 53%) B 77% 1 The rating encompasses environmental, social and governance aspects. In the case of financial services providers, the focus is on the stability of the financial system, employee development and the assessment of environmental risks when providing financing. 2 The rating encompasses areas such as: employees and suppliers, society, corporate governance, products and services, environmental management and environmental efficiency. Sustainability Indices 2011 Index Brief description Credit Suisse Dow Jones Sustainability World Index Global best-in-class approach: the top 10% of the Credit Suisse has been a constituent of the (DJSI World) 2,500 largest companies in the Dow Jones Global Dow Jones Sustainability World Index since it Total Stock Market Index according to sustainability was launched in 1999. criteria. Dow Jones Sustainability Europe Index European best-in-class approach: the top 20% of Credit Suisse has been a constituent of the (DJSI Europe) companies in terms of sustainability criteria of the European Index of the Dow Jones Sustainability 600 largest European companies in the Dow Jones Indices since 2001.1 Global Total Stock Market Index. FTSE4Good Index Series Companies that meet globally recognized corporate Credit Suisse has been a constituent of the responsibility standards. FTSE4Good Index Series since it was launched in 2001. 1 Prior to 2010: Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability Index (DJSI STOXX). 60 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Objectives and Achievements Objectives and Achievements Objectives 2011 Achievements Objectives 2012 Banking  Continue to refine the tools used to examine  We completed a technical upgrade of our intranet Continue to adjust the bank’s business model sustainability-related risks in our business based risk review system and finalized our sustainto the new regulatory environment. transactions and work on their implementation. ability risk checklist. Employees with direct client  Contribute constructively to regulatory reforms contact and employees in control functions received and efforts to build a more robust financial system. training about the risks in various sectors. We updated certain sector policies (e.g. our Mining Policy).  Further refine bank-wide risk review processes, Energy efficiency and carbon intensity are now also tools and training to promptly identify environmentaken into account in the case of certain oil and tal and social risks relating to potential business gas extraction and power generation transactions. transactions.  Foster cross-divisional collaboration through the  We intensified collaboration and the exchange of  Continue to foster cross-divisional collaboration Green Business Initiative (GBI), the pur­p ose of information through measures including our monthly through the Green Business Initiative (GBI) to which is to help coordinate efforts in the areas of internal GBI publication that informs our different share business insights and promote our offering clean energy, water and sustain­able commodities. businesses and regions about relevant activities of investment products and services that focus elsewhere in the bank. We have a number of transon sustainability themes. actions in the pipeline as a result of increased  Further integrate climate change considerations collaboration driven by the GBI. into risk assessments.  Develop innovative solutions and services to link  We developed our Local Currency Microfinance  Continue to develop solutions in the area of the top and the base of the wealth pyramid and Note to address the strong demand for local curmicrofinance to promote the responsible developcontinue to actively support the responsible develrency financing in the microfinance sector. We also ment of the sector, e.g. with our products and opment of the microfinance industry. published a white paper on microfinance and sevour microfinance initiative. eral research reports on this topic. Society  Sharpen the strategic direction of the three  As part of our Global Education Initiative, we  Further sharpen the strategic direction of our focus themes Employee Engagement, Education began a three-year program to improve the quality/ social commitments with a focus on education and and Microfinance Capacity Building. relevance of education. In the school year 2011–2012, microfinance by strengthening local organizations an estimated 72,000 students will benefit from and improving the skills of their employees to improved access to and/or a better education and enable them to serve more end-beneficiaries. 12,700 teachers will be trained. With the Microfi Further strengthen employee engagement, in nance Capacity Building Initiative, we served 1.8 milparticular skills-based volunteering. Increase virtual lion entrepreneurs and their families in 2011 and volunteering and enhance volunteering activities launched a second three-year partnership cycle. and partnerships in the emerging markets.  Expand the support of activities and partnerships  Employee engagement increased in Brazil, China,  Further develop more effective synergies between in emerging markets. India, Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia, as well our clients, NGO partners, banking units and as in Eastern Europe and Russia. We entered into a the units coordinating employee engagement to new partnership in Mexico and launched our first multiply the positive impacts of our activities on Philanthropy Committee in Poland. society.  Work more closely and systematically with de We increased employee engagement by 15% in partments and raise awareness of volunteering terms of the number of volunteers and level of opportunities that enable employees to use their volunteering as a result of closer collaboration with competencies to add value to our partners and internal departments. The number of volunteers our communities. involved in our skills-based Global Citizens Program nearly doubled and we increased the number of countries where employees can go on assignment.  Further improve the Access to Quality Education  We engaged in projects that focus on providing programs through measures which – depending access to education for underprivileged children on the regions – focus on building infrastructures, in developing countries by supporting charities in providing scholarships and advancing excellent India, Laos and Cambodia in building schools, teaching in order to prepare young people for subimproving school facilities and providing learning sequent education attainment or employment. materials. In the US, we launched our Teach for America volunteering project. 61 Objectives 2011 Achievements Objectives 2012 Employer  Translate Credit Suisse’s refined global HR strategy  We introduced a new performance management  Continue to implement compensation models into tangible actions and behavior, fostering diversity approach to systematically assess employee that focus on long-term performance and align and inclusion. Enable further development of emperformance based on a personal plan defined in employee and shareholder interests, e.g. by deployees through a new forward-looking approach to conjunction with each employee’s line manager. ferring a significant proportion of discretionary reviewing and managing performance. Continue to The process places a strong focus on learning and variable incentive awards and using instruments be an innovative leader in learning and development. development, including internal mobility. that are subject to claw-back provisions based on certain performance criteria.  Reinforce the understanding that every employee  Using our enhanced performance management is an important driver of the bank’s long-term approach, we assessed the extent to which em Further refine our performance management performance and that managers are accountable ployees and managers live our core values, focus process based on initial experience with a strong for proactively developing their people. Deepen on development and drive overall performance. focus on employee development. our committed partnership culture by empowering We also established a Global Leadership Council leadership and collaboration at all levels and across to further strengthen internal collaboration and divisions to serve our clients’ needs. our partnership culture in order to set an example for employees and to help them to deliver on our commitment to clients.  Simultaneously improve the assessment of talent  We continued to refine our talent development and systematically develop into managerial and process to ensure a consistent approach to sucexpert roles. Strengthen our presence on university cession management. Measures include talent campuses globally to increase the number of reviews, which encompassed 63% of our workforce people we hire at entry level from schools and uniin 2011. We held a range of campus events and versities – with the mid-term goal of such talent launched a new marketing campaign to raise our accounting for half of the annual intake. profile among graduates. We also intensified recruiting efforts in key strategic markets.  Embed client skills deep in the organization.  We executed various measures to further embed client skills in areas of the business with direct client contact as well as in support areas. Measures include running a mandatory certification process for relationship managers in Private Banking. Environment  Continue to engage in the climate change debate  We participated in the economiesuisse climate  Strengthen engagement on climate policy and and to explore the potential impacts of climate campaign and cleantech study. continue to encourage employees to take active change on our business while also building awareclimate-related measures. ness for climate issues.  Implement further steps to improve our en Raise awareness for biodiversity risks and  We extended our Forestry Policy to include agrivironmental performance based on our opportunities, also in connection with the Interbusiness issues. We also organized events to ISO 14001-certified environmental managenational Year of Forests (2011). educate our employees about the importance of ment system and take measures to meet forests and biodiversity. our environmental goals, focusing on the main greenhouse gas drivers.  Implement further improvement measures based  Our E-Maximo energy and resource management on our ISO 14001-certified environmental tool, which facilitates the definition of efficiency management system – with a special focus on targets for individual buildings and illustrates the reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. potential of specific operational enhancements and energy-related investments, was further developed and tested. Dialogue  Continue dialogue and engagement with impor We are positioned as a knowledgeable and re­ Communicate with maximum transparency tant stakeholders to recognize global trends as spected partner in discussions on finance industry while observing duties of confidentiality. early as possible and to jointly work on solutions reforms. Through the successful placement of  Engage in a dialogue to support regulatory rethrough our involvement in networks and initiatives Buffer Capital Notes, we took an important step forms and efforts to build a more robust financial as well as through selected publications. toward meeting the stricter capital rules resulting system. from the “Too Big to Fail” issue.  Further increase dialogue with NGOs and IGOs  We strengthened our cooperation with various and continue implementation of partnerships with organizations worldwide, e.g. Earthwatch. We also selected organizations. engaged in an ongoing dialogue with NGOs and IGOs in all our regions, e.g. Berne Declaration, Greenpeace, the UN Global Compact and UNEP FI.  We contributed constructively to efforts to find a solution to regularize foreign assets in Switzerland. ASSURANCE STATEMENT SGS STATEMENT ON ASSURANCE of Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 SCOPE SGS was commissioned by Credit Suisse to conduct an independent assurance of the GRI-based disclosure on sustainability in 2011. Our assurance scope included the GRI disclosure obligations and figures in accordance with the GRI Index published at www.creditsuisse.com/responsibility. The scope of the assurance, based on the SGS Sustainability Report Assurance methodology, included all texts and 2011 data in accompanying tables contained in the printed Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 and referenced information on the webpage of Credit Suisse as quoted in the GRI Index. The assurance process did not consider any data from previous years. CONTENT The Board of Directors or the Executive Board and the Management of the organisation are responsible for the details provided in the annual report and on the website and in the presentation. SGS was not involved in the preparation of any of the material included in the GRI Index and acted as an independent assuror of the data and text using the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (2006) as a standard. The content of this Assuror’s Statement and the opinion(s) it gives is the responsibility of SGS. CERTIFIER INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCIES The SGS Group is active as a globally leading company in the areas of assurance, testing, verifying and certifying in more than 140 countries and provides services, including the certification of management systems and services. SGS confirms that it is independent from Credit Suisse. It is unbiased and no conflicts of interest exist with the organisation, its subsidiaries and beneficiaries. The assurance team was assembled based on knowledge, experience and qualifications for this assignment. METHODOLOGY The SGS Group has developed a set of protocols for the assurance of Sustainability Reports based on current best practice guidance provided in the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (2006). SGS also certified the environmental management systems of Credit Suisse (housekeeping only) in accordance with ISO 14001:2004. The assurance comprised the evaluation of external sources, meetings with relevant employees, a verification of the documentation and recordings as well as the validation of these with external institutions and/or beneficiaries, where required. Financial data drawn directly from independently audited financial accounts was not checked back to its source as part of this assurance process. OPINION On the basis of the above methodology, we did not detect any instances from which we would have to conclude that the information and data disclosed by Credit Suisse in accordance with the GRI Index 2011 may be incorrect. The information and data disclosed represent, to our mind, a fair and balanced picture of the sustainability efforts made by Credit Suisse in 2011. There are optimisation potentials concerning Materiality/stakeholder inclusiveness: stakeholders expectations shall be more systematically evaluated and reflected in the report Accuracy: GRI indicators which require a specific answer (e.g. figures, percentages, etc.) shall be more accurately disclosed Continual improvement: quantitative objective shall be set based on KPIs including all relevant GRI indicators Systematic implementation of policies and procedures in all parts of the bank Better disclosure practice: GRI indicators shall be disclosed in the actual text of the report and only exceptionally in the GRI Content Index Sustainability risk management: shall cover the full range of sustainability risks, not only focus on transaction risks (which are managed in a highly-professional manner) We believe that the existing gaps are well under control due to corrective actions taken and the Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 meets the requirements of level A+ of the GRI (2006) in accordance with the GRI Index. SIGNED FOR AND ON BEHALF OF SGS Jakob Koster, Lead Auditor Elvira Bieri, Auditor Zurich, 21 March 2012 www.SGS.COM GP5008 Issue 1 Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information This report contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, in the future we, and others on our behalf, may make statements that constitute forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements may include, without limitation, statements relating to the following:  our plans, objectives or goals;  our future economic performance or prospects;  the potential effect on our future performance of certain contingencies; and  assumptions underlying any such statements. Words such as “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends” and “plans” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements except as may be required by applicable securities laws. By their very nature, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, both general and specific, and risks exist that predictions, forecasts, projections and other outcomes described or implied in forward-looking statements will not be achieved. We caution you that a number of important factors could cause results to differ materially from the plans, objectives, expectations, estimates and intentions expressed in such forward-looking statements. These factors include:  the ability to maintain sufficient liquidity and access capital markets;  market and interest rate fluctuations and interest rate levels;  the strength of the global economy in general and the strength of the economies of the countries in which we conduct our operations, in particular the risk of continued slow economic recovery or downturn in the US or other developed countries in 2012 and beyond;  the direct and indirect impacts of continuing deterioration or slow recovery in residential and commercial real estate markets;  adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies in respect of sovereign Enquiries issuers, structured credit products or other credit-related exposures;  the ability to achieve our strategic objectives, including improved perforCredit Suisse AG Investor Relations mance, reduced risks, lower costs and more efficient use of capital; Tel. +41 44 333 71 49  the ability of counterparties to meet their obligations to us; investor.relations@credit-suisse.com  the effects of, and changes in, fiscal, monetary, trade and tax policies, and currency fluctuations; Credit Suisse AG  political and social developments, including war, civil unrest or terrorist Corporate Communications activity; Tel. +41 844 33 88 44  the possibility of foreign exchange controls, expropriation, nationalization or media.relations@credit-suisse.com confiscation of assets in countries in which we conduct our operations;  operational factors such as systems failure, human error, or the failure to Photography: Alberto Venzago (cover, 2, 6, 36, implement procedures properly; back cover), Scott Neeson (4, 29), getty images (13),  actions taken by regulators with respect to our business and practices in Bernard van Dierendonck (19, 30, 33, 34, 35, one or more of the countries in which we conduct our operations; Booklet V), Amer Kapetanovic (22),  the effects of changes in laws, regulations or accounting policies or practices; André Vieira (24), Patrick Kälin (25),  competition in geographic and business areas in which we conduct our Credit Suisse (27, 30, 39, Booklet VII), operations; Urs Schiess (30, Booklet VII),  the ability to retain and recruit qualified personnel; Gian Marco von Castelberg (33), Dieter Nagel (33),  the ability to maintain our reputation and promote our brand; Flavio Gerber (Booklet III),  the ability to increase market share and control expenses; Steffen Thalemann (42), Stücheli Architekten (47),  technological changes; Rainer Wolfsberger (50) Design: KMS TEAM, www.kms-team.com  the timely development and acceptance of our new products and services Printer: Swissprinters Zürich AG and the perceived overall value of these products and services by users; Paper: Z-Offset, Plano Premium, matt, FSC,  acquisitions, including the ability to integrate acquired businesses success90 g/m 2 (content) and 150 g/m 2 (inside cover); fully, and divestitures, including the ability to sell non-core assets; MultiArt silk /Luxo Satin, coated, semi-matt,  the adverse resolution of litigation and other contingencies; 100 g/m 2 (Booklet 2011)  the ability to achieve our cost-efficiency goals and cost targets; and and 350 g/m 2 (outside cover)  our success at managing the risks involved in the foregoing. We caution you that the foregoing list of important factors is not exclusive. neutral When evaluating forward-looking statements, you should carefully consider Printed Matter the foregoing factors and other uncertainties and events. No. 01-12-733339 – www.myclimate.org © myclimate – The Climate Protection Partnership CREDIT SUISSE GROUP Paradeplatz 8 8070 Zurich Switzerland Tel. +41 44 212 16 16 Fax +41 44 333 25 87 www.credit-suisse.com
