UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 31st JULY 2012 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT MESSAGE BY THE CHAIRMAN At Durdans Hospital we are committed to promote the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), encompassing areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. We have incorporated these universal principles in our business strategy, decision making process, routine operations and organisational culture. We communicate annually with our stakeholders about the initiatives taken and progress made through our communication on progress (COP), which is also highlighted in our annual report. We are committed to continuously adhere to and promote the UNGC principles now and in future. Ajith E Tudawe Chairman Durdans Hospital INTRODUCTION Durdans Hospital is an established and respected tertiary healthcare provider in Sri Lanka, focusing on patient care above all for Sri Lankan and international patients. It is a modern, multi-speciality private hospital with state-of-the-art medical facilities, conveniently located in the heart of Colombo. Since 1945, generations of Sri Lankans have been cared for by Durdans, a trusted and recognised name for patient healing. Today, it is synonymous with the medical expertise, trusted nursing care and modern facilities that has become our tradition. The new Sixth Lane Wing which opened in January 2011 continues to embody tradition with a higher level of dedicated service, care and attention in a pleasant environment. We offer our patrons a further selection of rooms with improved service areas, specialised consultation chambers, new theatres and additional critical care. Durdans Hospital is the preferred healthcare provider for many people in Sri Lanka. VISION To be acknowledged as the finest healthcare institution providing clinical and nursing services to the people of Sri Lanka. MISSION Our management leadership, world-class technology and professionally trained staff will deliver top quality clinical and nursing care in both the current core disciplines and emerging areas. We are committed to creating a customer centric culture and providing excellent service backed by technology enabled sustainable operations. CORE VALUES Compassion Sympathy for the suffering of others and the desire to help, which is abundantly expressed to the patients, staff and society alike. Innovation Innovating as we move forward, questioning the status quo, and offering solutions which provide the dynamism to what we do every day. Excellence The outstanding mind set which requires us to constantly upgrade our offerings to deliver excellence in everything we do. Honesty and Integrity Our moral uprightness and the strong principles help us deliver high professional standards. Team Spirit The power of the cohesive group of people working together to deliver common goals in absolute harmony. HUMAN RIGHTS  Internal and external customers are selected and services are provided without distinction of race, colour, sex, language, religion, national, social origin, political or other status.  Over 60% of the workforce is female and business operations continue 24 hours a day. Due to the nature of operations, 6 well furnished female hostels are managed by the company in the vicinity with 24 hour security coverage.  Whilst granting statutory requirements, female employees are granted up to an additional 3 months of no pay leave on request, once maternity leave is exhausted.  All employees are educated about their rights and awareness sessions are frequently conducted by the Department of labour on sexual harassment. A senior manager and 2 executives participated in a forum on sexual harassment in the work place conducted by the ILO Colombo office last year.  All patients are educated about their rights and responsibilities prior to admission and a patient grievance handling process is functional.  After 6 months all employees and their immediate family members are covered under a comprehensive medical insurance coverage provided by the hospital. In addition, up to 5 employees are provided treatment for critical illnesses annually. This commenced from year 2012.  The employee grievance committee is presided by the Chairman and comprised of executive directors and the senior management. The committee reviews all employee grievances on a quarterly basis followed by remedial action. ANTI-CORRUPTION  The procurement process is streamlined with the establishment of the procurement committee appointed by the Board of Directors. The procurement committee enhanced transparency and brought in best practices in addition to delivering purchasing efficiency.  Open door policy and employee education with regard to reporting of all forms of corruption coupled with an ‘employee suggestion box’ scheme is in place.  Accountability and responsibility of business activities are ensured through formal Board meetings, documented board minutes and the establishment of committees functioning under the purview of the Board of Directors. ENVIRONMENT  The immediate surrounding environment of the hospital is prominently posted with signs. Security guards are deployed for traffic control, ensuring accessibility and convenience to the neighbourhood. Services are obtained from external environmental cleaning agencies to maintain hygiene in the immediate surroundings.  Disposal of hospital waste is in accordance to standards and the Central Environmental Authority (CEA) guidelines. Medical waste is collected by a contractor who is registered with the CEA for appropriate disposal of medical waste as to the standards laid down by the state.  The hospital always endeavours to utilise environmental friendly material and equipment produced by globally reputed manufacturers to meet international environmental standards in protecting the environment.  Environmental hazards are taken into consideration throughout the supply chain.  In spite of space constraints faced, 25% of the courtyard area that was used for parking was converted to an eco-friendly landscape. Throughout the hospital 75 large flower pots have been placed making the internal and external environment eco-friendly.  Anti-Pollution measures such as noise pollution are ensured through the installation of sound proof generators. Equipment emitting radiation is secured through protection barriers approved by the Atomic Energy Authority.  To save energy, CFL bulbs have been replaced with LED bulbs in most areas. The entire hospital is presently operating on a central air conditioning system (chilled water system) replacing the individual (split and window type) units. LABOUR  A senior manager participated in a seminar on Labour Standards conducted by the ILO. Programmes related to Labour Standards conducted by the EFC (Employer’s Federation of Ceylon), Sri Lanka were attended by an executive and two clerks. The hospital frequently seeks advice from the EFC, Sri Lanka and the Department of Labour to improve Labour Standards. Learning outcomes of new models and best practices from these activities are incorporated into hospital policies and procedures.  Salaries to all employee categories are considerably higher than the minimum wage stipulated by the state. For the past 4 years, the Human Resources Manager of the hospital is functioning as a member of the Wages Board for Nursing Home Trade under the Department of Labour in Sri Lanka.  Policies and procedures in areas such as grievance handling, career progress, training opportunities, job descriptions and an open door policy provide employees an opportunity to present their issues, suggestions and opinions to the Chairman and the Board of Directors. All opinions and suggestions are equally respected in spite of the position the employee holds in the organisation and where necessary confidentiality is assured.
