Social Responsibility 2011 Maxibit Worldwide AB 1 Maxibit Worldwide AB. www.maxibit.com, info@maxibit.se A responsible and profitable business is based on ethical considerations as well as financial. Christian Ahlberg CEO, Maxibit 2 Maxibit Worldwide AB. www.maxibit.com, info@maxibit.se True to the original core values An interesting fact about Maxibit is that the original concept has never changed. In the 70s Erik Ahlberg started the company with the idea to provide a set of quality marketing tools to the leading premium brand companies. He created a lightweight, portable, and reusable solution that was more environmentally friendly than the booths built by craftsmen. By pioneering the portable marketing industry with great innovations Maxibit created a new world standard – a standard that today is taken for granted. Maxibit Core Values  Optimize the customer experience  Swedish designed portable premium brand stands  User centric innovations  Environmental sustainability 3 Maxibit Worldwide AB. www.maxibit.com, info@maxibit.se Table of content A summary of 2011..............................................................................5 Maxibit 2010............................................................................................... 5 Project 1 – Collecting product specifications........................................5 Project 2 – Recycling ............................................................................6 Office recycling........................................................................................... 6 Limit paper waste....................................................................................... 6 Toner cartridges.......................................................................................... 7 Project 3 – Energy efficiency.................................................................7 Education, Seminars, CSR Reference Group, Conscious Consumption.8 The importance of environmental education..............................................8 Maxibit Sustainability Policy Education.......................................................8 Social Responsibility Day............................................................................ 8 Reference group for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)........................9 Maxibit 1 % Back Programme.............................................................10 Contributions 2008................................................................................... 10 Maxibit – a member of UN Global Compact .......................................12 Maxibit and the UN Global Compact 10 Principles 2008...........................12 Improvements....................................................................................14 The Code of Conduct includes requirements concerning..........................16 Workers..................................................................................................... 16 Environmental requirements for suppliers................................................18 4 Maxibit Worldwide AB. www.maxibit.com, info@maxibit.se A summary of 2011 The year 2011 was a time of great upheaval on many fronts, both democratically and financially. With account deficits and unemployment rising the European Union's economic outlooks seem to get ever darker. Sweden has for the most part been able to position itself outside with a strong balanced account and for the most part a growing economy. Sweden is however, en export economy and with markets crashing around it, we are faced with the challenge of growing our economy through moving into new markets. In other parts of the world the Arab spring provides new seeds of hope for the masses crippled by suffocating dictatorships. From Tunsia, Lybia, Egypt and Syria etc. people take to the streets to demand basic human rights. Despite advances on many fronts, the ice shelves still melt, poverty is still disempowers millions of people and the flood of a natural disasters never seems to stop. The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is needed now more than ever. Maxibit 2011 Maxibit continues to make advances in areas of production and operation. Lead by the 10 principles of the UNGC, Maxibit has redesigned parts and products to use more part that are either more recyclable or recycled. The 10 principles of the UNCG continue to make a huge impact of the research and design of new and upgrades of older products. These 10 principles continue to influence production at the factories there Maxibit produces it's products. Maxibit now makes more trip to it's factories, where it can assess production procedures and highlight problems and areas of improvements for all parts of the supply chain. Maxibit has also made moved to position the UNGC in all key marketing and communication. During 2011, Maxibit updated it's website, giving the UNGC a more central role, both on the blog and on the regular website. In advertising and marketing activities the UNGC plays a key role in communicating core values to stake holders. Other key areas where the UNGC compact takes a central role, is through participation in the Swedish Governments group for CSR. 5 Maxibit Worldwide AB. www.maxibit.com, info@maxibit.se Project 1 – Collecting product specifications Maxibit continues to develop new products and update older ones. Keeping in pace with current development, Maxibit continues to collect product specifications and use these in developing better products from an environmental perspective. Build on it's work from 2010 Maxibit has implemented “Sustainable Analytics” into the standard CAD & R&D process. This work has allowed Maxxibit to collect a substantial database and track carbon footprints for it's product range. Project 2 – Recycling Maxibit continues to focus on the impact of waste in the office environment and has taken new measures to ensure that the waste that is produced is reduced and disposed of effectively. During 2011 Maxibit enter into an agreement with a company that specialised in the area of waste disposal in the office environment. Included in the agreement was responsible disposal of waste and education for all employees in regards to proper waste disposal. Furthermore, Maxibit is now able to contact this company on a consultancy basis for disposal of irregular waste. The co-operation has yielded great results and above all else has allowed Maxibit the maintain higher standards in waste disposal. In the field of waste disposal, Maxibit continues to work hand in hand with Sweden's largest waste disposal companies. Metals, chemicals and all other non-office related waste is handled by Maxibit's trusted co-operation partners. Maxibit has also implemented a policy for the purchase of electronic items, with environmental standards as a key decision factor. Sales car fleet In the keeping with Maxibit environmental commitment, Maxibit keeps a fleet of ethanol-powered cars to help reduce the emissions of carbon dioxide. As a fuel source pro's and con's of ethanol has been discussed quite a lot in media due to the manufacturing process and the effect it has on people in areas where ethanol is produced. Maxibit is aware of this discussion but believes that ethanol is a better choice than fossil fuels at this time. There are a lot of consumers that are pushing for sustainable ethanol and Maxibit hope to see verified sustainable ethanol in the very near future. The CEO, Christian Ahlberg's invitation to the european car manufactorers to let Maxibit become an early adopter of the first hydrogyn-cars introduced or tested in Europe has unfortunately been turned down by the car industry. But who needs a car anyway? Maxibit promotes all staff to bike or walk when possible. In fact, the CEO walks the talk and bikes 20 km every day in sun, rain, hail or snow. 6 Maxibit Worldwide AB. www.maxibit.com, info@maxibit.se Limit paper waste Already in 2008 Maxibit stopped the printing of brochures, price lists and product sheets. With printing orders of 20 000 A4 brochures, 8 000 A5 price lists biannually and around 1 000 product sheets annually we calculate a saving of roughly 3 500 kilos of paper every two years. This policy is still adopted. All Maxibit brochures and product sheets are available to download as PDF’s on the Maxibit website and the price lists, also PDF’s, are sent digitally per request to customers. Instead of printing inspirational images for customer meetings Maxibit show these images via phones connected to the Internet or on laptops brought to the meeting. During 2010 Maxibit encourage all suppliers to stop sending paper invoices to Maxibit and promoted them to send digital invoices instead. At the same time the use of digital invoices to customers (as oppose to paper) also became policy. This work continued in 2011, with higher rates of adoption as customers become familiar with how Maxibit works and more importantly, why it does this. Toner cartridges Maxibit continues to recycle used toner cartridges. This is now the reposnibily of a recycling expert company that is able to ensure that each recycled tner cartridge is recycled the correct way. Project 3 – Energy efficiency Light fixture, computers and computer monitors are shut down as soon as the office hours are finished to save energy. In the office we use fluorescent ceiling lights that are more energy efficient than traditional light bulbs. A shift towards even more efficiant light sources are continously explored. For instance the shift to LED started came closer during 2009, and during 2010 Maxibit participate in development and testing of new branch standard floodlights. Education, Seminars, CSR Reference Group The importance of environmental education It is widely agreed that education is the most effective way to get people to understand how we interact with and are dependent on natural ecosystems. To save the ecosystems for the next generation we have to learn how we should work and live to protect them. Most of us want to do the right thing but do not always have the know-how. Through education, workshops and seminars Maxibit are striving to give its employees a greater understanding of how each and every one of us can make a difference. Maxibit Sustainability Policy Education In the beginning of 2011 the annual seminar ‘Maxibit Sustainability Policy’ was held for the employees of Maxibit HQ. Every aspect of the policy was discussed and explained to the further understanding as to why Maxibit has 7 Maxibit Worldwide AB. www.maxibit.com, info@maxibit.se chosen to work with these issues. The employees got an opportunity to add their comments. During the meeting a decision was made to continue the support for the organisations World Wildlife Found and The Children's Villages. Reference group for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) The participation in the Swedish Governments Group for CSR continues. During 2011 Maxibit has continued to push for a great adoption of the UNGC amongst the Groups members, who included companies like H6M, IKEA and Volvo. Maxibit 1 % Back Programme As of October 2007, Maxibit started the Maxibit 1 % Percent Back Programme. Through this programme, Maxibit is committed to give one percent of its net profit every year to non-profit organisations. We choose organisations that work with environmental and humanitarian aid work. Contributions 2011 SOS Children’s Villages SOS Children's Villages is the world's largest organisation for abandoned and orphaned children. www.sos-childrensvillages.org/. Maxibit is a corporate sponsor for the village Dhassa-Zoumé in Benin, Africa and has been so since October 2007. World Wildlife Fund “World Wildlife Fund for Nature is dedicated to stop the degradation of the planet's natural environment and to build a future in which humans live in harmony with nature.” www.wwf.org. Maxibit is a friendship company to the World Wildlife Fund for Nature and has been so since October 2007. Maxibit – a member of UN Global Compact “The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption.” [Source: http://www.unglobalcompact.org/AboutTheGC/index.html, 20090112] Maxibit got its membership, as the first company in the portable marketing industry, approved by the UN Global Compact (GC) in 2007. Believing in the value of GC’s 10 principles Maxibit has made an effort to promote the UN Global Compact to the business community in a variety of ways. On the Maxibit website there is information about UN Global Compact and an abbreviated version of its 10 Principles, 8 Maxibit Worldwide AB. www.maxibit.com, info@maxibit.se http://www.maxibit.com/about/csr/. Maxibit also made a decision to print the UN Global Compact web address on all Maxibit product sheets and brochures that are sent to customers in the premium market segment. Maxibit also has produced a short film about the importance of ethical business and the environment and the values of the UN Global Compact program – “The Greener Choice”. This film is available at http://www.youtube.com/maxibitab. In addition to this the CEO of Maxibit Worldwide, Christian Ahlberg has continued his blog as a continuous source of updates regarding Maxibit’s progress. This blog can be found at http://www.maxibit.com/blog/. Maxibit and the UN Global Compact 10 Principles 2010 Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. To ensure that the employees at the manufacturing plant are provided with a safe work environment Christian Ahlberg, CEO, and Niklas Hellmer (Cheif Operations Officer), visits important plants on a regular basis. They also check that the production process follows the environmental demands of the Maxibit Code of Conduct. Maxibit also continues to support SOS Children’s Villages (part of Maxibit 1 % Back Programme) that give orphaned children a stable family environment, education and training. Principle 2 Business should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. All Maxibit suppliers have to sign the Maxibit Code of Conduct where they agree to fair business practice. The agreement states that all employees have the right to a safe and comfortable working environment, that child labour and forced labour is not tolerated, the wages have to be fair, overtime must be paid, work hours regulated, that there are freedom of association and that there is no discrimination due to gender, religion, sexual preference, age, disability, political or union membership. Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right of collective bargaining. All of Maxibits’ suppliers have to sign the Maxibit Code of Conduct to prove that they respect the right of freedom of association. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. All Maxibit suppliers have to sign the Maxibit Code of Conduct ensuring that the they use no forced labour. Before any agreements are signed with a potential supplier the purchaser visits the manufacturing plant to assess the 9 Maxibit Worldwide AB. www.maxibit.com, info@maxibit.se working conditions and the production process. Human rights and environmental guidelines must correspond to the Maxibit Code of Conduct. The Maxibit HQ leadership group have discussed the potential need to find an independent foundation to make sure that the Code of Conduct is continually being adhered to. At the main plant this is now practised on a regular basis. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour. All Maxibit suppliers have to sign the Maxibit Code of Conduct ensuring that the plant uses no child labourers. Before any agreements are signed with a potential supplier the purchaser visits the manufacturing plant to make sure there are no under-age workers. Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination of employment and occupation. Maxibit does not tolerate any discrimination of employment and occupation. Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Threw the work with UNGC, the attendance at the UNGC Summit 2010, the work in the CSR-reference group and the work with Conscious Consumption the staff, partners ans stakeholders are on going being updated with benchmark possibilities and best practices in sustainability. Films from previous stakeholder events can be found at Maxibits Youtube channel. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Maxibit decided to stop printing concept brochures, price lists and product sheets and instead offer our customers a digital version through the Maxibit website and via e-mail. This saves the environment almost 3.5 tonnes of paper biannually. Maxibit also continues to support the World Wildlife Fund (part of Maxibit 1 % Back Programme). To minimize the exhaust of carbon dioxide Maxibit company cars are driven on ethanol. The Maxibit has entered into an agreement with a recycling company that helps Maxibit reduce waste and dispose of waste properly. The company acts as a consultant to Maxibit when dealing with irregular waste. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. To transfer graphic material, brochures or other marketing material to partners and end-users Maxibit has set up an FTP-server where they can pick up and drop of material. This saves Maxibit wasting CD’s and DVD’s and the environment energy and pollutants. For customer visits reusable USB memory sticks hold marketing materials. 10 Maxibit Worldwide AB. www.maxibit.com, info@maxibit.se Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Maxibit do not accept any form of extortion or bribery. Maxibit Supplier Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct includes requirements concerning • Respect the rights of all workers • Providing a safe and healthy work place • Follow the local law in every aspect • Minimizing the impact on the environment Workers 1. Safe and comfortable working environment 2. Child labour is not tolerated 3. Forced labour unacceptable 4. Fair wages, paid overtime and regulated work hours 5. Freedom of association 6. No discrimination 1. Safe and comfortable working environment Fire safety such as fire extinguishers, unlocked emergency exits and fire alarms must be in place. The workplace must also be free of harassment, abuse and corporal punishment. The factories must have working ventilation or a fan system to control the climate. The workplace should also be clean and in good condition, with all necessary sanitation facilities. 2. Child labour is not tolerated Maxibit does not tolerate child labour and requires all their suppliers to thoroughly check the ID documentation of every worker employed. The term child refers to any person under the age of 15, or 14 where the law of the country permits, or under the minimum age for employment in the country. 3. Forced labour unacceptable Forced, bonded or involuntary prison labour is not to be used. All work will be voluntary, and workers should be free to leave upon reasonable notice. 4. Fair wages, paid overtime and regulated work hours The employees must be paid, as a base-rate, the minimum wage or the prevailing industry standard, whichever is higher. All overtime worked by the employee must be fully compensated according to local law. All employees should have set work hours. Any time above this should be paid as overtime. 5. Freedom of association Maxibit do not tolerate any discrimination or punishment on the grounds of union or any other organised group activity. 11 Maxibit Worldwide AB. www.maxibit.com, info@maxibit.se 6. No Discrimination The workforce should be free of harassment and unlawful discrimination. The supplier should not tolerate discrimination based on race, age, gender, disability, religion, political or union membership. 12 Maxibit Worldwide AB. www.maxibit.com, info@maxibit.se Environmental requirements for suppliers 1. Waste reduction and recycling 2. Creating products according to Maxibit environmental standards 1. Waste reduction and recycling Maxibit requires all suppliers to continually work to reduce waste from production. Disposal methods must be documented and audited on a regular basis and the recycling of all products must conform to industry standards. 2. Creating products according to Maxibit environmental standards Products must be produced in accordance to the specifications issued by Maxibit. The standards used by the supplier must be continually monitored so that they continually confirm to Maxibit's stringent environmental policy. Maxibit is committed to continually working to improve all environmental issues regarding production, the materials used in the manufacturing process, packing and transportation. 13 Maxibit Worldwide AB. www.maxibit.com, info@maxibit.se
