Corporate Social Responsibility Landsbankinn 2011 CEO’s Address The most important role of which, among other things, and employees’ knowledge and Landsbankinn in society is to entails accepting deposits, awareness of social issues. ensure the responsible operation providing loans, and managing of the Bank for the benefit of its payment clearing for individuals, Landsbankinn aims to play an owners and society as a whole. companies and public bodies. It is important part role in building Landsbankinn published its therefore necessary, in the Bank’s prosperity in Icelandic society policy on corporate social resopinion, for the Bank to define its for the future. The Bank’s policy ponsibility (CSR) in the spring of objectives in a wider context and is scheduled to be implemented 2011. The policy is based on the as a part of the society in which it in 2015. A part of implementing principles of the United Nations operates. CSR entails an analysis of the Global Compact and ISO 26000, environmental and social impact which are standard guidelines on The Bank aims to build and of the Bank’s activities. The main CSR. Landsbankinn’s CSR policy secure long-lasting relationships objective is to make the policy a is founded on the principle that with customers, to ensure that its part of the Bank’s core activities. the Bank’s procedures must take operations are in harmony with into account society’s emphasis the environment, to be a force in economic, social and environfor change in society, to ensure mental matters at any time. sufficient profitability for shareholders and to secure growth and Landsbankinn considers CSR stability for the long-term. With to be a part of sound business this in mind, risk management practices. As a financial inhas been strengthened systeSteinthór Pálsson, stitution, Landsbankinn plays matically as well as the Bank’s CEO of Landsbankinn an important role in society operations, corporate governance Landsbankinn 2011 3 About the Report Whilst preparing the report, within the Bank or they have principles (see GRI Index page 31) Landsbankinn followed the been compiled especially for this and the following items will be principles of the Global Reporting purpose. The report is prepared discussed: Initiative (GRI) and the Financial with regard to GRI C level and Services Sector Supplement. The encompasses the Bank’s opera» A description of the Bank, aim is to communicate informtions, which are based entirely in reporting, strategy and ation about the operations of the Iceland. corporate governance Bank annually, that relate to CSR » Economic activities in a transparent way and with Landsbankinn is a member of the » Social activities comparable figures from year UN Global Compact and submits » Human resources and work to year. This is the Bank’s third a yearly report, Communication related activities report on CSR, however, it is the on Progress to the UN Global » Engagement in society first report which is published Compact Office. This report will » Human rights with regard to the GRI reporting also serve the purpose of being » Community support principles. The report will be a Communication on Progress » Responsible products and published annually hereafter. report. services Information in the report is gat» Principles for companies hered from the Bank’s databases, The report describes how Landsproviding financial services from various departments bankinn adheres to the G3 4 Landsbankinn 2011 About Landsbankinn Landsbankinn hf. is the largest business relationships. Landsand Landskil ehf., which holds financial institution in Iceland bankinn hf. was established on 9 18.7%. Landsbankinn, headand provides individuals, compOctober 2008 but its predecessors quartered in Reykjavík, operates anies and investors around the date back to the year 1886. The the most extensive branch country with universal financial Bank is owned by the Icelandic network in Iceland. services based on long lasting State, which holds a 81.3% share Figures at year end 2011 Retail customers 100.000 Corporate customers 8.000 Number of branches 45 Number of employees 1.280 Key figures 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 Net operating income 30.743 50.849 Net profit 16.957 27.231 After-tax ROE 8.80% 15.90% After-tax ROE, excluding the contingent bond 19.60% 13.30% CAD ratio 21.40% 19.50% Interest margin on average total asset position 2.90% 2.30% Interest margin + value adjustments on average asset position 0.80% 2.40% Cost ratio 57.20% 61.10% Total assets 1.135.483 1.081.133 Ratio of customer deposits to lending 144.10% 159.60% Employees at year end 1.280 1.146 Landsbankinn 2011 5 Employees and fulltime equivalent positions Number Number of employees CEO’s Office 9 8,75 Legal Advisory 13 11,6 Internal Audit 9 9 Compliance 7 7 Markets & Treasury 21 21 Retail Banking 141 123,23 Asset Management 25 24,8 Corporate Banking 37 36,08 Risk Management 47 46,24 Corporate Development 229 224,82 Financial Operations 188 180,95 Asset Restructuring 70 67,65 Vehicle and Equipment Financing 62 59,61 858 820,72 Branches 497 460,04 Other 25 Total 1380 1280,76 6 Landsbankinn 2011 Landsbankinn‘s Strategy Your Landsbankinn is the title aims to become one of the best A strong emphasis is placed on of Landsbankinn’s new strategy. banks in the Nordic countries listening to customers, learning The strategy is progress-oriented within five years. from experience and remembering and based on a powerful vision of that Landsbankinn is first and Landsbankinn as an exemplary The watchwords of the strategy foremost a service company. The workplace; a cornerstone in are listen, learn and serve, which strategy is based on four main society and a force for change in reflects a significant change in pillars; passion, professionalism, the Icelandic economy. The Bank emphasis in the Bank’s operations. prudence and profit-sharing. Landsbankinn 2011 7 Corporate Social Responsibility Landsbankinn has adopted a policy in CSR. The policy stipulates that the Bank intends to play a leading role when it comes to building prosperity in Icelandic society for the future. Landsbankinn wants to ensure that shareholders and society Economic benefit from its operations by development integrating economic, social and environmental issues into the Bank’s procedures. The policy is to be implemented no later than 2015. Five main areas have been identified in relation to the implementation of CSR in the Bank. Landsbankinn is exemplary They are: Environ» The Customer mental Development » Human resources protection of society » Relations with suppliers and sales of assets » Community support » Environmental issues The responsibility for CSR lies with the CEO of Landsbankinn and the Bank’s expert in CSR. The implementation of the policy 8 Landsbankinn 2011 is also in the hands of steering CSR milestones 2011 » Landsbankinn balanced the groups established in the beginngender ratio on the board ing of 2012. They will define and of directors of the Bank’s be accountable for the particular » CSR expert appointed in subsidiaries areas, which have been identified January 2011 » Employees offered to sign in relation to the implementation » The Bank adopts a Code a commuting agreement of CSR within the Bank. The steof Ethics and Conduct all whereby they commit ering groups’ task is to define the employees have signed the themselves to choosing Bank’s opportunities in relation Code environmentally friendly to CSR, prioritise projects within » A steering group and ways of commuting to and each area and be accountable for support group established from work them with the aim of completing around the formation and » Landsbankinn signed the its implementation in 2015. implementation of a CSR United Nations Women policy in the beginning of Empowerment Principles » A steering group for the year and the United Nations customer issues and social » Landsbankinn’s CSR policy Global Compact responsibility introduced in April 2011 » The Bank launched an effort » A steering group for comm» Seminars held for emploin job creation supporting unity support and social yees to increase their innovation and strengtheresponsibility knowledge of CSR ned its services in that area » A steering group for » The Bank disclosed » The Bank encouraged its relations with suppliers and publically information on employees to take part in social responsibility corporate governance voluntary work during the » A steering group for » The Bank introduced a year environmental issues policy regarding supplier » A steering group for Global relations Reporting Initiative » A policy on the sale and » A steering group for resallocation of appropriated ponsible investment assets published Landsbankinn 2011 9 Corporate Governance Landsbankinn aims to build its isions. Day-to-day operations do money laundering and terrorist operations on a moral foundation not include measures which are financing, which are based on the and show responsibility in action. unusual or extraordinary. Such Icelandic Act No. 64/2006 and The Bank also aims to promote measures may only be taken international rules and guideltransparent disclosure, engage by the CEO pursuant to special ines. The purpose of the rules in constructive dialogue with its authorisation from the Board of is to prevent the operations of owners, shareholders, customers, Directors unless it is impossible Landsbankinn or its subsidiaries stakeholders and society as a to wait for the decisions of the from being used to launder whole. The Bank adheres to GuiBoard of Directors without seriomoney or finance terrorism. delines on Corporate Governance usly disadvantaging the Bank. According to guidelines issued issued by the Iceland Chamber of by the Financial Supervisory Commerce, Nasdaq OMX Iceland The role of the Executive Board Authority, the Bank is responsible hf. and the Confederation of is to manage the daily operations for providing specific training for Icelandic Employers in 2009. of Landsbankinn on behalf of employees, both managers and its owners. For that purpose, the general employees, in measures The Board of Directors is resExecutive Board has approved to prevent money laundering and ponsible for the supervision of specific objectives, benchmarks terrorist financing. All employees the Bank’s operations pursuant and parameters, which are intenhave to take a test on the subject to laws, regulations and its ded to ensure that the governance in order for the Bank to comply Articles of Association. The of the Bank is effective. These with the guidelines. Employees Board of Directors formulates objectives are divided between must answer all questions the Bank’s overall strategy and particular divisions and explained correctly to pass the test. New shall ensure that the organisation in the Bank’s business plan that employees receive training and and activities of the Bank are in describes the position of particular education in the area when they order and effective at all times. divisions, strengths and weaknesstart working for the Bank. DurThe Board of Directors shall also ses, main tasks and the road maps ing the year, courses were also supervise the Bank’s operations which have been carved out. held in Landsbankinn’s branches in general and ensure that control on money laundering. of accounting and financial The Bank’s corporate governance management is satisfactory. The statement can be found in the Board of Directors is elected at Bank’s Annual Report on page GRI SO4 Actions taken in the Annual General Meeting for 40. The Bank’s Annual Report is response to incidents of cora term of one year. Five members accessible on the Bank’s website, ruption of the Board are elected and five www.landsbankinn.is alternates. The Bank’s main methods to The CEO of the Bank is resGRI SO3Percentage of emprevent corruption are entailed ponsible for the day-to-day ployees trained in organisain good governance, rules and operations of the Bank and is tion’s anticorruption policies actions taken by the Bank to empowered to make decisions in promote transparency in the and procedures all of the Bank’s affairs, which are Bank’s procedures and activities. not entrusted to others by law, No employee of Landsbankinn the Bank’s Articles of Association Landsbankinn has established was found guilty of gross misor the Board of Director’s decrules on measures to prevent conduct last year. Nevertheless, 10 Landsbankinn 2011 there were incidents of possible The policy stipulates that the GRI S05 – Public policy posimisconduct among employees of Bank shall take into account CSR tions and participation in LBI hf. (old Landsbanki Íslands). when allocating appropriated public policy development All incidents, where there is assets while also maximising and lobbying suspicion of misconduct e.g. of recovery. The Bank aims to sell the Bank’s information, funds or appropriated assets as soon as other assets, are reported to the possible through an open and A part of Landsbankinn’s straappropriate authorities. Landstransparent sales process. The tegy, is to be a force for change bankinn aims to prevent any kind main objective is to follow good and to play a leadership role in of misconduct whatsoever within business practices. building prosperity in Icelandic the Bank through preventive society for the future. The Bank measures such as education Moreover, in June last year has, for example, been common money laundering, capital Landsbankinn introduced its unicating with the authorities controls, security, transactions policy on relations with suppliers. in Reykjavík City with the aim with financial instruments and The crux of the policy is that of promoting environmentally so on. All front-line employees Landsbankinn aims to demonstfriendly ways of commuting to in the Bank as well as anyone rate fairness, equality and and from work by, among other else who, due his or her work, observe the principle of proporthings, building locked parking needs information on these tionality in its relations with houses for bicycles in the city. subjects, receives education on suppliers and service providers Landsbankinn’s environmentally the aforementioned topics and for the benefit of the Bank and friendly effort in commuting by doing so, the Bank promotes society in general. Landsbankinn is consistent with the transcompliance to law and principle takes into account environmental portation strategy of Reykjavik 10 of the United Nation Global and social policies when doing and the cycling programme “The Compact in preventing corruption business with suppliers and Cycling City Reykjavik”. Landswithin the Bank. service providers. bankinn offers its employees an opportunity to sign a commuting Furthermore, Landsbankinn Code of Ethics and Conduct agreement which entails a direct has implemented an electronic benefit to them; subsidised bus surveillance system with transacLandsbankinn adopted a Code cards for a year and a yearly tions within the Bank to detect of Ethics and Conduct in March repayment of ISK 40.000 for paid misconduct amongst customers. 2011. The Code is in the form of expenses in relation to cycling Moreover, special surveillance is a convention, which all of the to and from work. Employees can kept on the Bank’s employees to 1380 employees of the Bank use the bus on certain days, cycle limit the risk of financial mishave signed. Every year, the when it is convenient and use conduct within the Bank; emploemployees renew the Code with their car when necessary. The yees’ securities transactions are their confirmation in employee rewards are great for the Bank supervised for instance. interviews. The Code is the and the City; cycling improves cornerstone of Landsbankinn’s the health of the Bank’s emploAs part of the Bank’s policy in new strategy and also a guideline yees, saves money and promotes a CSR, the Bank adheres to a policy on how to respond to ethical better traffic culture. on the sale and allocation of dilemmas. The Code of Ethics appropriated assets, which was and Conduct can be found on published in the summer of 2011. Landsbankinn’s website. Landsbankinn 2011 11 Landsbankinn’s opinion related institutions by LandsTo ensure that the Bank’s regarding the legislative bill bankinn in 2011. management follows the decon the Fisheries Management isions in their activities, they Act (complete Act) case No. are regularly required to sign 827. GRI SO 7 – Total number of statements whereby they vow to legal actions for anti-comfollow the provisions stipulated Landsbankinn submitted its petitive behaviour, antitherein. Monitoring in the Bank opinion regarding the legislative trust, and monopoly pracof the conditions set by the bill on proposed changes to the tises and their outcomes Competition Authority did not fisheries management system in reveal any serious breaches to the Iceland introduced by the governCompetition Act. The monitoring ment in late August 2011. LandsThe Competition Authority performed by Compliance and bankinn was of the opinion that it intervened in the Bank’s affairs the Internal Auditor lead to a few was necessary to change the bill eight times during the year. In all remarks being made in relation to as it would have a negative effect cases except one, this involved a procedures and compliance with on the fishing industry in Iceland. settlement between Landsbankthe decisions within the Bank, If the bill would be passed into inn and its holding companies all of these issues were explained law, it would also have a negative in relation to the acquisition of in a report to the Competition effect on the Bank and thereby companies whose activities are Authority. the Icelandic State Treasury as its on a competitive market. The owner. Landsbankinn specified Bank’s acquisition was in all inIn addition to the aforementioned the following consequences stances a part of the debt settleissues, the Competition Authority in its opinion that was made ment of the acquired companies. annulled Landsbankinn’s acquisipublic: Increased operating risk, The Competition Authority tion of a share in Verdís sold by increased uncertainty in relation has adopted the strategy of Arion Bank. Verdís is a company to the funding and financing cost issuing a decision regarding all in the ownership of Arion Bank, of the Bank, cash flow in foreign acquisitions made by financial which provides custody services currencies would decrease, serinstitutions which may affect for securities as well as back ious consequences for indebted competition. Such decisions place office operations in relation to fishing companies, significant a number of onerous conditions securities transactions. The impact on future lending to the on the Bank’s ownership to limit Competition Authority was of the Icelandic fishing industry due to the risk of customers being opinion that the two banks were limits on the transfer of quotas discriminated against or other unable to demonstrate, without a and a ban on placing the quota as measures being taken which doubt, that their joint ownership collateral. might distort competition. The of Verdís would not distort comBank’s Compliance and Internal petition. For that reason the acAuditor monitored the compliquisition was annulled. The case, GRI SO6 – Payments or conance of the Bank’s units with the however, has not been closed and tributions to political parties decisions issued by the Comthe authorities’ opinion regarding and politicians petition Authority. Furthermore, a different implementation of the Compliance has explained the acquisition is now being awaited. decisions to the employees who No contributions were made to are affected by them. political parties, politicians or 12 Landsbankinn 2011 Human resources, health and safety, and human rights Landsbankinn employs talented principles and laws which follow and Finance Employees prepare and highly competent employees that membership. The EEAand implement the agreements. who are a valuable resource for agreement entails free trade in The Confederation of Icelandic a knowledge company such as services and products, and also Employers enters into a collective Landsbankinn. The Bank wants freedom to work and live anywbargaining agreement with the to provide a healthy and safe work here in the EEA-area. Iceland state on behalf of banks, savings environment for its employees is also a member of a number banks, and the Confederation and ensure that they are satisfied of international organisations of Icelandic Bank and Finance at work, and that they are proud such as the International Labour Employees. The Board of Dito work for Landsbankinn. The Organisation, the World Trade rectors of the Bank represents Bank emphasises the importance Organisation and OECD. employees in these agreements of hiring and retaining excellent and other decisions that relate employees and empowering them to them. A collective bargaining in their work. GRI LA-4 – Percentage of agreement shall provide for the employees covered by collecamount of fixed salaries, the The GRI principles and the tive bargaining agreements number of wage categories, workprinciples of UN Global Compact ing hours, paid overtime, holiday, affect human rights, health and payments of travel allowance, safety in the workplace and Icelandic labour law is based on eating facilities, insurance, prinlabour laws, which have been collective bargaining agreements ciples for categorising positions implemented into Icelandic law. on wages and other benefits. into wage categories and other This system has a long history in benefits not provided for by law. Iceland’s Constitution stipulates Iceland and provides the parties If agreements have not been that all Icelanders shall be equal to the labour market with a legal reached or disputes have been before the law and enjoy human framework, which addresses submitted for arbitration in the rights irrespective of their particular parts of employees first six to ten days of the notice gender, religion, political opinion, total wage terms and benefits period, the state mediator shall nationality, race, colour, assets, in collective bargaining agreehandle the dispute. The mediator origin or other circumstances. ments. shall appoint two men to work along with him in a conciliation Iceland is a member of the All of Landsbankinn’s employees, committee to resolve the dispute European Economic Area, which 1380 in total at year-end, have on wage terms. It is permissible joins the member countries of collective bargaining agreeto call a work stoppage once the the EU and the three EFTAments. Collective bargaining notice period has passed with the countries (Iceland, Liechtenstein agreements secure a minimum limits provided for in the aforand Norway) into one market wage for employees and the ementioned agreement. area. Iceland also adheres to the Confederation of Icelandic Bank Landsbankinn 2011 13 Gender ratio and gender wage differential in managerial positions F M Women´s – to – men´s Managing Directors earnings ratio 50% 50% 100% Directors 70% 30 % 97% Department heads 37% 63% 97% Branch Managers 75% 25% 105% Gender ratio – new employees 2011 Gender ratio – all employees 55% 45% 66% 34% GRI LA 13 – Composition Act is to ensure that no discrimb. working to secure equal of governance bodies and ination takes place in relations influence of women and breakdown of employees and cooperation between emplomen in society, yees, companies and customers. c. specifically improving the per category according to In the initial provision of the Act, position of women and gender, age group, minorit states that all individuals shall increasing their opportity group membership, and have equal opportunity to benefit unities in society, other indicators of diversity from their own enterprise and to d. working against wage develop their skills irrespective discrimination and other Landsbankinn’s objective is to of gender. This objective shall be forms of gender-based ensure equality within the Bank reached in the following way as discrimination on the and to value each employee on stipulated in Act No. 10/2008: employment market, the basis of his/her own merits. e. enabling both women and Landsbankinn follows the prin“a. observing gender equality men to reconcile their ciples of UN Global Compact on perspectives and working work and family life, human rights and labour rights towards gender mainf. increasing education and and Act No. 10/2008 on the Equal streaming in policy-makawareness-raising on Status and Equal Rights of Men ing and decision-taking in gender equality, and Women. The purpose of the all spheres of society, 14 Landsbankinn 2011 Work place analysis at Landsbankinn, February 2012 4.5 4 3.5 3 May 2009 March 2010 March 2011 Sept. 2011 March 2012 Satisfaction: I am satisfied in my job at Landsbankinn. Recommendation: I can recommend Landsbankinn as a good place to work at. Pride: I am proud of working for Landsbankinn g. analysing statistics between The Icelandic Associano difference in their remuneraaccording to gender, tion of Women Entrepreneurs, tion. Amongst Branch Managers, h. increasing research in The Confederation of Icelandic women have higher salaries than gender studies, Employers and the Icelandic men. The Board of Directors of i. working against genderChamber of Commerce, where Landsbankinn is comprised of based violence and harassin it states that the share of each two women and three men. In ment, and gender in leadership roles in June 2011, one woman left the j. changing traditional Icelandic companies shall not be Board of Directors and the first gender images and lower than 40% at year-end 2013. alternate, a man, took her place. working against negative The management of the Bank is stereotypes regarding the of the opinion that this is the best Landsbankinn’s equal rights roles of women and men.” way to ensure gender equality in policy was introduced in the the long run. beginning of 2012; it is an Landsbankinn has worked inseparable part of the Bank’s systematically towards promotEquality on the Bank’s Executive human resource policy. An equal ing equality within the Bank in Board and its subsidiaries has rights committee operates within the past year, and the Bank set already been reached. The Executhe Bank, which maintains an itself the same objectives as were tive Board is comprised of four overview of laws and rules that set in a cooperative agreement men and four women, and there is relate to equality issues. LandsLandsbankinn 2011 15 GRI LA13 – Analysis of management and employees Number Women Average age Ratio Men Average age Ratio CEO 1 1 52 Managing Directors 8 4 41 50% 4 43 50% Heads of Departments 47 14 43 30% 33 44 70% Department Directors 27 17 47 63% 10 45 37% Branch Managers 29 6 47 20% 23 50 80% Service Managers 16 16 50 100% bankinn has signed Women’s GRI LA 7 – Rates of injury, » Systematic education and Empowerment Principles – Equaoccupational diseases, lost training, which ensures that lity means Business, an interdays, and absenteeism, and they have the necessary national effort by UN Women knowledge and competence total number of work-related and UN Global Compact. With its to succeed at work fatalities by region signature, Landbankinn commits itself to promoting equality » Diverse education, which within the Bank. Rates of employee sickness is furthers the empowerment ( 7,2 days per year). A record is of the individual Compliance with Human kept of the number of injuries Resource Policy but most injuries happen during » Grants to seek courses/ employees’ free time. Occupatioeducation outside the Bank To maintain an effective human nal diseases are not known and resource policy, the Bank uses employees’ injuries are minor as Diversity characterises the various mechanisms to obtain the employees primarily work in supply of courses, as each year information on the Bank’s an office environment. there are a number of courses on position in those fields to which offer as well as lectures or talks the human resource policy Education for employees that can be useful in a personal pertains. Analysis of severance as well as in a career context. agreements, measurements Landsbankinn’s policy is to of employee turnover, service retain capable, ambitions and surveys, regular workplace audits satisfied employees. The Bank’s GRI LA 10 – Average hours and employee interviews bear educational programme places of training per year per emmentioning in this context. Inemphasis on providing employees ployee by employee category formation can thus be gathered with: systematically on how the human resource policy is complied with During 2011, 348 educational and how effective it is. events were registered and each „Employees‘ sick pay rights are fro 3-12 months depending on their length of service“ 16 Landsbankinn 2011 GRI LA 2 – Employee turnover Employee turnover Number Women Average age Ratio Male Average age Ratio Newly employed 125 69 55% 56 45% during the year Future employees Headquarters 76 30 37 yrs 24% 46 35 yrs 37% Branches 49 39 33 yrs 31% 10 29 yrs 8% Employees who left 113 71 63% 42 37% during the year Thereof: Headquarters 60 28 52 yrs 25% 32 43 yrs 28% Branches 40 33 44 yrs 29% 7 50 yrs 6% Spkef 13 10 59 yrs 9% 3 45 yrs 3% employee took part in more than Landsbankinn aims to increase done by the Bank’s employees. 4 events on average. Teachers in direct participation of employees Employees from 15 companies the courses are either employees in social projects by means of took part in the competition and of the Bank or specialists outside consultancy and by permitting over ISK 3 million was raised to the Bank. voluntary work to be undertaken support Gedhjálp. Landsbankduring work hours. Last year, inn’s contribution came in third Seminars on CSR employees volunteered at the place in the competition. Christmas Donation of the Seminars were held for emploMothers Support Committee in Landsbankinn’s employees have yees on the Bank’s CSR policy. Reykjavík and the National Fund also offered consultancy services Ninety six employees took part Raising event On everyone’s lips in areas, which relate to finances in the seminars for a total of 172 to support Neistann, an Icelandic and innovation. Courses and finworking hours. The seminars charity. A couple of hundred ancial lectures have been given were held for the steering group employees contributed to Landsacross the country. Employees and the Bank’s supportive group bankinn’s Christmas Fund have been members of selection and for employers on a general Raising for the Mothers Support committees, among those the beginner’s course. Committee, the Iceland Red Cross Golden Egg (Gulleggid), an entand Icelandic Church Aid. repreneurial competition held by Employee voluntary work and Innovit and sponsored by Landsconsultancy Employees took part in Gedbankinn. Finally, employees have hjálp’s charity event and Christtaken part in Employment and Landsbankinn is of the opinion mas Song Competition, Crazy Innovation weekends which have that voluntary work is invaluable Christmas (i. Gedveik jól). The been organised in cooperation for society and that it provides an employees of the Bank composed with Innovit across the country. important foundation for indivia song for the competition, Your Employees have also assessed dual morality. Christmas. All work relating to business plans and provided the composing, arrangement consultation services. and performance of the song was Landsbankinn 2011 17 The Customer Customer satisfaction is of primary knowledge and competence to the CEO. The position of the ary importance to Landsbankinn. required for the job. Customers’ Ombudsman was Great emphasis is therefore placed strengthened considerably with on providing a good service and the appointment of a particular responsible consultation services GRI FS 14 –Specific services Corporate Ombudsman in April to meet the needs of each and for customers last year. every customer. The Bank’s watchwords are; we listen, learn The role of the Customers’ and serve. With these watchwords Customers’ Ombudsman Ombudsman is twofold and is as the Bank’s point of reference, divided into service and superviemployees are offered systematic The Customers’ Ombudsman is sion. Customers can resort to the education and training, which appointed by the Board of DirecOmbudsman if they consider that ensures that they have the necesstors and CEO, and is accountable the handling of their affairs at the Branch No. Name of Branch Services for senior citizens and people with disabilities 153 Króksfjardarnes Reykhólar and Barmahlíd visited once a week. 152 Selfoss Senior citizens’ serviced apartments in Grænumörk visited once a week. 156 Ísafjördur Hlíf, a home for the elderly visited once a week. Cash according to withdrawal requests taken from Sæborg, a home for 160 Skagaströnd the elderly on Skagaströnd. Service and social centre for the elderly at Bjarg by Lindasída and 162 Akureyri Service and social centre for the elderly at Vídilundur. Visited once a month except during the four summer months. The elderly at Stödvarfjördur are visited once a week and cash sent to 171 Fáskrúdsfjördur residents of the nursing home for the elderly at Uppsalir, Fáskrúdsfjördur by request. 172 Höfn The home for the elderly at Höfn is visited once a week. Cash taken from the home for the elderly at Vopnafjördur in accordance 178 Vopnafjördur with withdrawal requests. 182 Hvolsvöllur The home for the elderly Kirkjuhvoll at Hvolsvöllur visited once a week. 186 Akranes The home for the elderly at Höfdi visited once a week. Hrafnista in Reykjavik is visited twice a week and the homes for the Chief Cashier elderly and disabled at Hátún, Langahlíd, Hædargardur and Furugerdi are visited once a month. 18 Landsbankinn 2011 Bank has been unreasonable and ted measurements of customer ted in which customers are asked that their matters have not been satisfaction; customers are asked to answer questions that give resolved fairly. The Ombudsman to answer questions about their the Bank an indication of their reviews the cases brought to him retail bank at the end of each emotional bond with their main impartially and tries to find fair year. The Icelandic Satisfaction retail bank, as such emotional solutions, in good cooperation Index is comprised of three quesbonds are considered to control with the Bank’s employees. The tions regarding customer satisthe attitude and behaviour of work of the Customers’ Omfaction and their expectations, customers more than logical budsman is on page 60-61 in the as it has been demonstrated that thinking does. According to Bank’s Annual Report. there is a link between satisthe answers to those questions, faction and customer loyalty. Landsbankinn’s score has been rising in the past year. FS14 – Initiatives to improve Customer relations access to financial services The measurements are performed for disadvantaged people Surveys are performed regularly by Capacent Gallup four times a on behalf of Landsbankinn year. measuring its service and image Landsbankinn´s goal is to meet as well as its main competitors. the needs of its customers. ThroThis has been done for several ugh the provision of robust onyears. Opinion polls are conducline services, a customer service centre, cash machines across the country, mobile phone services and a strong branch network, the The Icelandic Satisfaction Index* Bank meets the needs of most of Surveys are performed by Capacent Gallup. its customers. Furthermore, the 2009 2010 2011 Bank provides financial services Íslandsbanki 54,5 57,5 59,7 in facilities provided for senior Landsbankinn 50,1 56,8 57,3 citizens across the country. Arion Bank 49,6 54,4 52,9 The average score of the Banks** 55,5 58,3 56,4 GRI PR5 – Practises related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisCustomer relations* Surveys are performed by Capacent Gallup. faction 2009 2010 2011 The Icelandic Satisfaction Landsbankinn 3,28 3,23 3,33 Index All banks 3,51 3,40 3,46 The purpose of the Index is to *The table shows the average score for each year. provide companies with coordina**Savings banks are included in the average for 2009 and 2010. Landsbankinn 2011 19 GRI FS-16 – Initiatives to game intended to provide about to become 18 years of age. enhance financial literacy by financial and social education The brochure is also accessible type of beneficiary in civics courses for students in on the Bank’s website and in the secondary school. Through The Bank’s branches. The information Reality Game, students can gain contained in the brochure is inLandsbankinn stresses the an insight into the decisions tended for young people who are importance of improving finmembers of society have to take taking their first steps towards ancial literacy as it is one of the in their daily life and respond to financial independence. Bank’s main responsibilities, as the opportunities they are faced a financial institution, to provide with. The game received an Finance seminars professional advice and sound award from the Nordic Council information on finances both for in 2005 as the best educational The Bank held twelve finance customers and society in general. material in consumer affairs. The seminars across the country in Reality Game is a good example 2011. Seminars were held on Initiatives to improve financial of a social project which is closely pensioner’s rights in cooperation literacy have thus been applied linked to Landsbankinn’s princiwith the Social Insurance Adminsystematically both through pal activities. istration. The main amendments special projects, on the Bank’s to pensioners’ rights and paywebsite and by publishing other Brochure on financial compements were discussed, including material. tence what affects the calculation of the basic pension and income Raunveruleikurinn (The Landsbankinn publishes a brochsupplements, and how financial Reality Game) ure on financial competence. income affects pensioner’s rights The brochure aims to increase at the Social Insurance AdminRaunveruleikurinn (The Reality financial literacy and is sent to istration. A few finance seminars Game) is an interactive online custodians of customers who are were held, which were dedicated 20 Landsbankinn 2011 to savings and how different educational courses of this nature the end of last year, a website methods are best suited to saving in 2011. for debate on economic affairs at different times of our lives. was opened www. umraedan. Lunchtime meetings for landsbankinn.is. There, articles Financial education for companies written by the Bank’s specialists students at college as well as specialists outside Fifteen lunchtime meetings the Bank are published. The Landsbankinn has offered were held for small and medium objective is to improve financial financial education to colleges sized companies across the literacy in general and create across the country with the aim country. The aim is to strengthen a forum for those who want to of improving financial literacy of relations and services, and offer follow a professional debate on students and to make them better company representatives an economic affairs. equipped to analyse financial opportunity to listen to educatiooptions and to make plans for the nal lectures held by specialists www.umraedan.landsbankinn. future. The education is available and management in the Bank. is/fjarhagur is a page on the for all colleges in the country Around 2000 managers attended Landsbankinn’s website which and is provided in cooperation the meetings. is dedicated to education on with their representatives. Young finances. Here the employees people, who work part-time at Public discussions and of Landsbankinn communicate the Bank and who also attend finances their knowledge and experience university, provide the education on matters relating to household on behalf of the Bank. The main Landsbankinn aims to support finances and economic affairs. idea behind this arrangement is and play an active role in factual On this page a number of tools to provide education by peers, discussions, education on the ecowhich can assist in organising which is more likely to appeal to nomy and the finances of compthe finances of the home can be students. Landsbankinn held 17 anies and individuals. Towards found. Landsbankinn 2011 21 Environmental issues Landsbankinn works systematito commuting to and from work by of CO2 in relation to the driving cally towards ensuring that its bus or bicycle, and when possible, of Landsbankinn’s vehicles, and operations are in harmony with also when running errands on on the other, employees flying on the environment. The Bank adbehalf of the Bank. In return, the behalf of Landsbankinn to and heres to the main principles of Bank pays expenses in relation from Iceland. UN Global Compact 7,8 and 9, thereto, for up to ISK 40,000 per which aim to reduce the enviyear in addition to paying for taxis Driving ronmental impact of corporate in emergencies. Furthermore, operations. permanent employees are offered Landsbankinn had 14 cars in a refund amounting to ISK 20,000 total fuelled by diesel in use in per year for bus cards. Currently, 2011 and 13 with petrol. The total GRI – EC8 / EN18 – Measures there are approximately 1380 fuel consumption was 20,749 to reduce the emission of employees at the Bank, thereof dm3 of petrol and 33,638 dm3 green house gasses 850 work in the Bank’s headquarof diesel oil. Considering the ters in Reykjavík city centre. emission of CO2 is 2.32 kg/dm3 of petrol and 2.68 kg/dm2 of diesel, A commuting agreement between the total emission was 138,232 kg the Bank and its employees was GRI EN16 – Total direct and of CO2. According to Kolvidur’s introduced in May 2011. The indirect greenhouse gas website, the Iceland Carbon Fund, main objective of the agreement emission by weight the price for offsetting carbon is to encourage employees to use emissions is 2 kr/kg CO2. Landsenvironmentally friendly ways to bankinn’s cost in relation to the commute to and from work. Just Below is an overview of the offsetting of carbon emissions under 200 employees signed the Bank’s carbon dioxide emissdue to the driving of Landsbankagreement in 2011. With their sigions for the year 2011. On the inn’s cars totalled ISK 276,464 for nature, employees have committed one hand, there is the emission the year 2011. 22 Landsbankinn 2011 Employees’ flights for LandsGRI EN26 – Initiatives to while other notices relating to bankinn to and from Iceland mitigate environmental imcustomer’s accounts will continue pacts of products and serto be sent. Paper-free transacThe employees of Landsbankinn vices, and extent of impact tions are secure, efficient and lead flew in total 227 flights to and mitigation. to savings for customers. All from Iceland in 2011. According account statements are accesto Kolvidur’s model for calcusible online. If customers wish lating carbon emissions, the Landsbankinn decided to stop to be sent account statements by emissions totalled 104,625 kg of sending account statements mail, customers can apply for it CO2. Considering that the price on paper to customers as of 1 especially. for offsetting carbon emissions January 2012. This is done to is ISK 2/kg CO2, Landsbankinn’s reduce cost and the use of paper. cost in relation to the offsetting Statements for chequing accoof carbon emissions amounted to unts, savings accounts, holiday ISK 209,250 in 2011. accounts and foreign currency accounts will, as of year-end 2011, only be accessible online, Summary Offsetting carbon emissions in relation to the driving of cars for Landsbankinn ISK 276,464 Offsetting carbon emissions in relation to employees flying to and from Iceland ISK 209,250 Total ISK 485,714 Landsbankinn 2011 23 Economic issues The Bank’s financial position GRI EC1 (f) / EC – Donations of the selection committees were will be discussed in its financial to the community largely professionals. statements. Statistics and information on the economic valua» Educational grants in the bles generated by the Bank’s One of Landsbankinn’s roles is to amount of ISK 5.4 million operations which proceed to its support Icelandic society robustly awarded. shareholders, stakeholders and in different ways. Direct and » Community grants in the society are listed below. indirect financial contributions amount of ISK 15 million to the community are a part awarded. EC1 – Direct economic value of Landsbankinn’s policy in » Innovation and budding generated and distributed, corporate social responsibility. grants awarded for the including revenues, operating Direct financial contribution to amount of ISK 15 million. costs, employee compensation, the community from the Bank » Environmental grants in donations and other commamounted to ISK 127 million in the amount of ISK 5 million unity investments, retained 2011. The Bank also contributes awarded. earnings, and payments to to the community through the capital providers and governprovision of consulting services Community grants ments. by its employees and their participation in voluntary work in Landsbankinn’s community a number of cooperative projects. grants aim to support various GRI EC4 – Significant finanWith its support to the commcommunity issues e.g. humcial assistance received from unity, the Bank focuses on the anitarian projects, projects in government following main topics: the field of education, research and science, projects in the field » Humanitarian issues of culture and the arts, youth Landsbankinn is owned by the » Culture and the arts projects and specific publishing Icelandic State Treasury, which » Education, research and innprojects. The total amount of holds an 81.333% share in the ovation grants was ISK 15 million in 2011 Bank and Landskil ehf., a subsi» Sports and youth programand over 500 applications were diary of Landsbankinn hf,. which mes received. holds 18.667% of the issued » Environmental issues share capital. Landsbankinn Study grants does not receive any financial Landsbankinn’s Community contributions from the Icelandic Fund The purpose of study grants Government. is to support the education of Landsbankinn’s Community exceptional students at different Fund plays a key role in the educational levels. The study Bank’s support to the community. grants of Landsbankinn are During the year, grants from the awarded annually and are an Fund in the amount of ISK 40.4 important part of the Bank’s million were awarded. Members community support. The total 24 Landsbankinn 2011 Direct economic value Comments Landsbankinn 2011 Direct economic value generated: Net interest income + net commission income + net income from 51.585 trading securities + net income from other financial assets at fair value + profits from the sale of fixed assets Economic value generated Operating costs + investments 8.556 Salaries according to the accounts 11.169 Interest income from borrowing (paid) – from net interest income 7.198 Income tax and special taxes payments to government -16 Donations to the community 127 Total contribution to the economy 27.034 Economic benefit distributed 24.551 Proportion of economic value generated to economic 52% value distributed amount of grants was ISK 5.4 in developing a business concept. Special achievement grants million in 2011 and over 1000 The total amount of grants for applications were received. 2011 was ISK 15 million and 250 Special achievement grants will applications were received. be awarded for the first time in Innovation grants 2012 to support high achievers Environmental grants in individual sports and have The purpose of Landsbankinn’s succeeded in their field. Grants innovation grants is to provide Environmental grants are intenwill also be awarded to young innovators with an opportunity ded to support projects in the field and promising athletes who have to develop a new business conof the environment and nature the future ahead of them. Grants cept, an older business concept conservation. Environmental for special achievement will be in a new market or a new product grants are based on the Bank’s awarded for the amount of ISK 3 or service. Innovation grants are policy in CSR and its obligations million. also intended to support innin that regard. Grants were ovators in purchasing material, awarded for the amount of ISK 5 equipment or specialised services million and 130 applications were in relation to innovation or to received. attend courses to develop skills Landsbankinn 2011 25 Direct contributions to the community Landsbankinn’s support to the ative meetings for small and Meetings with municipalities community also involves direct medium-sized companies as well and industrial development contributions. During 2011, as providing financial education associations the Bank sponsored community for the general public. projects for ISK 127 million. The Last year, the Bank conducted grants are awarded to humanitApproximately 3200 people a series of meetings in 25 arian issues, culture and the attended these meetings. municipalities where the Bank’s arts, education, research, science, employees engaged in discusenvironmental issues, sports and sions with local government youth issues. Support for the community Contributions – dvision between issues – figures from 2010 Humanitarian issues 59,7 GRI EC9 Understanding and Culture and the Arts 57,3 describing significant economic impacts, including the Education, research, innovation and environmental issues 52,9 extent of impacts Sport and youth programmes 56,4 Landsbankinn aims to be a force for change in the community and Total contribution to community issues (excluding branches) contribute to a stronger economy. During 2011, the Bank participa2011 ted in a number of projects which ISK 127.000.000 have indirect and direct economic impact on the community. Lands2010 bankinn conducted a number of ISK 100.000.000 meetings and seminars around the country, open meetings with the Bank’s management, inform26 Landsbankinn 2011 Largest grants in 2011: > 1.000.000 Community grants – 35 grants ISK 15,000,000 Innovation grants – 27 grants ISK 15,000,000 The Vigdis Finnbogadóttir Institute of Foreign Languages ISK 10,000,000 The Football Association of Iceland ISK 8,000,000 A different expression of community support 15 projects ISK 7,500,000 Contributions in relation to Christmas ISK 6,000000 Study grants 14 individuals ISK 5,400,000. Environmental grants 17 grants ISK 5,000,000. Employment and innovation weekends conducted by Innovit and Landsbankinn ISK 4,400,000 On everyone’s lips a national fund raising event in support of Neistinn ISK 3,000,000 National fund raising event to support rescue teams in the Faroe Islands ISK 3,000,000 Frankfurt Book Fair ISK 2,500,000 Reykjavik Cultural Night Fund ISK 2,500,000 Sjónarhóll ISK 2,500,000 Akureyri Theatre Company ISK 2,200,000 Innovit The Golden Egg ISK 1,850,000 Corporate Social Responsibility Knowledge Centre ISK 1,700,000 Iceland Music Export ISK 1,500,000 Fjölsmidjan at Sudurnes (Spkef) ISK 1,500,000 Ljósanótt Town Festival in Reykjanesbæ ISK 1,250,000 National Fund raising Event of Lions ISK 1,000,000 Reykjavik Arts Festival ISK 1,000,000 SÍBS ISK 1,000,000 officials, employees of industrial lopment of the local economy, Debt reduction for customers development associations, improve the Bank’s relations with company representatives and its customers and the community, Landsbankinn has worked trade union representatives as and familiarise themselves with systematically towards solving well as entrepreneurs regarding the ideas and plans, which are top the household debt problem. The opportunities for development in of the agenda in each region. Bank’s solid financial position the economy. has enabled it to change the soAround 300 people attended the called 110% solution (agreement The purpose of the meetings is to meetings. between financial institutions engage in a dialogue with people and the Government for debt rein the local community, and lief) and instead of using market examine how the Bank can systevalue, the valuation of properties matically work towards the deveaccording to the Land Registry Landsbankinn 2011 27 of Iceland is used to write down Festa, knowledge centre for Innovation service other debt and repay a part of the corporate social responsibility interest to customers who have In order to boost job creation, not been in arrears and have paid Landsbankinn is one of the Landsbankinn established their dues on time. founders of Festa, a knowledge universal services for innovative centre on corporate social resand start-up companies. The The main goal is to speed up the ponsibility. Bank offers consultancy services resolution of household debt prorelating to the operating enviblems and the end to that work is The purpose of the knowledge ronment of innovative companies in sight. centre, which Alcan, Landsin addition to linking together virkjun, Síminn and Íslandsbanki those who work towards innMeasures for indebted compfounded along with Landsbankovation in society and provide anies inn, is to increase knowledge support for innovation. and to improve the capacity of All viable companies that met companies to operate in a socially The aim is to strengthen the certain conditions received responsible way. Bank’s relations with the market financial restructuring proposals and develop services with the in accordance with the govern» The centre is located at the needs of entrepreneurs in mind. ment’s Beina brautin solution University of Reykjavík and The Bank’s cooperation with around mid-year 2011. the purpose of the centre is Innovit and its support to the innas follows: ovation competition, the Golden Beina brautin is an agreement » To gather practical knowEgg, is a part of this endeavour. between the Ministry of Econoledge of corporate social mic affairs, the Confederation of responsibility. Employment and innovation Icelandic Employers, the Ice» To build a network of weekends landic Financial Services Assocompanies that are interesciation and the Iceland Chamber ted in implementing a Landsbankinn and Innovit of Commerce. strategy in corporate social introduced their collaboration responsibility. on Employment and Innovation The agreement entails that the » To promote public discusweekends, in the autumn of resolution of the debt problems of sions on the concept. 2011, to promote innovation in small and medium sized compan» To encourage research in Iceland. The main purpose of the ies is speeded up considerably. the field. weekends is to promote work in the field of innovation, and the development of new ideas and concepts as well as to encourage job creation in each region. 28 Landsbankinn 2011 Employment and innovation On the one hand, projects unsimple way through the Internet weekends were conducted in dertaken by individual companBank. Customers can choose Sudurnes and at Hornafjördur ies which may contribute to between roughly 80 good causes last year. In total, 180 individuals extending the tourist season in and support their charity of took part in these weekends and particular areas, and on the other, choice with monthly donations. worked towards the development collaborative projects among of 87 business ideas. companies whose intention is to Reykjavík Cultural Night develop experiences in collaboraAt least three more “weekends” tion, which also might extend the Landsbankinn has been an active have been scheduled this winter tourist season. participant in the Reykjavík Cultin collaboration with municipaliure Night from its establishment ties throughout Iceland. Svanni, a Loan Guarantee and has opened its doors to Fund for women guests on the Cultural Night and Development fund to support has also sponsored the Cultural tourism Landsbankinn entered into an Night from the very beginning. agreement with Svanni, a Loan It is important for the Bank that In November 2011, LandsGuarantee Fund for women, last its support goes directly to the bankinn, in cooperation with the year. Landsbankinn acts as a artists and art groups that organMinistry of Industry, established lender to women in business, and ise events on the Cultural Night. a development fund to support the Fund and the Bank jointly In order to reach that objective tourism in Iceland in connection guarantee the loans. The Fund is a special Cultural Night Pot was with the marketing campaign in the ownership of the Ministry established by Landsbankinn and “Country for all Seasons”. of Welfare, the Ministry of Visit Reykjavík. Industry and Reykjavík City. The The purpose of the fund is to exFund granted loans at the end The purpose of the pot is to tend the tourist season in Iceland of 2011 and five women received further original and special ideas. by supporting the development of loans for the total amount of ISK products and experiences during 14.5 million. The Fund’s assets Many grants of a modest amount low-season in tourism, and thus amount to approximately ISK are awarded so that as many increase the profitability of 70 million and it is possible to people as possible can enjoy their companies in the tourist industry. advance loans for a total of ISK benefit. 140 million to women in business In total, ISK 70 million were operations. The largest part of the Bank’s contributed to the development contribution in relation to the fund, ISK 40 million from Lands“Support a good cause” Cultural night is extended bankinn and ISK 30 million from through the Cultural Night Pot. the Ministry of Industry, which is The customers of Landsbankinn to be distributed in 2 parts. can support a good cause in a Landsbankinn 2011 29 Frankfurt Book Fair Co-operation with sports clubs The Bank’s new approach aims to connect together sports clubs and Landsbankinn was one of the Landsbankinn supports sports charitable organisations or assomain sponsors of the Frankfurt clubs across the country. Agreeciations and creates a platform for Book Fair, and supported the ments between the Bank and sports clubs and their supporters promotion of the project both sports clubs is a large part of the or sponsors to work with Landsdomestically and abroad. Bank’s community support and bankinn on charitable projects. an important part of branches‘ Landsbankinn’s sponsorship of Landsbankinn supported a marketing efforts. youth and adult participation in unique exhibition of the Icelandic sports does not diminish, on the manuscripts in an exhibition The main emphasis has been on contrary, the overall contribution opened at the Schirn Museum supporting children and youths to charity increases, both directly in Frankfurt in September 2011; in sports, special achievement and indirectly. the exhibition was part of a is also supported in a number of larger exhibition by the Icelandic branches. Twenty two sports clubs have joiartist Gabríella Fridriksdóttir. In ned Landsbankinn in this project, the exhibition, the old and the Samfélag í nýjan búning (A each club choosing a charity in new were mixed together in an different expression of commcollaboration with the Bank. To unconventional way. unity support) mark the creation of pledge funds for each charity, Landsbankinn Landsbankinn was a sponsor of The ideology behind the strategy has credited ISK 500,000 to each a special promotional project, is novel. Landsbankinn waives its one of them. Icelandic Manuscripts in Moderrights to advertise on the jerseys nity in Iceland. of sports clubs sponsored by the Bank, instead the sports clubs can select a charity to advertise GRI EC8 Development and on their jerseys. At the same impact of infrastructure time, a pledge fund is created investments and services for the club. For each win in the league, Landsbankinn credits a provided primarily for public specified amount to the fund. The benefit through commercial, sports club can invite companies in-kind, or pro bono engageand individuals to pledge their ment support for the club and the chosen charity. All pledges are divided equally between the Publisher: Landsbankinn hf. sports club and the charity. bankastjorn@landsbankinn.is 30 Landsbankinn 2011 GRI context index G3 Indicator Description Page Degree of Comment/ web references reporting 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from CEO 5 Full 2. Organisational profile Full 2.1 Name of the organisation 5-6 Full 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 5-6 Full 2.3 Operational structure 5-6 Full http://corporate.landsbankinn.com/about-us/ 2.4 Location of headquarters Full Reykjavík Iceland 2.5 Countries of operation 4 Full 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 5-6 Full http://corporate.landsbankinn.com/about-us/ 2.7 Market served 5-6 Full 2.8 Scale of reporting organisation 5-6 Full 2.9 Significant operational changes during the reporting period 5-6 Full 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Full • Landsbankinn’s web for mobile phones received the Icelandic Web Award as the best web for mobile and handheld devices on 4 February 2011. The awards are presented by ÍMARK, the Association of Icelandic Marketing Professionals. See www.landsbankinn.is/ english • Landsbankinn received two nominations for the Icelandic Advertising Awards in 2011, one in the category of best web advertisements and the other in the category of best events. These awards were also presented by the Association of Icelandic Marketing Professionals, ÍMARK. • The employees of Landsbankinn came second in Lífshlaupid, an annual competition between companies held by The National Olympic and Sports Association of Iceland. The purpose of the competition is to encourage the general public to increase the amount of exercise they do in their daily life at home, commuting to and from work as well as in their free time. 3. Reporting parameters 3.1 Reporting period 5-6 Full 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 4 Full This is the first GRI sustainability report 3.3 Reporting cycle 4 Full Annually 3.4 Contact regarding the report Full pr@landsbankinn.is 3.5 Process for defining report content 4 Full 3.6 Boundary of the report 4 Full 3.7 Specific limitation of the scope or boundary 4 Full 3.8 Basis for the reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased Full The report covers only the bank’s operations facilities, etc 3.10 Comparability with previous report Full No previous report 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Full No previous report scope, boundary, etc 3.12 Cross reference table Full Current document 3.13 External assurance Full The report has not been externally assured 4. Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure 10 Full http://corporate.landsbankinn.com/about-us/ organisation/board-of-directors/ 4.2 Role of the chairman of the Board Full Gunnar Helgi Hálfdanarson, chairman of the board of Landsbankinn, is not an executive director. 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board members Full http://corporate.landsbankinn.com/about-us/ organisation/board-of-directors/ 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Full http://corporate.landsbankinn.com/about-us/corporaterecommendation to the board governance/articlesofassociation/ For employees the FSLÍ (The Employee Association of Landsbankinn) provides for a channel to reach the highest governance body 4.14 List of stakeholders 8-9; 18; Partly 26-30 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders to 8-9 Partly engage Performance Indicators EC Economic Indicators EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 24 Full EC 4 Financial assistance received from government 24 Full EC 5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to 13 Partly local minimum wage EC 8 Infrastructure investment 22;30 Partly EC 9 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent 26 Partly of impacts Landsbankinn 2011 31 EN Environmental indicators EN 16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emission 22 Partly EN 18 Initiative to reduce greenhouse gas emission 22 Partly EN 26 Initiative to mitigate environmental impacts of products 22 Partly and services LA Labour indicators LA 1 Total workforce by employment type and region 13 Partly LA 2 Employee turnover 17 Full LA 3 Benefits provided to full-time employees 13 Part LA 4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 13 Full agreements LA 5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 13 Full LA 7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism 16 Full LA 10 Average hours of training per year and employee 13 Part LA 11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning 13 Full LA 12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Full All employees’ receive a performance and development career development reviews review once a year LA 13 Composition of governance bodies and workforce 14 Full LA 14 Ratio of basic salary of men and women 14 Full SO Community indicators SO 3 Employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures 10 Full SO 4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 10 Full SO 5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying 11 Full SO 6 Contributions to political parties, politicians and related 12 Full institutions SO 7 Legal actions for anti-corruption behaviour 12 Full PR Product responsibility indicators PR 5 Customers satisfaction 19 Full FS Financial supplement FS 14 Access to financial service for disadvantage people 19 Full FS 16 Initiative to enhance financial literacy 20 Full Page numbers refers to pages in current document Indicators not mentioned are not reported or not applicable 32 Landsbankinn 2011
