CSR REPORT 2011 150 YEARS FOR THE CUSTOMER CONTENTs STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 2 Contents 3 CEO’s review 4 CSR strategy 5 Stockmann’s stakeholders 6 Stockmann Group in brief 8 150 years of corporate social responsibility 9 Responsibility for personnel 12 Responsible products 15 Environmental responsibility 18 Financial responsibility 21 GRI content comparison 23 Reporting principles and contact information CEO’S REVIEW STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 3 Responsible business operations for the customer The Stockmann Group has own personnel in 16 develop themselves, while at the same time enabling the company to carry countries. The Group has more than 700 stores in 15 out its social and environmental responsibility. countries, extending from the Nordic countries and Financial benefits for stakeholders Russia as far as Saudi Arabia. Our extensive international Stockmann’s Board of Directors has targeted a dividend distribution of more operations require that we operate under the same rules than half of the earnings derived from the company’s ordinary operations. In 2011, EUR 58.3 million, equivalent to EUR 0.82 per share, was paid to sharein all market areas, while complying with local legislation. holders in dividends from the 2010 earnings, equivalent to EUR 1.10 per share. In spring 2012, the Annual General Meeting resolved to pay EUR 35.9 To demonstrate Stockmann’s commitment to responsible operations, we million in dividends, or EUR 0.50 per share, which was higher than the earnour selections, to be able to provide our customers with responsible shopping signed the United Nations Global Compact initiative in January 2011. The ings per share in 2011. experiences. In order to guarantee responsible operating methods in our initiative’s 10 principles concerning human rights, labour, the environment and Even though we did not achieve our financial targets for 2011, we genersupply chains, we audited an increasing number of factories manufacturing anti-corruption are all in line with Stockmann’s goals and values. We regard ated economic value added for our various stakeholders, as we have done in products for the fashion chains and the department stores’ own brands. responsibility as part of our long-term operations and will continue to invest in previous years. We purchased goods, services and capital goods from our it. The following is our report on corporate social responsibility in the Stocksuppliers for over one billion euros in 2011. Our employees were paid over 150 years for the customer mann Group during 2011. EUR 300 million in wages and salaries. Moreover, finance providers, municiIn February 2012, Stockmann celebrated its 150th anniversary, a worthy palities and national governments have reaped economic benefit from our achievement. Through its responsible operations, the company has grown Strong growth in sales in 2011 operations. We also support various charitable organisations, either directly or from a small store by Helsinki’s Market Square into a grand department store Profitable growth is at the core of our strategy. The Stockmann Group’s through campaigns directed at our customers; Lindex’s Pink Ribbon camand eventually into an international retail group. Taking the changing needs of revenue grew strongly in 2011, surpassing two billion euros for the first time. A paign raised almost one million euros in donations to local cancer funds in customers into account and developing staff competence have always been significant share of the growth came from the Russian market, where the new 2011. key to the company’s success. We have come a long way together with our department store and shopping centre in St Petersburg, opened in 2010, Our stakeholders value our operations. In the Corporate Reputation and partners. For many goods suppliers and service providers, we are a partner of served as an engine for growth. The Lindex fashion chain’s revenue increased Responsibility survey conducted by TNS Gallup in 2011, Stockmann was many years, and for many shareholders, a long-term investment. in all markets with the exception of Sweden, where sales remained at the rated as the company with the best reputation in the retail sector in Finland. The ongoing anniversary year highlights Stockmann’s long-term operations previous year’s level as the overall market for fashion declined. In Finland, The survey evaluated such aspects as the public image, quality of products for the benefit of its customers and employees, and society at large. Responparticular success was achieved by the enlarged department store in the and services, trustworthiness, financial success and corporate social responsible operations that value customers and exceed their expectations are as Helsinki city centre. sibility of companies. 52 companies from five different sectors participated in important today as they were 150 years ago. The growth in revenue did not cover the costs and depreciation caused by the survey, in which thousands of Finnish consumers were interviewed. The the major expansion, however, especially in the first quarter of 2011. The survey was conducted in its present form in Finland for the second year in a Helsinki, 10 April 2012 situation improved towards the end of the year, with fourth-quarter operating row. profit clearly topping that of the previous year. Full-year operating profit amounted to EUR 70.1 million, which was EUR 18.7 million lower than the CSR advances from strategy to practical application previous year. Earnings per share were EUR 0.43. The company’s earnings In 2011, the Stockmann Group’s responsibility activities focused on implewere also weakened by an increase in financial expenses. Profitability did not menting the CSR strategy approved at the start of the year. All divisions have meet our target, and we are aiming for a considerable improvement in profitdiscussed the new strategy – from the management teams to the sales and ability in the long term. Success in profit generation will provide Stockmann customer service personnel. Hannu Penttilä with more leeway and its personnel with valued work and the opportunity to During the year, we introduced new environmentally friendly products into Chief Executive Officer CSR STRATEGY STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 4 For a more sustainable future • Stockmann Group joined the United Nations Global Compact Department Store Division’s non-commercial procurements. Auditing of organisations. We also provide such support through some commercial in January 2011 subcontractors’ working conditions was continued. campaigns, Lindex’s Pink Ribbon campaign being the most prominent of • The CSR strategy was approved by the Group Management The department stores’ and fashion chains’ new store concepts take them. Committee and its implementation began environmental impacts into account better than before. Our customers can The responsibility for implementing, developing and monitoring CSR within • CSR reporting was further developed in line with GRI choose responsible products from our wide product selection. For example in the Stockmann Group lies with Stockmann’s Corporate Social Responsibility guidelines 2011, Lindex sold almost 5 million products manufactured from sustainable Steering Group, whose Chairman is Maisa Romanainen, Executive Vice Presimaterials and Seppälä launched its first collection made from organic cotton. dent and Director of the Department Store Division. The Steering Group Responsibility forms an important part of the Stockmann Group’s operations Stockmann continued its financially responsible operations in 2011. Sound includes representatives from all the divisions. Matters and proposals disand is one of the company’s core values. The corporate social responsibility corporate governance forms a core area of our corporate social responsibilcussed by the Steering Group are prepared by the Group’s CSR Working strategy supports the goals of business operations and promotes efficiency. ity. We support charities annually by making donations to selected charitable Group. We are committed to working for a more sustainable future. Responsibility is part of every employee’s day-to-day work and decision-making. The Stockmann Group’s CSR strategy, which was approved in January 2011, and the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact form the basis for Stockmann’s corporate social responsibility work. The Group began implementing its new strategy in 2011. In order to achieve the strategy’s goals, the Group prepared action plans for its different functions and together with its personnel dealt with practical means for increasing responsible operations at workplaces. Corporate social responsibility reporting was developed further in 2011. People Planet Profit Stockmann published its first CSR report in line with Global Reporting InitiaWe show respect for our people We work to reduce our impact Our CSR work supports our tive (GRI) guidelines. The company also made its first Group-level carbon on the environment core business targets and footprint calculation and reported its carbon emissions through the Carbon Our personnel is aware strengthens our brand position Disclosure Project (CDP). Stockmann achieved its own target with a score of and trained in CSR Sustainable procurement 61/100. Charity programs Responsibly and fair produced goods We offer our customers Corporate social responsibility goals sustainable products as a part Stockmann is recognized The goals of Stockmann’s CSR strategy are divided into the following categoFulfill the product safety laws and of our assortments as a responsible and transparent regulations as well as meet the self company among investors ries: People (social responsibility), Planet (environmental responsibility) and imposed requirements Profit (financial responsibility). Stockmann reports on its responsible operations openly and regularly and strives for more active communications regarding corporate social responsibility matters. The goals of the social dimension of corporate social responsibility are directed particularly at our own personnel and their training and well-being. Communications The company’s responsibility also extends to the supply chain, product Transparent and regular sustainability reporting to stakeholders manufacturing and product safety. In 2011, Stockmann issued new policies concerning food products, the manufacturing of its own brands and the STOCKMANN’S STAKEHOLDERS STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 5 Stockmann’s stakeholders The key stakeholders were identified and selected in conjunction with drawing up the corporate social responsibility strategy. CSR VISION: Customers Customers are our most important stakeholders. We want to improve We offer our customers our dialogue with our customers and better understand their needs and expectations towards Stockmann. Customer orientation is one of the responsible shopping core values of this company and it steers us strongly to place experiences. customers’ needs first. We are committed to Personnel working for a more Stockmann is a good place to work. Our working atmosphere is great sustainable future. and we try to continuously improve it. We value our personnel and their commitment to the company. We reward success. Our goal is to be a sought-after employer on the labour market. Shareholders and investors Stockmann wants to be an attractive and sought-after investment target on the capital market. We have rewarded our Loyal Customers and gained a substantial amount of new shareholders by organizing Loyal Customer share option programmes. Goods suppliers and service providers We commit our suppliers and providers to our responsibility work. We collaborate with them to develop our partnerships in order to ensure good business environment conditions for all and the best possible service to our customers. Authorities and organisations We work actively with the authorities and various organisations. We network and promote sustainable development. STOCKMANN GROUP IN BRIEF STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 6 International forerunner in retail trade Stockmann plc is a Finnish listed company engaged store and mail order business, the Nevsky Centre shopping centre in St ability to offer fashion at reasonable prices. in the retail trade. Stockmann’s three divisions are the Petersburg, Academic Bookstores, Stockmann Beauty cosmetics stores, Seppälä’s revenue in 2011 amounted to EUR 143.8 million which is 7 Stockmann and Academic Bookstore online stores and Zara franchising per cent of the Group’s total revenue. Seppälä has 229 stores in six Department Store Division and the Lindex and stores in Finland and Bestseller franchising stores in Russia. countries and an online store in Finland. Seppälä fashion chains. Stockmann was established Revenue for the Department Store Division totalled EUR 1 236.9 million in 1862 and celebrates its 150th anniversary in 2012. in 2011 which is 62 per cent of the Group’s total revenue. The division has 16 department stores and 40 other stores in four countries. Revenue by Revenue by market area 2011 merchandise sector 2011 Stockmann has 16 department stores and over 700 stores in 15 countLindex – Inspiring and affordable fashion ries. The Group’s headquarters are located in Helsinki, Finland. In addition, Lindex’s business idea is to offer inspiring affordable fashion to fashionthe Stockmann Group has six purchasing offices in five Asian countries. conscious women. Lindex’s product range covers a variety of fashion The revenue increased in 2011 by 10.1 per cent to EUR 2 005.3 million. concepts within women’s and children’s wear, lingerie and cosmetics. The The operating profit was EUR 70.1 million. At the end of 2011 the Group selection is characterised by well-considered details, the latest fashion had 15 960 employees. Stockmann plc shares are listed on NASDAQ trends and a fast turnover of new products. OMX Helsinki and the company has more than 56 000 shareholders. Lindex’s revenue in 2011 was EUR 624.1 million which is 31 per cent of the Group’s total revenue. Lindex has 446 stores in 14 countries and an Department Store Division – More than I expected online store operating in 28 European countries. Stockmann department stores offer a uniquely extensive and high-quality 51% Finland 68% Fashion product range, a competitive price/quality ratio, and excellent and profesSeppälä – A unique fashion house 25% Sweden and Norway 14% Food sional customer service in an inspiring shopping environment with an Seppälä offers international fashion in women’s, men’s and children’s wear. 17% Russia and Ukraine 8% Leisure international ambience. Its extensive product selection includes clothing, accessories, footwear 7% Baltic countries and 7% Home In addition, the Department Store Division includes Hobby Hall’s online and cosmetics. Seppälä’s appeal lies in its fast-changing collections and Central Europe 3% Books, publications, stationery STOCKMANN group in brief STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 7 Stockmann worldwide in 2011 Status on 31 December 2011 1. FINLAND 7. LITHUANIA • 7 department stores • 10 Lindex stores 12. • 7 Academic Bookstores • 10 Seppälä stores • 56 Lindex stores • 138 Seppälä stores 8. POLAND 1. • Hobby Hall mail order sales and • 4 Lindex stores 3. 1 store 2. 5. 4. • 13 Stockmann Beauty stores 9. CZECH REPUBLIC 6. • 4 Zara stores • 13 Lindex stores 7. • 1 outlet store 8. 10. SLOVAKIA 11. 2. SWEDEN • 4 Lindex stores 9. • 208 Lindex stores 10. 11. UKRAINA 15 3. NORWAY • 2 Seppälä stores 13. • 97 Lindex stores 12. ICELAND 4. RUSSIA • 1 Lindex franchising store • 7 department stores • 1 shopping centre 13. BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA • 17 Lindex stores • 3 Lindex franchising stores • 48 Seppälä stores • 18 Bestseller stores • 1 concept store 14. SAUDI ARABIA • 17 Lindex franchising stores COUNTRIES 14. • 1 outlet store 15. 15. UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 5. ESTONIA • 2 Lindex franchising stores • 1 department store 16 446 229 • 7 Lindex stores ONLINE STORES • 20 Seppälä stores • Lindex (EU countries and Norway) • 1 outlet store • Stockmann, Hobby Hall, Academic Bookstore and 6. LATVIA • 1 department store Seppälä (Finland) dept. stores Lindex Seppälä • 7 Lindex stores • 11 Seppälä stores PURCHASING OFFICES • Bangladesh, India, China, Pakistan and Turkey and 40 stores stores stores 150 YEARS of responsibility STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 8 150 years of corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility has been an important Employees’ Council central to ‘Focus on Finland’, encouraging customers to favour Finnish products. A aspect of the Stockmann Group’s operations right from management-employee dialogue display window in 1977 sought to persuade customers to buy British Stockmann has played a leading role in codetermination issues in Finland. products, as this would also support sales of Finnish exports to the UK. the very start, even though the term was not used at The company’s Employees’ Council was set up in 1924 (pictured is an that time. With the company growing into an interEmployees’ Council meeting in 1976). It was not until 1979 that legislation Environmental responsibility on board national retail Group, this responsibility now covers was passed on legal requirements for codetermination between employees The Stockmann Group published its first environmental values in 1994. In and employers in companies. 2002, Stockmann’s Board of Directors approved the Group’s new a much wider domain, but the fundamental principle environmental policy, which sets out its environmental protection goals and remains unchanged. Own day nursery for employees’ children principles. An environmental system in conformity with the international ISO In 1946, Stockmann established a day nursery in Munkkiniemi to look after 14001 standard was established for the Helsinki city centre department store children of its employees. The children were taken there in the mornings from in 2002, and in 2003 ISO 14001 certification was granted for the entire chain Board and lodging came with the job the city centre by a Stockmann bus (pictured), and brought back at the end of Stockmann’s department stores in Finland. In the early days, when Stockmann was located in the ‘Lampa House’ builof their parents’ working day. With the arrival of municipal daycare, Stockding by Helsinki’s Market Square, its store assistants lived in the owning mann’s day nursery was no longer needed and was closed in the 1970s. Commitment to the BSCI family’s apartment upstairs. The employees were given board and lodging, Since 2005, Stockmann has been a member of the Business Social and they dined with their host family. Care for the employees continued, even Own sales training produces customer service experts Compliance Initiative (BSCI), a cooperation organization that has been when the store relocated to larger premises in 1880. According to an account Stockmann had its own sales training school in 1946–1977, where young developed by European companies, and organizations. BSCI is a corporate of Stockmann’s history written in 1937, “the pay and benefits of unmarried people fresh out of school could learn to become skilled salespersons social responsibility cooperation body and is administered by the Brusselsassistants at the time of the Senate Square store still incorporated board and (pictured is the class of 1950). The training lasted two years, and the studies based Foreign Trade Association (FTA). lodging, which included laundering of clothes and sauna money.” included both classroom lessons and practical training in the department store. Customer service, sales skills and product knowledge were the key Commitment to the Global Compact initiative Occupational health care aspects of the training given at the school. Stockmann committed to the UN Global Compact initiative in 2011. The Free medical care has been a major benefit for Stockmann’s employees since initiative concerns all the Group’s divisions. Lindex has complied with the the early 1900s. Wilhelm Stockmann (1868–1932, picture), a medical doctor National interest in advertising: principles of the Global Compact since 2003. Stockmann is committed to and son of Stockmann’s founder, played a significant role in the development watchwords ‘Finnish’ and ‘Reliable partners’ support and promote the 10 principles of the Global Compact in concerning of the company’s occupational health service. Stockmann’s ‘60s and ‘70s sales campaigns included ‘Buy Finnish’ and human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption. PEOPLE STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 9 Responsibility for personnel • International expansion continued, with own personnel now the opportunity to transfer to new tasks within the company in 2011. For in 16 countries example, during the large-scale organisational change in the Department • Department store managers received more than 400 days Store Division’s buying function, which started in 2011, almost all the skilled of training personnel required were found in-house. During the process of organisa• All of Lindex’s managers participated in management training tional change, the company considered the wishes of its employees and • Seppälä began to implement its Seppälä Simply Stronger surveyed their competence needs using aptitude tests. In an effort to ensure strategy good functioning, efficiency and job well-being in the new buying organisation, Stockmann is arranging coaching for all supervisors and office employThe goals of Stockmann’s social responsibility focus particularly on own ees working in the organisation during 2011 and 2012. personnel. Employees are encouraged to continuously develop themselves Induction practices are planned independently by the divisions, taking into in many fields. Stockmann values its employees and trains them regularly. In consideration each unit’s special needs. What all induction practices have in order to maintain and enhance its excellent customer service, Stockmann common, however, is the fact that induction is standardised and provided by continued to invest in employee induction, customer service and sales skills a senior colleague or supervisor who has been appointed for the task. and supervisory work throughout the Group in 2011. During 2011, the Department Store Division enhanced management skills and HR management competence through “Succeed as a Supervisor” New market areas coaching sessions and by utilising external training services. Department The Stockmann Group opened over 20 new business locations in 2011. store supervisors received more than 400 days of training in 2011. Lindex The largest single recruitment effort was the hiring of almost 300 Stockmann focused on good management, with all of the company’s managers particiemployees for the department store opened in Ekaterinburg in March 2011. pating in management training. In addition, Lindex organised several training At the end of the year, Stockmann employed 15 960 people (2010: events concerning service and sales. Lindex values cooperation, and all of 16 184), of whom 8 723 (8 754), or 55 per cent (54 per cent), worked outits employees are able to participate in the planning of the fashion chain’s side Finland. The Stockmann Group has personnel in 16 countries, its own business operations by sharing their ideas on the Innovation Space developstores in 11 countries and purchasing offices in five countries. The Department forum. ment Store Division had 9 672 employees (9 806), Lindex 4 653 employees Seppälä began in 2011 the practical implementation of its Seppälä Simply (4 709) and Seppälä 1 506 employees (1 513). The number of personnel in Stronger strategy through coaching events. The objective of the strategy is Corporate Administration declined slightly, as some of its functions were to simplify matters and to maintain focus on customer experience. As in CORE VALUES transferred to the Department Store Division’s organisation at the beginning previous years, store personnel improved their customer service and sales of 2011. At the close of 2011, the Stockmann Group’s Corporate Adminisskills through the Seppälä Spirit sales coaching programme. The Seppälä • Profit orientation tration employed 129 people (156). Super Leader Academy supervisor coaching programme was also continued. • Customer orientation Seppälä revised its induction programme for new employees at its office. • Efficiency Versatile career opportunities The Stockmann Group offers numerous tasks and opportunities for various Equality and codetermination • Commitment career paths. For example, there are around one hundred different job In 2011, women comprised 83 per cent and men 17 per cent of the Group’s • Respect for our people descriptions for employees in the Lindex fashion chain. personnel. The proportion of women managers was 69 per cent (2010: 70 • Responsibility An active internal job market and the opportunity to transfer from one task per cent). Of all the managerial staff working in Finland, 68 per cent (68 per to another between divisions, functions and countries encourage employee cent) were women, and of those working abroad, 71 per cent (73 per cent) self-development. Hundreds of Stockmann employees took advantage of were women. In the Stockmann Board of Directors three out of eight memPEOPLE STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 10 bers are women. There are two women in the Group’s Management ComStaff* 2007–2011 Age structure of the staff 2011 Staff by market area 2011 mittee. In Finland, the divisions have their own Employees’ Councils, which conpersons vene four times a year. A similar model is followed in the Baltic countries. 14000 Lindex has its own international body for Group-level cooperation, known as 12000 the European Works Council. Human resources matters concerning the 10000 entire Group are handled at the Group Council, which is held twice annually 8000 in Finland. Stockmann’s operations in every country comply with local laws and 6000 regulations and are in accordance with the Group’s core values and guide4000 lines. The Group’s growing international operations also pose challenges for 2000 30% under 24 years 42% Finland resolute anti-corruption action. Stockmann has prepared guidelines for 28% 25–34 years 21% Sweden and Norway 0 personnel in situations of abuse and conflicts of interest. In addition, Stock2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 20% 35–44 years 27% Russia and Ukraine mann is a founding member of Transparency Suomi ry, the Finnish chapter 14% 45–54 years 10% Baltic countries and Central Europe *Average number converted to full-time staff of Transparency International, an organisation that works to combat interna8% over 55 years tional bribery and corruption. Transparency International operates in 90 countries. Personnel wages, salaries and benefits Personnel key figures The Group’s total staff expenses during 2011 totalled EUR 390.0 million (2010: EUR 361.9 million). Most of the Group’s personnel are covered by an 2011 2010 2009 incentive system. The incentive systems for managers and experts are Staff 31 December 15 960 16 184 14 836 based on financial indicators and personal performance assessments. For in Finland 7 237 7 430 7 153 personnel in other duties, the main incentive systems are those for specific abroad 8 723 8 754 7 683 personnel groups. In 2011, the personnel earned a total of about EUR 307.7 Average number of employees 15 964 15 165 14 656 million in salaries and incentives of different kinds (EUR 287.6 million in Average number of employees converted to full-time staff 12 172 11 503 11 133 2010). Key management and middle management personnel of the StockAverage age of staff 34 35 35 mann Group are also covered by a key personnel option programme, the in Finland 34 36 36 costs of which amounted to EUR 1.2 million in 2011. abroad 37 34 34 Studies have indicated that Stockmann is an attractive and well-liked Staff turnover of permanent employees, average % 30 24 23 workplace. Employment relationships at Stockmann are usually long, and in Finland 15 14 15 personnel turnover is low compared to other service sector jobs. There was abroad 42 34 30 a 15 per cent turnover of permanent employees in Finland in 2011. Sickness absences, % 4.9 4.3 5.4 Following a tradition started in 1924, long-serving employees are awarded in Finland 4.5 4.4 4.7 a medal of merit. In 2011, 626 Group employees received a medal. The most prestigious medals given out were three medals for 45 years of service. abroad 5.6 4.2 6.6 In commemoration of its 150th anniversary, Stockmann will begin to award Full-time staff/part-time staff, % 45/55 42/58 44/56 medals for 20 and 30 years of service, in addition to which medals are in Finland 43/57 41/59 42/58 awarded for 10, 15, 25, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55 and 60 years of service. abroad 46/54 43/57 45/55 Number of reported accidents at work, Finland 243 271 231 Job satisfaction monitored using personnel surveys Staff expences, EUR mill. 390.0 361.9 327.4 and performance reviews share of revenue % 19.4 19.9 19.3 Successful management increases job satisfaction. Stockmann meets its Expences for staff education (exclusive direct staff expences), EUR mill. 0.8 0.7 0.6 PEOPLE STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 11 employees’ expectations of good management by training managers and CASE regularly reviewing the quality of supervisory work. In spring 2011, a personnel survey was conducted at all of the Department Store Division’s units, the results of which were thoroughly reviewed by managers and personnel, and START training launches career Spirit and Soul programmes any development projects proposed were documented. Based on feedback from personnel surveys, Stockmann set the development of internal commuwith Stockmann develop the fashion chains nications as one of its goals. The Department Store Division and corporate Stockmann’s Department Store Division has a long tradition in the The Stockmann Group’s fashion chains, Seppälä and Lindex, encouradministration will introduce a new intranet in 2013. thorough induction of employees. New employees undergo a systeage their personnel to participate in developing their business operaPerformance reviews have been a part of the basic management tools at matic induction programme that includes training events and inductions. Each chain has its own programme for this; Seppälä’s is called Stockmann for decades. During 2012 the Department Store Division will tion provided in their own working environment. During their inducSpirit and Lindex’s is called Soul. Both programmes operate under engage in a values discussion, to be carried out in more than 500 teams, tion, employees acquaint themselves with Stockmann as a comthe same basic principle, seeking coaches from the companies’ own aimed at committing the whole personnel to Stockmann’s core values and pany and as an organisation, their own working community and its staff to introduce the companies’ operations to new employees. In creating a common way to work across country and organisational borders. ways of working and their own product or service area. addition, the coaches encourage the new employees to develop and An important milestone in the induction of new Stockmann emplearn, providing them with tips and reciprocal feedback. Feedback Information flow – internal communications as a resource loyees is the START coaching programme, which is undertaken as can also be given to Seppälä’s ‘Spiritors’ and Lindex’s Soul coaches All divisions use an intranet as a tool for internal communications. The most soon as possible, preferably within a month of the beginning of about small everyday matters and major policies concerning the important sources of information for personnel working in sales tasks, howeemployment. START is intended for all employees of the Departentire company’s operations. All employees, from administration to ver, are morning information sessions and supervisor and department meement Store Division and Corporate Administration. store personnel, participate in the programmes. tings, which are held according to each unit’s specific needs. What these The START coaching programme was revised in 2011, but its key The Spirit and Soul programmes aim to continuously improve meetings have in common is that they are held regularly, and events are held goals have remained the same over the decades. The well-trained staff’s professional skills. These programmes have helped to develop at different hours for employees working in different shifts. instructors of the START programme provide a comprehensive new tools and ways of working, with which the companies have manThe Group’s personnel magazine ‘MeVi’ has a long tradition, having been information package on the Stockmann brand, customer service aged to increase sales and better inform their store personnel about published since 1942. In 2011, the magazine was published four times in and the company’s ways of working. In Finland, START coaching store-specific sales targets. In addition, the Spirit and Soul proFinland, Russia, Estonia and Latvia in local languages. sessions are led by 13 instructors. Fourteen START courses were grammes improve job wellbeing and boost the fashion chains’ team held in autumn 2011, and 20 will be held in spring 2012. The START spirit, while customers can enjoy the coaching programmes’ results, Occupational health care monitors training will also be introduced in Russia and the Baltic countries in namely good and professional customer service and an inspiring employees’ working ability the spring, tailored to suit the countries’ local training. shopping environment. Occupational health services in the Group’s Finnish units are arranged After completing their START coaching, employees hone their through the company’s own occupational health centres and in the form of customer service and sales skills in multi-level training. During the purchased services. The occupational health centres in Helsinki mainly serve first stage, they focus on attaining their basic skills under the superthe employees in the Helsinki metropolitan area. Stockmann employees in vision of internal coaches. The last module is intended for experienother cities and Lindex and Seppälä employees in Finland receive their ced customer service professionals, who focus on interactive skills, occupational health care as a purchased service. among other things, during their training. Occupational health care monitors the personnel’s health and working Continuous learning and training are a part of each and every ability and provides support for the wellbeing of employees and teams and employee’s career path. Maintaining personnel competence, comtheir ability to cope at work, as necessary. Personal discussions on wellbebined with good management and high-quality supervisory work, ing at work are an important element in implementing the principle of early create good working conditions at Stockmann. support by supervisors and occupational health care for the prevention of absences. Employees are referred to various types of rehabilitation programmes, if necessary. In 2011, 24 enthusiastic coaches participated in Lindex’s Soul programme. PRODUCTS STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 12 Responsible products • An increasing number of own brands’ products originate pate in training concerning good and safe working conditions. from audited suppliers • Lindex sold 5 million products manufactured from responsible Independent factory audits and own inspections materials In 2011, a total of 199 BSCI audits were carried out at factories located in • Seppälä introduced products manufactured from organic risk countries which manufacture own brand products (184 in 2010). More cotton to its selections than half of the factories audited were “Approved”, 25 per cent were • The organic food selection at Stockmann Delicatessens assessed as “Approved after improvements” and 22 per cent fail to meet grew approximately 20% the requirements. These results were a significant improvement on the previous year. Of all the audits conducted in 2011, 121 were initial audits. The Stockmann Group’s objective is to ensure that the products it sells are The BSCI audits are conducted by internationally accredited independent procured through a responsible supply chain. In 2011, Stockmann focused auditors. In addition, Stockmann carried out 140 of its own inspections of on the responsibility of fashion. Most of the selection sold at Stockmann’s supplier factories in 2011. Corporate social responsibility experts working in department stores consists of international and domestic brand products the Group’s purchasing offices visit the company’s suppliers and always whose compliance with responsible practices is inspected during the purmake sure that a new factory fulfills the Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct chasing negotiations. A significant amount of the Lindex and Seppälä before signing any agreements and commencing production. Other personselections and the department stores’ own brand products are procured nel from the purchasing offices also visit the factories on a regular basis. For through the Group’s six purchasing offices, which are located in China, example, quality controllers work in close cooperation with the factories’ India, Bangladesh, Pakistan and Turkey. The Stockmann Group does not personnel. Stockmann’s presence in its supplier countries considerably have its own factories or production facilities. increases the company’s ability to ensure that its suppliers’ factories have good working conditions. Social responsibility in Stockmann’s supply chain o Stockmann is committed to the Business Social Compliance Initiative s (BSCI), the purpose of which is to improve working conditions in the production facilities of goods suppliers, while clarifying and harmonising the BSCI audits in 2011 BSCI audits in 2010 means by which suppliers are monitored. (n=199) (n=184) A significant number of the Stockmann Group’s own products come from areas classified as high-risk countries by the BSCI, such as China, India, Bangladesh and Turkey. Over 80 per cent of the Group’s own brand fashion and home products purchased from risk countries already originate from suppliers whose production facilities have been assessed by the BSCI auditing process as being “Approved”. The share of purchases from audited suppliers was up on the previous year in the Stockmann Group. In addition, 22 suppliers had an SA8000 certificate in 2011. The recognised social responsibility risks of Stockmann’s supply chain include breaches of working hours legislation, deficiencies in occupational 53% Approved 26% Approved safety and the use of child and forced labour. In 2011, Stockmann encour25% Approved after improvements 22% Approved after improvements aged its suppliers that were involved in the BSCI auditing process to partici22% Fails to meet requirements 52% Fails to meet requirements PRODUCTS STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 13 Development projects improved working conditions Seppälä Basics collection. Products manufactured from organic cotton are CASE and helped protect the environment marked with the ‘Organic Cotton’ label. Many problems relating to working conditions in high-risk countries are not limited to individual factories, but affect the entire country or industry. Stockmann takes responsibility for the safety Examples of responsible These problems can be best addressed through cooperation between of its products the various stakeholders. For example, Stockmann Group’s personnel Stockmann is responsible for the safety of the products it sells, ensuring buying activities participated in BSCI Round Table meetings in Bangladesh and India in that they do not pose a risk to customers’ health or property. The com2011. Stockmann also encourages dialogue between stakeholders in pany’s buying organisation makes sure that products comply with the valid Wood originating from natural tropical forests Europe, and participates in the BSCI National Contact Groups’ activities requirements set in chemical and product safety legislation. Products are Stockmann does not sell garden furniture manufactured from in Finland and Sweden. tested regularly by their manufacturers and importers, by Stockmann in the wood originating from natural tropical forests. Other products in In 2011, Lindex funded three development projects to improve working case of own brand products, and by Finnish Customs. Testing ensures that Stockmann’s selection manufactured from wood originating from conditions in Bangladesh. These projects were aimed at improving fire the products fulfil all quality and safety requirements set by legislation or by natural tropical forests must have a certificate from the FSC safety at production facilities, fostering cooperation between workers and Stockmann. In addition, Stockmann follows product notifications issued by (Forest Stewardship Council) or the PEFC (Programme for the management, and providing vocational training for young people aged 16 to the European Union in order to inform customers about products that pose Endorsement of Forest Certification). 18 years. a risk as quickly as possible. In recent years, Stockmann’s purchasing offices have made efforts to Stockmann Delicatessens and the company’s central kitchen have an Fish and shellfish products assess and minimise the harmful environmental impacts of their suppliers’ extensive internal quality assurance system for food safety. This system is Stockmann Delicatessens in Finland purchase their fish and factories. Lindex has drafted an environmental code that addresses sewage based on both EU and national legislation, and, with respect to Delicatesshellfish products from fish wholesalers. The Delicatessens favour treatment, waste management, and chemicals and emissions control. The sens, joint trading sector guidelines for good practices in internal superviFinnish fish and shellfish in their selections, depending on availapersonnel of the purchasing offices conduct environmental inspections of sion approved by the Finnish Food Safety Authority Evira. Stockmann has bility, and promote the trade in MSC (Marine Stewardship factories and monitor compliance with environmental protection legislation an annual risk-based sampling plan for food, focusing especially on food Council)-certified fish and shellfish products. Stockmann Delicaand the requirements set by Lindex. In 2011, Lindex participated in three products prepared by the company and fresh food products sold under the tessens do not sell any fish or shellfish classified under endangeprojects that improved the level of environmental protection at production company’s own brands. Random tests are carried out to ensure the chemired species in Finland (the 2010 Red List of Finnish Species). facilities in China, India and Bangladesh. cal and microbiological safety of products. Stockmann’s central kitchen operates in accordance with the principles of the ISO 22000 food safety Eggs Responsible products in the selections of all divisions management system. The operations of the central kitchen will be audited Stockmann Delicatessens in Finland only sell organic and freeIn 2011, the department stores’ selections included fashion and home and certification will be sought in 2012. range hens’ eggs. Stockmann does not sell eggs from enrichedtextiles made from organic and recycled materials, ecolabelled products, cage egg production. organic and fair trade foods, MSC (Marine Stewardship Council) certified BSCI Code of Conduct seafood products, organic and natural cosmetics, FSC (Forest Stewardship ‘Worn’ look jeans Council) and PEFC (Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification) 1. Legal compliance The sandblasting method is not used in the manufacture of the certified wood and paper products, electronics complying with Energy Star 2. Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining own brand jeans sold at Stockmann department stores, Lindex, requirements and various products made from recycled materials. 3. Prohibition of discrimination Seppälä and Hobby Hall. The method is banned by law in the EU In 2011, Lindex sold a total of 5 million products manufactured from 4. Compensation and Turkey. Giving jeans a ‘worn’ look using the sandblasting organic cotton, recycled fabric or Tencel fabric. Products manufactured 5. Working hours method can be hazardous to workers’ health if it is carried out using materials complying with Lindex’s sustainable development principles 6. Workplace health and safety without proper protective equipment or training. are clearly marked at stores, and are displayed on a separate page in the 7. Prohibition of child labour online store. Lindex’s website also provides environmentally friendly care 8. Prohibition of forced and compulsory labour instructions for products. 9. Environment and safety issues Seppälä increased the proportion of organically grown cotton among the 10. Management systems raw materials used in its products. The company introduced a summer clothing collection manufactured from organic cotton, which was also Further information: bsci-intl.org selected as the raw material for the T shirts that are regularly available in the PRODUCTS STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 14 CASE Stockmann Delicatessens expand their Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) projects Seppälä develops responsible product organic product selections reduce harmful effects of cotton cultivation selection August 2011 saw the opening of a 100 square metre organic departLindex’s responsibility extends all the way to the products’ source, to the Seppälä designs all the clothes and accessories that it sells at its stores. ment at the Delicatessen food department in Stockmann’s Helsinki city cotton fields. Since 2008, Lindex has participated in the Better Cotton Fashion collections are designed in Finland, but manufactured in different centre department store. Initiative (BCI), which aims at reducing the harmful environmental impact parts of the world. Therefore, it is important for Seppälä’s purchasing The range of organic food products was also expanded at of traditional cotton cultivation. BCI trains cotton producers and teaches organisation to manage the supply chains, and to be able to make Stockmann’s other department stores, and the sales personnel were sustainable farming, i.e. how to grow cotton using less water, chemicals choices that promote sustainable development. made aware of the various environmental and responsibility labelling and fertilisers. In addition, BCI works to improve workers’ conditions and Seppälä’s purchasing organisation strengthened its responsibility schemes. At the end of 2011 the Stockmann Delicatessens had almost encourages farmers to cooperate and share tried-and-tested practices. know-how when Sirpa Valve, Product Manager of the Seppälä Basics 1 300 organic products in their selections, which was about 20 per cent BCI trains farmers through Farmer Field Schools and Sustainable Cotton brand, participated in the Sustainable Fashion Academy training promore than a year earlier. Training Program projects. gramme in 2011. The programme is organized by operators from the The contribution of organic food products to total sales in the In autumn 2011, Lindex’s corporate social responsibility experts visited Swedish fashion industry and lasts eight months. During the training, Delicatessens is significantly above the Finnish national average. Gujarat in India, where they met local farmers participating in BCI’s participants are introduced to concepts on how a company can best development programmes. The farmers were proud of their achieveutilise ecological, socially and financially sustainable methods from the ments, which have benefitted the environment and improved their famidesign stage to the production process. The training programme also lies’ finances. Encouraged by the project’s positive results, the farmers examines the environmental impacts of the manufacture and consumphave shared what they have learnt with other cotton growers in the tion of clothing and footwear. region, which will eventually improve the entire community’s well-being. The sustainable development theme is prominent in Seppälä’s Organic Cotton collection and the Baby collection, which will be launched in selected Seppälä stores and the Seppälä online store during spring 2012. PLANET STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 15 Environmental responsibility • All of Stockmann’s department stores in Finland have a warehouse premises in Pitäjänmäki. No certified environmental systems certified ISO 14001 environmental system are employed in other countries of operation or divisions. The warehouses • Lindex’s new store concept takes environmental impacts and outlets in Finland meet the requirements of the ISO 14001 environinto account mental system and are internally audited on a regular basis, although they • The recycling efficiency rates for waste at department stores are not currently subject to external auditing or certification. in Finland improved by 4 percentage points in 2011 No environmental damage, accidents or offences were recorded during • Carbon footprint reporting was enhanced the reporting period. Stockmann’s environmental objectives relate to the following areas: Energy and water consumption reducing the environmental impact of the company’s business operations, are constantly monitored ensuring that environmental issues are systematically taken into account in The Group’s reported energy consumption mainly consists of electricity, products and services procured for the company’s own use, and offering heating and district heating. Energy consumption is result from lighting, responsible products as part of our selection. ventilation, heating and cooling in stores, warehouses and offices, as well The most significant environmental impacts of the Stockmann Group’s as from the equipment in these facilities, including lifts, escalators, reown operations arise from energy consumption, waste, and transportafrigeration and IT equipment. tion. Environmental work at Stockmann is based on an environmental The recorded electricity consumption of the Stockmann Group was policy approved by the Board of Directors, and on a corporate social 168 000 MWh in 2011. This is almost 11 per cent more than the reported responsibility strategy approved by the Group’s Management Committee. consumption in 2010. Almost without exception, the increase was due to the opening of new stores and department stores. stockmanngroup.fi/en/responsibility Environmental responsibility management and systems In 2011, Stockmann focused on improving energy efficiency in its retail The management of environmental responsibility is organised as a part of premises. The Department Store Division adjusted the lighting, cooling the divisions’ day-to-day management. The divisions set concrete environand ventilation control programmes and cleaning timetables at its departmental targets and define indicators for monitoring their achievement that ment stores. Automatic energy consumption monitoring was developed are the most suitable in terms of their respective business operations. by setting more accurate alert limits that immediately indicate a deviation The Stockmann department stores in Finland have had a certified ISO from normal energy consumption. Further steps were taken to connect 14001 environmental system for about ten years. All of the Department the department stores in Russia to the real-time energy consumption Store Division’s business locations in Finland set a level for their environmonitoring system. Lindex’s new store concept takes into account mental operations that is above the minimum required by the law. The ISO responsible material selections used in interiors, and also, the stores’ 14001 certification covers the functions of Stockmann’s department energy consumption. The fashion chain’s energy consumption is currently stores and Academic Bookstores in Finland, as well as the Department one of the lowest in the industry. In 2011, Seppälä stores in Finland Store Division’s joint office. Around 70 per cent of the Group’s personnel in instructed their personnel in matters concerning energy efficiency, charted Finland work in jobs falling within the scope of the certified functions. Interelectricity consumption and introduced an energy consumption monitoring nal and external evaluations as referred to in the environmental system are tool. carried out on a regular basis. During 2011, internal audits were perThe Group’s recorded water consumption totalled 248 900 cubic formed at all the department stores and at the office and warehouse metres, or 18 per cent more than the previous year. The increase in conpremises in Pitäjänmäki, while external audits were performed at the sumption was due to the opening of new business premises. Most of the department stores in Helsinki, Tapiola and Itäkeskus, and at the office and water is used in the department stores’ restaurant, kitchen and sanitary PLANET STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 16 facilities. Water consumption is minimised by instructing personnel, prepany’s own imports and from the use of refrigerants. The reports cover the Greenhouse gas emissions 2010–2011 (tCO2e) venting and repairing even the smallest leaks and procuring more efficient operations of the Department Store Division and Seppälä in Finland, and water fittings to replace older ones. The divisions use water supplied by of Lindex in all countries where it does business. These operations 2011 2010 local waterworks. account for almost 80 per cent of the Group’s revenue. Direct emissions The overall emissions reported by Stockmann were up about 40 per Vehicles and own energy generation 845 888 Waste and its recycling cent on the corresponding figure a year earlier. This was due to the fact Indirect emissions due to energy The waste generated by the divisions’ operations is mainly packaging that the reports included new sources of emissions that are crucial for purchases waste, such as cardboard and plastic. The Department Store Division also operations. Like-for-like emissions were down by about one per cent, due Electricity 19 296 18 856 generates biodegradable waste, as a result of the processing and selling to lower consumption of heating and cooling energy, in particular. The District heat and cooling 9 339 10 914 of food in the restaurant and café functions. In 2011, 4 300 tonnes of highest emissions came from the generation of purchased energy, espeOther relevant indirect emissions packaging material ended up on the market as a result of Stockmann’s cially electricity. The other main source of emissions was import freight. Distribution transports 2 750 2 084 operations. Reporting on greenhouse gas emissions serves as a management tool, Import cargo 12 539 Stockmann’s department stores emphasize recycling and separation of Cooling agent 1 979 waste by training their personnel, refining the guidelines, facilitating the Emission sources based on the GHG Protocol reporting standard Air travel 1 595 1 570 sorting process, and monitoring recycling results at different locations on a Total 48 343 34 312 monthly basis. In 2011, 93 per cent of the waste generated by the Department Store Division’s functions in Finland was either recycled or converted into energy. The recycling efficiency rates for waste at department stores • Own energy generation Energy and water consumption 2009–2011 outside Finland were considerably lower due to differences in local recyDirect • Vehicles owned and operated cling possibilities. by the Group 2011 2010 2009 greenhouse gas As for Lindex and Seppälä, the Group reports the amount of waste • Business travel by personnel’s Direct emissions generated and the recycling efficiency rates at their head offices and (Scope 1) own vehicles Heating fuel (l) 4 325 4 570 not meas. logistics centres. More than 90 per cent of the waste generated at these Natural gas (m3) 1 505 546 638 200 not meas. business locations is recycled. The Lindex and Seppälä stores are usually Indirect located in shopping centres, where waste is sorted and recycled to the Electricity (MWh) 168 147 151 223 101 943 extent made possible by the property management company. Currently, Indirect District heating and there is no accurate information available on the amount of waste gener• Electricity 96 883 103 811 46 167 greenhouse gas cooling (MWh) ated at these stores. emissions due to • District heat In their role as product importers, Stockmann’s divisions have producer energy purchases and cooling* Water (m3) 248 915 211 678 199 673 liability; i.e. they are obligated to arrange the waste disposal and recycling (Scope 2) of certain products and their packaging at their own expense. The Group Statistics exclude energy used by vehicles and franchising stores. District has met this obligation by joining producer organisations that are responheating figures exclude Stockmann Beauty and Seppälä stores. Water sible for the collection and recycling of products discarded by consumers. consumption figures include department stores’ operations (excluding in 2011 Lindex carried out a recycling campaign in cooperation with the Other relevant Itäkeskus and Jumbo dept. stores and Stockmann Beauty stores) as Myrorna second-hand stores in Sweden. Lindex’s customers had the indirect • Distribution transports well as Lindex and Seppälä head office and logistics centre. opportunity to take their second-hand textiles to Myrorna stores for recygreenhouse gas • Import cargo** cling. Customers participating in the campaign were awarded with Lindex emissions • Cooling agent discount coupons. (Scope 3) • Air travel Stockmann’s carbon footprint Stockmann issued an extensive report on its greenhouse gas emissions for the first time in 2010. The calculation of Stockmann’s carbon footprint * Excluding district heat at Seppälä and Stockmann Beauty stores was enhanced in 2011 by including emissions generated by the com** Own imports PLANET STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 17 providing a basis for defining the areas where emissions should be CASE reduced and for setting reduction targets for the coming years. The company aims to enhance its reporting so that it covers all countries of operation. The calculation of Stockmann’s carbon footprint was carried out by an external party applying the reporting policies of the international GreenLed lighting saves energy house Gas Protocol. Stockmann also reports on its carbon footprint annually in the international Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) survey. In On average, lighting accounts for 50 per cent of energy consumptechnology. The new led lighting on the facade is impressive and the 2011, Stockmann’s CDP score was 61/100. tion at stores. Using led light sources, luminosity can be maintained solution significantly reduces the need for maintaining the lights, at the same level, but energy consumption and heat generation are which are positioned at a high altitude. In addition, led light sources Considering the environment in the reduced substantially. And since led lighting does not emit UV or IR were used as effect lights, as exemplified by the Christmas lights in Group’s internal functions radiation, led lights do not harm products. A large number of old the windows of the Argos Hall at the Helsinki department store. Stockmann’s divisions hold most of their regular internal international halogen lights can be converted to led lights by changing their light Seppälä piloted the use of led lights in 2011. During this project, meetings with the aid of video and telephone conferencing equipment. In bulbs and tubes. spotlights using halogen technology were replaced at test stores Finland personnel’s air travel for work purposes was successfully reduced In 2011 the energy efficiency of lighting was improved in the with led lights. The project was a success, and the fashion chain compared with the previous year. For example, air travel between Helsinki Finnish department stores during service inspections by introducing aims to cut its energy consumption in future by replacing all halogen and St Petersburg was replaced with rail travel with the opening of a new a new, more efficient type of bulb in the metal halide spotlights. The bulbs and tubes with led lights. The objective is to transfer solutions high-speed train connection. lighting solutions utilized throughout the Department Store Division that have been tried and tested in Finland to stores operating The Group’s electronic reporting, invoice processing, archiving and in cosmetics, women’s clothing and for outdoor lightning concepts abroad. information systems substantially reduce the amount of paper printouts were implemented mainly with led technology. Lindex’s new store in Stockholm utilises led technology in its and documents carried through internal mail. All the units in Finland At the youth fashion department of the Helsinki department store, general lighting. In addition, the fashion chain is testing led technoswitched to electronic wage slips at the start of 2012. old halogen lights were replaced with new led light sources, with the logy and energy-saving light bulbs in its new store concept in order Environmental aspects are considered in procuring goods and services objective of cutting lighting maintenance costs and improving the to reduce energy consumption. During 2012, the chain will study for the Group’s own use. In 2011, a procurement strategy was approved appearance of the premises. At the same time, the department and evaluate different lighting options at its stores, modernise its for the Department Store Division, one of whose objectives is to systemachieved considerable energy savings and improved temperature lighting and update its maintenance agreements. atically evaluate the environmental impacts and life cycles of all procureconditions. The installation of led lights at the top of the Helsinki ments. In the future, closer attention will be paid to environmental aspects department store’s facade was another successful application of led in the procurements of all divisions. Waste management statistics 2009–2011 (tons) Department stores, Finland Department stores, abroad Lindex Seppälä Total 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Recyclable Cardboard and paper 2 242 1 741 2 068 300 262 296 1 166 1 144 1 159 309 378 360 4 017 3 525 3 883 Combustible waste 1 227 1 052 1 015 n/a n/a 28 24 27 19.7 16 14 1 274 1 092 1 056 Bio waste 2 433 2 132 2 091 354 386 194 1 n/a n/a 5.1 9 12 2 794 2 527 2 297 Other (plastic film, metal, glass) 81 88 69 26.3 6 6 83.4 3 n/a 7 7 6 198 104 81 Landfill waste 484 587 427 6 115 6 113 3 318 4 6 6 6.9 16 9 6 610 6 722 3 760 Hazardous waste 7 14 11 0 0 n/a n/a 0 2 0.4 0 0 7 14 13 Total 6 474 5 614 5 681 6 796 6 767 3 814 1 282 1 177 1 194 348 425 401 14 899 13 984 11 090 Waste utilization, % 93 89 92 10 10 13 100 100 100 98 96 98 56 52 66 Information about waste disposal methods has been offered by the waste disposal contractors. Statistics include department stores’ operations (excluding Stockmann Beauty stores, Duetto Business Park office premises and franchising stores) as well as Lindex and Seppälä head offices and logistics centres. profit STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 18 Financial responsibility • Stockmann is listed on the Kempen SNS Smaller Europe SRI appoints the CEO, who is responsible for the company’s operations in and OMX GES Finland Sustainability indexes accordance with the instructions and policies issued by the Board. The • Stockmann’s revenue grew due to expansion; profit did not Board also appoints the other members of the Group Management reach target in 2011 Committee. More detailed information on Stockmann’s corporate govern• More than 20 new stores and one new department store ance is available in the Annual Report and on the Group’s website, where were opened during the year the Corporate Governance Statement for 2011 has been published. Stockmann’s financial reporting is prepared in accordance with InterIn the Stockmann Group, financial responsibility means good financial national Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and in compliance with management that meets shareholders’ profit expectations, creates perFinnish financial reporting and corporate legislation supplementing the manent jobs and generates economic wellbeing for society. Stockmann IFRS. The Group’s Chief Financial Officer and the Finance and Control is a major employer and taxpayer, a significant purchaser of products and Department are responsible for the Group’s financial reporting. Auditors services, an investor and a partner. Competitiveness and sound financial elected by the General Meeting audit the company’s accounting, financial 56116 performance enable the company to enhance the wellbeing of its personstatements and administration. The Internal Audit examines and assesses nel and of society as a whole. Socially responsible operations, in turn, the effectiveness and risk management of the divisions and of internal create a solid foundation for efficient operations and the company’s control. The Internal Audit functions as an independent unit under the financial growth. Chief Executive Officer and reports its observations to the Board of Directors. A responsible Finnish listed company Stockmann plc, the parent company of the Stockmann Group, is listed The purpose of Stockmann’s disclosure policy is to ensure that, as a basis for establishing the price of Stockmann shares, all those operating shareholders on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. In its decision-making and administration, on the market have sufficient and accurate information on Stockmann Stockmann complies with the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act, the available to them simultaneously, promptly and impartially. All investor provisions of its Articles of Association, and other applicable legislation. information is published on the Group’s website at stockmanngroup.fi in Stockmann complies in full with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code, Finnish, Swedish and English. Financial information is published on the which is issued by the Securities Market Association. parent company and the Group as a whole, and on its divisions, which At the end of 2011, Stockmann had 56 116 (44 596) shareholders. are the Department Store Division, Lindex and Seppälä. The number of shareholders rose substantially due to share subscriptions Stockmann is included in the Kempen SNS Smaller Europe SRI sususing Loyal Customer share options. Almost 18 000 Loyal Customers tainable development index maintained by the Dutch investment compatook advantage of their options, and the number of shareholders nies Kempen Capital Management and SNS Asset Management. The increased by about 10 000. companies in the index are considered to operate in accordance with Stockmann plc’s highest decision-making body is the General Meeting, high ethical, social and environmental protection criteria. In addition, which approves the company’s financial statements, grants release from Stockmann is one of the companies included in the OMX GES Finland liability to the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer and Sustainability index. Maintained by NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd, the index elects the Board of Directors. At present, the Board has eight Directors, includes 40 Finnish companies that are market leaders in sustainable none of whom are full-time and all of whom are independent of the comdevelopment. pany. The majority are also independent of the company’s major shareholders. The personnel have elected two representatives who have the Revenue topped new billion plateau right to attend and speak at Board meetings. The Board of Directors General market development was positive at the start of 2011. UncerPROFIT STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 19 tainty in the market increased after the second quarter of the year, mainly and capital goods for EUR 66.0 million. to pay EUR 35.9 million in dividends, or EUR 0.50 per share, which is due to the unresolved European debt crisis. This weakened consumer In 2011, Stockmann employed an average of 15,964 people, who higher than the earnings per share. confidence in Finland towards the end of the year. Demand for affordable were paid EUR 307.7 million in wages and salaries during the financial As part of its corporate social responsibility, Stockmann also makes fashion remained weak throughout the whole year in Sweden. Positive year. Financial expenses paid to finance providers amounted to EUR 34.9 donations to worthy causes each year. The goal of these donations is to market development continued in Russia and the Baltic countries. million. A total of EUR 40.9 million was paid in pension and staff expenses support education, culture, research and other social projects across The Stockmann Group’s revenue in 2011 grew by 10.1 per cent, totalrelated to salaries, and EUR 4.9 million in income taxes. Finland and extending to several of the Group’s countries of operation. ling EUR 2 005.3 million. Revenue was up 3.9 per cent in Finland and Stockmann’s Board of Directors has targeted a dividend distribution of Charities are supported through selected charitable causes and organisa17.4 per cent abroad. The Department Store Division’s revenue was more than half of the earnings derived from the company’s ordinary opertions. In 2011, such causes included the “Rewrite the Future” education boosted in particular by the St Petersburg department store and Nevsky ations. In 2011, EUR 58.3 million, equivalent to EUR 0.82 per share, was aid programme of Save the Children, the Clean Baltic Sea project of the Centre shopping centre, the new department store in Ekaterinburg and paid to shareholders in dividends from the 2010 earnings, equivalent to John Nurminen Foundation, the National Book Drive initiative of the Finnthe enlarged department store in the Helsinki city centre. Also department EUR 1.10 per share. In spring 2012, the Annual General Meeting resolved ish Cultural Foundation and projects by the Psychiatry Research Foundastores in Moscow and in the Baltic countries developed well. Lindex strengthened its market position in all its countries of operation Economic added value to stakeholders 2011 Revenue 2011 Revenue 2007–2011 during 2011. In Sweden, even though revenue performance significantly outperformed the market, it fell short of its targets as overall fashion industry sales in Sweden fell by five per cent. Revenue grew in all other markets. Seppälä’s revenue remained at the level of the previous year. + CUSTOMERS EUR 2 005.3 mill. EMPLOYEES EUR 307.7 mill. EUR mill. 2500 Both fashion chains continued to expand in 2011, in line with their strate(2010: EUR 1 821.9 mill.) (2010: EUR 287.6 mill.) 2000 gies. Lindex opened 26 stores and closed seven. In addition, Lindex Sales excluding VAT. Salaries and wages. 1500 opened its online store across the EU and in Norway in 2011. At the end of the year, Seppälä had five more stores than a year earlier and a new online store operating in Finland. – SUPPLIERS EUR 1 028.4 mill. PUBLIC SECTOR EUR 45.8 mill. 1000 62% Department Store Division 500 (2010: EUR 913.0 mill.) (2010: EUR 32.3 mill.) 31% Lindex Earnings fell short of target in 2011 Costs of goods, materials Pensions and social 0 7% Seppälä During 2011, and in particular during its first quarter, revenue growth was and service purchased. security payments, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 unable to cover the higher costs and depreciation resulting from the taxes. expansion project. Operating costs increased by EUR 71.1 million mainly due to expansion and high inflation. Depreciation increased by EUR 15.9 – SUPPLIERS OF CAPITAL EXPENDITURE CREDITORS million. The situation improved towards the end of the year, and fourthEUR 66.0 mill. EUR 34.9 mill. Operating profit 2011 Operating profit 2007–2011 quarter operating profit was higher than in the previous year. (2010: EUR 165.4 mill.) (2010: EUR 22.8 mill.) The gross profit increased by EUR 68.1 million to EUR 976.9 million Costs of goods, materials Financial expenses. EUR mill. % during the financial year. The relative gross margin weakened somewhat and service purchased. 140 14 as a result of high purchasing prices and actions to boost sales. SHAREHOLDERS Operating profit in 2011 was EUR 70.1 million, which is EUR 18.7 million less than in the previous year. As operating profit was lower than = ADDED VALUE EUR 910.9 mill. EUR 35.9 mill. (2010: EUR 58.3 mill.) 120 100 12 10 expected and financial expenses rose due to the high level of debt, (2010: EUR 743.5 mill.) Dividends. 80 8 Stockmann’s profit for the financial year fell to EUR 30.8 million, and 60 6 earnings per share were EUR 0.43. ECONOMIC ADDED 40 4 45% Department Store Division VALUE RETAINDED IN 20 2 53% Lindex Financial benefits for stakeholders THE COMPANY 0 0 2% Seppälä Stockmann’s operations brought economic added value to all its key EUR 486.6 mill. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 stakeholders in the 2011 financial year. During the year, the Stockmann (2010: EUR 342.5 mill.) Other operating income Group purchased saleable goods and services for EUR 1 028.4 million % of revenue profit STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 20 tion and the Eye Foundation. The Group’s divisions may support worthy equity ratio of 40 percent. At the end of 2011, the Group’s equity ratio CASE causes in conjunction with their commercial campaigns. The most promiwas 42 per cent. nent example of this is Lindex’s cooperation with the cancer funds’ Pink Other long-term financial targets, extending to 2015, include a sales Ribbon campaign, which supports breast cancer research. In 2011, growth above industry average, a minimum operating profit of 12 percent Lindex’s customers donated almost one million euros to this campaign. of revenue and a minimum return on capital employed of 20 per cent. In Important Loyal Customers 2011, the company achieved its goal of sales growth above industry Efficient capital structure is a long-term target average, but the long-term targets for operating profit and return on Stockmann became a pioneer in the retail sector when it launched its Stockmann aims for an efficient capital structure that will ensure favourcapital employed were not met. The timetable for achieving the long-term popular Loyal Customer programme in 1986. Nowadays the Stockable operating conditions in the capital market under all circumstances, financial targets is challenging in the current difficult operating environmann Group’s divisions have four Loyal Customer programmes: Stockregardless of the sector’s sensitivity to changes in the economic situation. ment. The level of growth in the economy will determine whether or not mann’s Loyal Customer programme, the Lindex Club, the Seppälä The Stockmann Group monitors the development of its capital structure the timetable for achieving the targets need to be revised. Club, and Hobby Hall’s Loyal Customer programme, which in total have through its equity ratio. The Group’s strategic financial targets include an more than 6 million customers. The companies keep in touch with their Loyal Customers on a regular basis and offer them benefits with a monetary value. During 2011, Hobby Hall’s and Seppälä’s Loyal CusDistribution of votes 2011 Distribution of shares 2011 Dividend for the financial years 2007–2011 tomer programmes were revised. In addition, Stockmann invested heavily in its Loyal Customer programme in St Petersburg and EkaterinEUR mill. % burg, where it opened its latest department stores. The Loyal Customer 80 200 programme is a crucial factor in the department stores’ success. Stockmann handles customers’ personal data confidentially, in the 60 150 way prescribed by law. In 2011, we received some queries from customers regarding how we use personal data, and we responded in the 40 100 appropriate manner. The Loyal Customer systems’ data file descriptions can be found on the respective units’ websites. 20 50 56% Foundations and associations 46% Foundations and associations 0 0 Purchasing loyalty is rewarded with options 17% Households 22% Households 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Stockmann has rewarded its Loyal Customers by organizing Loyal 25% Private and public corporations 24% Private and public corporations Dividend Customer share option programmes since 2006. In 2011, the company 1% Banks and insurance companies 3% Banks and insurance companies % of earnings gained more than 10,000 new shareholders through the exercise of 1% Nominee registrations (incl. foreign shareholders) 5% Nominee registrations (incl. foreign shareholders) Loyal Customer share options. The programmes provide Loyal Customers who do a lot of business at Stockmann with a major benefit, Major shareholders, 31 December 2011 that rewards them for their loyal buying behaviour while simultaneously improving Stockmann’s competitive position. Percantage of shares Percantage of votes In March 2012, Stockmann’s Annual General 1. HTT STC Holding Oy Ab 11.7 10.7 Meeting approved the Board of Direc2. Föreningen Konstsamfundet grouping 9.4 15.0 tors’ proposal to grant new share 3. Society of Swedish Literature in Finland 7.6 15.7 options to the Loyal Customers of 4. Niemistö grouping 5.8 9.4 Stockmann. Each share option entitles 5. Varma mutual Pension Insurance Company 4.7 1.0 its holder to subscribe for one of the 6. Etola Group 4.3 6.1 company’s B shares. The shares can be 7. Stiftelsen för Åbo Akademi 4.2 6.4 subscribed for in May 2014 or May 2015. 8. Samfundet Folkhälsan i svenska Finland r.f. 2.2 2.7 9. Jenny ja Antti Wihuri’s fund 1.9 2.1 10. Inez och Julius Polins fond 1.5 0.8 GRI content comparison STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 21 GRI content comparison GRI recommendation Stockmann’s report Disclosure GRI description Reported Page Explanation 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the CEO Fully 3 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization Fully 6 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services Fully 6 2.3 Operational structure of the organization Fully 6 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Fully 6 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates Fully 7 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Fully 6, 20 See also the Annual Report 2011: Corporate Governance Statement. 2.7 Markets served Fully 5–7 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Fully 6–7 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, Fully 7, 18–19 structure, or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Fully 3 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period Fully 23 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Fully 23 3.3 Reporting cycle Fully 23 3.4 Contact point for questions Fully 25 3.5 Process for defining report content Partially 23 Relevancy is mainly based on Group’s internal factors. 3.6 Scope and boundary of the report Fully 23 Deviations mentioned in connection with each key indicator. 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary Fully 3.8 Basis for reporting on subsidiaries and leased facilities that can affect Fully 23 Leased out commercial premises in the Nevsky Centre shopping centre not included. comparability 3.10 Re-statements of information provided in earlier reports Fully None. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or Fully 16,23 The calculation of greehouse gas emissions was enhanced. measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 GRI content comparison Fully 21–22 GRI content comparison STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 22 * GRI core indicator GRI recommendation Stockmann’s report Disclosure GRI description Reported Page Explanation 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization Fully 18 See also the Annual Report 2011: Corporate Governance Statement. 4.2 Position of the chairman Fully 18 See also the Annual Report 2011: Corporate Governance Statement. 4.3 Independence of the members of the Board Fully 18 See also the Annual Report 2011: Corporate Governance Statement. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or Fully 18 See also the Annual Report 2011: Corporate Governance Statement. direction to the Board 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Fully 5 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Partially 5 5. Performance Indicators Economic EC1* Direct economic value generated and distributed Fully 19 Environmental EN1* Materials used Partially 17 Reported the amount of packaging material put to the market. EN3* Direct energy consumption Fully 16 EN4* Indirect energy consumption Fully 16 EN8* Total water withdrawal Fully 15 EN16* Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Fully 16 EN17* Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Fully 16 EN22* Total weight of waste Fully 17 EN23* Significant spills Fully None in the reporting period. EN28* Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws Fully None in the reporting period. and regulations Social LA1* Total workforce Fully 9–10 LA2* Employee turnover Fully 10 LA7* Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number Partially 10 of work-related fatalities LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Partially 9–11 Human Rights HR2* Significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human Partially 12–13 Included in BSCI auditis. rights Product Responsibility PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of Fully 20 customer data reporting principles and contact information STOCKMANN GROUP’S CSR REPORT 2011 23 Reporting principles and contact information On its website stockmanngroup.fi, Stockmann publishes an annual corporate social responsibility report that covers the entire Group. The reporting period of this report is the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2011. The previous report on the 2010 financial year was published in May 2011. This CSR report covers all operations of the Stockmann Group: three divisions (Stockmann, Lindex, Seppälä) in 11 countries of operation, Group administration activities in Finland and purchasing offices in five Asian countries. The report does not cover Lindex’s franchising stores in the Middle East, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Iceland. Some of the personnel and environmental indicators are reported only for Finland, which accounted for 51 per cent of revenue and 42 per cent of personnel in 2011. These exceptions and the measurement and accounting principles are mentioned in connection with the indicators. The goal is to gradually expand the reporting with regard to these indicators. The report is set within the framework of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 reporting guidelines. On pages 21–22 the content of the report is compared with the GRI recommendation and there is also an index of GRI indicators. The report complies with the GRI accounting principles where applicable. The Group’s financial indicators have been prepared in compliance with IFRS standards. The annual report for the 2011 financial year and the Group’s website stockmanngroup.fi also have information on the company’s financial responsibility, ownership, governance and risk management. Lindex, a Group division, also publishes more specific information about its responsibility on their website lindex.com. According to Stockmann’s own estimate, the coverage of this report meets the requirements of application level C of the GRI guidelines. The report has not been reviewed by a third party. Enquiries: Stockmann, Corporate Communications P.O. Box 70, 00621 Helsinki, Finland Telephone +358 9 121 3089, E-mail info@stockmann.com We offer our customers responsible shopping experiences. Stockmann plc Aleksanterinkatu 52 B P.O. Box 220 00101 HELSINKI Tel. +358 9 1211 www.stockmanngroup.fi
