Sustainability Report 2011 Reader’s Guide ST at a glance Report scope and profile Accessibility Adherence to GRI This is a report to ST’s stakeholders of This Sustainability report presents and the UN Global Edinburgh how responsibly we have performed as a STMicroelectronics’ Sustainability Compact Lake Oswego Marlow Paris company in the calendar year 2011. performance, describing our company Zaventem This report is prepared Geneva It covers all STMicroelectronics’ activities strategy and illustrating it with concrete Toronto Albany, NY Tours Prague and sites, unless otherwise stated. You can examples to highlight our performance and presented in Longmont Bristol Azarno Istanbul find details of ST’s structure and countries of and to share the challenges we may face accordance with the Santa Clara Rennes 2006 Global Reporting Coppel Crolles Tel Aviv operation in the chart on page 1. at ST’s group-wide level but also while Castelletto Shanghai Rousset Madrid For other information you can access reports implementing sustainability into our daily (GRI) G3 Guidelines. Grenoble Greater Noida We have self-declared an A application Fishkill from previous years at www.st.com/sustainability activities. Piscataway Agrate Shenzhen The report is published in English and it level which has been confirmed by GRI. If Lancaster Palermo Longgang Change in scope and materiality is accessible on the web in PDF format at G3 indicators are not applicable or relevant Scottsdale La Jolla Rabat Bouskoura Bangalore www.st.com/sustainability along with past to us we explain why in the text or in the In 2011, following an extensive materiality indicator index available online. reports. Printed copies are also available on exercise launched in 2010 and finalized in 2011, ST has refreshed its Sustainability request. ST has been a signatory of the United Coppell Ang Mo Kio strategy to link it to its business priorities, Catania Calamba Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since take into account its stakeholders’ interests Assurance 2000, which commits it to fulfilling the Kirkop and expectations and better address its most In 2011 as we were in a transition year while ten principles of the UNGC. This report material issues. ST has come out with 22 top officially launching ST’s new Sustainability describes actions we have taken to Muar sustainability issues that will determine our implement these principles, and serves as strategy, our priority was to ensure the way forward and contribution to Sustainable our Communication on Progress. relevancy and robustness of the defined Development at worldwide level. On page 67, there is an index that references objectives. This is why from this year, we have GRI indicators, Global Compact Principles decided to review the format of this annual Based on the launch of this new strategy, we are currently reviewing all company and ISO 26000 core subjects that can be Design Centers Sustainability report to align it with this new indicators in order to ensure the highest found in this report. strategy and to report ST’s performance Technology R&D Centers adequately. levels of accuracy and relevancy in order to Indicators and use of symbols • A global semiconductor leader • Partners of our Customers Worldwide with more accurately describe ST’s performance Front-end Manufacturing sites In 2011, based on this exercise we precisely • The largest European semiconductor 78 sales offices in 36 countries and follow it over the next years. In previous years, we used symbols to defined for each top issue, not only This exercise requires us to review hundreds company • An Unwavering Commitment to R&D Back-end Manufacturing sites disclose a complete and accurate picture of • 2011 revenues of US$ 9.73bn(1) 7 main technology R&D centers company objectives but also the relevant of indicators in all fields, to identify the ones our performance and identified a number of • Approx. 50,000 employees worldwide(1) 39 design centers Headquarters roles and responsibilities to ensure effective to be kept, the ones to be improved and the 1 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) that were deployment of this strategy. In order to ones to be discontinued. • Listed on New York Stock Exchange, 20,000 patents(1) published on a dedicated page. conduct this strategy review exercise, This is why for the year 2011 we have Euronext Paris and Borsa Italiana, Milano 12,000 people in technology, we closely worked with top management decided not to conduct an official process For 2011, following what has been • 12 manufacturing sites design, product and system R&D ‘contributors’ to define qualitative and of review and validation of data reporting. described in the Assurance section above, (1) Including ST-Ericsson, a 50:50 joint venture with Ericsson quantitative sustainability objectives for each Even during this transition year, we have we have decided not to present the level identified domain and tried to ensure continuity and published of achievement of ST’s objectives on we have reviewed all objectives with indicators where possible. top sustainability issues as we were in a ST’s Vice Presidents in order to get their validation. This new sustainability strategy has been Instead, we have taken the decision to launch the evaluations of three of our major transition period, officially launching these objectives in the company and starting to follow our performance versus these Focus 2011* officially validated by ST’s President and sites versus the ISO 26000 standard guide objectives. Zoom on ST Bouskoura (Morocco)… CEO, Carlo Bozotti. customized to align with ST’s new sustainability From next year, we will communicate the Headcount: 2,537 strategy and reflect the situation at its launch level of achievement for each defined On top of this exercise: of it. objective. • we took into account spontaneous We opted for the Det Norske Veritas feedback (email, web requests); methodology that allowed us go beyond employees normal evaluation based evidence checking. (ST + temporary employees) Manufacturing area: • we have conducted high-level 32,000 m², including Here we decided to launch evaluations benchmarking; a 21,000 m² clean room based on employees’ perception of • we have kept track of, and tried to ST’s sustainability engagement and Profile: anticipate, the rules and regulations being effective deployment. These evaluations Men (31%) / Women (69%) production: put in place at worldwide level. were conducted at three of our major Average age : 40 years total installed capacity Please note that you will find ST’s detailed manufacturing sites through employees’ Split by job category: of 12.9 million units per day Disclosure on Management Approach for interviews (with the participation of around 50 engineers (4%), technicians each section on the web. See more on employees overall). (31%), operators (65%) Domains of expertise : site certifications: www.st.com/stonline/company/sd/index.htm We will communicate more deeply on these EMAS, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, evaluations in next years’ report. electronics, chemists, physicists, mechanics, packaging operaISOTS 16949, Sony Green Partner This process is described by DNV with an tors, and many others official statement on page 68 of this report. Capital investment over Main activities: recent years: US$ 249m Give us your feedback You can also contact us directly at assembly, testing and finishing of investments since 1998 sustainable.development@st.com or contact: * Each year we focus on a different site to present their profile and local activity in a We are committed to improving both our sustainability performance and the ways we Corporate Sustainable Development Group more detailed way. communicate with our stakeholders. We encourage contributions and debate from all STMicroelectronics International N.V. Although reasonable efforts have been made to ensure the consistency of the summary financial information for the year 2011 in this report with ST’s financial reporting, reliance should only be placed upon the stakeholders and welcome feedback on the content and presentation of this report – complete financial reporting contained in ST’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2011, as filed with the SEC on March 5, 2012, which can be found at www.st.com. Corporate Headquarters Some of the statements contained in this report that are not historical facts are statements of future expectations and other forwardlooking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act as well as suggestions for next year. In order to get your feedback, we have developed 39, Chemin du Champ-des-Filles C.P. 21 of 1933 or Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended) based on management’s current views and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could an online form, available at http://www.st.com/stonline/company/sd/contact.htm. CH-1228 Geneva – Plan-Les-Ouates cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those in such statements. Certain such forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as ‘believes’, ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘would be’ or ‘anticipates’ or similar expressions or the negative thereof or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. Please do not hesitate to use this for any comments. Switzerland Some of the relevant risk factors are described in ‘Item 3. Key Information – Risk Factors’ included in our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2011. We do not intend, and do not assume any obligation, to update any information or forward-looking statements set forth in this report to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. Content Foreword by 2011 Carlo Bozotti, President and Chief Executive Officer This report has been prepared by: Director of publication: Alain Denielle Company 4 Editors in chief: Mélanie Salagnat, Charlotte Yvard Materiality and Sustainability Strategy 5 Editorial team: Estelle Hainry Governance 6 In a year characterized by volatile economic, social and Editorial Services: Malcolm Guy (Reassurance Network) Financial and Extra-financial Performance 8 market environments, compounded by the unfortunate Graphic designer: Rafale Com natural disasters in Japan and Thailand, sustainability Photographers: : Dominique Guillaudin, Stéphanie Joubert Our People 10 continued to be a priority at ST. Indeed, our resilience and Printer: ProCo-Print Recruitment, Learning & Development 12 ability to overcome the difficult and unpredictable conditions Employee Engagement 14 resulted, in part, from the foundation we’ve built through our Special thanks to: Monica Bianchi, Kate Cacciatore, Alisia Grenville, Philippe Quinio, Olivier Leenhardt, Global Diversity & Equal Opportunities 16 long-standing dedication to Sustainable Excellence and, Philippe Levavasseur, David Uhlar, Jean-Maurice Ramirez, Employee Safety 18 in particular, our strong focus on People and Innovation. Francois Suquet, Damien Tisserand Employee Health and Well-being 20 We truly believe that sustainability delivers a great return Labor Rights & Social Issues 22 and makes a vital contribution to our performance. Thanks to: Wanrafidah Akadir, Nigel Atkins, Mario Arlati, Alessandra Asiaghi, Mouna Backatoui, Xavier Baraton, Our Products 24 At ST, we have always recognized that our In 2011, through our participation in the is more and more an important answer to Marc Bastianelli, Ingwild Baudry, Luciano Benini, Celine Berthier, Customer Satisfaction 26 people are the foundation of our company. Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition and people’s growing awareness of, and need for, Elizabeth Beronio, Bernard Boulet, Claude Boumendil, Carol Brighton, Conflict-free Minerals 28 During 2011 we continued to make excellent Global e-Sustainability Initiative, we reinforced richer experiences and social improvement. Philippe Brun, Gianmarco Camillo, Denis Cazala, Patrice Chastagner, progress in the field of Environment, Health our efforts to ensure that no conflict minerals The semiconductor industry is increasingly Eco-design 30 and Safety (EHS). In fact, recordable cases enter our supply chain by deploying the driven by the way people live and what they Jean-Marc Chery, HC Chew, Laurent Cheyroux, Paolo Crema, 2 Responsible Products 32 and severity rates have declined by 69% newly created Due Diligence Tool for 100% expect technology to bring to their lives, both 3 Leah Cruz, Nelly Dimey, Edwin Dobson, Antonio Dragotto, and 84% respectively since 2002, further of our material suppliers and Front-end and in enhancing the quality of the way they work, Intellectual Property & Innovation 34 Pascal Droulez, Paolo Epigrafi, Aline Franconnet, Vittorio Gambolati, consolidating our position among the industry Back-end subcontractors. This topic now learn, interact and relax and in helping to Louis Gatt,Peter Gebler, Julia Genovini, Vincent Gerard, Fabio Gualandris, leaders. In addition, the Company Health Plan represents almost half of our customers’ social address major societal challenges in energy Bianca Guarino, Gerhard Hauptmann, Tjerk Hooghiemstra, The Environment 36 continued to expand towards our aim that and ethical requirements and, because of our saving, healthcare and security. In other 100% of employees will have benefitted from it proactive approach, we’ve maintained very words, the pursuit of what we at ST call “life. Pierre Jacquemier, Jun Koizumi, Otto Kosgalwies, Eva Kulhankova, Water Management 38 by the end of 2013: in 2011 a total of 86,500 strong customer satisfaction levels in this area. augmented”. In our 25th year of operation, Giulia Mancini, Setsuko Maniwa, Philippe Marc, Jean-Marc Marcant, Energy Management 40 exams and tests were performed at all our we are especially proud of the contributions In the wider environmental field, we continued sites, covering 83% of our employees. our innovative solutions make to all of these Herve Marcoz, Laurence Maricot, Gerard Matheron, Maurizio Micale, Transport & Logistics 42 to progress on many fronts. For example, in areas and we continue in our determination Guy Monier, Marco Monti, Florence Morel, Pietro Palella, Waste Management 44 In addition to health and safety, we enhanced 2011, we recycled more than 40% of water to lead by example in the pursuit of enriching Cedric Labartino, Philippe Lambinet, Jessica Leong, Claudia Levo, key programs to further strengthen our ST used, and one of our sites in Italy received Management of Chemicals 46 sustainable business. management culture, develop future leaders, an Outstanding Achievement Award from Veronique Livache, Guido Lomazzi, Adeline Oliva, Philippe Pellegrin, GHG Emissions from Operations 48 and identify and reward the innovation and the Sustainable Electronics Manufacturing Luc Petit, Veronique Portalis, Mariagrazia Prestini, Delphine Rabaste, creativity that keeps us at the forefront of our Working Group. Moreover, more than 90% of Raimondo Rannisi, Harold Rolle, Mauro Rossi, Delphine Segura, industry in technologies and products. waste generated at our facilities was recycled Carlo Bozotti Tait Sorensen, P. Sreenivas, Diana Lisa Terenghi, Stacia Vigne, The Community 50 and reused, while less than 3% was sent to President and CEO These products, especially “Responsible Local Sustainability Impacts 52 landfill. Antonio Villaflor, Aurélie Villard, Irmgard Wennink, Robert Wygnaneck Products(1)”, are at the heart of our business. Public Affairs & Industry Networking 54 To sharpen our focus in 2011, we started In addition to these environmental efforts, we our internal STAR initiative, classifying all also strengthened our broader community Partnerships in R&D & Education 56 We also would like to thank everyone who kindly new products into relevant environmental involvement. We continued efforts to bridge agreed to be quoted in this report and to provide Management of Sustainability in Supply Chain 58 and social categories such as energy the digital divide through our ST Foundation testimony of their collaboration with ST. Bribery & Corruption 60 saving and healthcare. The resulting “STAR” with our Digital Unify program. By the end rating enables us to identify and track more of 2011, ST volunteers had trained over This report has been prepared effectively those products that contribute to a 148,000 people throughout the world since following the GRI G3 Guidelines. Copyright©STMicroelectronics – June 2012 ST Sustainability Awards 62 more sustainable world. We also aim to have the program’s inception. We also enlarged It represents a balanced and All rights reserved. 100% of our new devices eco-designed by the scope of our educational activities by reasonable presentation of The STMicroelectronics corporate logo is a registered trademark of the 2015. We have made significant progress joining the Global Enterprise Project, a new our organization’s economic, Additional Indicators and GRI Statement 64 in developing in-house eco-design tools three-year initiative led by the European Round environmental and social STMicroelectronics group of companies. well-suited to the complexity of our products. Table of Industrialists (ERT) which gives young performance. All other names are the property of the respective owners. To this end, three working groups are now people the opportunity to develop greater Indicators Index 67 It also demonstrates our All commissioned photography focused on the integration of environmental understanding about doing business globally commitment to the UN Global Copyright©STMicroelectronics parameters in technology and product design, while acquiring the skills required to succeed greener material selection and greener in today’s knowledge-based economy. Compact, to which we have been a Photo credits: ©Shutterstock, ©Fotolia, ©Thinkstock Evaluating our Practices Against ISO 26000 68 packaging. signatory since 2000. Since our company’s creation in 1987, the With its keen awareness of environmental semiconductor industry has undergone and ethical issues, ST has long paid special significant changes. In fact, due to its everattention to managing chemicals and minerals. growing pervasiveness, electronics today 1/ For more information on Responsible Products, see pages 32-33 Company greenhouse gases emissions and energy I do want that we, Corporate Sustainable Materiality and management. I am pleased that ST Development group, and other is moving ahead on this with ongoing organizations in ST, become more in deployment of several standards; ISO touch with our stakeholders through 51000, ISO 16464 and IECQ08000 participation in multi-stakeholder events HSPM. because it is essential to sound out Sustainability Strategy sustainability trends and be able to Where do you think ST still has potential project ST into the future. In 2012, for improvement? we will also launch formal stakeholder Actually in 2011 ST has not been engagement processes at corporate and included in the Dow Jones Sustainability local levels, and use this feedback to Index (DJSI), for the first time after 12 adjust our sustainability objectives and continuous years of inclusion. This programs. news has really been a warning to ST. On top of this, we are of course In 2011, following an extensive materiality exercise launched in 2010 and finalized in 2011, Interview with We did not expect that we would continually in contact with our main ST has refreshed its Sustainability strategy to link it with business priorities, take into account Alain Denielle, fall out of the DJSI, one of the main stakeholders. For example, we are Corporate Socially Responsible Investment indices. increasingly partnering with our stakeholders’ interests and expectations and to focus on managing our most material issues. Sustainable However, I do believe that it is important customers and suppliers on subjects not This exercise has identified 22 top sustainability issues that are related to our industry sector and Development Group to accept such challenges from the directly related to mainstream business that reflect our own sustainability performance. Vice President external world to question ourselves such as conflict minerals, product lifeThis Sustainability strategy will determine our way forward and our contribution to worldwide and react accordingly. So we turned this cycle assessment, labor rights etc. Sustainable Development over the next three years. event into a great opportunity to strongly And most importantly, we have taken the 2011 has been an eventful year in reaffirm our commitment to sustainability. opportunity of our refreshed sustainability terms of sustainability, what were your A multi-disciplinary task force has been strategy deployment to evaluate In 2011, we worked closely with senior management and executives on each top sustainability highlights? formed to address our main areas for our employees’ perception of ST’s issue to define: The main event is certainly the launch improvement: risk & crisis management, engagement towards sustainability, using innovation management, product • the global context i.e. trends and regulation etc., behind each issue of our refreshed Sustainability strategy stewardship, water related risks, climate the ISO 26000 guidelines(2). The results of • identified risks and opportunities that has involved more than 30 experts this analysis will help us better respond throughout the company to define strategy, human capital development and to the expectations of this primary • qualitative and quantitative sustainability objectives SMART(1) objectives and appropriate corporate citizenship & philanthropy. stakeholder group. • roles and responsibilities of owners and contributors for each top issue levels of deployment. We have taken this With the support of ST’s top opportunity to reinforce the governance management, we have launched several And what about your expectations for 4 For each identified area, we validated all objectives with ST’s Vice Presidents. The strategy was of our sustainability management projects and initiatives that will be ST in terms of sustainability? 5 with the description of clear roles and deployed in 2012 to make progress on ST has a real and long-term commitment then officially approved by ST’s President and CEO, Carlo Bozotti. responsibilities for key strategic players these identified domains. On Product to sustainability. It is really part of to confirm we reach our targets. We put Stewardship we will keep on deploying our DNA and we owe this strong particular emphasis on the role of our our eco-design road map and new engagement to several formal networks Sustainable Excellence Coordinators Responsible Product program not only of experts that ensure sites’ involvement Interview with sustainably run our business and despite it. It’s a true proof point of life.augmented, to confirm that their management is to further progress on environmental in this sustainability journey but most a challenging 2011 year, we have made our new brand promise. Tjerk solid progress as this report describes. fully supportive of their mission and will aspects but also to build a major importantly to all our employees. So my dedicate enough time and resources competitive advantage for ST. expectation is that ST continues to be, Hooghiemstra, With the launch of new products which Do you think sustainability can be seen have been specifically developed to to their sustainability activities. We now and to be recognized as, a worldwide Executive Vice as a competitive advantage for ST? I am also convinced that we need support the environment through for have a robust Sustainable Excellence leader in sustainability. President, Chief Yes, certainly. I am convinced that for to maintain our efforts and a key instance lower energy consumption community with coordinators at local, Administrative all stakeholder groups: employees (and commitment in other domains where we 1 / Specific , Measurable, Achievable, Realistic, Timely in cars, we take our commitment to regional and organizational levels. We 2 / For more information, see page 68 Officer potential ones), customers, investors, have positive results. A good example sustainability to a totally new level. analysts, suppliers, academic community, will also maintain our expert network that Indeed semiconductor technology has a here is safety; despite our strong and etc., it is clear that the long-standing provides guidance and advice, follows 2011 has been a challenging year from crucial role to play in global sustainability long-term expertise, we need to keep commitment of ST to all aspects of results, helps overcome challenges, an economic point of view, did this challenges. Considering global warming, on investing, conducting audits and sustainability are true and deep-rooted reviews objectives etc. impact on your commitments towards if state-of-the-art semiconductor engaging ST managers to maintain our values of the company. We were one We also made good progress in our excellence because we cannot make any sustainability? technologies and electronics topologies were universally adopted, the world could of the first multinational companies commitment to the Electronic Industry compromises on this subject. The commitment of ST to sustainability reduce energy consumption in traditional embracing sustainability and thus are the Citizenship Coalition program. As part of is deeply rooted in our ways of working. applications by around 27%! For pioneers in this field. And how are you ensuring that these our strategy, we have proactively defined We have recognized the value of example, in 2011, we have extended our a comprehensive internal and third party commitments match our stakeholders’ sustainability since the early years of Power MOSFET Family to bring energyAnd what are the next challenges to maintain this competitive advantage? audit road map for our Asian and Backexpectations? the existence of the company and have saving advantages to solar, telecom end manufacturing sites. After one year, and consumer applications and also As with all aspects of competitiveness, Indeed, I feel it is vital to be able to collect remained committed during multiple we have already seen concrete positive developed new software tools for STM32 it is a matter of comparative performance our stakeholders’ feedback, and engage business cycles which are characteristic outcomes from this program, as detailed microcontrollers to simplify design and versus other companies. By now, with them. It was also identified as one for our industry. So it is clear that the in the Labor Rights and Social Issues path for improvement in ST and we speed up development of energy-saving most international companies have economic challenges do not affect our pages of this report. Our objective is have initiated several actions to address intelligent motor drives for applications launched and deployed comprehensive commitment. such as white goods, air conditioners, also to capitalize on our strong expertise this. Our 2011 Sustainability report in its sustainability programs. I believe industrial automation, power tools and this competition is healthy. It keeps in management systems for quality, new format is one example with several According to you, what are ST’s main fitness equipment. environment, health and safety domains everybody on their toes and pulls us all contributions from stakeholders who strengths in terms of sustainability? With these new products, sustainability up which can only be good for society and to strengthen our social and ethics provide their views on our engagement Our Decalogue is the compass for our becomes the very objective of our and our planet at large! management. We are doing the same and results. ongoing progress towards ever higher offering to the market. This excites many across other domains like chemicals, levels of performance on the way we people in ST and I am also very proud of Company Governance The Supervisory Board has determined existing relationships or past relationships the following independence criteria for its with FSI, CEA and the Italian Ministry of the members, based on the evaluations by Economy and Finance, who are currently Zoom on Internal Audit an ad-hoc committee: Supervisory Board parties to the ST Holding Shareholders’ members must not have any material Agreement as well as with ST Holding or As of December 2010, the Head of relationship with STMicroelectronics N.V., ST Holding II, our major shareholder or with Internal Audit has reported directly or any of our consolidated subsidiaries, or other parties that are among our suppliers, to the (non-executive) Chairman our management. A «material relationship» customers or technology partners. of the Audit Committee. The Head STMicroelectronics is registered in the Netherlands and subject can include commercial, industrial, banking, of Internal Audit attends all Audit The Supervisory Board met 14 times in Committee meetings and has direct to the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. We are listed consulting, legal, accounting, charitable or 2011. It is advised by four Non-Executive interactions with the Chairman of familial relationships, among others, but on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), Euronext Paris and Committees, comprising members of our the Audit Committee throughout the does not include a relationship with direct or the Borsa Italiana in Milan. Our policies and practices are indirect shareholders. Supervisory Board and attended, when year. In addition, the Head of Internal deemed necessary by the Committees, Audit attends quarterly meetings of designed not only to meet all our statutory requirements but Certain of our Supervisory Board members, by members of the management team and/ the executive management. also to incorporate international best practices. The company as disclosed in their biographies in our or by our auditors, PWC, and outside legal The current functional reporting was formed in 1987 as a result of a decision by Thomson–CSF various communication documents, have counsel. line and the practices now in place (now Thales) and STET (now Telecom Italia S.p.a) to combine ensure the Head of Internal Audit the appropriate level of organizational their semiconductor businesses and enter into a shareholder independence and unrestricted agreement(1). access to executive management and the Board. This reporting approach is in line with standards defined by leading international organizations e.g. Our Corporate Sustainability is managed within ST The Institute of Internal Auditors. as a fully integrated element of our Governance Structure governance and operations. As such, it is not a separate agenda item In accordance with Dutch law, our Executive Officers management is entrusted to the for either the Supervisory Board or Managing Board under the supervision Managing Board. Instead, specific aspects of sustainability are addressed Our executive officers support our Managing Board in its management of the company, without prejudice to our Managing of our Supervisory Board. Carlo Bozotti Board’s ultimate responsibility. As of March 2012, our organizational chart is as follows: is currently the sole member of our where required. No specific social, 6 environmental or ethical topics were 7 Managing Board with the function of President and Chief Executive Officer. formally raised by ST’s shareholders President & CEO In 2011, the Supervisory Board was during 2011. I 4.4 I Carlo Bozotti chaired by an independent, nonCOO* executive chairperson, Didier Lombard. Supervisory Board Didier Lamouche Prior to May 3, 2011, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board was Antonino Our Supervisory Board advises our Managing Board and is responsible for MANUFACTURING & Turicchi, who had previously served on SALES & MARKETING TECHNOLOGY R&D PRODUCT GROUPS CORPORATE STAFF FUNCTIONS the ST Supervisory Board as a member. supervising the policies pursued by our Members of our Managing Board and Managing Board and the general course of Supervisory Board are appointed and our affairs and business. Our Supervisory EMEA Manufacturing & Digital Sector Industrial & Administration Finance (Geo & Major Accounts) Technology R&D Multisegment Sector dismissed by our shareholders. I 4.1 I 4.2 I Board has adopted criteria to assess Paul Grimme Jean-Marc Chery Philippe Lambinet Carmelo Papa Tjerk Hooghiemstra Mario Arlati the independence of its members in Front-End Manufacturing On March 30, 2011, the French Fonds accordance with corporate governance Americas & Technology R&D Digital Convergence Industrial & Human Resources Control (Geo & Major Accounts) Group Power Discretes Group Stratégique d’Investissement (FSI) listing standards of the New York Stock Bob Krysiak Digital Sector Jean-Marc Chery Gian Luca Bertino Carmelo Papa Patrice Chastagner Lorenzo Grandi acquired Areva’s indirect interest in Exchange and is responsible for managing Front-End Manufacturing Japan & Korea ImagingBi CMOS ASIC Analog, MEMS STMicroelectronics N.V., representing potential or reported conflicts of interest & Process R&D & Silicon Photonics Group & Sensors Group Legal Treasury Marco Cassis Digital Sector Pierre Ollivier Giuseppe Notarnicola 10.9% of STMicroelectronics N.V.’s share between the company and its Board Joel Hartmann Eric Aussedat Benedetto Vigna capital, and signed a deed of adherence members. I 4.6 I Greater China & Design Enablement Microcontroller, Infrastructures & Memory & Compliance to the shareholders’ agreement relating South Asia & Services Secure MCU Group Alisia Grenville Services to ST Holding N.V. Our Supervisory Board is carefully selected Francois Guibert Philippe Magarshack Claude Dardanne Otto Kosgalwies based upon the combined experience Front-End Manufacturing Automotive Purchasing & Technology R&D Strategy Our corporate governance policies and and expertise of its members. The number IMS & APG Product Group Philippe Lambinet & Outsourcing practices are outlined in our Corporate and identity of our Supervisory Board Orio Bellezza Marco Monti Jerome Roux Governance Charter. This is available on members are approved at ST’s General Packaging & Test External Corporate Projects** Manufacturing Communications our website, along with our Supervisory Shareholders’ Meeting, based on a majority Georges Auguste Claudia Levo Carlo Ferro Board Charter, in the Corporate Governance vote. Our Supervisory Board is assisted by Product Quality Chairman 3Sun section at http://investors.st.com. a Secretariat whose responsibilities include Excellence New Ventures Advanced Systems Technology and Special Projects Loic Lietar Full details about the composition of the ensuring the continuing education and Fabio Gualandris Andrea Cuomo Committees, individual remuneration and training of Supervisory Board members. Information meeting frequency of our Supervisory I 4.4 I 4.10 I Technology Stephane Delivre Board are provided in the report of our Supervisory Board on pages 85 and Corporate Strategic Committee 99 of our Annual Report, which can be * Operational role in ST suspended during assignment as CEO of ST-Ericsson downloaded at http://investors.st.com. ** COO of ST-Ericsson 1/ Details of the agreement and major shareholders can be found on page 106 of ST’s Annual Report (Form-20F). Company As a company committed •C  orporate Strategic Committee ST-Ericsson to good governance, we which meets six times per year, sets hold regular corporate meetings. corporate policy, coordinates strategies The success of the ST-Ericsson joint 2011 results These meetings, which involve the of our various functions and drives venture is an important element in order major cross-functional programs. for ST to achieve its leadership in the ST key figures / EC1 All taxes of the year / EC1 US$m participation of several of our executive The Corporate Strategic Committee multimedia convergence market. officers include: To strengthen our support of ST2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 meetings are attended by the CEO, and the following executive officers: Mario Ericsson, from December 1, 2011, Net revenues / ST Sales 10,001 9,842 8,510 10,346 9,735 Tax expense for the year 64 49 (34) 183 205 (US$m) • Corporate Operations Review, Arlati, Orio Bellezza, Jean Marc Chery, Didier Lamouche, has been nominated Paul Grimme, Tjerk Hooghiemstra, Otto President and Chief Executive Officer of Gross profit (US$m) 3,536 3,560 2,626 4,015 3,574 ST sales by market segment / EC1 / 2.7 % which meets once per month to review monthly results and short-term Kosgalwies, Philippe Lambinet and ST-Ericsson. Carlo Ferro, Chief Financial Gross profit as a percentage of 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 35.40 36.20 30.90 38.80 36.70 forecasts and involves the following Carmelo Papa. Officer of ST, has been temporarily sales (%) Automotive 14.4 13.8 12.2 14.0 17.2 executive officers/groups: CEO; assigned to ST-Ericsson as its Chief Net earnings (US$m) (477) (786) (1,131) 830 650 CFO; CAO; CTO; Infrastructures and Operating Officer from February 20, Computer 12.4 12.0 12.9 13.0 13.7 New Nomination 2012, working closely with Didier Earnings per share (US$m) (0.53) (0.88) (1.29) 0.92 0.72 Services; Product Quality Excellence; Consumer 14.0 13.6 11.5 12.2 10.2 Manufacturing (Front-end and Backat Board Level Lamouche and the ST-Ericsson team Market share versus TAM (Total Available Market) 3.91 3.96 3.76 3.47 3.25 Distribution 18.2 18.3 15.8 20.9 22.7 end); Regions; Product Groups. As to achieve excellence in execution, The nomination of Martine Verluyten to leadership and sustainable profitability. Industrial & Others 7.5 9.0 7.7 8.1 9.3 of March 1, 2012, Didier Lamouche the company’s Supervisory Board, means Operating income and cash flow / EC1 US$m 26.9 (Chief Operating Officer) and Carlo Telecom 33.5 33.3 39.9 31.8 that, for the first time in the history of the Ferro (Executive Vice President) do not 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 company, the Board has a female member. participate according to their current Net revenues by location of order shipment* / EC1 / 2.7 % Martine Verluyten’s accredited financial Operating income (545) (198) (1,023) 476 46 assignments at ST-Ericsson. background will be of great benefit as she Net operating cash flow 840 648* 227** 972** (278)** 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 • Corporate Staff Meetings is poised to replace the Chairman of the EMEA 33.4 30.7 28.4 25.0 23.9 are held every quarter to review the Audit Committee, Tom de Waard. * Excluding payments for mergers & acquisitions (Genesis and NXP) which totalled US$1,694m ** Excluding net proceeds received in business combination which totalled US$1,137m current business to plan and forecast The company looks forward to having her (Ericsson Mobile Platform) in 2009, net payment for business acquisitions which totalled Americas 13.4 13.6 11.9 12.9 13.8 US$11m in 2010 and US$10m in 2011. for the next quarter and beyond. on board, which was confirmed at the Greater China 41.5 39.9 40.6 44.1 44.8 The Corporate Staff Meeting includes Annual General Meeting of shareholders on all Executive Officers. May 30, 2012, in Amsterdam. Dividends paid / EC1 US$m Japan 11.7 15.8 19.1 18.0 17.5 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (*) Net revenues by location of order shipment are classified by location of customer invoiced. For example, products ordered by U.S.-based companies to be invoiced to Greater ChinaDividends 269 240 158 212 327 South Asia affiliates are classified as Greater China-South Asia revenues. Furthermore, the comparison among the different periods may be affected by shifts in order shipment from one location to another, as requested by our customers. 8 9 Financial ST’s extra-financial performance ST pursues a strategy of open disclosure Sustainability Indices, World and STOXX (Europe). In response to this, we have closely analyzed our performance and In order to remain a world leader we need to proactively focus on our most material issues, listen and respond to and Extra-financial of its sustainability management, have identified opportunities to further our stakeholders’ expectations and so risks and performance. Our annual strengthen a number of key sustainability it is important that we respond to the Sustainability Report is our major means areas. Many of these have already evolving requirements of the external of reporting the company’s sustainability been identified in our new Sustainability world. achievements and challenges to our strategy where we have defined some Performance We have maintained a strong position in stakeholders, including the investment precise objectives. The format of this the remaining sustainability indices and and Socially Responsible Investment annual Sustainability Report is aligned to were included in the Global 100 Most (SRI) communities. We also respond this new strategy. Sustainable Companies in the World directly to requests from rating agencies ST’s Sustainability Mission is “to be (ranked 83/100 in 2011). ST was also and extra-financial analysts. recognized as world leader in innovation classified as B Prime by the OEKOM In 2011, ST was included in nine of the for sustainable development through rating agency which places us amongst major sustainability indexes (See table) excellence in our people, our products, the world’s best companies in the sector. ST’s financial performance Moreover, we expected to see strong our financial resources totaled US$ 2.3bn but fell out of the Dow Jones the environment and the community.” growth during 2011 in two of our key and our net financial position was about In 2011, the semiconductor industry was strategic product areas and we are US$ 1.17bn, as adjusted, excluding the characterized by a solid first half, while particularly proud of our achievements US$ 400m loan provided by our partner there was a significant slowdown in the there. Our MEMS sales nearly doubled to fund ST-Ericsson SA. As anticipated, 2011 results later part of the year; as a result the total to over US$ 600m. Our automotive we saw an improvement in the fourth market grew only marginally in 2011 after business reported record revenues, quarter in inventory levels and inventory ST inclusion in the main sustainability indices the rebound registered in 2010. with sales up 18% during 2011, on top turns and capital expenditures returned ASPI DJSI Ethibel Sustainability Index ECPI FTSE ECPI Index FTSE4GOOD of sales growth of over 40% during 2010. to much lower levels as planned. (EU) (USA) (Germany) (Belgium) (Italy) (Italy) (United-Kingdom) TOTAL This same year, our wholly owned In both areas, revenue growth was also businesses delivered a solid performance DJSI Ethical Ethical Ethical FTSE ECPI FTSE ECPI FTSEFTSEaccompanied by a significant expansion Italia SRI 4GOOD 4GOOD throughout the year. They delivered DJSI World DJSI STOXX EURO ESI Excellence Europe Index Index Index Italia SRI of the operating profitability of these Leaders Europe Global revenues of US$ 8.2bn and an operating STOXX Emu Euro Global Benchmark Index Index Index Index product groups. margin of above 11.4%. X X X X X X X X X 9 In 2010, the revenues for our wholly-owned We also continued to maintain a strong businesses were US$ 8.1bn with an financial position and sharp focus on operating margin of slightly above 13%. capital management. Exiting the year, More performance indicators are available on pages 64 to 66 Our People Our People Focus on ST Japan and ST J&K began with an address by Employees’ feedback on the Recruitment, Learning the region’s Executive Vice President, effectiveness of the FutureReady course Korea’s deployment of Marco Cassis, who personally explained is obtained after each learning session. Sales and Marketing the importance of the program Then the overall impact of the course Learning Program to employees and asked them to is later assessed through managers’ participate. Subsequent to this launch, feedback. Employees’ development & Development From 2009, ST deployed FutureReady, local HR played a key role, interacting needs are further defined during Annual a comprehensive learning program, to with managers to assess their needs Employee Performance Appraisals. See enhance the way we sell and market and to define a FutureReady three-year page 12. our products. ST Japan and Korea roadmap. (J&K) Region has been exemplary in the This feedback provides the opportunity deployment of this program, considering Since the launch, HR have remained to check the roadmap in terms of the learning as a sales and marketing in contact with the managers and employee population covered and the process with: employees involved in the program and type of deployment modes used. Many specific skill-sets are needed to support ST’s strategic • Managers and employees as also with Corporate Learning in order to This continuous improvement virtuous collect feedback, fine tune the program objectives and technical requirements. ST carefully anticipates Customers who define their needs in cycle is the best way to make learning a and review the implementation roadmap. skill requirements and plans the matching of skills with the needs terms of skills key performance tool and is in line with ST J&K Region is therefore benefiting ST’s Corporate Learning approach. of the business. We provide our employees with opportunities to • Training courses as Products that from a learning plan that is always experience life-long learning through professional development respond to the above needs 1/ Employees who hold positions normally requiring graduate or consistent with the needs of the post-graduate education and who are not eligible for overtime and career evolution. • Corporate Learning organization as company, its managers and its compensation Marketers who designs the products employees. Corporate Learning ensures • Human Resources (HR) as Sales who that company expectations and needs compile the customers’ needs for the are taken into account when building and Why are recruitment, learning Meeting both employee • To facilitate personal development, ST has marketers and promote the products to updating these learning programs. developed programs that are dedicated the customers. and development key for ST? and company needs to specific populations and needs. These High technology companies operate in ST is constantly strengthening aspects include ST leadership model for managers very competitive environments at the of its People management in order to (See page 15), development boosters for leading-edge of innovation. The ability achieve its long-term vision; attracting high performers in phase of career to attract, develop and retain talents is a and integrating new talent into the growth, coaching, mentoring, 360° Chao XIANG key success factor and so one objective business, developing and engaging assessments and tutoring for experts. Engineer, Molding Process and Engineering, 12 of ST People Development and Learning employees, building competitive Shenzhen (China) 13 Expertise management has been a key Organizations is to ensure the company’s advantage and attaining high focus in 2011. We have built a strong “With eight years of molding maintenance experience, skills profiles are anticipated and fulfilled. performance: technical career path and created local, This is achieved through sophisticated I was nominated to be a tutor and attended the Technical Tutoring • ST has recently launched a new brand regional and corporate Technical Advisory recruitment, integration and personal training to acquire a new set of skills to transfer that, under “life.augmented” Committees to identify, recognize and development. Another objective is to Adriano Basile PhD my expertise to others. I’m convinced that the Tutoring Program support the company in increasing its reinforces its positioning as an assist experts who have the key skills Application Engineer, specialist innovative company that is committed and experience necessary to meet ST’s will help us to transfer expertise more quickly, systematically profitability and productivity through in Human System Interaction, and contributes to enhanced social and business needs. Robotics and Healthcare, and efficiently. The advantage for ST is to have a larger pool of programs and initiatives that enhance environmental capital. Catania (Italy) experts to rely on. As for me, I was glad to be entrusted with the people performance. ST’s Learning Organization supports these responsibility to share my expertise.” • To further improve employee programs by addressing the needs of: “I have been a member of the performance, annual appraisals assess •O rganizations and sites, to achieve Technical Staff community individual objectives, professional annual objectives and deploy their for three years. This has competencies and behaviors and strategy; represented a great opportunity also how the employee fulfills the ST objectives accountabilities of the job. They provide •M anagers and employees, to improve for me, offering the possibility their competences and performance, to put my experience and 2011 results the opportunity for employees and • Increase the percentage of open and to develop their long-term know-how into practice within managers to discuss career direction Internal mobility % positions for exempts(1) filled by employability. the company. To be part of and develop corresponding personal internal candidates by 5% per year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 development plans. ST’s approach to learning has been highly skilled community is (compared with a 2010 baseline), with a long term-target of 60% reinforced to more automatically helping me continue to improve Jobs for exempt* filled internally 61 78 84 48 41 41.5 • In complement, the people review assess these needs and then turn my know-how; for example • Ensure that more than 50% of process is deployed to exempts ST wants to set up a competitive and attractive internal market to provide employees with internal perspective, thus engaemployees have a development population in order to assess employee them into appropriate learning offer and I represented the company ging and retaining them; and manager with broader opportunities for recruiting people with ST adequate experience and competences. In order to reach our objective, ST Internal Mobility policy and related practices will be reviewed in 2012. deployment. Learning is a key tool to at Micro Machine Summit in plan, linked to their annual potential, identify talent pools and enhance individual and organizational Taiwan and, following Total Employees having a formal individual development plan / LA12 % performance key resources and then define their performance, so a key corporate Quality and Corporate Social • Increase employee retention professional development plans (new 2009 2010 2011 objective is to ensure that every percentage of employees with skills, potential career direction, internal Responsibility I’m carrying out year, more than 50% of employees For exempts* 51.5 69.4 44.5 more than two years service mobility, succession ) in respect to the have developed and engaged in a an educational program on future organization needs. This is a key Robotics in Italian high schools.” For others 19.0 • Further align ST’s learning with its development plan. It is also important business strategy to contribute component of our strategic staffing that we measure the success and impact In 2011, we have upgraded our ePA process, including our way to collect information on development plans and their to company transformation, program and has a strong influence of these people development and learning associated standards. With its new Leadership Model, ST is raising managers’ awareness on the importance of people development through specific communication and training. employee productivity and being on the company’s midand long-term programs on quality, employees and * It refers to employees who hold positions normally requiring graduate or post-graduate education and who are not eligible an ‘employer of choice’ success. company performance. for overtime compensation. More performance indicators are available on pages 64 to 66 Our People ST’s leadership model unites Articulate and communicate a compelling vision Employee leaders under a common • Develop a vision that fits with the company direction; • Enthuse people by making them feel part of the vision; leadership ‘banner’ • Plan for both the longas well as the short-term. A new program launched Align actions to ST’s strategy and deliver results Engagement by People Development • Act as an ambassador for ST’s values and goals; & Learning in 2011 • Implement solid processes for deployment and execution; To support managers in their role, in • Demonstrate personal responsibility and commitment to deliver results. 2011 ST developed a leadership model that describes the qualities needed Foster a climate of entrepreneurship at ST to be recognized as a leader • Foster thoughtful risk-taking; with the ability to provide solutions to • Empower people and ensure accountability; increasingly complex challenges, to • Promote excellence, agility and a can-do spirit to win. develop a sense of belonging and to stimulate engagement amongst their Drive innovation with a forward-sensing mindset team members. • Anticipate markets and technological opportunities; This model is also beneficial for the • Encourage a positive, open-minded and challenging attitude; company because it unites leaders • Focus to gain speed. across ST around a common managerial ST is committed to employee engagement to help them language and culture, creating the basis Care for people growth and engagement understand ST’s strategy and future direction as a business, for better organizational performance. • Build engaged and diverse teams; • Assess people accurately and take action accordingly; how they can contribute to the company’s success, ST’s leadership model is founded on • Advance professional depth. and to motivate them to make this contribution. 15 behavioral competencies, arranged into five dimensions, each defined through three drivers. This model has become part of our performance Why is employee engagement Continued commitment to industry profiles and geographies, which appraisal system to support leadership declined by 5% during the same period. development in relation with a complete key for ST? increasing employee engagement 2011 results In a very difficult economic climate, set of tools such as a dedicated The semiconductor industry faces several In a recent communication, ST Executive two key areas where ST improved are leadership course roadmap as well as Employees survey engagement rate employment challenges(1): Vice President and Chief Administrative a specific 360° assessment. 14 manager performance and the link 15 Officer, Tjerk Hooghiemstra, remarked 2008 2009 2010 2011 • it requires highly qualified between employees’ daily jobs and ST’s and experienced employees; that “Employee engagement is strategy. Our managers were better Overall participation rate (%) 80 N/A 86 86 • high pace of innovation; everybody’s business”. For employees evaluated for their leadership skills and Rational Commitment Index 0.16 N/A 0.20 0.20 it is about helping and supporting your their ability to manage their teams and • it is a cyclical business; Emotional Commitment Index 0.35 N/A 0.40 0.39 colleagues, being a good team player people performance; they were able • there is a significant employee turnover and being proud of their work. For Discretionary Effort Index 0.43 N/A 0.44 0.45 in some Asian countries. to describe how individual employee managers, engagement means being objectives are tied to the company Intent to Stay Index 0.34 N/A 0.32 0.30 Engaged employees can help overcome constantly supportive to their team and these challenges. According to research, priorities and they were supported in encouraging professional growth. their action by increasingly dynamic and “employees who are committed perform 20% better and are 87% less likely to For the past four years, ST has been relevant internal communications. leave the organization(2)”. using an employee engagement model As a consequence, the Discretionary ST’s aim is to actively engage with all its that evaluates four aspects: Effort score improved by 2% compared employees to help them develop their • Discretionary Effort: employees’ to last year. The number of employees potential. Since its inception, ST has willing to deliver the highest levels of Calvin Goh Chin Boon willingness to exceed expectations Section Manager, Production Control been monitoring employees’ morale discretionary effort has progressively through regular opinion and engagement or their objectives; Mario Ronchi and Industrial Engineering, Ang Mo Kio increased from 3.8% in 2008, to 6.6% Manufacturing Technician, Agrate (Italy) (Singapore) surveys. The feedback provides a • Intent to Stay: employees’ commitment in 2010 and to 10.8% in 2011. unique insight that enables constant to further their career with ST; improvement of the working environment In 2011, all organizations prepared and “I knew about the latest survey results in the “The overall results of the 2011 Engagement and management effectiveness. • Emotional Commitment: the extent communicated action plans. Human quarterly Management Communication Meeting Survey were shared during the Production to which employees value, enjoy Resources professionals at every level of and in a talk with my boss. One action launched Control Quarterly Forum. and believe in their jobs, colleagues, the organization facilitated the process, after the previous survey that comes to my mind is My manager and the HR manager then ST objectives managers, and organizations; providing managers with the necessary the “Programma 2%”, a campaign that encourages organized a sharing session, dedicated to the • Rational Commitment: the extent support to communicate results and workers to make suggestions to reduce waste and presentation of my team results. • Annually increase the percentage implement initiatives. In 2012, to which employees feel that their increase quality. This campaign is a way to hear This session was also the opportunity for us to of employees who demonstrate the company will maintain its progress managers, teams, departments or the opinions of the workers who are the ones that ask questions and get clarification. the highest level of discretionary in this direction, incorporating two new the company itself provide financial, deal on-site with production problems. In response to these last two years’ surveys, effort areas: career development and customer developmental or professional rewards. I think another action that contributes to I feel that there has been more effort to • Company-wide action planning in focus. response to engagement surveys In 2011, 86% of our employees employee engagement, is the recognition of communicate with the people at our site. 1/ A change of pace for the semiconductor industry, to address key issues participated in the survey; ST’s overall PwC (November 2009) employees’ suggestions during our Management After the 2010 survey, within my department, engagement scores decreased by 1%, 2/ Driving Performance and Retention through Employee Communication Meetings, in the presence of the one-on-one sessions were initiated by my • Increase ST employee engagement Engagement, Corporate Leadership Council (2004) but still outperformed the benchmark, entire site organization.” manager to provide dedicated time to relative to the benchmark an aggregate of companies with similar address important work-related issues.” Our People Focus on ST France’s The second task force was launched • choice of career path: during their Global Diversity at the end of 2011 to identify potential annual performance appraisal, women progress towards gender career inequities and to analyze their mostly choose expert or project equality underlying causes. At the end of the year, management career paths, while ST the conclusions showed that on a job has more needs of senior positions In 2006, ST France signed its first grade scale from 9 to 18 and above, both from managerial career paths. & Equal Opportunities collective agreement on gender equality, men’s and women’s average job grade making commitments in terms of However several positive aspects recruitment, remuneration, maternity is 14 but there are many more women at have been highlighted: in France, the and adoption leave, training and 14 and below. Several potential causes percentage of women in executive development(3). were researched such as the choice of positions has doubled in the past 20 career path (expert, project management, In 2011, two task forces worked on years and more women are moving from people management), the proportion of remuneration and career inequality non-executive to executive positions women working part-time, the influence to analyze ST France’s situation and through internal mobility. This task force of maternity, and the female labor market ST is committed to ensuring equal opportunities and address any inequalities. The task force over the past 20 years. will be maintained in 2012 to propose on remuneration analyzed the salary at appropriate action plans. appropriate representation at all levels of the organization, each job grade, correlating it with the Based on this analysis, three main 1/ D  isability in the Workplace: Company Practices, ILO (2010) including dimensions such as gender, age, race, disability annual performance appraisal score, causes were identified: 2/ S  enior Employment : companies are becoming aware of and nationality. seniority in ST and seniority in the job the advantages?, Novethic (2008) 3/ For  more information, see ST Sustainability report 2010, grade. A global average has been • structural causes: considering page 24 calculated for each of these variables seniority, the current percentage of women in job grades 15 to 18 is Why is ST committed to global A progressive approach Seniority to define a reference profile. Each case It is important for ST to ensure that key was then compared against this profile. equivalent to the female recruitment diversity and equal opportunity? to diversity At the end of 2011, 120 cases have rates from 10 to 20 years ago; competencies and expertise are not Because countries’ legislation and lost when people leave the company. been corrected and specific actions • societal causes: very few men are Companies are increasingly witnessing ST considers that it is essential to established to avoid any further unfair cultural norms can vary, ST mainly working part-time compared to women the added-value of diversity in many maintain senior people’s employability, discrepancies. These include new provides general guidelines that enable and very few men take parental leave, ways: ST’s sites to respond according to their taking into account their expectations in rules to define objectives for part-time even if French legislation allows them to; local context. Our manufacturing sites terms of career evolution, competency employees and to set a fair pay rise for • “People with disabilities are productive, development and possible adjustment in France and Italy have demonstrated a women on maternity leave. reliable employees who bring benefits in their role. It is ST’s aim for all sites to proactive and solid approach over many Dr. Romina Bartolo, to the workplace”(1) define a seniority plan, adapted to their years, utilizing dedicated committees Executive Director local contexts that responds to these • “ Senior employees have key technical and/or departments to address these commitments. 2011 results of Maltese National issues. Commission for the 16 competences and offer long-term Promotion of Equality 17 Women in management / LA13 % experience to young employees and to Disability (NCPE) Gender equality the company at large.”(2) We have observed various existing 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The NCPE, with the support of the European Social Fund Very recently, ST’s CEO, Carlo Bozotti, situations at our ST sites on this is identifying and awarding organizations that demonstrate made a public commitment to increase Women in senior management commitment toward gender equality. “Greater diversity in organizations, subject, mainly because of differences 6.60 7.04 7.89 8.02 8.90 9.91 9.86 (JG17 and above) including more women, leads to higher the percentage of women in leadership in legislation. Our objective is to share performing teams and better business positions (JG 17 and above) to 15% by best practices, ensure sites offer fair Women in executive management 4.10 5.65 5.92 6.78 7.60 9.71 10.03 “In several surveys around 2015. In 2012, several corporate HR (JG19 and above) the world, organizations that employment to disabled people and results” stated Carlo Bozotti, ST’s Chief processes will be reviewed to boost the progressively increase the percentage Women in middle management 22.87 promote gender equality in Executive Officer, for the European development of high potential women. of disabled people employed by ST. Our (JG 15 and 16) their practices have shown a Round Table’s Advancement of women The initiative will be cascaded to sites for French and Italian sites have the most marked competitive advantage in business initiative (as Chairman of the local implementation. advanced programs in this area which Gender split by category in 2011 / LA13 include partnerships with recruitment % over businesses in their sector. ERT Societal Changes Working Group). To maintain this initiative in the longeragencies 70 to hire disabled people, 70 ♂ ♂ ♂ This has been attributed At ST, we are convinced that diversity is term, many ST sites already partner programs to train 61,5 disabled people 61,81 in 63,6 61.55 61.83 63.62 to several factors such as with schools to promote technical jobs 60 15,67 60 15.67 a competitive advantage allowing us to technical jobs,16,62 quantitative employment 17,51 16.62 17.51 accessing the most creative to young women, encouraging more objectives etc. Operators Operators provide innovative responses to global 50 50 and skilled individuals, more girls to enroll in engineering schools and Others ♀ issues through multi-angled approach universities. ST’s objective is now to 40 38,5 15,49 15,49 16,51 40 38.45 15.49 15.49 16.51 Others innovative approach based on the different skills and Exempts* (cultural, gender, generation, etc.). ensure that, at all locations, the female 26,11 26.11 ♀ ♀ Exempts* Across our sites we have developed hiring ratio is equivalent to the graduate ST objectives 30 29,45 38,2 36,4 31,44 30 29.45 38.17 36.38 31.44 experience of both genders, 25,9 28,83 25.90 28.83 many programs to benefit more from our gender ratio in partner schools and 20 23 20 23.00 or reduced costs due to higher large cultural diversity. universities. • E10nsure that the hiring ratio of 4,73 retention of employees. 10 4.73 Many sites already exceed legal women 4,53 to men is equivalent 4,45 to the 8,66 4.53 4.45 8.66 One should praise ST Malta for With our new sustainability strategy, gender 0 7,81 7,82 ratio of graduated students 0 7.81 7.82 their initiatives in enhancing requirements regarding maternity we made commitments in three Female Male in partner schools and universities Female Male Female Male their workplace thanks to and paternity programs. In the Czech 2009 2010 2011 areas; gender, seniority and disability. Republic for instance, our ST site offers 2009 • Increase the proportion of women 2010 2011 (*) It refers to employees who hold positions normally requiring graduate or post-graduate education and who are not eligible family friendly environment, Furthermore, ST Principles for for overtime compensation. (*) It refers to employees who hold positions normally requiring fathers the same rights as mothers, i.e. in leadership positions worldwide graduate or post-graduate education and who are not eligible for overtime compensation. where employees with caring Sustainable Excellence, our top-level eight weeks of parental leave on 80% of (*) It refers to employees who hold positions normally requiring fromgraduate 9.8% to 15% or post-graduate by and education 2015who are not Disabled employees / LA13 responsibilities can benefit from reference for guiding our behavior and salary, along with part-time and home • Ensure that all sites have a seniority telework, reduced and flexible 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 decision-making, state our commitment office working where possible. Italian plan to maintain employability in Disabled people employed as % hours.” to a culture free of discrimination; sites have also developed many initiatives 0.48 0.62 0.61 0.89 0.95 1.01 1.05 the second part of people’s careers of total workforce in this area, such as a Maternity at Work ensuring respect for human rights • Ensure that all ST sites have disability For more information, read the report Gender equality, manual, adoption guide, tutoring for Budget spent on disability programs (US$k) 3,489 2,321 3,567 economic growth and employment, Asa Lofstrom and fair treatment in recruitment, mothers who want to remain informed plans to keep increasing the (http://ec.europa.eu/social/BlobServlet?docId=3988&langId=en) remuneration, career development and during their maternity leave, coaching percentage of disabled employees More performance indicators are available on pages 64 to 66 promotion. after return from maternity leave etc. in ST Our People Employee Focus on ST Crolles for a Sustainable Safety In 2010, ST Crolles (France) initiated a new approach to safety, aiming at Safety modifying safety-related behaviors. They realized that past safety programs 1,0 brought positive results but that these 0,9 were not always sustained, also that 90% of the causes of accidents were more 0,8 the result of human and organizational 0,7 factors than technical reasons. 0,6 and posture, work at height, safety reflex, To ensure permanent low levels of shared vigilance, etc. A ‘conclusion’ 2011 results 0,5 recordable cases, ST Crolles has vested safety card is then sent to each 0,4 ST is committed to ensuring the health, safety and well-being managers of operational teams with employee’s home. 0,3 of its employees, including achievement of work-life balance, clearly defined safety responsibilities: Recordable 0,2 Cases rate / LA7 / 9.1 conducting safety visits twice a month In 2011, more than 1,600 safety visits safe working conditions, the mitigation of risk and danger and were completed. At one manufacturing 0,11,0 0.93 0.78 0.59 0.39 0.35 0.29 to observe safe and unsafe behaviors; 0.74 access to healthcare. 0.51 0.49 0.29 0 developing safety dialog with their plant that adopted this new approach 0,9 20 02 20 03 20 04 20 05 20 06 20 07 20 08 20 09 20 10 20 11 teams; and piloting detailed analysis of particularly thoroughly, the rate of all 0,8 -10% trend commitment (EHS Decalogue) accidents. 320 managers have been accidents decreased by 39%. then -5% starting 2010 0,7 trained on safety fundamentals and on The 2012 objective for the two ST Crolles 0,6 how to implement these new aspects plants is to halve the accident rate, Why is safety key for ST? Maintaining our focus on safety In addition to this self-evaluation, 100,5 of their responsibilities, with a focus on compared to 2010. 9 the Corporate Safety organization 80,4 Three factors are mainly responsible for Safety management is robust conducts manufacturing site visits to safety visits. The benefits of the Sustainable Safety 7 60,3 the ever-increasing focus of companies companywide, both at corporate and review the implementation of company During these visits, the manager approach are manifold: reinforcing a 5 0,2 on their health and safety performance: local levels with decreases of 69% in rules and procedures. In 2011, six observes one person, who has been positive safety culture; demonstrating 4 30,1 recordable cases and 84% in severity visits were conducted and a further informed beforehand. Following this managers’ safety excellence, 2 0.93 0.78 0.59 0.39 0.35 0.29 • stronger international guidance and 0.74 0.49 0.29 commitment and leadership; increasing 0.51 rates since 2002. These results have eight are planned for 2012. These observation, they analyze together the 1 0 national policies(1); employees’ motivation and team spirit; 0 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 also resulted in savings estimated at US$ inspections provide an opportunity 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 positive and negative behaviors that have 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 -10% trend commitment (EHS Decalogue) 2009 2010 2011 • escalating direct and indirect costs of 43m since 2002. for cross-fertilization through external been seen and jointly develop corrective reducing the number of accidents then/-5% Injuries starting illness cost 2010 Result without action work-related accidents and illnesses; benchmarking and the sharing of good actions. This is an ideal opportunity for through the analysis and correction of 18 As anticipated, the 2011 results were 19 • increased scrutiny from external practices between sites. Some sites are the manager to: discuss the findings with unsafe behaviors; and saving costs for Severity rate / LA7 / 9.3 similar to 2010 because once a certain the company (equivalent to € 360,000 10 stakeholders e.g. customers’ also involved in national or local initiatives the team, recognize positive aspects 9 level of performance has been reached, in 2011). In addition to this, many requirements, investment and financial where they share their successes and and raise awareness of any unsafe acts 15 8 further reductions become increasingly managers and operators have noticed 7 questionnaires, attention from the press challenges, and benefit from other or dangerous conditions that have been 6 difficult to sustain. After ten years of positive impacts that go beyond this, with etc. companies’ experiences. Extending a observed. It also provides a catalyst for 5 annual 10% reductions, the annual improvements in quality, maintenance, 10 4 ST cares about its employees and strong safety culture to wider audiences adjustments in safety standards and 3 reduction target has been reduced to productivity or manufacturing processes. wants to ensure they are protected, is important and ST is contributing to policies. 2 5% this year. 5 1 so safety has been a key part of its this by involving its on-site contractors 0 To continue striving for zero accidents, in its safety programs. Since 2007, ST The site safety department also 2002 2003 2004 15.7 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 culture for over ten years, with a firm organized a communication campaign 11.0 Injuries / illness cost 8.0 8.8 8.8 6.7 5.5 4.6 2.6 2.9 commitment to strive for zero accidents ST is focusing on two main initiatives: has successfully tracked contractors’ 0 Result without action to raise every employee’s awareness 20 20 2002 03 04 continuously raising employees’ lost work day case rate and is pleased to 20 20 20 2005 06 07 08 in the workplace. Today, ST’s 22 sites 20 20 20 09 10 11 and managers’ awareness; and the observe that it is continuously reducing. throughout the year with a four-week -10% trend commitment (EHS Decalogue) then -5% starting 2010 (including all its manufacturing sites and focus on one safety theme e.g. behaviors its largest non-manufacturing sites) are deployment of programs adapted to Despite its ongoing strong and habits, housekeeping, movement Injuries / illness cost certified to OHSAS 18001 and 100% of sites’ specific requirements. 15 performance, ST will continue to Injuries // LA7 / STHS6 illness cost / US$m LA7 US$m our sites are engaged in the reporting of In 2011, ST provided 167,000 hours strive for improvement, taking into safety performance. ST is now adopting of EHS training and awareness to account the feedback from external 10 Sherlyn Lactao 10 a more granular approach, adapting its employees, exceeding its 2011 corporate stakeholders such as the International Warehouse Shift Leader, Global Logistics and 9 programs to local context, focusing on target with an average of 3.8 hours Labour Organization(1), that are helping Warehousing Organization, Calamba (Philippines) 5 specific groups, such as contractors, and per employee. All ST manufacturing companies to raise international 8 15.7 empowering employees and managers sites have also completed a selfstandards. We are also mindful of the “At our site, we have the Hazard Hunting program that 7 11.0 8.0 8.8 8.8 6.7 5.5 4.6 2.6 2.9 0 through training and awareness. assessment through a dedicated tool potential risks to safety arising from is about awareness. It results in a non-audit findings 6 02 03 04 05 06 07 20 20 08 09 20 20 20 20 20 20 2020 10 11 that helps identify opportunities for the current economic crisis and want workplace. It seems to be the step-by-step closure to 5-10% trend commitment (EHS Decalogue) then -5% starting 2010 improvement in sites’ EHS management to reassure all stakeholders that no simple issues that we encountered in our daily lives. 4 ST objectives systems. 15 topics, such as leadership, compromises have been or will be made Because of this, we now maintain and sustain safety in 3 communications and promotion, human regarding ST’s commitment. our workplace. 2 • Continuously reduce work-related resources and risk monitoring were 1/ XIX World Congress on Safety and Health at Work – ILO evaluated allowing sites to obtain a introduction report : Global Trends and Challenges on We have also applied what we’ve learned here in our 1 injuries, illnesses rate (recordable 6,4 4,7 5,0 3,4 2,9 1,7 Occupational Safety and Health, September 2011 company to our home to ensure safety of everybody. One 3,8 4,3 1,8 detailed analysis of their performance in 0 4,3 case rate) and severity rate by 5% good example is the proper segregation and labeling on 20 20 20 20 02 03 04 20 05 order to help them define and develop 20 20 20 06 07 08 09 20 20 10 11 per year Result without action tailored programs. even simple chemicals, this is significant to us”. • Ensure that, by 2012, ST employees See Crolles Sustainable Safety approach on page19. have an average of four hours of training and awareness per year on environment, health and safety (EHS) More performance indicators are available on pages 64 to 66 Our People Employee Health 2011 results Health and employee wellness services at ST Kind of exam Exam 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total Calamba Medical examination Total 62,500 36,022 50,295 69,180 70,480 288,477 ST Calamba (Philippines) has developed Check up with a physician 23,700 14,057 20,687 32,472 35,689 126,605 and Well-being ‘Comprehensive Health and Employees’ Blood analyses 17,000 9,287 12,287 17,344 15,954 71,872 Wellness Services’ (CHEWS) with the Chest X rays 8,500 3,788 7,205 9,763 8,881 38,137 objective to change employees’ mindset Colorectal cancer immuno-occult testing 1,400 754 851 523 966 4,494 about health and to encourage them ECG / EKG 6,300 5,019 5,257 5,728 5,497 27,801 to adopt a preventive approach under Mammography 1,700 1,160 1,138 1,080 1,094 6,172 the slogan “CHEWS to be fit, because wellness is a choice!”. By the end of cœur Pap smear tests 2,800 1,487 2,084 1,691 1,586 9,648 2011, the sick leave rate has been Prostate cancer screening PSA 1,100 470 786 579 813 3,748 reduced by 49%. The program is based Screening test Total 0 9,028 11,923 10,978 13,097 45,026 around three service pillars: Patient Care, Immunizations Total 1,041 3,121 4,347 3,505 3,019 15,033 Occupational Health, Employee Wellness. Total services provided 63,541 48,171 66,565 83,663 86,596 348,536 It offers several services, including: ST is committed to ensure the health, safety and well-being Wellness Helpline of its employees, including work-life balance, working This helpline allows employees to ask conditions, mitigation of risk and danger to employees and specific medical questions to healthcare subcontractors, employee access to healthcare. France and Italy address Focus on health plan professionals in cases of illness. stress at work in the US ST Health Index Stress is increasingly a global ST US sites participate in the company This index is composed of eight Why is ST committed to enhance These check-ups are conducted either employees to easily practice sport during phenomenon affecting a growing number Health Plan but do not disclose any indicators such as smoking, body mass on-site with external professionals or lunch time or after their working days. index or triglycerides, with three levels of employees’ health and wellexternally where the site has partnered of people across the world in all aspects information about their activities because In 2011, ST Agrate (Italy) was the of the US Federal Health Care Laws risks: bad, borderline, good. After their being? with qualified health centers. In addition first major site to test a ‘mobile work’ of modern life, including at work, mainly that prohibit the sharing of medical annual medical examination, employees to this, sites are offering a variety of because of fast-paced context(2). ST’s program, which offers certain groups of information with employers. receive their health scorecard with Attention to working conditions has other medical tests and examinations, French and Italian sites have initiated recommendations on how to improve been extended over recent years to employees the opportunity to carry out campaigns with external independent depending on their employees’ needs As part of this Health Plan, US sites offer their lowest-scoring indicators. elements of their work at home. encompass not only physical risks but and preferences, such as blood partners to evaluate employees’ levels of a full complement of employer health, The scheme is voluntary and requires also employees’ health and well-being. analysis, mammography, chest X-rays or stress, identify the nature and intensity dental, life, vision and disability programs Happy Hearts Club 20 the agreement of line management. The 21 New legislation, notably on smoking and colorectal cancer tests. For employees of stress factors and develop a map and also cover full preventative care such This club is open to all employees who program was piloted by 28 employees stress, combined with studies conducted working on some specific maintenance of stress by gender, age, organization as routine physical and dental checkups. aim to improve the health of their heart. in 2011 with positive results. Some of by governments (European Working operations in manufacturing areas, bioand job role through anonymous A wellness guidebook was created the benefits that were fed back included This medical program extends beyond Conditions survey for instance(1)) has also monitoring tests are also provided to improved focus and time management, questionnaires and interviews. Thereafter physical health to emotional health and and distributed to the members to measure potential exposure to hazardous prompted increased attention from extrareduced distractions, greater efficiency, the objective is to define appropriate provides services such as the Employee monitor their blood pressure and body substances. financial analysts and the media. elimination of commuting and associated individual and collective initiatives to Assistance Program (EAP) in which mass index. It has been extended In 2011, 86,500 medical examinations stress. In 2012, ST Italy Human prevent and address this important employees can access outside services to family members who become the For ST, employees’ health is very Resources will involve national unions to employee’s ‘home partner’ in the use were performed, including more than health issue. to help better manage their work-life important, both within and beyond the reach a common understanding before of the guidebook to monitor their health 35,000 check-ups covering 83% of balance. This includes support on workplace. It is therefore part of our officially launching the mobile work In France, stress evaluation is done condition outside work. employees. several issues like marriage, family and Corporate Health Policy to provide program to all Italian sites. during medical visits which offer Through this Health Plan, ST also tracks relationship issues, stress and anxiety, voluntary health promotion programs employees an opportunity to better Pregnancy information six health and well-being indicators: These initiatives to promote employee depression, grief and loss, etc. designed to enhance employees’ understand how to measure and ‘Mama Conferences’ are held quarterly physical inactivity, smoking, blood well-being illustrate ST’s dedication to well-being. ST’s Health Plan sets an detect stress and to speak about their This service also provides assistance for: and a mini-library for mothers has been pressure, cholesterol, overweight and share best practices and offer increased ambitious target to provide the same problems with an external professional. childcare and elderly care assistance, set-up. A study was conducted on the obesity. Based on these results, sites site-based support. level of medical care to all ST employees, In 2012, French sites will launch quarterly financial and legal services, identity theft health conditions of pregnant employees are conducting specific awareness recovery assistance and daily living wherever they are located. psychosocial risk committees to work on and policies were written in order to campaigns. For instance, ST Ang Mo Kio support. collective solutions and address the most ensure a safe and healthy workplace. (Singapore) is organizing Lunch Talks, at important cases. The US Medical Program incorporates a A global framework for local least once per month on diverse subjects ST objectives such as ‘chiropractic and ergonomics’, ST Italy has asked a Milan University proactive disease management program actions that offers services such as annual flu ‘stress management’ and ‘allergies Department that specializes in • Ensure all employees have vaccinations. In terms of health and well-being, and sinusitis’. Another example at ST workplace-related illness to propose benefited from the Health Plan by legislation and cultural aspects differ Agrate (Italy) is a nutrition campaign at solutions for managing conflicting Some sites propose additional services the end of 2013 significantly from one country to another. the site canteen to help employees eat situations at work, and supporting to employees such as fitness rooms ST’s approach is to provide guidance a balanced diet. This was developed in • Promote employees’ health and affected managers and employees. and yoga or other sport classes, which at corporate level, enabling countries partnership with local health institutions. well-being through local initiatives An expert from the University is available enable employees to practice activities and sites to design programs that are and campaigns on the following to analyze situations with several during lunch or break time. well-adapted to their local needs and Across all sites, the main subjects aspects: sport practices, tobacco, addressed are sports exercise and participants such as HR, doctors and 1/ www.eurofound.europa.eu/surveys/ewcs/index.htm requirements. overweight & obesity, blood 2/ ILO, The cost of violence/stress at work and the benefits of smoking, with programs helping smokers managers. They can then intervene either a violence/stress-free working environment report Since 2006 ST has operated a companypressure, cholesterol as an advisor or mediator to develop and to quit. To support employees in balancing wide Health Plan with a dedicated group their work and personal lives, some sites • Expand and promote the offer solutions. budget to support sites’ programs. are also providing concierge services such well-being services offered to The company objective is for all ST as; nursery, banking, cleaning or shipping employees at ST sites to facilitate employees to receive at least one and postal facilities. Several of our major day-to-day life medical check-up every 18 months. sites also have sport facilities, allowing Our People Addressing labor rights Labor Rights and social issues outside developing countries In the second half of 2011, measures & Social Issues were undertaken at ST’s sites in Italy and in France to minimize the impact of the economic crisis on employees. In Italy, in order to cope with a reduced loading of our production facilities in the last quarter, negotiations were held with unions representing ST employees to find solutions that would avoid or minimize ‘cassa integrazione’ (shortterm unemployment subsidized by the government), which has an impact on the income of affected employees. As a signatory of the UN Global Compact and a full member At ST Agrate (Italy), unions agreed to Focus on updates to As a specific result of the audit the measure of ‘forced’ use of remaining activities in 2010-2011, ST created of the EICC, ST is committed to respect its workers’ rights and days of vacation. At ST Catania (Italy), policies and procedures a new procedure or ‘specification’ continuously improve labor conditions in its operations. unions opted for the measure of ‘cassa In 2011, ST launched the process to on dormitories to address the nonintegrazione’ (with related reduced conformances that were identified in update its Human Resources Policy, income) to maintain ST employees’ right several ST sites in Asia. The new ST including human rights, as a first step to their remaining days of vacation. Dormitory Specification is based on Linking policy to practice Continuing implementation of the (Morocco). The results of EICC audits in the process of aligning with the the most stringent requirements of our have been summarized in the graphs In France, a ‘chomage partiel’ (short-term new UN Guiding Principles on Human Over recent years, a number of key EICC Approach shown opposite. In addition, non-EICC unemployment) scheme was agreed with Rights and Business. Our audit activities customers, on the EICC standard and described opposite have also contributed on best practice within ST sites. The international standards and guidelines Since 2007, when ST formally adopted customer audits were held in 2011 at the government to increase the legal significantly to the decision to update process to develop the specification covering labor rights and social issues, the Electronic Industry Citizenship ST Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) and ST compensated salary from 60% to 75% this policy. The new HR Policy will be was extensive, involving interviews have been released. The electronic Coalition Code of Conduct as applicable Shenzhen (China). for employees during periods in which more detailed and specific on those of the Human Resources and Safety industry has experienced increased production ceased due to the economic to its own operations, the company has With an average of four major nonmanagers involved in the management attention from civil society organizations, crisis. As part of this agreement, labor rights and social issues that are been driving a continuous improvement conformances and four minor nonof dormitories and the review and investors and media on these issues. ST France offered employees the most relevant to the company and its process with two main axes: conformances per audit, we have been employees. The policy will be finalized comments of HR departments at the 22 At ST, these trends have resulted in possibility to participate in training 23 able to identify and follow relevant paths in 2012 and a cycle of stakeholder concerned sites. The specification will be a significant increase in our customer • Identify our major risks relating to labor courses for their professional for improvement through both local engagement will be launched to further formalized in early 2012. requirements on related topics, which rights and working conditions in our development during the period of site operations and activities; and corrective action plans and corporateclosures, thus benefiting also from an evaluate the policy’s alignment with the have more than doubled over the last five level action plans aimed at reinforcing our additional salary compensation. This UN Guiding Principles. years. • Strengthen formal labor management company-wide management systems activity was highly successful with ST is committed to ensure it aligns systems for our operations within a clear (See focus on page 23). The top three major 2,300 trainees and 47,000 training hours with key international standards and framework of policies and procedures. non-conformances from a combination of recorded, accompanied by excellent guidance, including the UN Global VAPs and customer audits were on freely feedback on the quality of the training In response to international trends and Compact, the UN Guiding Principles on chosen employment, food, sanitation and and a satisfaction score of 90%. our customer requirements, including Business and Human Rights, the OECD housing, and working hours. All French sites (Crolles, EWS Grenoble, a 100% increase in requests for audits Rousset and Tours) adopted this Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Ladislas Smia (from six in 2010 to 12 in 2011), in 2011 For information on our management of labor rights and social program in the second half of 2011. and ISO 26000. ST sites at all locations issues in our supply chain, see pages 58-59 SRI Analyst, Natixis AM we focused on meeting and exceeding must meet national labor and social the requirements of the new EICC regulations and go beyond legislation Membership Compliance Program. VAP “Natixis AM offers socially responsible investment (SRI) by adhering to the provisions of the All ST sites successfully completed the 2011 results EICC funds that focus on companies we believe adequately Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition EICC Self-Assessment Questionnaire address their sustainability challenges. Our internal (EICC) Code of Conduct and ST’s own (SAQ) and all results were transferred to ST objectives EICC audit results research team assesses Environmental, Social and Principles for Sustainable Excellence. the new EICC-ON electronic platform. 7 Corporate Governance (ESG) issues in order to identify ST’s internal program focuses on the Even though our sites maintained their • Ensure 100% of ST manufacturing 6 sustainable business models for these funds. Minor non-conformances practical activities that will ensure we ‘low risk’ SAQ status, we chose to audit sites update their EICC Self“Labour right and social issues” is part of our analysis. 5 Major non-conformances meet this goal of all ST operations, all ST sites in Asia and other developing Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) An interesting trend we see on this matter is increased countries every two years on a rolling on an annual basis 4 Priority non-conformances respecting; the basic rights of workers transparency by companies, even on controversial to freedom of association and collective basis to reflect the expectations of our • Ensure 100% of ST Asian and 3 issues such as working conditions in countries with weak bargaining, the elimination of all forms customers and other stakeholders with Back-end sites are audited every 2 labour standards. We consider that ST has a high level of forced and compulsory labor, the regard to perceived higher risk in these two years versus the EICC Code countries. Our Shenzhen site in China of disclosure and an advanced approach to mitigate effective abolition of child labor, fair of Conduct and that the other sites 1 had already undergone an EICC third these risks on its most sensitive sites and at its suppliers: wages, fair treatment, fair working and are proactively engaged in the living conditions, and the elimination of party ‘Validated Audit’ (VAP) in April EICC approach 0 Fr W ee ag ork W audit policy, specific work on dormitories… However, for ST as for other industrial companies with manufacturing ly e in ch s a g h 2010, so in 2011, further EICC VAPs M seno nd ou discrimination. be rs • Ensure that all ST organizations ac hi emp nefi ne O cc safe yme l o ts were conducted at ST Muar (Malaysia) sites or suppliers in “high risk” countries, there is still room up gu nt a Em No tio ard have a continuous improvement er nnal ing ge dis S Risk F nc cr afe y im ty for improvements (audits, trainings, negotiations…) as oo and ST Calamba (Philippines). VAPs se d, pr e nat i ss sa Indu par ion ed plan versus ST’s Human m n en ita tri s n Le t a tio al h ess nd n a yg ga l a Ha risk d h iene n are planned for 2012 at ST Shenzhen Resources Policy to reinforce their nd za m o co rdo an usin st Co um s su em u ag rre er r bs ent g in order to avoid major non-compliance, especially (China), ST Longgang (China), ST Ang ct eq tan regarding working hours, wages and housing.” ive ui ac erem es c management of social issues tio n e n pr tsoc Mo Kio (Singapore) and ST Bouskoura es s More performance indicators are available on pages 64 to 66 Our Products Our Products ST quality strategy Customer Pillars ST goals In February 2011, Fabio Gualandris Delight our customers by providing best-in-class quality support, communication and Customers joined ST as Executive Vice President management of customer requirements. of the Product Quality Excellence organization. Within one year, he has Engage employees in the pursuit of quality excellence by ensuring people are Satisfaction People introduced and put into execution a empowered, connected, competent and dedicated to quality. new company quality strategy and Guarantee product quality excellence to our customers for any product, for any roadmap to strengthen ST leadership Change management process, in any factory through full visibility and traceability of all changes and robust in this domain and help us provide our risk-assessment and mitigation processes. customers with the highest level of quality excellence in the industry. We have three Manufacturing & Achieve zero excursions for our customers through a proactive approach and active supply chain containment and correction of excursions. strategic objectives for reaching these goals: Product & technology Achieve built-in quality through integrated prevention at every step of product and development technology development. • We must achieve the lowest levels of ST is committed to ensuring its products meet customer defective parts per million for each expectations in all respects, including service, timely delivery industrial domain with the ultimate goal Business processes, Provide the quality framework for the company business model through a metricstools & indicators driven approach and integrated quality management. and appropriate management of quality. of zero failures. • We must prevent any impact to our Economics Consider quality as an investment by using an economics approach that measures the customers due to excursions through value of quality to our bottom line. zero-excursion management. What are ST’s strengths Everyone involved in enhancing During 2011, ST faced several unpredictable events that had the • We must flawlessly execute business and weaknesses in terms customer satisfaction potential to impact our customer processes to prevent problems and of customer satisfaction? service; the nuclear disaster in Japan, continually improve the way we work. Guido Bovensmann “Quality is not negotiable” flooding in Thailand and Morocco, and Supply Chain ST regularly evaluates customer CEO, Carlo Bozotti The ST quality strategy is built on seven typhoons in Hong-Kong. Due to the Management satisfaction through different means fundamental pillars with global targets Automotive (SCMA), Christelle Turcek In 2011, ST reviewed its quality strategy quality of our business continuity plan, such as score cards, customer meetings and a roadmap for execution. Customer and Supplier Supplier Quality and formed a cross-functional quality we were able to avoid any interruption and ST site audits. We have identified Process Harmonization, Management Plant organization consisting of quality groups in our customer services despite these Toulouse, Continental five areas of excellence that contribute Continental that are able to network more effectively unpredictable global events. In several to customer satisfaction; technology across the company. The groups have situations we also successfully deployed (innovation, technical support, etc.), “The ultimate goal of the SCMA is to “In the challenging semiconductor 26 a single common mission “to provide our emergency logistics services to our 27 business (competitiveness, change make Continental the most reliable market, quality is playing a key role ST’s customers with the highest level of customers and suppliers. management, etc.), supply chain (delivery partner for our customers through within the business context. quality excellence in our industry”. Fabio 2011 results Conti’s expectation is to avoid or limit performance, flexibility, etc.), quality To build resilience to the cyclical nature optimal fulfillment of their supply Gualandris, Executive Vice President, any potential customer impact due to (robust products, preventing quality of our business, ST has worked with demands. For that, we need highly Product Quality Excellence, said that “the 130 quality issues. A preventive strategy issues, etc.) and sustainability (vision Front-end subcontractors to increase flexible partners with leading-edge major change in this new structure is that On-time delivery to customer request and fast response are the two main & strategy, stakeholder engagement, flexibility and maintain levels of response 120 supply chain processes. it is very operational, closely linked to characteristics Conti is expecting etc). In 2011, ST launched a customer to customer demand, including strategic 110 130 For a central logistics function the day-by-day activities of ST and our from its suppliers. Standardization perception survey, collecting more than partnerships with selected companies. working with ST, like our SCMA, it customers.” 100 120 of reliability qualifications, 1,300 responses that were fed into our is highly appreciated to have one ST’s new quality strategy engages Another key objective that has 90 110 manufacturing processes and continuous improvement initiatives. competent contact who is involved everyone at ST in continuous been closely monitored by ST top continuous quality improvement Responses indicated that 84% of our 80 100 in several logistics programs, e.g. improvement, aiming towards flawless management in 2011 was the plans are the basis for preventive clients were satisfied to work with ST, 70 90 Logistics Improvement Program implementation of business processes, reduction of cycle time at our Frontprocesses while rapid and precise our main strengths being business (LIP). Besides this, ST offers many zero failures and zero excursions(1). 2012 end sites. Due to the high complexity 60 80 communication via comprehensive relations and our product offering. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Target) proactive solutions like its worldwill be the year of execution but several of this manufacturing phase, Front-end 70 8D methodology ensures a fast We identified two main improvement Delivery date in line with customer request wide-model or the running of IT programs have already been launched processes account for between 50% response. opportunities: our supply chain delivery 60 (Baseline 100 – December 31, 2007) modifications. during 2011 which have provided and 85% of the total cycle time. In What we particularly appreciate performance and the quality of our 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Target) ST is always on board at an promising results. Excursions were response to customers’ needs, Cyclewith ST is the opportunity to set a products and processes. Customers Delivery date in line with customer request early stage with a high level one of ST’s main focus areas in 2011, time Champions led dedicated working (Baseline 100 – December 31, 2007) common quality strategy. Thanks to have remarked on the improvements we of engagement to support us reinforcing both proactive and reactive groups to deliver a reduction of 25% by ST’s product portfolio, strong technical have made to date in terms of quality, in our goal to drive continuous interventions. We initially analyzed details the end of the year. ST is committed to a On-time delivery to ST commitment know-how and worldwide support, but we know that continual improvement improvement and to react even of previous excursions and categorized further 15% reduction in 2012. we are able to develop and deploy must be sustained. 130 more rapidly to sudden market root causes, identifying commonalities 1/ A sudden and unexpected event generating abnormally new solutions that meet high-quality changes, which have increased and solutions that would create the longhigh customer-related failure 120 market demand. frequently over the past few term eradication of excursions. A senior 110 130 Several joint Conti/ST quality years. Thanks to open and honest ST objectives cross-functional team was then formed 100 120 communication, many issues are programs are in place with clear to implement effective, systematic and objectives and targets. We work well 90 110 resolved successfully.” with ST thanks to communication • Maintain performance permanent solutions, and to become the improvements for Just in Time on main point of contact when an excursion 80 100 flows established both at regional Committed Date and Just in Time occurs. By the end of 2011, the number 70 90 level, via ST’s local quality contacts on Requested Date (see graph) of excursions had already been reduced and at management level. Although 60 by 70%. 80 the main drivers are located • Reduce customer complaints per 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Target) 70 within the Quality Department, million units by 5% by Q4 2012 Delivery date in line with ST commitment 60 (Baseline 100 – December 31, 2007) deployment and execution involves compared with a 2011 baseline 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Target) the whole of ST.” More performance Delivery indicators date in line with ST commitment (Baseline 100 – December 31, 2007) are available on pages 64 to 66 Our Products ST identified six tantalum smelters in its EICC and participation in its working Conflict-free materials supply chain, and four have groups. In September 2011, we attended already passed the CFS certification. the GeSI-EICC workshop in Brussels ST objectives and participated in a dialogue that Like ST, many of our customers are • Define and deploy systems and included stakeholders from civil society, also listed on the New York Stock processes to provide trustworthy companies at every level of the supply Minerals Exchange and therefore fall within the evidence that our products are chain and government institutions. These Dodd Franck-Act. As a consequence, conflict-free. In 2012 we will: meetings are vital to maintain a global customer requirements received by ST maintain the EICC-GeSI Due perspective of the issue; they also offer relating to conflict minerals quadrupled Diligence Tool update for 100% of opportunities to share experience, create in 2011. This topic now represents our material suppliers, Front-end connections with the different participants almost half of our customers’ social and and Back-end subcontractors and continue collective industry progress. ethical requirements. There was also Through our membership in the EICC, engage all the smelters identified increased customer focus on our supply we are also supporting the ITRI(4) ’s Tin in our supply chain to join the chain coverage and data reliability. Our Supply Chain Initiative (iTSCi), aimed at EICC-GeSI Conflict-Free Smelter customer satisfaction levels in this area developing the responsible supply of tin Program have been very good, and we have from DRC and adjoining countries. benefited from working closely with some ST is committed to ensuring compliance with legislation and customers to conduct more in-depth 1/ U SGS 2009 Minerals Yearbook – The Mineral Industry of Congo alignment with customer requirements relating to conflict analyses. 2/ C onflict Minerals and the EICC-GeSI approach, May 2011 3/ U nited Nations report on the Democratic Republic of the minerals, avoiding procurement of 3TG metals (tantalum, tin, ST remains well-informed on conflict Congo, December 2011 4/ International Tin Research Institute tungsten and gold) that are directly or indirectly associated with minerals through its membership of the serious human rights violations or environmental damage in the Democratic Republic of Congo and its neighboring countries. Mineral sourcing in ST’s supply chain Adapted from EICC-GeSI Extractive Work Group Why is the conflict minerals issue An industry-wide approach electronics companies to consolidate the analysis and reporting of data key for ST? ST began to address the conflict minerals throughout the sector’s supply chain Mines negociants Comptoirs issue in 2007 by requiring its tantalum and beyond. As a result, ST was able In the Democratic Republic of Congo suppliers to confirm they were not to improve the visibility of its minerals Jan-Willem Scheijgrond (DRC) and neighboring countries, 28 providing metals from conflict areas. supply chain in 2011 by deploying the Mineral supply Senior Director Environment, Health & Safety, 29 tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold Due Diligence template to all its materials Philips Corporate Sustainability Office Since then we have participated in the (collectively called 3TG) are often suppliers, replacing the previously-used Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition produced by artisans and small-scale manual tracking process. We have also (EICC) and Global e-Sustainability “Philips is concerned about the situation in miners. The mines and their associated required our subcontractors to deploy Initiative (GeSI) programs and are Eastern Congo, and believes that an industrytrading routes are frequently controlled the template for their own downstream now requiring all our suppliers and traders wide approach is crucial to effectively address by illegal local military forces(1) . Mining suppliers. subcontractors to provide evidence the conflict minerals issue. We need our suppliers’ revenues are a major source of funding that they are not sourcing 3TG metals Completing this template is now cooperation to avoid that minerals that directly or for armed groups who are responsible that contribute to the funding of armed mandatory for our suppliers and indirectly finance the Congolese conflict enter our for violence and other serious human Mineral trading groups. subcontractors and is part of their annual rights abuses in the region, as well supply chain. Philips welcomes the increasingly evaluation, the maximum appraisal as environmental issues such as Since 2008, EICC-GeSI has been score being given when they provide full open and collaborative stance of ST concerning deforestation(2). working jointly to develop a common traceability back to the mine of origin. supply chain investigations and transparency. approach for a conflict-free mineral Around 170 templates have so far been We encourage ST to continue this important effort On July 21, 2010, the US President Smelters Refineries supply chain within the electronic collected and aggregated. and take the next steps in engaging all identified signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act, industry. In 2010, EICC-GeSI launched Due to the complexity of our supply smelters in the EICC-GeSI Conflict Free Smelter drafted by the Securities and Exchange its Conflict-Free Smelter (CFS) Program, Metal supply chain, a single feedback can contain program.” Commission (SEC), which requires in conformance with the OECD Due information originating from as many as manufacturers of electronics devices Diligence Guidance for Responsible eight separate tiers of the supply chain. to undertake due diligence on their Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict3TG supply chains, to publicly disclose Affected and High-Risk Areas. The With this complete view of our supply 2011 results their conflict minerals policy and to program consists of the independent chain, we are now able to validate every Suppliers ST Customers Product Manufacturing Conflict Minerals enforce conflict-free measures in their validation of the effectiveness of supply smelter’s name and identity against Final products components lines procurement processes. chain due diligence programs and the EICC-GeSI list. Carrying out a 2011 The electronic industry is one of the processes through third party audits reasonable level of inquiry that delivers Number of materials suppliers and subcontractors involved in the EICC-GeSI Due of smelters and refiners. Through this 171 most impacted by this issue because accurate information is complex due Electronic supply Diligence survey of the need for 3TG metals in electronic program, EICC-GeSI also provides to the number of companies involved. Number of suppliers and subcontractors that are associated guidance to smelters to support in-region with at least one 3TG metal (involved suppliers) 84 components(3). ST products contain The ultimate objective is to engage all sourcing schemes that enable legitimate smelters in the CFS program and we 100% many metals, including 3TG. Since 2007, % (number) of involved suppliers and subcontractors that have completed and safe trade from DRC . contribute to this goal by encouraging the EICC-GeSI Due Diligence survey (84) ST has led actions to prevent conflict Consumers minerals entering its supply chain and In July 2011, EICC-GeSI issued a Due our smelters to participate, contacting Electronic Number of smelters identified in ST’s raw materials supply chain 61 has significantly increased its efforts over Diligence reporting template, in line them both directly and through our firstproducts Number of smelters identified in ST subcontractors’ supply chains 111 recent years to obtain a more complete with the US Securities and Exchange tier suppliers. By the end of 2011, the and reliable map of our minerals supply Commission requirements, to create a CFS program had focused on tantalum Electronic products % of ST Tantalum suppliers that use conflict-free smelters 66% chain, tracing it back to the mine of origin. single reporting format that will enable smelters with 11 smelters certified. purchasing Our Products Eco-design Focus on ST’s partnerships Crolles thesis is attached to the Nano 2012 Program, a strategic approach with academic institutions to increase semiconductor innovation, ST is convinced that its strategic including environmental aspects. Following on from this success, several Giovanni Dotelli research partnerships are contributing Associate Professor to its overall performance through the engineering students from the Politecnico of Materials Science, blending of different experiences and di Milano (Italy) are also engaged in LCA. Politecnico di Milano visions. This combines day-to-day In 2011, two of them have worked to (Italy) industry practice, performance targets validate the methodology in improving ST is committed to designing its products systematically, the overall data quality and have also “The need to re-think products to and theoretical studies with a long-term taking into consideration the environmental impact of the vision that is built through collaboration helped to develop the eco-design reduce their environmental burden device during its whole life cycle, including raw materials, across several industries. Due to its tools. Furthermore, ST Tours (France) is is spreading very rapidly, fuelled working with the University of Tours and by an increase in environmental transportation, manufacturing, usage, end of life. very technical and innovative nature, statements that assess the eco-design in particular benefits from Orleans, the National Center for Scientific such partnerships, which inject the Research (CNRS) and the Atomic and “greenness” of almost everything. to identify the main contributions to Alternative Energy Commissionership Life Cycle Analysis is one of the competencies and experiences needed impacts, minimize the environmental (CEA) for several years through a most robust ways to answer to develop LCA and other complex impacts of both technologies and Scientific Interest Group called CERTeM stakeholders’ requests for more technical aspects of eco-design. packages and compare the evolutions Plus (Microelectronic technology research comprehensive environmental between product generations. ST Since 2009, the Research and and study center) to develop new ecoevaluations of products and Crolles (France) has been able to map Development departments of ST Rousset design technologies. materials. the 45 nanometer technology through and Crolles (France) are working with two Thanks to its collaboration with PhD students from Grenoble University. Through this collaborative approach, ST ST, the Politecnico di Milano has an in-depth study of chemical flows aims to build long-term partnerships and This is in partnership with the Grenoble broadened its experience in the and is currently working on a model contribute to research at a global level. laboratory G-SCOP specialized in design specific field of semiconductor to eco-design the next generation of issues in industrial engineering. Through manufacturing and its associated technologies. their meticulous work, they developed cutting edge technologies. ST has A responsible product(1) working group also offered unique internship our eco-design methodology and is looking into a communication plan opportunities for Politecnico strategy for products and processes. The dedicated to eco-designed products, students who have been able including the creation of eco-profiles and to undertake thesis projects in labels. collaboration with highly qualified We are also working on removing ST personnel.” 30 polluting and hazardous substances 31 from our products via our ECOPACK® Bodo Eilken Why is eco-design key for ST? ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. In 2011, we program which was launched in 2000, DA5 representative continued to make good progresses on based on ST’s hazardous substances Infineon Technologies As the development of electronic goods our path to successfully integrate this list. From 2012, our systems will track AG (Germany) continues to increase, it is imperative approach within the company. products eligible for ECOPACK® 3 and to understand the increasingly stringent “The Die Attach 5 (DA5) Consortium was formed in 2009 by several semiconductor industry leaders: Bosch Performing full LCA on a semiconductor align packing materials with ECOPACK® environment, health and safety product (semiconductor division), Freescale, Infineon Technologies AG, NXP and ST. The objective of the Consortium device is a lengthy process due to the levels. requirements along with opportunities for is to identify sustainable, enduring, standardized, reliable and dependable lead-free solders for attaching die complexity of processes, materials and 1/ For more information, see responsible products pages sustainable production and consumption. 32-33 to packages during manufacturing. The DA5 consortium aims to reduce the qualification time needed by its final applications. Based on complete customers and provide lead-free and environmentally-friendly alternatives through: Since 1993 and the first stages of its LCA studies performed through the years • joint development among semiconductor manufacturers to develop lead-free die attach technology environmental strategy, ST has been at ST, we have developed a simplified • joint work programs between DA5 members and their material suppliers fully committed to reducing any negative LCA methodology that provides a effects of its activities and its products clear product footprint within a shorter ST objectives • encouraging suppliers to develop and offer innovative solutions The collaboration combines the technical expertise and experience of the five leading semiconductor companies on humans and the planet as a whole. timeframe, enabling us to assess the • Ensure 100% of new ST products with their main material suppliers to demonstrate to the European Commission and the consulting Öko Institute Innovation is a key element in eco-design main environmental impacts of 100% of that the industry is committed to an early solution.” and ST is implementing an eco-design ST’s internally-manufactured products. are eco-designed by 2015 through strategy based on a life-cycle approach deployment of : that will better-inform customers of the Our eco-design roadmap outlines key eco-design strategy 2011 results MEMS Technology evolution milestones to reach our 2015 objective. new eco-design tools environmental footprint of its products. We launched three working groups product eco-labeling ECOPACK® program / EN26 MEMS technology evolution on the integration of environmental • ECOPACK 2 : 100 ® ST’s approach to Life Cycle parameters in technology and product 90% of new packages % of ECOPACK® products 90 Assessment and eco-design design. As a result, three eco-design in kunits* 80 implemented in ECOPACK®2 by the tools, using LCA, are being developed to 2009 2010 2011 70 end of 2012 In 2010, ST published the fourth integrate environmental criteria into each 60 -8  0% of products in ECOPACK®2 Non ECOPACK® 2.4 1.8 1.3 CO2eq (%) version of its EHS Decalogue with a stage of chip design. The first output is 50 target to achieve eco-design of 100% a circuit design tool developed by ST in financial value by the end of 2012 ECOPACK®1 40 58.1 43.5 28.9 Compliant with the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) directive and ‘lead free**’ of its new products by 2015. Life Castelletto Research and Development • Start tracking products eligible for 30 Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a way of (Italy) that compares design options for Ecopack®3 (halogen-free and no ECOPACK®2 20 highlighting opportunities for ecological electrical circuitry and highlights greener RoHS exemption) in 2012 39.5 54.7 70.0 10 ECOPACK®1 + free of brominated, chlorinated and antimony-oxide flame retardants 100 59 improvements in product design. Since options. ST Front-end technology • Start alignment of ST packing 0 10 20 11 20 2008, ST has developed a bespoke (developed in Rousset France) and materials to Ecopack® levels 2 and Between two generations of Micro-Electromechani(*) In 2011, we reviewed our methodology used to calculate the annual percentage of ECOPACK® products considering Between two generations cal Systems (MEMS)of Micro-Electromechanical devices from 2010 and 2011, ST methodology and carried out LCA on a Back-end package tools (developed in 3 in 2012 now the annual billing in volume, and no more the number of products proposed in our catalogue. Systems (MEMS) has reduced the area of the device corresponding devices from 2010 and 2011, ST has to a CO2 equivalent decrease of about 40%. range of products in accordance with Grenoble France) will enable designers (**) With adapted reliability for soldering at higher temperature, as some exemptions are necessary mainly for the automotive market with regard to RoHS regulation reduced the area of the device corresponding to a CO2 equivalent decrease of about 40% More performance indicators are available on pages 64 to 66 Our Products Focus on STAR responsible Energy Saving Products such as appliances, energy meters and Responsible ST chips contribute to energy savings infrastructure monitors. These products product categories are conceived to reduce peak loads, in two fundamental ways, which The task force working on STAR are often connected: 1) the ST chip improve network stability, encourage Responsible Products created two itself saves energy compared to the lower consumption and better manage macro categories for the classification previous generation and 2) the design a wider variety of renewable energy products of products with clear social and functionalities of the ST chip enable a sources such as wind and solar. Our environmental benefits: energysignificant energy saving within the final power conversion devices another saving products and social products, application (owned by the ST customer). category of energy saving products which includes those products with In some cases, it is the energy saving deliver a dramatic reduction of energy environmental benefits not related to of the ST chip itself that permits an consumption in homes and other energy-saving. For each of these two energy saving in the final application. buildings, enabling appliances that are macro categories there is a star rating Our data-gathering sets out to capture less power hungry or lighting systems from 1 to 3. The STAR rating for social the energy-saving characteristics of that exploit the most up-to-date Advances in semiconductor technology offer exciting both categories so that we will be able technologies to deliver optimum lighting products focuses on the innovation of an opportunities to address global sustainability issues with ST chip enabling a final application (that to measure the growth in demand for conditions with the lowest possible innovative products that respond to environmental and safety is owned by an ST customer) versus the these products and associated revenues energy (e.g. chips for driving highseparately, but as part of the same efficiency LED for lighting applications, challenges, as well as the ageing population and more offering of the market. For energy-saving which save as much as 40%, compared products, the STAR rating combines an bigger picture. Energy saving products affordable and accessible healthcare. evaluation of ST technology versus the include products for smart grids which to older technologies). market offering and versus the previous comprise interconnected equipment generation of the product in question. ST’s STAR Responsible Products Social Products What are ‘responsible products’? social or environmental benefits) then it is eligible for a STAR rating. Health, Medical & Fitness We use the term ‘responsible products’ Program Examples of products that fall into this In 2012, the task force will perform an category: to refer to the design, development, sale The STAR program is just one element initial classification of all eligible new and marketing of ST products that: of ST’s overall approach to product products for the year 2012 and fine-tune • the Nanopump, which is a • Reduce energy consumption and stewardship, which includes compliance the classification criteria and rules for breakthrough concept that allows a tiny enable customer applications to reduce with legislation (e.g. ST’s Ecopack® label) assigning a STAR rating. They will then pump to be mounted on a disposable their energy consumption and/or are and eco-design strategies to reduce the be able to formalize their 2012 target skin patch to provide continuous insulin intended to provide new environmental environmental impact of the technology for the percentage of new products infusion for diabetes treatment, using 32 solutions (e.g. smart grid, start/stop used in production, measured in terms that have a STAR rating and review the our microfluidic MEMS (Micro-Electro33 systems, converters to manage solar of the product’s environmental footprint associated percentage of sales for those Mechanical System) technology; cells and wind turbines, etc.); across the whole of its life cycle. products each quarter. 2012 will be our • a “smart” contact lens that uses a tiny See more on pages 28-29. baseline and will enable us to measure embedded strain gauge to monitor • Are intended to provide new social Raimondo Rannisi Launched in 2011, the STAR program any increase in demand/revenues for this the curvature of the eye over a period, solutions and improve end-user quality Sustainable Excellence Manager, IMS Systems set out to chart new territory in ST, category of product. typically 24 hours, providing valuable of life (e.g. all health-related products, Lab & Technical Marketing, Catania (Italy) safety applications, environmental exploring the boundaries of eco-design The ultimate goal is value creation for disease management data that is not and social solutions for developing and pushing them further in some ST and benefits for society at large in currently obtainable using conventional “Responsible products are an integral element of countries etc.). respects. The goal of the program, within line with our Sustainability strategy and ophthalmic equipment. This solution our approach to sustainable development: they are the context of ST’s new Sustainability ST’s overall strategy of «life.augmented». enables better management of In ST, we have known for years that we advanced devices with a high degree of innovation strategy and the key issue of In parallel, a focus on the formal glaucoma patients via earlier diagnosis have numerous products that fit this which may have a positive impact on the environment ‘Responsible Products’, is to classify all communication processes and activities and treatment that is optimally tailored description but we didn’t previously have new products into relevant environmental and on people’s lives.” that accompany the STAR program will to the individual patient. a clear system to identify and classify and social categories and give a 1, 2 or ensure that customers, investors and them. Prompted by investors’ questions 3 STAR rating according to the level of employees (and stakeholders in general) relating to the percentage of products innovation of the product in question. understand the value created and benefit with energy-saving characteristics and A task force was formed including from it accordingly. their associated revenues, our aim on this subject is to translate the real representatives from all ST Product societal value of these products into Groups to define the approach and facts and figures that clearly demonstrate formalize it in relevant company Responsible products category and STAR classification criteria |EN6|EN26| the contribution of our products to key processes (such as the Product societal challenges. Development Process) and IT systems. ST objectives Social Products Associated STAR rating Energy Saving Products Associated STAR rating The focus in 2011 was to clarify the • Health/Medical/Fitness 1 STAR: incremental changes 1 STAR: incremental improvement conceptual premise of the approach • In 2012, track the percentage Embedded in applications to a solution already on the versus previous generation (at within the context of existing programs. of ‘responsible products’ in ST’s dedicated to physical well-being market least in line with standard market What characterizes the STAR program, overall Product Portfolio and offering) • Safety/Security: 2 STARS: not just improve an • Energy saving as the task force defined it, is its attempt associated revenues (following Contributes to transportation/ existing solution, add to it in of the ST chip itself 2 STARS: significant improvement to classify responsible characteristics of STAR environmental and social car safety or safety in general; new ways versus previous generation (above the product (the ST chip) in use in ST’s criteria) for the year or to personal security • Energy saving standard market offering) customers’ final applications. The rule the 3 STARS: solves a problem of the application thanks • Prepare a complete • Social (general): for which there is not yet a to the ST chip 3 STARS: dramatic improvement vs task force used to define the categories Products supporting ageing solution on the market previous generation OR providing a communications plan for is: if the design functionalities of the chip population, disabilities; to solution for energy saving that does responsible products in 2012 enable an application or result that is improve quality of life in not yet exist on the market evidently ‘responsible’ (i.e. bringing clear developing countries etc. Our Products • Intellectual Property portfolio management: the thousands of Intellectual Property patentable ideas that result every year from the research activities above are carefully protected against unauthorized third party use or infringement. ST’s portfolio represents approximately 17,000 patents* and & Innovation pending patent applications. These assets, in turn, are used to develop further partnerships and alliances, or alternatively are incorporated into licensing programs. • Intellectual Property training: ST uses intellectual property to protect and support everything we do. All It is acknowledged that innovation in micro-electronics has the ST employees have responsibility potential to offer people better, longer and more enjoyable to protect our intangible assets, lives through technology development in important areas such including their strategic and economic importance plus legal aspects. This as energy efficiency, healthcare and the management of covers the tools and processes that scarce resources. ST’s IP and Licensing Department has put in place to help create a worldclass patent portfolio. Employee IP training is delivered by the over the Internet, the new generation closing a gate, etc. Miniaturization of IP & Licensing Department in cooperation of application stores and secure the device results in a stamp-sized Innovation’s contribution technology, intellectual property or level technology intelligence and the with Corporate Learning. High-Definition streaming to tablets, product. A photovoltaic cell delivers ready-made circuitry needs to be identification of future business needs. to business and society carefully balanced against the risks e.g. We then evaluate the most efficient way The IP & Licensing Department also smartphones, PCs and TVs throughout energy to each network node, where it is invites several key representatives of ST’s the home. stored in an embedded battery, allowing The semiconductor industry is a key dependency and product differentiation to acquire the IP. One model involves divisions for a full day of training, covering continuous operation. The application enabler for the electronics industry capability. Conversely, business the acquisition of IP through licensing the major phases of ST’s patent life cycle. This is the first ST IC in the 32/28 has the potential for use in a vast array opportunities may arise from the licensing transactions with a worldwide network nanometer technology family and, of innovative applications and multiple which creates growth in information of certain intellectual property or knowof partners. Combining highly complex with over 1 billion transistors, is among domains, such as industrial applications, technologies plus a wide range of the most complex conceived to date. manufacturing and service industries. It how to partners or 3rd parties. Alternatively, it may result from product technology with the most home automation and personal On developing the chip, ST has assistance. It helps to use energy more provides improved solutions for existing development with key customers, Innovation is the critical link that converts technology development with other innovative multimedia responded to end users’ demands for efficiently and will increase consumer applications and also enables new our portfolio of IP and inventions, into a fully-connected home. 34 applications and markets to develop. semiconductor manufacturers features safety though better monitoring of the 35 products and ultimately into business environment, e.g. monitoring of carbon A significant proportion of the goods and alliances on Electronic Design In 2011, ST unveiled details of Orly, GreenNet: a smart Wireless opportunities. monoxide. and services that will be available in the Automation tool development its forthcoming high-performance This process is underpinned by rigorous with major suppliers. Alliances are Sensor Network The data from GreenNet can be market in 10 years time have not yet broadband set-top box system-on-chip been developed or even conceived, but IP portfolio management, which protects supported by research programs Integrated Circuit (IC) for extraordinary ST’s Business Innovation Process transmitted to a mobile device such as ST’s interests. conducted with leading institutions home entertainment that will deliver has given birth to a highly innovative a smartphone or tablet to enable remote microelectronics is bound to be a key which contribute to several of market-leading energy efficiency, project from Grenoble (France), named monitoring and control. enabling technology underlying most of them. Major progress is anticipated ST’s approach to innovation Europe’s advanced technology high performance as well as bestGreenNet. GreenNet is a network (*) this figure relates to ST core businesses (ie excluding STresearch programs such as in-class security features, along with of wireless sensors that can detect Ericsson) in fields such as communications, ST’s approach to innovation focuses support for a wide variety of open-source environmental parameters such as healthcare, energy conservation, on three key areas: CATRENE (Cluster for Application environments. temperature, movement, self-motion, digital content and entertainment, and Technology Research in Europe presence of pollutants in the atmosphere transportation and security. Digital • R&D investment: we devote an on NanoElectronics, a successor to The chip’s superior processing power etc. It is able to respond to sensory average of over 20% of our net MEDEA+), and industry initiatives such will support value-added services such information by enabling an embedded multimedia convergence, sensing and revenues to R&D. In an industry where as ENIAC (European Nano-electronics as state-of-the-art gaming, Over The switch which acts on the surrounding power management are segments of Top (OTT) video playback via 3rd-parties microelectronics that are likely to have the speed of bringing new technology Initiative Advisory Council). systems, e.g. by switching on a light, the deepest impact on the future of our to market is critical, it is important that society. ST maintains momentum. An advanced System On Chip (SOC) such as an 2011 results Multimedia convergence and Sense application processor or a multimedia ST objectives & Power applications are central to consumer device can typically contain ST’s vision, which drives product and ST patents filed per year Innovation activity over 1 billion transistors and millions • Increase creativity: technology development. Examples of lines of embedded software. The Number of patents for fundamental 800 include advanced audio/video aggregate effort needed to bring such 2010 2011 innovations filed per year 700 processing, multi-core architectures, products to market is the equivalent of Median Age of Immature Projects*, in months 17 14 low power technology, radio frequency, • Increase efficiency of product Jean-Marc Chéry, hundreds of man-years. A similar scale 600 % of Immature Projects* younger than 1 year, micro-electro-mechanical systems development: Executive Vice President, Chief Manufacturing 29% 43% of input is required to develop a state500 in value (MEMS) and 3D integration. Average age of development & Technology Officer of-the-art technology platform for smart projects 400 % of Projects* maturing withing Year, in value 29% 35% power devices or MEMS. “Brilliant companies invent As the complexity of our products grows Proportion of projects younger % Open Innovation ** in R&D, in value 20% 21% and their economic lifespan shortens, it • Intellectual Property sourcing and than 1 year and protect their inventions, 300 becomes essential for ST to continuously research alliances: to complement • Increase R&D partnerships: successful companies innovate 200 * immature project: product development project, defined in accordance assess how best to allocate its resources internal R&D, ST also sources % of R&D spending incurred and leverage their own and 100 with IFRS criteria, measured in asset value, not yet at Maturity 30 at end of the year across ever increasing demands for technology, IPs and IP blocks from via partnerships or external IP their partners’ inventions to 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 ** open innovation: aggregate spending towards external R&D technology 0 licensing partners, in % of total R&D + licensing spending research and development. The potential strategic partners, customers and third sourcing create products that make a benefits of tapping into the rapidly parties. This process starts with topdifference…” emerging market for semiconductor The Environment The Environment Focus on in-depth water Water analysis at ST Tours (France) In March 2011, a new local regulation Hakim Taleb Management required ST Tours(3) to limit its water consumption and to submit a report of Industrial Program Manager, Water Agency, Brittany-Loire region (France) the site water use by October 2011. Tours decided to seize this opportunity “The Water Agency, part of the French Ministry of to undertake an in-depth analysis to optimize its water consumption. Environment, has adopted a renewed and ambitious water management strategy, stipulating that two thirds of With the help of a specialized consulting water resources must regain a good environmental quality agency, and supported by French by 2015. Industries are required to take all necessary governmental organizations, a group preventive measures to reduce their water withdrawal, ST is committed to reducing water use and ensuring high of ST experts from participating consumption, and emissions. Optimum water management manufacturing departments began the standards of effluent and waste water treatment. We are also study in April. It evaluated the current can be achieved if all local participants (municipalities, committed to identifying and managing water-related risks techniques used by the Tours site against companies, individuals) collaborate and are part of the and opportunities, including impacts on local communities. the 33 technical guidelines of the EU decision-making process. Teams at ST Tours are engaged Commission, referred to as Best Available and committed to making environmental improvements, Techniques Reference. Daily flow-meter as demonstrated by the innovative study they conducted readings across multiple areas provided in 2011 on the site water consumption and usage, with the Why is water management key issue for sustainable growth in the first centrally and have implemented guidelines a precise and complete inventory of ST financial support of the Water Agency.” release of its Environment Health and to review the quality, availability and Tours’ water consumption and helped for ST? Safety Decalogue in 1995 and developed selection of the water sources we use. identify areas for further improvement a strategy covering all stages of and optimization. Climate change is the major factor To assess and map the water risks impacting world water resources, with operations. Since then we have achieved Following on from this analysis, our yearly reduction target of 5% for related to our operations, ST conducted 2011 results For more information on our environmental results, please refer to page 66 direct effects on ecosystems, people a pilot evaluation using the Global Water in November 2011 three working and businesses(1). 22% of the world’s water draw-down, in cubic meters per Tool of the World Business Council for groups started to optimize the water Consumption of water Consumption of water (per unit of production): normalized values / EN8 / Dec . 2.2 m3/production unit fresh water is used for industry(1), production unit. Sustainable Development. We firstly consumption of equipment during both (per unit of production): Recycled and reused total water making water management a priority analyzed whether ST sites were located active and stand-by modes and also normalized values / EN8 / 2.2 / EN10 / 2.2 ST’s conservation strategy is based on looked at ways of increasing the use of issue for responsible companies. The in water-scarce areas, and how this might 100 the 3R motto ‘Reduce, Reuse, Recycle’. recycled water. 38 39 90 semiconductor industry has an obligation Water conservation features in the design impact ST’s activities and communities in 80 to respond via: of our facilities, and manufacturing the future. In 2012, ST will perform a deep Initial results showed a significant 70 processes are constantly upgraded to water risk assessment with Quantis at all decrease of 5m3 of ultra-pure water per 60 •w  ater governance and regulatory hour. These best practices will be shared 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 meet our more stringent water reduction manufacturing sites and will evaluate its 50 compliance with other ST sites and we hope some Total water targets. Each site measures and overall water footprint from operations, 40 29.567 27.791 25.622 27.736 29.113 will be recognized for their innovative used (1,000m3) supply-chain and the lifetime of product 30 • the development of innovative initiatives assesses its patterns of water usage to diminish water dependency and use. aspects and adopted by the French 20 Water recycling to know which areas of the production Ministry of Environment. 10 91.0 77.5 and re-usage 26.51 34.53 36.20 37.29 40.53 53.1 59.4 47.0 36.1 31.3 27.3 39.0 26.7 100 ensure business and supply chain 81.7 64.0 29.5 27.3 process to focus on. We have developed 40.9 34.0 rate (%) 80.0 ST has a historical engagement with its 0 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 continuity 19 19 19 19 19 19 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 innovative measures to further save surrounding communities. Our sites have Target m3 / production unit • the mitigation of adverse impacts on water, and operating procedures are always worked with local stakeholders to consequently reviewed to be aligned with reduce water extraction and consumption, Total water discharge / EN21 water supply and communities the best equipment and processes. In and ensure a viable development of all 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The sustainable management of 2011, ST recycled 40.5% of its water, actors of the areas. In 2011, ST Agrate Focus on ST Kirkop (Malta) (*) For more information on our environmental results, please refer to p.x. Water discharge (1,000m3) 17,934 14,931 12,867 14,000 13,650 this essential resource is of critical re-using it for different purposes such received the Electronics Day Award for water recycling program importance for ST and its stakeholders. Treated in ST waste water treatment plant (%) 54 76 75 73 74 as scrubbers, cooling towers or civil use its responsible approach to reducing the Our water footprint has been reduced such as lawn watering. consumption of the deep water aquifer, In Malta, as is the case on many islands, Treated in external waste water treatment plant (%) * 59 51 43 57 55 by 73% since 1994 through continuous thus minimizing its impacts on communities water is a scarce natural resource. To * Part of this water has already been treated in ST’s waste water treatment plant, meaning that 100% of water discharge improvement programs undertaken at Waste water is treated in dedicated obtain freshwater, the country needs to is either treated internally, externally, or both in the Agrate basin(2). all our manufacturing sites. ST is now treatment plants, either located ondesalinate increasingly more seawater to More performance indicators are available on pages 64 to 66 1/ Source : Unesco World Water Assessment Program (WWAP) taking a more comprehensive approach site or developed in collaboration with 2/ See article on Water management at ST Agrate, page 41 of sustain the rising demand, while quality to water management, covering both local authorities to remove polluting ST Sustainability report 2010 of groundwater is worsening due to our world-wide sites and their related substances such as fluoride, which intensive agricultural usage. This impacts communities. cannot be treated by municipal plants. water supply and results in an elevated Once it has obtained a sufficient level ST objectives price. Fully aware of this issue, Maltese microfiltration modules have been Since 1997, ST Kirkop has reduced of purity, and when any risk of pollution people form elaborate plans to use water installed along with a kinetic plant to filter its water consumption per production is eliminated, it is discharged into the • Reduce water draw-down (cubic responsibly and not waste it. waste water from wafer and package unit by 87% and attained a notable ST management of water natural environment. meters per production unit) by refining operations. water recycling rate of 76%. The water ST Kirkop, as one of the largest conservation program saves water 5% per year industries of the country, treats the water Water then undergoes further purification, Water management at operations Assessing impacts on resources and equivalent to the domestic average use • Achieve an overall Company situation very seriously. Facing these with removal of metals and neutralization The semiconductor industry requires communities of 5,000 people, around 1.3% of Malta’s recycling rate of 45% by 2015 geographical and economical issues, of acidity, reverse osmosis to exclude water with a very high level of purity ST is conscious that it has a significant population. • Conduct a water risk and ST Malta has developed an ambitious impurities, and finally ion-exchange to for sensitive manufacturing processes, impact on water resources. To oversee the program to improve the efficiency of achieve deionized water quality for reuse 3/ O  rder from the French Prefecture of Indre et Loire opportunity assessment for each of March 11, 2011 especially at our Front-end sites. ST related risks and harmonize ST’s practices, water management, including both in factory operations. manufacturing site by 2012 identified water conservation as a key we have started to monitor this aspect consumption and recycling. Two The Environment Energy Michel Curtil Industrial sector Director, GDF-Suez (France) Management “Europe advocates the move towards a low-carbon economy by 2050 with a decrease of between 80% and 95% in CO2 emissions. GDF-Suez has developed sustainable energy offers coming from guaranteed renewable sources aiming to answer both GDF-Suez and its stakeholders’ expectations. In taking up the offer AlpEnergie25, ST France chose a ST is committed to reducing its energy consumption and sustainable approach to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. carbon footprint from its operations through energy efficiency AlpEnergie25 provides energy generated from dams we operate along the Rhone river. Thanks to the proposal from GDF-Suez, and conservation programs along with the purchase of CO2ST demonstrates its engagement for a more responsible use of free and renewable energies. To mitigate its business exposure resources. One quarter of its electricity consumption comes thus to climate change, ST carefully monitors and anticipates from renewable sources whose origin is certified by the German changes in the energy market. organization, TÜV SÜD.” Why is energy management key and install renewable energy sources gas and a 6% reduction in electricity ST Agrate (Italy) certified to ISO 50001 certification helped ST to The site was commended for their wherever possible; for example, ST Catania consumption, mainly due to better meet several energy challenges through: very high level of performance, while for ST? (Sicily) has installed 10,300 m2 of ISO 50001 identifying two areas of improvement; matching of consumption with need. • the identification and management of In 2008, the EU adopted an integrated photovoltaic panels. In 2011, ST wind The energy management Standard the need to improve the reliability of ST also developed a Total Cost of electricity consumption; analyzing and climate change policy including targets farm located in the south of France ISO 50001(2), details the requirements monitoring tools by putting in place Ownership (TCOO) approach for all planning our electrical consumption to reduce energy consumption by 20%, has contributed to 1.13% of our total for establishing, implementing, systems to measure the loss of Freon Front-end and Back-end facilities, linked enables us to secure the energy and to supply 20% of energy demand energy requirements. To complement maintaining and improving an energy gas from chillers, and the introduction to the Company’s total costs across all provisioning with power suppliers 40 from renewable sources by 2020(1). Since this approach, we selected a new energy management system to increase of the latest electrical performance 41 provider in France able to provide 25% projects and processes. All ST contracts • the optimization of manufacturing evaluation methodology in our new the 1990s, ST has been working to energy efficiency, reduce costs and of the energy contract from renewable are now assessed on the total costs of equipment and the inclusion of buildings. mitigate its indirect Greenhouse Gases improve energy performance. Since acquisition, maintenance and energy energy efficiency parameters in the (GHG) emissions under scope 2 of the sources. We pursue our efforts to further mid 1990s, ST Agrate has integrated Thanks to ISO 50001, ST now has consumption over a ten-year period. procurement of new equipment GHG Protocol. These initiatives have increase the percentage of green energy energy performance targets into its an additional instrument to improve already halved our energy consumption we purchase, also dependent on us ST Crolles (France) purchased two air environmental management practices • the optimization of indirect CO2 energy consumption and environmental per production unit, and work is being able to negotiate a commercially compressors in 2011 based on the and made strong efforts on energy emissions (Scope 2 and 3). performance. Catania (Italy) and ongoing to make further improvements acceptable price with other green energy TCOO approach. Energy cost represents consumption, conservation and Agrate commissioned external ISO Rousset (France) sites will undertake the in manufacturing efficiency. ST is now suppliers. eight times the price of the equipment management. In 2011, ST Agrate was 50001 certification which included certification in 2012, and the Standard broadening its scope by adopting a over a ten-year usage period. TCOO will certified to ISO 50001, only the third an assessment of the site’s energy will be further adopted by other ST sites Also, to mitigate its business risks relating full Total Cost of Ownership (TCOO) save around US$ 373k and 470 tons company in Italy to achieve certification. management tools and systems. in 2013. to energy and climate change and to approach in its facilities and energy CO2 per compressor over ten years. increase stability in a volatile market, ST 2/ ISO 50001 replaced ISO 16001 from June 2011. purchasing processes, which includes ST Agrate was certified ISO 16001 in 2010 pays particular attention to market price ST also continues to focus on energythe procurement of renewable energy. volatility and CO2 emissions taxation saving in our manufacturing facilities regulations. and the construction of energy-efficient buildings in order to meet our Decalogue 2011 results For more information on our environmental results, please refer to page 66 ST’s approach to energy Consumption, conservation targets. purchase, consumption and energy-efficiency Consumption of energy (per unit of production): Electricity produced by ST-owned windfarm 1/ European Commission, Climate action, Energy for a ST’s EHS Decalogue target is to achieve / EN3 / 3.3 GWh and conservation a cumulative reduction of energy changing world normalized values / EN4 / 2.1 100 consumption of 5% per year (per unit of 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Sourcing strategy 90 production). As a result of the economic Electricity 30.0 21.7 22.7 23.8 25.1 ST’s main source of energy is electricity downturn and the decrease production ST objectives 80 with only relatively low quantities of fuel output during the year, we have been 70 and natural gas needed for air heating, unable to meet this target in 2011. • Reduce energy consumption by 60 Tenders that incorporate criteria on energy abatement devices and general facilities. However, we have major programs in 5% per unit of production per year efficiency and the use of CO 2 emission-free ST both generates and purchases green place to further improve energy-efficiency 50 and/or renewable energy • Achieve an increase of 7% in the % electricity. Our global energy sourcing in our processes, including some 40 purchase of green energy by 2012 department monitors and anticipates opportunities at our non-manufacturing 30 2011 local regulations and the specific • Formally include criteria on sites. For example, in 2011, ST Geneva 20 Call for tenders that include criteria on energy efficiency and use of CO2 energy needs at each of our sites. energy efficiency and use of CO2 100 headquarter (Switzerland) added a 10 emission-free and/or renewable energy When purchasing energy, we consider emission-free and/or renewable 100 95.4 90.0 77.9 70.9 81.9 62.9 56.4 53.1 48.5 65.4 45.8 requirement into its boiler maintenance 95.3 89.9 70.5 58.0 51.2 47.9 Retained offers with best environmental proposal 50 proposals that offer the optimum contract to reduce energy by a minimum energy in the selection of energy 0 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 and facilities contracts by 2012 19 19 19 19 19 19 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 balance between cost and environmental of 10% per year. Results were above Target kWh/production unit impact. ST encourages sites to adopt expectations, with a 19% reduction in More performance indicators are available on pages 64 to 66 100 The Environment Focus on ST Calamba Focus on package alternative, five models with different sizes Transport and materials were designed. (Philippines) finished goods re-design Tests were based on the following criteria: quality (drop tests results), environment Flexibility and adaptation are key The 12 inch Front-Opening Shipping Box (less polluting material), attributes for ST to ensure that its (FOSB) is the biggest outer box used and cost of transportation (volume). & Logistics logistics models are adequate and by ST to pack its devices. ST Global The volume of the re-designed FOSB aligned with business needs. Logistics & Warehousing Organization packing has been reduced by 35%, while (GLWO) developed a Lean Packing its robustness has been improved to As a result of a 20% increase of Program to re-design and optimize its avoid wafer breakage. This design is also outsourced Back-end operations in packing and increase the efficiency of its lighter and makes manual handling easier the Philippines, ST Global Logistics use and transportation. and safer. & Warehousing Organization (GLWO) completed the optimization of its logistics The 12 inch FOSB packing was identified Through this program, ST generated network. Taking advantage of existing as a key contributor of waste due to ST is committed to managing the social, safety and savings per year of US$ 450k in freight ST infrastructures and competences material consumption, excessive freight and material costs, a reduction of 725 m3 environmental impacts resulting from transportation and in Calamba, its central location in Asia, costs and CO2 emissions. To find an in volume and 220 tons of CO2 emission logistics for products, materials and employees, considering and anticipating further site growth over economic and environmentally friendly reduction. the next five years, GLWO decided that overall efficiency and reduction of CO2 emissions. Calamba would be the best location for the additional inventory storage and operational capacity required for the increased logistics and warehousing activities. Why are transport and logistics Our approach to products and • introducing direct shipment routes and Several ST business units and taking every opportunity to reduce the key for ST? people transportation number of kilometers for each kilogram organizations worked together during a six month period to find the best Antonio Infosini Transport accounts for 23% of global of product travelled. Product transportation way to simplify shipping flow, utilize Infrastructure Sector Director, Strategic Interventions and energy-related CO2 emissions and trends Mobility, Provincia di Monza e Brianza (Italy) and logistics In 2010, ST launched a Lean Packing subcontractors’ skills and experience and project an increase of nearly 50% by Program to redefine packing guidelines, understand the constraints on the overall Product transportation incorporates “To reduce the traffic and environmental impact generated by 2030(1). For global companies, the safe set new quality, safety and environmental supply chain, in order to further improve the transportation of semi-finished and people transportation in the critical area of Milan and and efficient transport of products and criteria, and specified new rules for the efficiency while maintaining an effective finished goods between ST sites and to Monza e Brianza, we developed a sustainable mobility plan people is a priority. Energy supply and use and reuse of boxes. One benefit is delivery service to our customers. 42 customers, and the transfer of equipment called Moving Better. This project created a collaborative network 43 price, natural or man-made events, that it has delivered improvements in during manufacturing processes. The newly created hub has enabled pollution and congestion issues can all data reliability, enabling us to accurately between municipalities and companies and as a result, more than We optimize routes and regularly savings of over US$ 1.3m on freight destabilize transport flows, which, in monitor efficiency on a quarterly basis. 120,000 people are using public transportation and the innovative update these to align with business costs and a two-day reduction in turn, can have a major impact upon a In 2011, we reduced the shipped volume by technologies, such as electric transportation. strategy, economic fluctuations and cycle time as a result of freight routing company’s performance. 3.3% compared to 2010. This represents at More than 50% of ST Agrate employees have participated in customer demand. ST has developed a optimization, and a 55% reduction in CO2 At ST, transport represents 7.4% of comprehensive and accurate record of least 30 containers. answering a specific questionnaire about commuting, which has emissions, equivalent to 1,400 tons of our total CO2 emissions and we have a its CO2 emissions by using a dedicated In 2012, we will continue to restructure CO2 per year. enabled us to build a precise picture of the local situation and range of initiatives and programmes to information sharing system defined our routings and will switch the transfer of define smart actions to improve local mobility.” minimize both our direct and indirect CO2 with our logistics service providers. In internal equipment from air-freight to seaemissions, as covered by Scope 3 of the 2011, we reduced the distance for each freight wherever the decommissioning or Kyoto Protocol. We have implemented kilogram of product transported via the installation lead times permit. several company-wide programs to ST network by 11%. reduce our transport-related carbon Employee commuting The ST transportation network is footprint while maintaining the operational At a local level, many of our sites deploy 2011 results For more information on our environmental results, please refer to page 66 fine-tuned by: requirements of our internal and external innovative employee mobility programs, stakeholders. We also offer a range of •m  inimizing product weight and volume developing greener transport options and Carbon footprint of ST’s products Carbon footprint of ST’s product transportation* local initiatives to develop sustainable during packing and shipping to ensure offering alternative solutions to the use of per mode of transportation 2010 2011 transport options for our employees. that more products are shipped per individual cars. Green transport initiatives cubic meter Road 1% Transport component of ST’s total CO2 emissions (%) 8.1 7.4 are frequently promoted through specific Ocean 1% Air < 2000km 10% •o  ptimizing internal transport through campaigns and awareness-raising CO2 emissions due to product transportation per year (ktCO2) 110 99.42 efficient planning that considers freight events. Incentives are also offered to ST objectives footprint efficiency and frequency encourage employees to use public * We reviewed our sequestered values in 2010 after a revision of our methodology used to estimate the annual carbon sequestration. alignment with internal customers’ transport, coaches or car-pooling • Reduce the carbon footprint of ST needs networks. Furthermore, some sites Air > 2000km 88% product transportation by 15% by are testing electrical cars, motorcycles •e  nsuring that the selected mode of Employee mobility plan % 2014 or bicycles. Some sites e.g. Grenoble transport is the most appropriate for • Ensure that all sites have a the requested routing, in terms of (France), have gone further than this 2011 formalized mobility plan to promote cost, speed, quality and environmental to encourage the deployment of green transport plans by their local catering, Packing density reduction ST sites with an employee mobility plan 56 alternative and greener modes of impact cleaning and security subcontractors. Employees covered by a mobility plan 43.2 transportation and evaluate the •m  onitoring for changes in customer 2010 2011 Private and public buses, trains, bikes and benefits demand patterns or delivery points and 1/ According to the International Energy Agency Packing volume reduction Modes of transportation proposed to employees electrical bikes, car-pooling networks, shuttles, 100 96.7 (compared with a baseline of 100 in 2010) taxi service for employees working late engaging the sales organization in the optimization process More performance indicators are available on pages 64 to 66 The Environment Focus on 96% achieved Focus on hazardous waste Waste recycled waste at ST Muar recycling at ST Agrate (Malaysia) (Italy) ST carries out recycling programs to Solvents are mainly used in the Frank Hsu Management comply with, and sometimes exceed, the semiconductor industry for the cleaning CEO Falin International waste disposal and recycling regulations of wafer surface and of manufacturing (Taiwan) in countries where we operate. In 2011, equipment. The resulting used solvent is ST Muar identified new opportunities to considered as hazardous waste. At ST Agrate, around 1,500 tons of solvents “Falin has partnered with minimize waste and recycle or re-use have been consumed in the past five ST and other semiconductor materials and attained a recycling rate of 96%, the best performance across ST years. The recycling of these solvents has industries for several years. Back-end sites. been the main area of focus for the site’s Wafers are collected and waste management activities. recycled to make solar cells One of Muar’s main achievements relates which are re-used in the During the manufacturing phase, the to electronic waste, representing 21% portion of solvents that evaporate photovoltaic market. Falin of the total site waste. To recycle the 35 is collected and treated by specific re-processes silicon using tons of scraps and frames generated abatement systems. The remaining liquid ST is committed to continuously reducing, re-using, recycling per month and ensure that the entire techniques which do not part, approximately 70% of the initial waste life-cycle is taken into account, generate any harmful byand managing waste streams from manufacturing sites consumption, is segregated, collected products or waste. ST Muar appointed a dedicated scrap though dedicated pipelines and disposed including hazardous substances, metals, packing, plastics and metal recycling company. Electronic Firstly, we erase all information of in specific steel tanks designed to other non-biodegradable materials. wastes follow several recycling process collect solvents safely. Solvents are then from used wafers using stages from scrap reception, burning, collected by a specialized company and sandblasting. Secondly, we crushing and segregation, until the final transported to the final chemical plant mix the used wafers with new Why is waste management key Management on the overall areas have been built into all our % of total 71. 51. 41.step where the metals 42. 36. 26. 25. palladium, (gold,21. 14. where they are treated and recovered silicon to produce ingots which manufacturing sites for waste collection,waste 0 0 silver 0 5 copper) and 2 0are recovered 8 0 in 8ingots without 8.3 the4.8 5.9 6.7 for incineration. need5.5 3.6 3.3 2.8 Spent2.8 for ST? waste chain segregation and disposal. Each site solvents are re-used after undergoing are cut to make solar wafers or bars and then sold. In 2011, to check Decalogue, launched in 2010 contains a tightened waste target. a process of fractional distillation that for solar cells. This initiative is The advance of science and technology, ensures that waste is segregated and the efficiency of waste processing, the Strategic management of waste then managed as a distinct waste EHS team at Muar conducted an audit purifies them without using additional an example of how industries along with the development of a mass Since 1995 and its first EHS Decalogue, stream. These processes are aligned with of the recycling company’s management materials. The products can be re-used can work together to reduce market with an increasing demand for ST has set stringent targets to reduce national and local laws and regulations. system and practices against regulations in other industries e.g. the wood or cost and environmental impact. the latest advanced electronics and waste generated from operations and to and ST standards. plastics industries. The amount of energy saved 44 electrical devices, has generated a large ST pays particular attention to hazardous 45 re-use or recycle materials. At ST, even through this recycling is the range of Information and Communication waste resulting from the production In order to recover the 4% remaining, 100% of the solvents used and not though waste is managed according equivalent of approximately Technology (ICT) products and this process which includes, for example, Muar continues the search for evaporated are recycled and this initiative to country prerequisites and local has led to an ever increasing quantity chemical substances, contaminated improvement actions and potential generates other positive environmental 12.6 million liters of diesel fuel specificities, our EHS Decalogue requires impacts with less pollutants and less of electronic waste. Several pieces of plastics and light-bulbs. Most hazardous cooperation with new partners. per year.” that all sites meet the most stringent CO2 discharged. The site estimates legislation require companies to observe waste is recycled or re-used and the of either their national/local regulations these measures alone have saved the the strict management of hazardous remaining waste is safely disposed of or the company procedures. In 2011, equivalent of 400,000 kg of CO2. waste, including treatment, transportation by specially-authorized companies. more than 90% of waste generated was and elimination, as well as managing Wherever it is possible, our hazardous recycled and re-used, while less than 3% products at the end of their life. waste is treated in the country where it was sent to landfill. Waste management is a key area for was produced. In 2011, in accordance ST’s waste strategy covers all waste with the Basel Convention, none of our every ST site. Very strict controls are streams, from operations, surrounding sites exported hazardous waste. maintained over the whole process activities (offices, canteen, etc), and and the ST Environment Health and ST sites seek and share best practices products(1). ST developed a Waste Safety (EHS) Decalogue contains in a number of areas, for example 2011 results Ladder methodology to ensure an For more information on our environmental results, please refer to page 66 ambitious targets to increase re-use and the environmentally responsible appropriate end-of-life treatment for each recycling ratios; also to identify the most transformation of waste, partnerships waste stream, based on its economic Landfill waste / EN22 Waste / EN22 Tons appropriate solution for final disposal, with local recycling companies, value and ecological impacts. Significant thus avoiding sending waste to landfill. minimization of transportation, increased 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 results have been achieved on: waste % of total waste prevention; recycling and re-use; final traceability, and the use of technological Total hazardous waste 13,205 12,756 9,391 11,365 10,415 disposal, monitoring, and auditing. innovation. 70 Total waste 43,628 46,367 33,439 40,775 38,595 ST objectives Operational waste management ST goes beyond EHS Decalogue targets 60 through initiatives to revalorize office and 50 Recycled waste / EN22 / 6.1 % Waste from operations is our more canteen waste. We worked closely with •Reduce the generation of waste critical issue, as it may contain 40 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 by at least 5% per year (kg per several of our partners to improve their hazardous materials. We established an practices, and have especially worked 30 Waste recycling & reuse 83 89 87 89 92 production unit) integrated process for the environmental with our canteen subcontractors to 20 • Reduce the generation of management of waste covering increase organic waste composting and 10 hazardous waste by at least 5% compliance, monitoring of the quantity Waste under Basel Convention / EN24 the recycling of cardboard, bottles and 42.5 26.0 25.8 0 21 per year (kg per production unit) of waste produced each year, data cans. We also regularly raise employee 71 51 41 36.2 14.8 5.9 6.7 8.3 4.8 5.5 3.6 3.3 2.8 2.8 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 • Re-use and recycle at least 95 % collection and reporting. This was awareness on their individual contribution 19 94 95 19 96 19 97 19 98 19 20 20 20 20 20 19 20 20 20 20 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Hazardous waste transported 0.000 08 0.09 0.02 0.003 0.000 20 09 accompanied by the detailed assessment 20 20 10 11 * of waste to recycling. Target % of total waste (as a % of total hazardous waste) of the potential environmental impacts of *Our 4th Decalogue, lauched in 2010 contains a tightened waste target • Reduce landfill waste to less than 2% 1/ Product-related waste is detailed in the eco-design pages operational waste generation. Dedicated 30-31 More performance indicators are available on pages 64 to 66 The Environment Focus on management Focus on substance Management of chemicals in ST’s substitution at Back-end supply chain sites Dr. Juergen Barthelmes Worldwide Business In 2011, ST published its seventeenth The European Chemicals Agency Manager, Functional Electronic Coatings, of Chemicals list of banned, exempted and declarable included Boric Acid in the candidate Atotech (Germany) substances which now includes over list of substances of very high concern, 1,600 substances. This list is reviewed effective from 18 June 2010, in relation to annually to incorporate the most stringent the EU REACH regulation. “To anticipate and build worldwide regulations and standards, Anticipating legislation, ST included regulatory requirements into along with our customers’ requirements. Its deployment over ST’s supply-chain Boric Acid in its banned, exempted new substances and products, ST is committed to reducing and managing its environmental, and declarable substances list from Atotech closely monitors EHS is coordinated by a dedicated team of 2009. One of our suppliers, Atotech, legislation that impacts upon its health and safety risks, and to achieving legislative compliance internal experts. declared that Boric Acid was present business. It constantly assesses and alignment with customer requirements. We base the ST has implemented a robust process in a chemical substance used for the the new products needs from selection, use and substitution of materials on the precautionary assessing the compliance of key cleaning process performed on some local entities and initiates principle along with our relevant specifications and procedures. materials suppliers and Back-end manufacturing machines, so we engaged subcontractors’ partners against this the collaboration to develop a greener corresponding research and We also aim for suppliers and subcontractors to be compliant list. The list is thus communicated substitute. ST Longgang (China) followed development projects. Also, with ST’s specifications and procedures. to all relevant ST suppliers and by ST Shenzhen (China), the two only to generate new ideas and subcontractors, who are required to ST sites using Boric Acid, have made find alternative substances, provide ST with legal statements and progress to phase this substance from we closely cooperate with evidence that supports compliance. their manufacturing processes. In early suppliers, original equipment Why is management of chemicals These are defined as carcinogenic, ST has historically continually sought Examples of evidence include certificates 2010, they conducted several tests with manufacturers and external key for ST? mutagenic or toxic for reproduction to reduce chemical usage and has of analysis, legal registrations and the substitute proposed by Atotech to institutes/universities. (CMR), bio-accumulative, persistent, or developed corporate and local reduction permits, material safety data sheets and ensure that it was not affecting process Collaboration is also proposed The Registration, Evaluation, and ozone-depleting substance (ODS). ST plans, which include waste treatment(2) due diligence surveys. Responses are reliability. Several months were necessary Authorization of Chemicals (REACH)(1) has an integrated and proactive strategy shared across all ST sites. Since with our customers to test new reviewed and validated. The finalized to reach a final qualification. From regulation imposes a 2018 registration to manage chemicals throughout its 2000, the trend for chemicals usage products and technologies reduction has been maintained with an list is issued to relevant experts for June 2010, ST ensured its compliance date for all substances produced or manufacturing activities and supplyusing pilot sites. The main imported in Europe, according to specific chain to reduce the consumption of overall percentage decrease of more integration into chemical management towards applicable legal REACH processes throughout our supply-chain. requirements specified in Annex XVII, and advantage with ST is that timeframes that relate to the hazardous SVHCs and to substitute them whenever than 5% per year. Initiatives include In 2011, we received the best satisfaction went beyond this by completely phasing it independently drives 46 nature and quantity of each substance. possible. We consider this as a key the substitution of the most hazardous 47 Legislation on hazardous substance issue, and have worked successfully so substances, chemical recycling, rate so far in the response provided out Boric Acid in 2011. change and is willing to test management is becoming more and far to anticipate legislation and develop a process optimization and hardware from our business partners, despite the new, greener materials and To encourage cross-fertilization more stringent, which is also reflected comprehensive policy that involves many modification to dilute chemicals and increasing complexity of compliance. among sites, the phase-out process, technologies with Atotech. in ST’s customers’ requirements. ST departments. reduce the quantity needed. To eliminate The management of chemicals is also In the spirit of cooperation, including technical details and process Companies have to go beyond technical Perfluorooctyl Sulfonate (PFOS) which is integrated into the Supplier Performance customer satisfaction is amendments, has now been shared requirements to reduce consumption, ST approach to hazardous used for photolithography applications Evaluation (SPE) performed at least imperative for our success.” across ST, to assist other sites that may substitute chemicals and ensure material management in semiconductor manufacturing, ST is annually, with improvement plans working with the World Semiconductor face a similar situation. ST is currently employee and environmental safety. systematically requested if the evaluation Council (WSC) to eliminate them across working on other chemical substitution Semiconductor manufacturing processes REACH regulation addresses the indicates that the supplier does not meet the industry. In the meantime, and projects with its supplier Atotech in a use several chemicals, especially in Frontproduction, importation and use of more ST standards. than 30,000 chemical substances into going beyond current legal European collaborative approach. end activities, which are classified as Europe. As a downstream user and exemptions, ST Crolles (France) is Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC). producer of articles (our devices), ST already in the final stages of eliminating must notify customers of the presence PFOS from its processes. of SVHC in its products. In its path ST requires that chemical risk of compliance to REACH, ST has 2011 results For more information on our environmental results, please refer to page 66 ST objectives developed a substances substitution assessments are performed at all ST sites before introducing any new substance. In • Reduce total consumption of strategy. During recent years, we 2011, this procedure was strengthened to Elimination of Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) Consumption of chemicals chemicals by 5% per year (weight have been working on integrating align it with recent changes in substance (per unit of production): per production unit) the precautionary principles into the classification introduced under European 2011 normalized values / EN1 / 2.3 early stages of the selection of new regulation. Chemicals are screened and Total number of action plans for elimination and reduction of Substances 100 • Strive towards continuous chemicals. Substituting chemicals is very 15 evaluated based on strict engineering of Very High Concern (SVHC) reduction and elimination of 90 complex because we need to find viable controls, hazard identification, along with Action plans completed on-time (%) 100 Substances of Very High Concern alternatives which can take several years. 80 in our processes an assessment of any collective and 70 Compliance with material standards personal protective equipment needed to 60 • Ensure 100% of key suppliers and has been coordinated by a dedicated prevent any risk to Environment, Health or working group since 2007. To meet Deployment of ST substances specification to key suppliers 50 subcontractors fully commit to Safety. REACH requirements, we replaced four and subcontractors % 40 ST specifications and procedures Further coverage of chemical components (through ST Banned and Exempted SVHC substances that were included in ST’s products is detailed in the eco2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 30 Substances specification) in the 2008 and 2011 lists and plan to design pages. 20 replace a further two substances. ST is Response rate from key partners 100 100 100 100 100 10 95.0 85,7 77.4 73.5 66.3 63.0 59.9 • Strengthen our management also working alongside the European 1/EU REACH was implemented in 2007. Full commitment from key partners to ST substances specification 82 92.5 93 91 98.5 0 100 90.3 81.5 69.8 56.9 2/ For more details on hazardous waste and recycling, of materials of concern in our Chemical Agency (ECHA) and several see articles on waste management page 44-45 20 00 01 20 02 20 03 20 04 20 05 20 20 06 20 07 20 08 20 09 20 10 20 11 manufacturing processes through industry bodies to ensure the alignment Target kg/production unit Chemical Risk Assessments More performance indicators are available on pages 64 to 66 of the semiconductor industry sector to REACH regulation. The Environment Focus on the Carbon the CDP Investor score to REACH an was originally designed to incorporate GHG Emissions “above average” rating of 73/100. We environmental point-of-use systems. Disclosure Project (CDP) are conscious that we still have room Since then, the site has consistently The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for improvement and one of our main endeavored to improve the treatment of is a UK-based initiative to monitor the actions for 2012 will be to conduct its atmospheric emissions. greenhouse gas emissions performance an in-depth climate change risk and from Operations In ST’s Front-end sites, PFCs are mainly of major corporations. Since 2006, ST opportunity assessment. To broaden used in small quantities at two specific has participated in the CDP Europe 300 our commitment, we also commenced stages of the manufacturing process. Index that appraises the 300 largest participation in the CDP Supply Chain (in At these stages, dedicated abatement European companies on their carbon 2010) and CDP Water (in 2011) programs systems are implemented to divert emissions, energy use, reduction on a voluntary basis. a large part of the gases through a and risk management related network of aqueous scrubbers, which to climate change. capture them into a state where they can be treated appropriately. To avoid ST values the CDP’s analysis and feedback as a driver to further embed Focus on ST Rousset the risk of accidental pollution, ST has built in safeguards that automatically halt carbon management in our corporate (France) installation of production processes if any scrubber is ST is committed to managing strategy, manufacturing processes, 11 PFC abatement systems malfunctioning or not operating. and reducing its direct and and product development. In 2011, we refreshed our approach to better One of ST’s initiatives to reduce its GHG The capital investment in these indirect greenhouse gas evaluate our risks and opportunities. We emissions is to install PFC abatement solutions has been US$ 2m. Had the emissions, including PFCs, strengthened the communication of our systems. Despite the economic crisis, equipment not been installed, our PFC from its manufacturing and data and programs and improved the ST Rousset installed 11 Thermal Process emissions would have been double other business operations, in accuracy and quality of information. In Unit abatement systems on its new their current value. Rousset is now ST’s 2011, the CDP Investor was a top priority machines between 2010 and 2011. best performing site in terms of PFC accordance with scopes 1 to for ST, and we substantially improved The Rousset eight-inch wafer factory emissions. 3 of the Kyoto Protocol. Why is the reduction of GHG Our approach to mitigating direct ST is also an active member of the Claude Morant European Semiconductor Industry emissions important for ST? emissions Association (ESIA) and signed a voluntary Front-end Manufacturing Group Vice President, Operations and Site Director of ST Rousset 48 Climate change is considered as the Reducing environmental impacts at agreement in 1999 with the World (France) 49 greatest environmental challenge operational level has been a major focus Semiconductor Council (WSC) to reduce “The Rousset 8-inch wafer plant was designed from the start to be a ‘green semiconductor plant’. that we face as a human family(1). since our first Decalogue in 1995. We PFCs. After ten years of very positive progress, the WSC released a joint We selected the best available technology for PFC elimination to achieve and maintain full PFC The Information, Communication and measure, manage and report our direct abatement. Any new investment in manufacturing equipment includes the installation of a Thermal Technology (ICT) sector is responsible for and indirect emissions in accordance statement in May 2011 on the post-2010 agreement on PFC emissions reduction, Processing Unit, along with facilities for ultra-pure water reclamation and fluoride waste water about 2.5% of global carbon emissions, with the GHG Protocol and the Global resulting from the production and use of Reporting Initiative (GRI). with new targets set for the next decade. treatment. To pursue this ambitious goal, we have put in place improvement programs that involve ICT products and services(2). Our actions ST has committed to these targets. all parties to target the source of pollution as far as possible by developing alternative chemicals and For Scope 1 of the Kyoto Protocol (all processes (with lower or zero Global Warming Potential gases) and by increasing the efficiency of PFC to reduce our carbon footprint cover both For 2012, ST will undergo third party direct GHG emissions), we developed extraction.” product and service areas, as detailed in validation of its entire GHG emissions and a carbon roadmap, setting a target of the environment and products sections will continue to install further abatement carbon neutrality of our direct emissions of this report. devices on its Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) by 2015. ST’s largest direct emissions Even though the semiconductor industry result from the use of PFCs in our and Crolles (France) mature factories. is a relatively minor contributor to overall manufacturing processes. The reduction ST’s programs on Scope 2 and Scope 3 2011 results For more information on our environmental results, please refer to page 66 GHG emissions, it emits high Global of these emissions can be achieved of the Kyoto Protocol are detailed in the Summary of net CO2 emissions CO2 emissions: normalized values / Warming Potential (GWP) substances. through the installation of PFC abatement Energy Management, and Transport and / EN16 / EN17 / EN18 / EN29 / 3.1 / 3.2 / 3.4 kTons EN16 / 3.0 ICT industry associations have set systems for both new and existing Logistics pages of this report. themselves ambitious targets to reduce equipment. To achieve our 2015 target 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 100 1/ Ban-Ki Moon at 39th plenary assembly of the World perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) in their and roadmap, we defined the priorities Federation of United Nations Associations (August 2009) Direct emissions* 532 482 337 485 493 90 manufacturing processes, in anticipation for each site that factored-in ST’s growth 2/ According to the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) Direct emissions due to PFCs 481 439 296 453 462 80 of further expansion of both national and rate. In 2011, we invested approximately 70 Direct emissions due to boilers 51 43 41 32 31 international regulations and emissions US$ 6.3million in additional abatement 60 targets. devices for newly acquired equipment Indirect emissions (purchased electricity) 1,029 882 876 907 903 50 Since the early 1990s, ST has integrated to meet ST’s standards. PFC reductions ST objectives Other indirect emissions (transportation**) 107 89 104 126 116 40 have also been achieved through the 30 climate change as a key element of its Total emissions*** 1,668 1,453 1,317 1,518 1,574 development of greener manufacturing • Reduce absolute PFC emissions 20 environmental policy and has consistently Sequestration due to the implementation of techniques, the optimization of process by 30% in 2020 from 1995 133 176 215 249 277 10 delivered annual reductions in the level reforestation projects**** 100 103 recipes, and the replacement of high 88 72 72 63 52 38 30 36 97 28 baseline 0 92 83 57 49 33 26 of greenhouse gases (GHGs) emitted 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 GWP gases with lower or GWP-free Total direct net emissions 399 306 122 236 216 19 19 19 19 19 19 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 from its manufacturing activities. This has • Offset the remaining direct CO2 kTons CO2 / production unit alternatives. We compensate the been achieved through a multi-faceted emissions through reforestation or * In 2011, we incurred a marginal 1.73% increase in our direct emissions. This was mainly due to emissions from existing equipment that we are in the process of fitting with abatement devices. remaining emissions through reforestation For newly installed equipment, we have invested US$ 6.3million in additional abatement devices so that it can meet ST’s requirements. Without this significant investment, we estimate that our direct strategy that takes all aspects of the other sequestration methods, to programs in Texas (USA), Australia and emissions would have been much higher (see Rousset example). value chain into consideration and seeks reach carbon-neutrality of direct ** The transportation emissions value is a global estimate of employees’ transportation and transportation of goods. Morocco. *** Transportation emissions are integrated in the total emissions. to gain results through collaboration with CO2 emissions by 2015 **** Our sequestered values since 2002 have been reviewed in 2010 after a revision of our methodology used to estimate the annual carbon sequestration and justifying the parameters used as input to the model. our stakeholders. More performance indicators are available on pages 64 to 66 kTons CO2 /production unit ou The Community The Community Local Sustainability Focus on ST Calamba’s and appropriate diagnosis, proper temporary employment agencies or treatment and high-quality care. ST security companies. ‘We Believe’ program also works with the Philippine National In 2011, the Grenoble Chamber of ST Calamba (Philippines) has a strong Red Cross to support a program to Commerce and Industry commissioned record of community engagement provide disaster response and relief and financed a study in the context of the Impacts over many years; providing short-term distribution. economic development of the territory livelihood programs to communities in •E mployee volunteering: Employee and to this end evaluated ST’s impact need. Recently, Calamba’s management clubs (various clubs are active at site on the community. With the help of the team has launched a new initiative to level with annual budget and plan) across Grenoble Chamber of Commerce and broaden and reinforce its community ST Philippines participate in at least two Industry, and by gathering and analyzing engagement. community activities every year. data from several ST Departments, subcontractor companies, research Four strategic objectives have been set: By the end of 2011, the total number institutes and French State services, of community volunteers reached 345. Reverdy came to the conclusion that In today’s world, engagement between companies and their local communities is multi• to build more beneficial and sustainable Community activities are now conducted community programs STMicroelectronics, who employs 6,000 faceted, taking into account many diverse views and interests. Effective engagement has outside office hours, but all programs people in Isère, generates a flow of the potential to benefit many stakeholders, including the local community population, • initiate close partnerships with that were launched still benefit from the € 460 million annually into the Rhônecommunities neighboring the site participation of volunteers. The target government and general civil society. Within ST, community engagement forms a central pillar number of volunteer hours for the year Alpes region. Each job at ST Grenoble • promote simple acts of goodwill and ST Crolles creates at least one of our culture with many site-based initiatives and activities providing social and environmental was 1,600 but this was exceeded with job at one of ST’s subcontractors or • provide exciting opportunities to support. The ST Foundation is also one of the ways in which STMicroelectronics contributes to promote employee volunteering 2,032 total hours being volunteered. suppliers and four additional jobs in the communities. Such programs have a very significant service industry. ST Crolles and Grenoble This program, called ‘We Believe’, positive impact, both on employees’ therefore contributes in total to sustain is built around three pillars: morale and on the local communities, approximately 26,000 jobs in France. ST’s local community engagement of the many initiatives taking place in • Environmental recovery and who recognize the contributions made by ST Crolles ranks second in France in and volunteering encompasses raising those two countries. Significant support sustainability: A partnership has been ST employees. ST Calamba has received terms of industrial jobs created over the awareness on environmental protection, is provided by a network of ST volunteers formed with the Haribon Foundation several external recognitions over the years. past 20 years. The report also highlights disability, science and education to young who work on several aspects of the Digital and the local farmer’s cooperative in See the 2011 Awards’ list on pages 62-63. the intangible benefit of the presence generations, fund raising and charitable Unify (DU) program. Caliraya (Laguna) to plant or adopt of industrial leaders such as ST in the activities, to name a few. 20,200 trees by 2020. Through the Grenoble area, as pioneers that built Digital Unify has offered free computer Our objective is to professionalize our active involvement of the employee an internationally renowned high-tech access and training to over 148,000 approach so we have decided to draw beneficiaries since its inception. In 2011, volunteers and the direct engagement Focus on the impact of establishment, giving a boost to the 120 52 on the available expertise and will of the community, this objective will be innovative companies within the Grenoble 53 therefore use the example of the London the ST Foundation’s Board of Directors achieved in less than five years. STMicroelectronics on the validated a new roadmap for Digital Unify, ecosystem that can attract customers Benchmarking Group’s methodology to To date, in 2011, 9,100 trees have Grenoble-Isère community from around the world. based on two themes: help us better evaluate our community already been planted. • the development of a Local Community The fast-growing, high-tech and investments, improve and simplify our • Humanitarianism: A partnership investment-intensive microelectronics reporting and help share good practices. program, based on a network of ST with the Children’s Joy Foundation industry is a major driving force behind volunteers at each major ST site. This helps orphaned children with local economies. It contributes to regional was successfully launched with the The ST Foundation support of ST’s top management their educational needs. A further development through salaries and partnership with the Cancer Warriors taxes, also by supporting and promoting Since 2003, the ST Foundation has helped • the development of Digital Unify in Foundation helps impoverished children various local services such as information reduce the digital divide (the gap between Sub-Saharan Africa, starting with with cancer to have access to timely systems and consultancy companies, those who have access to modern digital strengthening the existing projects in technologies, and those who do not) in Burundi and the Democratic Republic How does ST engage at local both developing and developed countries of Congo. through a worldwide computer literacy level? program, Digital Unify (DU). In addition, all ST site managers give Pietro Fox The ST Foundation’s governing body, its priority to the ST Foundation when ST Foundation President Currently, ST’s engagement with Board of Directors, takes decisions on disposing of computers from the ST 2011 results communities consists of two main pool. The recovered computers and “After witnessing the impact areas such as financial management and threads; local initiatives directly managed associated hardware are used to equip ST Foundation’s Digital Unify program’s beneficiaries / S01 / EC1 of computer literacy courses approval of projects. The Board meets by sites and initiatives that are managed laboratories set up in partnership with three times a year and its agenda includes 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 on a technical school in through the ST Foundation. ST Foundation as part of the Digital Unify the review of past activity and plans for Burundi while working for ST’s worldwide presence is highly program. Total trainees 12,915 15,118 15,178 26,091 30,285 36,444 future work. WITAR*, an Italian NGO, I diverse and multicultural, ranging from Total trainees from beginning of program 24,975 40,093 55,271 81,362 111,647 148,136 was pleased to become the The Board is chaired by Pietro Fox, small sales offices to R&D and design president of STMicroelectronics President, and is composed of both centers or major manufacturing sites STMicroelectronics Donations / S01 / EC1 / STS39 / STS39a US$k ST and non-ST members: Mario Arlati Foundation. My first hand located across a range of countries and (Treasurer), Mauro Decca, Alain Dutheil, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 experience inspires me to lead continents. It is our aim to generate positive local community impacts in a Tjerk Hooghiemstra, Otto Kosgalwies, ST objectives Total cash donated to charitable associations 444 463 474 452 423 the Foundation to expand its Guy-Philippe Rubeli. Pasquale Pistorio, activity and aim for greater variety of ways; economic (e.g. through Estimated value of in-kind donations to community and society 250 188 268 4,253 * 335 ST’s former CEO, is Honorary Chairman. • Support ST Foundation’s initiatives efficiency while helping to investments in infrastructure, local A Geneva-based team takes care of • Formalize a company community bridge the digital divide.” purchasing), social (e.g. employment, * The increased in-kind donations in 2010 is a result of the Carrollton manufacturing site closure which generated US$ 3.9m project management and day-to-day engagement strategy and evaluate through the donation of furniture, equipment (no longer of use to ST), office accessories and, most notably, the land in East education and charitable activities), Texas (tree farms) which was donated to the Stephen F. Austin State University. * Associazione Istituto Tecnico Alessandro Rossi nel Mondo administration, with local support in India its impact and environmental (e.g. reforestation, and Morocco to ensure a close overseeing More performance indicators are available on pages 64 to 66 environmental protection). The Community and partnerships. In our industrial How can an innovative environmental alternative. They brought Public Affairs sector, R&D demands a wide set of together a multi-site team that worked on competences so it is very critical to technical breakthrough the project along with local government launch partnerships with the academic turn into a national environmentalists. community, which involves the regulation? First of all, the teams obtained an application for public grants to promote & Industry Networking Here is a very concrete example of how agreement from the local authorities to the industry’s economic and social a company like ST can contribute to provide relevant data needed to prove contribution to the local community. propagate technical good practice within the absence of corrosive conditions 1/ S  yndicat des Industries de Tubes Electroniques et SemiConducteurs (French syndicate of the semiconductor the industry… inside the equipment. Then, they industry) formed a partnership with the French 2/ M  icrocontrôleurs pour l’Autonomie à Grande Efficacité French law requires the regular health group “Institut de Soudure” who had Energétique and safety certification of pressurized an innovative, non-invasive examination equipment, following procedures defined technique called acoustic emission, by the Ministry of Industry. which applies a mechanical pressure to Focus on Asia a vessel, and monitors the elastic energy Semiconductor facilities use pressurized In Asia, François Guiber t, Executive purifiers to deliver ultra-high-purity that is released. This ingenious method Vice President, President, Greater China (UHP) gases to the manufacturing units. detects potential fatigue cracking or Today, in developing their strategies, leading companies, including ST, proactively engage and South Asia Region strongly believes The catalysts used in this process are brittleness in the welds or on the steel at a global, national and local level with a range of stakeholders such as trade associations, in the value of strategic partnerships, particularly sensitive to de-activation structure of the vessel. This solution was adopted by the authorities and industry groups and standard-setting bodies. This engagement contributes to ST’s enhanced whether with universities, government, if they come into contact with water, incorporated into national regulation by trade associations, standards boards, making it impossible to conduct competitiveness. the French Ministry of Industry for all industry groups, etc. It is essential for the conventional water pressure testing, success of any company. No company as required by the law. To address this manufacturers who deal with ultra-highcan operate in isolation. This strategic problem, a team from ST Rousset and purity gases. Everywhere, a dual vision based competitiveness of these companies security and in these fields, partnerships engagement makes good business ST Crolles (France) developed a safe and in their policy-making alongside the are also important. on development and partnerships interests of European end-users of sense and ensures long-term business ST is recognized for its leading role in sustainability. ST has the key objective to promote electronics goods. environmental preservation; cooperating the electronic industry’s potential in This is especially critical in Asia where According to Gérard Matheron, Site with other French companies all countries in which the company is ST has established strong research Director of ST Crolles (France) and and laboratories to develop new Global view on ST’s engagement located. partnerships with top universities in President of SITELESC(1), one of the environmentally-friendly technologies China, Taiwan, India and Singapore to No matter the location, the strategy is most significant events in this area and to disseminate best practices. 54 collaborate on advanced R&D projects 55 the same even if the approach may vary has been the formation of a High Environmental initiatives in the region ST’s executives participate in many Semiconductor Industry Association and and next-generation technologies. This according to the country, culture, local Level Group (to which Carlo Bozotti surrounding Crolles often receive the full industry initiatives: of WSC (World Semiconductor Council) helps to advance innovation and also reality and existing infrastructure. participated), nominated by three support of ST environmental experts. • Jean-Marc Chéry sits on the boards of • Pierre Ollivier contributes to AFEP, the positions ST at the forefront of academic ST-Ericsson SA, CATRENE, the European Association Française des Entreprises European Commissioners. The Group Our safety and security officers also and technical achievement in the minds microelectronics R&D programme and Privées delivered a report in June 2011 on the meet with colleagues from competitors of students, who are our future human AENEAS (Association for European • Gérard Matheron is President of KETs, Key Enabling Technologies for to analyze past incidents, promote best capital. Examples include ST’s eight-year NanoElectronics Activities) SITELESC and Vice President for Europe Europe, including nano-electronics and ST objectives semiconductors. It is expected that this practices and share expertise, within the partnership with top Tsinghua University, • Carmelo Papa is Chairman of EPoSS of FIEEC (Fédération des Industries framework of SITELESC. one of China’s top universities which is (European Technology Platform on Smart Electriques, Electroniques et de report will positively influence the future Systems Integration) Communication). He is also the Chairman • Strengthen our network of public one of the most successful at forging landscape of our industry, in particular In Italy, Pietro Palella, Managing Director • Loïc Lietar is President of Minalogic, of the Board of the Grenoble Institut and industrial affairs activities links with foreign companies. Also in in the areas of industrial scale pilot lines of STMicroelectronics Italy, believes that the Grenoble area microelectronics and National Polytechnique, and a support worldwide; create and observe India our partnerships include the Indian for manufacturing and public support for we have a dual engagement: applications competitiveness cluster group member at AENEAS, ENIAC and good sustainability practices Institute of Technology, Delhi Technology industrial investment, in those regions • Roberto Zafalon is member of the steering CATRENE as well as efficiently manage •contribute to developing local University and the Indian Institute of committee of ARTEMISIA (Industrial that will benefit from the new Smart • Pietro Palella is a member of Confindustria sustainability-related risks and ecosystems by both forming and Sciences. Association of ARTEMIS), a European and Vice President of The Association of Specialization of the region’s policy. opportunities participating in clusters to develop new technology platform, of EPoSS and Electrical and Electronic Industries We have also formed mutually-beneficial In France, ST is playing a leadership programs and ideas with university AENEAS • François Guibert, former President of partnerships with many government role across all locations where we R&D centers, suppliers and start-up • Dominique Thomas, Mario Diaz-Nava, European Chamber of Commerce in agencies, including; Economic operate, forming partnerships with companies. The key areas of focus Marco Maurelli, Maurizio Zuffada are Singapore, is still a board member; Development Board (Singapore), Agency steering group members in CATRENE board member of Alliance Française Focus on Europe universities, laboratories and a variety are: innovation, safety, energy saving, for Science, Technology and Research • Gilles Casanova works with European de Singapour; board member as well of large and small companies in Tours, R&D and the transfer of technology. (Singapore), China Electric Power Academia, Institutes and industrialists as chairman of Finance committee of The microelectronics industry in Europe Paris, Rousset, Grenoble and Crolles. On environmental issues, ST shares its Research Institute, Industrial Technology to implement a new pan-European Economic Development Board, Singapore must constantly adapt and innovate Multi-annual programs are set up and good practices through professional Research Institute of Taiwan, The Energy initiative, ENI2 (European Nanoelectronic •Olivier Lamoureux participates in MEDEF to remain competitive. Although the administered by ST, such as Nano2012 seminars and working groups within Infrastructure for Innovation), in order to (Mouvement des Entreprises de France) and Resources Institute (India), Bureau European Commission offers support to for Grenoble-Crolles and, more recently, the Confindustria, the Italian employers’ better address joint R&D activities and AFEP (Association Française des of Indian Standards, National Electronics Research and Development, this stops Tours 2015 and MAGE(2) for Rousset. federation, the most important • Alain Astier is member of the board Entreprises privées) and Computer Technology Center short of industrial investments. It rests ST’s local teams also contribute expertise federation of industrial companies. of SEMI Europe, a global industry • ST also contributes to: the Framework (Thailand). with companies to find innovative ways to many European projects within the For safety, ST has been identified as association serving the manufacturing Programme 7 (FP7); the ITRE (Industry, to enhance their competitiveness and Cluster for Application and Technology best-in-class within the whole Italian Furthermore, several trade association supply chain for the microand nanoResearch and Energy) Committee of ensure their long-term sustainability. Research in Europe on NanoElectronics industry. Our local safety experts are partnerships have been formed around electronics industries, and leads the the European Parliament activities; (CATRENE), the Joint Initiative for members of a special team, created by areas of sustainability i.e. energy cooperation initiative between Grenoble ORGALIME, the European federation of European electronics companies are and Dresden Microelectronics Clusters the national industrial federations European Nanoelectronics ENIAC and government to help Italian companies saving, environment, water, healthcare, often at a commercial disadvantage • Alain Denielle and Pierre Jacquemier the Framework Programs 7 (FP7). reduce injuries and improve their safety education, culture and the arts. Examples compared with their competitors in other are members of ESIA, the European practices. include the European, Italian and French continents and support is needed from ST’s engagement is also focused on Chambers of Commerce, the Indian and the European authorities to maintain the environmental protection, safety and • elicit Italian funding for R&D projects Philippines Semiconductor Associations. The Community There are five worldwide clusters Partnerships in R&D that have developed comprehensive 2011 results R&D ecosystems which include many Partnerships with the academic community / S01 / EC1 / STS44 Technical ladder universities, engineering schools and laboratories. To be efficient, such clusters 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 need to reach a critical size and be linked & Education Partnerships with universities, colleges, schools: teaching through an intelligent communication programs, internship programs and recruitment* 335 437 470 374 659 network. ST leads the French / Italian (*) In 2010, we restructured our data for partnerships with the academic community doing a split between the partnerships for cluster. R&D purposes (common research labs, long term research contracts (CIFRE, BDI), any research and development programs, etc.) and those dedicated to teaching programs, internship programs and recruitment. In addition to these global clusters, ST has developed its own R&D clusters More performance indicators are available on pages 64 to 66 around its major R&D locations: ST Direct contribution to R&D programs can help ST create Crolles and ST Grenoble (France), from industry, students from different ST Agrate (Italy) and ST Dehli (India). Increasing the young value for its customers and remain among the industry’s most ST objectives nationalities overcome language barriers These clusters correspond to the 3 main generation’s awareness of and cultural differences to solve a specific innovative companies. Moreover ST’s ability to attract the pillars of ST’s R&D strategy, leveraging science and entrepreneurship challenge, designed and presented by younger generation is an important indicator of its successful • For the shortto mid-term: ensure technical resources (manufacturing, industry experts. They then present their ongoing growth of ST’s technical involvement in local R&D and academic ecosystems. and specialist populations process R&D and design) that are then ST participates in various partnerships to findings in public. This year’s challenge supported by R&D alliances with key promote technical and scientific careers, was hosted in Paris and included 60 recognized through the technical partners. innovation and entrepreneurial spirit secondary school students from 11 Why are partnerships in R&D for ST, strategic alliances create many ladder (individual paths) amongst young people and students. countries. opportunities for cross-fertilization and In addition to developing its ecosystem, and education important for ST? synergistic ways of working. • For the midto long-term: raise ST ensures the growth of its internal Launched in September 2011, the Global inGenious is a European coordinating young populations’ employability Enterprise Project is a three year panbody for science, technology, engineering technical and experts’ population via In the global semiconductor industry, Investment in, and partnerships with, by providing access to PhD, European initiative to promote greater and mathematics, aiming at triggering a program called “Technical Ladder”. awareness amongst young people about youngsters’ interest in science and research & development (R&D) is local universities and other institutions apprenticeships and internship Throughout a technical career path, experience entrepreneurship and globalization. technology to encourage them to join organized in clusters. Corporate R&D help to provide sustainable, long-term specific recognition systems are applied It is initiated by the European Round engineering schools and engage in investments may reach levels of an engineering and technical resources in to strengthen ST’s technical capability, Table of Industrialists (ERT), a forum of technical careers. inGenious was founded average of over 20% of turnover and, the vicinity of ST’s operations. increase innovation and promote about 50 European industrial leaders, by the ERT and European Schoolnet in technical achievement. This promotes including the President and CEO of December 2011. Based on an innovative the engagement and retention of our STMicroelectronics. The program is partnership between major European best technical experts by: set up by the Societal Change Working industrial companies and the academic Group of ERT which is currently chaired community, this initiative has the objective • promoting a clear technical career path India by ST. The initiative is supported by to improve young people’s knowledge 57 and liked evolution Junior Achievement-Young Enterprise of science careers and to better prepare 56 Europe, Europe’s largest provider of them to join the industry. Best practices Brest S2E2 Rouen Cergy Paris Lille Systematic Metz Marne-la-Vallée Strasbourg 2+5 funded projects non-funded projects • creating an environment to support and stimulate continuous shared knowledge and innovation entrepreneurship education programs, and European Schoolnet, a network of 30 ministries of education. are collected and evaluated by the inGenious partners and tested in 150 pilot schools before implementing them across 1,000 classrooms in 15 European 3 Rennes Orsay Trento Tours Orléans • providing visibility, recognition and Throughout the school year, young countries. ST Crolles (France) collected Minalogic Nantes Montbonnot University of Udine research reward to key technical contributors people aged 15 to 18 are given the and submitted best practices from various Lyon Crolles Chambéry Torino Milano contracts opportunity to develop and apply locations, such as High Tech U and ST3e, St-Etienne University of Padova Bordeaux Grenoble Solutions An integrated program has been entrepreneurial skills. Assisted by their Communicantes University of Bologna developed to structure technical the Week of Industry, From Silicon to Wii, teachers, the students are exposed Sécurisées Rousset Gardanne Nice University of Genova and The Robotic Exhibition. specialists’ career paths and technical to a variety of learning-by-doing 200 Toulouse Montpellier Marseille student internships Toulon SSS.Anna Pisa at ST premises development under the guidance of approaches that include contact time For more information, see ST Corporate responsibility report 2009, page 28 University La annually technical advisory committees. The with professionals and volunteers from a For more information, see ST Sustainability report 2010, page 33 Sapienza Roma Napoli Lecce program includes aspects such as range of industries. They also have the levels of expertise, eligibility criteria, and opportunity to create and run a minicompany of their own, applying valuable a nomination process up to company Birla Institute of skills such as team-building and business Palermo University of Calabria Technology & Science, Pilani (Under Renewal) Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi Fellow. awareness in a globalized economy. Dehli Technological University, Dehli Aligarh Muslim University, ST raises young peoples’ employability A one-day innovation workshop named Global Enterprise Challenge is organized France Aligarh (in progress) by providing student access to PhDs, Catania once a year. Coached by volunteers Netaji Subhas Institute apprenticeships and internships’ 85 Italy cooperative R&D funded of Technology, Dehli (in progress) experiences around the world. Each year, projects (carried-out at national hundreds of students join ST sites for Mrs Androulla Vassiliou 90 and international level) cooperative R&D a period of between 3 to 6 months for European Commissioner for Education, Culture, funded projects interns, 1 to 2 years for apprentices and Multilingualism, Sport, Media and Youth 3 (carried-out at natioframe agreements with the nal and international 1 to 3 years for PhD’s, to bring, share level) “I believe it is important to establish the right conditions in school for children leading research institutes and develop their ideas for innovation (CNRS, INRIA, CEA) to express their creativity, while at the same time confronting them with within ST. 20 research contracts the reality of the world of work. I am also convinced that much needs to with external labs An award for innovation, the ST’s be done to make science and technology more attractive for children by 600 student internships Innovation Cup launched in 2011 in promoting, for instance, more practical experiences. It is only by combining in ST premises partnership with French, Italian and Swiss entrepreneurship education and interaction with business that young people PhDs on-going with 145 student internships in ST premises Research Labs at ST facilities universities, is also a further example of ST’s commitment to the next generation. will develop the practical skills, knowledge and attitudes that will inspire them to be innovative. We want them to be able to put ideas into practice, to 200 Joint Research Labs ST tutors (part-time in improve their local communities, to start up a business, to 20 ST premises) PhDs working for Research Agreements initiate and implement an innovation process at work, and so on.” their thesis in ST Competitive Cluster premises The Community We also encourage suppliers and Sustainable purchasing Management subcontractors to gain certification to ISO 14001 (or EMAS) and OHSAS 18001 at ST France ST objectives to provide evidence of the robustness In 2011, ST France was involved in two of their environmental, health and safety • Ensure 80% of suppliers (by major programs linked to our Sustainable management systems. Procurement Policy. purchasing volume) are involved of Sustainability It has been a pilot for the promotion in the EICC compliance program 3/ Risk management (annually) of green procurement of nonST has an integrated approach to risk manufacturing items that are less harmful identification and mitigation that includes • Ensure none of these suppliers are to the environment and human health, classified “high risk” based on Selfrisks relating to sustainability but also including criteria such as greenhouse business performance of suppliers and Assessment Questionnaires (SAQs) gas emissions and water consumption in Supply Chain subcontractors. We want to be sure that during the manufacturing phases, use • Continuously reduce the number our suppliers and subcontractors support of hazardous materials, recyclability of of non-conformances arising from sustainable growth for ST, our employees products etc. A workgroup that includes SAQs and audits and our customers. end-user employees has been working • Ensure all of ST’s major sites To assess business continuity risks alongside ST office materials supplier deploy the EICC approach to local in the supply chain, we request our to increase the percentage of green products purchased by ST. For that suppliers suppliers and subcontractors to provide evidence of business continuity we have rationalized the product offer • In 2012, deploy the Green planning, including disaster recovery available in the catalog and at the end Procurement guidelines in Italy and contingency plans, multi-sourcing of 2011, we went from 2,000 items to • In 2012, deploy the “Charter for and geographical diversification of 650. Our target now is to increase green Thereafter, significant suppliers and Sustainable Purchasing” to French ST suppliers and subcontractors are required to commit to ST production. In 2011, 95.5% of key products purchased in France from the suppliers subcontractors were invited to complete suppliers and subcontractors had current level of 10% to 60% by the end and EICC policies and standards, comply with legislation and the EICC online Self-Assessment provided comprehensive responses to of 2012. This initiative will be extended to • Promote fair access to business meet customer requirements. This includes managing health, Questionnaire (SAQ). By the end of this survey. In addition, key suppliers’ other European sites next year. opportunities for Small and safety and the environment, along with social and ethics 2011, 124 SAQs had been completed, and subcontractors’ financial risks are Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) ST France has also joined Pacte PME, an increase of 25 compared to 2010. monitored on a monthly basis. At the end an industry-led initiative to encourage by encouraging purchasing aspects. These partnerships contribute to raising the overall ST compiles detailed analysis of these of 2011, 92.2% were classified as low departments at French sites to cooperation between small and medium levels of corporate responsibility across the electronic industry’s assessments and requires suppliers risk and 7.2% as medium risk. enterprises (SMEs) and big industrial include SMEs in tenders supply chains. and subcontractors to address major Our global risk management approach companies. The objective is to share non-conformities with improvement demonstrated its effectiveness during the good practices, jointly build industrial plan proposals. To gain knowledge of 2011 major natural disasters in Japan programs, and propose solutions to the EICC approach and industry issues, (earthquake and Fukushima nuclear governmental bodies that meet the 58 Why is ST engaging its suppliers A multi-faceted approach 100% of suppliers have also been disaster) and in Thailand (heavy flooding). needs of both small and large entities. 59 and subcontractors? engaged in specific e-learning. ST has already pledged to diversify, For a large multinational company 4/ Sustainable purchasing extend and increase our cooperation with like ST, monitoring and improving Since 2009 we are pleased to report a innovative SMEs, business organizations Sustainability not only includes managing steady increase in SAQ average scores. Responsibility in our supply chain is the sustainability of suppliers and and competitiveness clusters. the environmental and social impacts The next step of the EICC program not only about having responsible subcontractors poses a major challenge. of a company’s own activities, but also is validated supplier assessment suppliers and subcontractors, but also ST procures materials, goods and incorporates accountability for the through third party audits. By the end about being responsible ourselves. services from thousands of sources consequences of its decisions. The of 2011, twelve of our suppliers and In 2011, ST launched a Sustainable around the world, managed from both recently published ISO 26000 standard, subcontractors had been audited. Procurement Policy which outlined our central organizations and local sites. Guidance on Social Responsibility, In recent years, we have worked to A further critical area of social ambitions to: promote green supplies 2011 results responsibility, conflict minerals, is also for non-manufacturing procurements; emphasizes this point by encouraging strengthen and develop environment, reinforce EHS requirements in facilities SAQs average scores by EICC Code of Conduct section % organizations to examine operations, health, safety and social requirements for covered by the EICC-GeSI program. and energy supplies (See page 40); introduce prevent risks, create awareness, promote our supply chain. For more information on this area, see pages 28-29. green guidelines to promote eco-labels positive actions and build capacity At corporate level, a supply chain team and green certifications; integrate EHS 2009 2010 2011 2/ Environment, health and safety throughout their spheres of influence. promotes sustainability and develops indicators (such as CO2 emissions, Facilities global scoring 83.7 87.9 88.9 ST requires all its suppliers and long-term relationships by: choosing energy and water consumption, waste Building mutually beneficial partnerships subcontractors to comply with the Environment section 84.0 87.5 88.4 suppliers and subcontractors with reliable generation and safety results) into with suppliers and subcontractors banned, exempted and declarable social and environmental standards and our sourcing activities and deploy our Labor section 82.5 87.2 88.4 is extremely important to ST to help substances list to ensure our practices; assessing risks to ensure ST Sustainable Purchasing Charter to SMEs. us incorporate the latest advances in compliance with all legal and customers’ Health & Safety section 86.8 92.6 92.1 business sustainability; and applying The SME Charter is an initiative from the process technologies that are necessary requirements ( See page 47). We collect and stringent social and environmental French Ministry of Economy, Industry and Ethics section 81.1 81.0 81.4 collate data certificates and Materials to remain competitive. Partnerships are criteria. Employment and has been endorsed Declaration forms from suppliers and also beneficial ways to ensure long-term by many large French companies. Total number of suppliers and subcontractors’ SAQs by level of risk subcontractors and use these to compile and reliable access to raw materials These programs are split into four main Signatories pledge to improve their our own product Materials Declarations. in a very volatile market. ST has built areas: relations with suppliers, especially with These product chemical identity cards 2011 a track record of positive engagement 1/ Social responsibility small and medium-sized companies. ST are then provided to our customers so with suppliers and subcontractors on has nominated Alain Denielle, Sustainable Low Medium High Since 2005, ST has been a member that they, in turn, are able to demonstrate Development Group Vice President, 86 11 0 environmental, health, safety, social of the Electronic Industry Citizenship the compliance of their products. We Suppliers as the internal mediator in charge and ethical topics. We are convinced Coalition (EICC) and is committed also carefully monitor and check the Front-end subcontractors* 3 0 0 of facilitating the problem resolution that supply chain performance in these to deploying the EICC Corporate compliance of our materials suppliers between ST and its suppliers, when both Back-end subcontractors 20 3 0 areas is closely linked to ST’s overall Responsibility model throughout its and subcontractors to the EU REACH parties, i.e. suppliers and purchasing performance. supply chain. By 2011, more than 90% and other applicable regulation such as * We have visibility for three of our four Front-end subcontractors SAQs because one was not provided in the online format. department, have already attempted of our main suppliers and subcontractors RoHS(1). to resolve the situation through normal had signed the EICC engagement letter 1/ Restriction of Hazardous Substances, European directive discussion, without any success. More performance indicators are available on pages 64 to 66 (See more details on page 59). on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment For more information on the SME charter, visit www.st.com pages The Community Bribery & Corruption ST is committed to upholding and promoting the highest standards of integrity and business conduct across its global business operations. Attaining the highest standards other routes, including Corporate employees of a fictitious organization. As Security, Human Resources and local the situations unfold, trainees are asked Reinforcing our riskof integrity and business conduct 2011 results line management. These are reviewed to make ethical business decisions. At management approach We are committed at the highest level and investigated at an appropriate every decision they receive feedback level. There were no reported cases of which includes important messages. In 2011, ST created a specific Enterprise Non compliance reporting in 2011/ SO4 / HR4 to fighting all forms of corruption and to promoting the highest standards of corruption during 2011. I SO5 I Risk Management (ERM) Steering The completion of both courses was The number of incidents reported to the ombudsman business ethics wherever we operate. Committee with the remit to support the 22 Regional Ethics Committees have been mandatory for employees of job grades or the Corporate Ethics Committee This principle applies to all people Strategic Committee in the identification, introduced in India, United States and 18 and above with a completion deadline assessment and management of risks working for, and on behalf of, ST. The number of corporate level investigations 4 Japan/Korea in order to oversee the of January 2012. The courses helped to and to oversee the company’s ERM ST’s Code of Conduct, our Principles implementation of corporate policies and reinforce ST’s fundamental values and processes. Number of incidents closed 17 for Sustainable Excellence, defines our to provide local compliance support and responsibilities. The revised ERM system incorporates all corporate policy on business conduct monitoring. business functions at every level of the Open incidents, currently pending 5 60 61 and ethics (P11). We have robust company. processes in place to ensure that all ST Raising senior management The ERM Steering Committee e-signature of Business conduct and ethics policy in 2011/ SO3 employees are aware of these Standards, including formal signature. I SO3 I awareness ST objectives responsibilities include: 2008 2009 2010 2011 ST provides formal channels for To improve employees’ knowledge of • validating the ERM framework, % of eligible managers that signed the policy* 92 94.5 93.9 90.3 compliance risks and to better-equip • Train 7,000 employees in antiguidelines and associated management employees and business partners to * eligible population = approximately 20% of total ST population them to deal with potential situations, bribery and anti-corruption (e.g. processes raise concerns relating to aspects of online training has been given to FCPA, Insider Trading, Code of • defining annual ERM objectives and the business conduct; either via an external employees of job grades 18 and above, Conduct, Conflicts of Interest) and implementation schedule ombudsman or through a confidential covering Conflicts of Interest and reinforce internal controls channel directly to the Corporate Ethics • validating the corporate ERM reporting Committee. Employees are made aware Compliance with the Foreign Corrupt • Communicate updated whistle system of these via the internet, intranet and Practices Act (FCPA), a US law that blowing channels to 1,000 • reviewing outputs of ERM processes supporting internal communications. prohibits the bribery of foreign officials employees in EMEA region in 2012 The contact details are also sent to and establishes certain accounting and employees from remaining • ensuring risk management good suppliers on request. All reports received requirements: regions in 2013 practices are promoted and shared through these channels are raised at throughout the company • ‘Avoiding Conflicts of Interest’ presents the Corporate Ethics Committee and all • supporting management in achieving several types of conflicts of interest valid concerns that fall within scope are ERM goals Alisia Grenville and how to react when facing these investigated. • monitoring progress through ST Chief Compliance Officer situations. It is based on two modules: During 2011, 22 cases were reported Introduction to Conflicts of Interest and management reviews through these channels resulting in four Maintaining Integrity. It concludes with • identifying and proposing to Strategic “Performance with integrity has been a main investigations. Allegations are classified a short assessment on the concepts Committee where and how risk staple of the ST culture for 25 years. As the according to 10 categories. The nature covered in the two modules management responsibilities and company continues to expand its global reach, of allegations and investigations during activities can be further integrated. we must be cognizant of the company’s risk • ‘Complying with the Foreign Corrupt 2011 included: conflict of interest, Practices Act’ helps employees The ERM Committee will also drive ST’s exposure to bribery and corruption. Fraudulent bribery, tone at the top, code of conduct understand the types of activities alignment with the risk management activity can be covert and indirect. It is up to interference, discrimination, harassment, prohibited under the Act. This module standard, ISO 31000 which will provide all of us to work to ensure that we are aware improper use of company assets and explores the FCPA, the indicators of a framework for the formal monitoring that these potential risks exist and do all we security. Not all reported incidents result potential FCPA violations and the type and ongoing evolution of the ERM can to mitigate them.” in full investigations. The Corporate of gifts and entertainment that could management systems and processes. Ethics Committee may determine that violate the Act. a thorough review or audit will suffice. Further concerns are raised through Each module contains situations faced by Company July November Sustainability Sustainability Summit award During the ID WORLD International September Awards Congress, Renato Di Stefano, General Services Director and Energy Manager in ST Agrate (Italy), received the Electronics Day Outstanding Sustainability Summit award for his commitment to Sustainable Excellence. Achievement award This award has been created to give During the Electronics Day awards, May voice and visibility to the leaders Alessandro Beretta, Water Manager of ST Philippines National spearheading adoption of sustainable Agrate (Italy), received the Outstanding Red Cross award technology. Over a period of 20 years the Achievement award for driving the January An eleven year service award was Agrate facilities team has reduced the ‘Ocean of Drops’ project at ST. This given by the Philippines National Red average energy needed to manufacture a award is assigned to the person who Cross to ST Calamba (Philippines) as wafer by 75%. has produced the most concrete results recognition for its continuous support and in applying environmentally-conscious Carnet Sanitaire award United Workers of Electrical and strategies for competitiveness.The project participation in blood donation activity. This year again, ST Crolles (France) has Electronics Industries (UWEEI) 30th aimed at reducing, recycling and reusing been awarded with the Carnet Sanitaire the water used in the production of label by Bureau Veritas, for the healthy Foxconn Supplier’s Energy Anniversary Commemorative award semiconductor chips at its Agrate facility. quality of its water and air networks. This Conservation and Greenhouse Gas 2011 The program has resulted in the recycling recognizes the voluntary approach taken Emissions Reduction contest The UWEEI congratulates companies of 45% of the water used at the plant by the site to ensure a safe and healthy Harmonious Labor Relations award ST Shenzhen (China) won the Foxconn that have taken a long-term view of their and in the reduction of 33% of the water workplace by diminishing risks especially ST Longgang (China) has been rewarded Supplier’s Energy Conservation and investment and re-investment policy in pumped from the ground. regarding legionella. by Longgang District Government for Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Singapore. ST Front-end Manufacturing its social performance, including its contest following the site’s audit. This Asia-Pacific (FEM AP) has been National Safety and Security Watch Gdansk Technical University award actions to develop good relationships was due to the site’s energy savings rewarded for its work with the UWEEI on progressive employment and fair Group award Professor Henryk Krawczyk, the Rector with employees and avoid any labor programs deployment, started in 2010 of Gdansk University of Technology, practices. ST Front-end Manufacturing Asia-Pacific disputes, to create a strong sense of with such implementations as high/ Faculty of Mechanics, awarded the (FEM AP) received the National Safety and belonging among employees, and for low pressure vacuum system program, gold medal to ST Warsaw (Poland) Security Watch Group award 2011 from carefully following China Labor laws and membrane humidifier, new heat exhaust in recognition of its engagement in the Singapore Police and Singapore Civil regulations. systems, etc. These installations have education. ST provides evaluation boards Defense Forces in recognition of security resulted in annual energy savings of for motor control iNEMO™ and STM32 exercises, tightening of security at their 3,472,937 KWH and a reduction in for the use of about 60 students every premises and the improvement of their 62 carbon emission of 2,005 tonnes. year. 63 contingency responses. March June October December Computerworld Honors and Wall Street Journal Transportation prize Technology Innovation awards Alignment Supplier of the Year award Environmental awards Safety Milestone Recognition Pierre Berquin, product engineer in the ST was awarded in the 2011 Hewlett Packard awarded ST Rousset Jose Almendras, the Secretary ST Calamba (Philippines) and its Automotive Products Group Research Computerworld Honors Program for (France) with the Alignment Supplier Kabalikat Special Citation award of the Philippines’ Department safety practitioners, Celso Lopez, and Development Department of its iNEMO™ (iNErtial MOdule) smart of the Year. HP Vice Presidents, Neal ST Calamba (Philippines) received the of Energy, awarded ST Calamba Querico Moleta Jr. and Elizabeth ST Rousset (France), received the multi-sensor technology. iNEMO™ is a Woods and Rick Van Fleet, rewarded Kabalikat Special Citation award from (Philippines) with the Outstanding Beronio, received recognition Transportation prize from the Grenoble smart combination of multiple MEMS ST and Marie-France Florentin in charge the Regional Voluntary Blood Services award for energy management from the National Department of Urban Public Transport Authority for sensors in a unique inertial measurement of the Microcontrollers, Memories and Program for its support and contribution in performance in saving 6,792,095 Labor and Employment (DOLE) his innovative ‘Travel to City’ solution unit (IMU) completed by an embedded Smartcards Secure Microcontroller Division promoting voluntary blood donation and its kg of CO2. Juan Miguel Cuna for achieving a safety milestone of as part of the STM32 Open World sensor fusion algorithm that provides in ST Rousset, for consistently providing achievement linked to the 1994 National the Director of the Environmental 3,478,306 safe man-hours in 2010. Design Contest on human assistance 3D space orientation. This program strong support to HP through the regular Blood Services Act. Management Bureau, awarded applications. ‘Travel to City’ aims to rewards ST for promoting positive social, engagement of its executive management the site with the Seal of Approval economic and educational change August help the visually impaired people use team. for superior environmental Equality Mark award through this technology that provides public transport networks. performance and continuous ST Kirkop (Malta) received the advances for a wide range of applications, Outstanding Company award compliance with environmental special national recognition Equality including healthcare. In addition to the ST Shenzhen (China) has been awarded laws, rules and regulations. Mark by the Maltese National Computerworld recognition, iNEMO™ has Outstanding Company by Shenzhen City Industry Accident Prevention award Commission for the Promotion of received a Wall Street Journal Technology Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB). ST Longgang (China) has been rewarded Equality at the work-place. This Innovation award. ST Shenzhen has successfully achieved by Shenzhen local government for its award is further explained in Global the requirements developed by Shenzhen performance on health and safety and its Diversity and Equal Opportunity EPB in driving the city energy conservation industry accident prevention. pages. programs aimed at encouraging companies to develop energy-saving and pollution-reducing objectives. Company Indicator 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Indicator 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Our People The Community Formal recognition  Severity rate by region Overall recognition budget of all Indicator 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 sites USk$ 2,684 2,161 1,644 3,305 3,101 Asia Pacific 2.2 2.2 1.3 0.8 0.5 Schooling programs* / LA11 % Europe & Mediterranean 10.7 9 7.6 4.9 6.5 Headcount evolution by region / LA1 Number of people recognized* 50,171 38,805 38,373 36,697 48,606 Americas 1.2 0.1 0.6 0 0 Indicator 2009 2010 2011 % of accepted suggestions which Europe 22,341 21,271 18,338 19022 18,724 62.0 61.0 53.0 54.8 65.2 Professionals** 2.76 4.39 5.26 were implemented Breakdown of Recordable cases by type of event, Americas 3,122 3,210 1,802 1,701 1,176 (*) Can include more than one recognition for one employee over the year. accident or exposure / LA7 % Operators 2.75 1.02 7.96 Mediterranean 6,995 5,848 4,533 4,677 4,348 Remuneration  % Fall or slip 20 Others (non-professional) 4.69 6.01 7.58 Asia Pacific 19,685 21,409 20,847 22,565 19,965 Employees above the ST minimum salary scale in their job grade 87.00 82.44 87.19 Struck by or against 41 (*) % of employees following ST supported external schooling programs vs total number of employees. Total 52,143 51,738 45,520 47,965 44,213 (**) It refers to employees who hold managerial roles and are exempt from overtime compensation. Employees below the ST minimum salary scale in their job grade 12.00 16.62 12.79 Overexertion 9 Hires by job type / LA1 Employees covered by annual individual salary increase NA* 95.24 96.93 Others 5 Technical ladder* in 2011 % Engineers and managers 1,775 5,224 538 3,573 2,563 (*) Not applicable in 2009 due to salary freeze. Caught in, under or between 7 ST total population recognized through the technical ladder 3.3 Technicians and administrators 774 1,163 639 1,884 1,728 Benefits, bonus & USA Contact with chemicals 7 Europe Asia Pacific Operators 3,663 5,502 5,984 8,193 5,154 Bodily reaction from slip or motion 11 ST population recognized through the technical ladder by region 4.81 0.88 Unvested Stock Awards (USA) Total 6,212 11,889 7,161 13,650 9,445 % of elligible (exempt(1) > JG 12) Total 100 (*) The specialist path starts from job grade 14 and above which is the reference population. This internal program started from Europe and its 35 33 23 24 21 employees receiving unvested deployment is currently on going. Worforce by employment type / LA1 % stock awards Recordable cases rate benchmarks* Full time contract 98.17 98.04 97.88 97.85 97.74 Unvested Stock Awards (USA) 6,300 5,700 3,670 3,790 3, 390 US Manufacturing (Source BLS**) 5.6 5 4.3 4.4 Suppliers' and subcontractors' environmental Number of employees rewarded Part time contract 1.82 1.95 2.12 2.15 2.26 ALL US semiconductor (Source BLS**) 1.5 1.3 1 1.2 and health & safety performance / 8.3 USA Percentage of referential Workforce by employment contract / LA1 % population by category % 24 21 SIA*** OHS 0.84 0.71 0.8 0.98 Indicator 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Regular contract 96.24 97.77 97.41 96.56 97.48 ST 0.49 0.39 0.35 0.29 0.29 Number of suppliers/subcontractors Temporary contract 3.76 2.23 2.59 3.44 2.52 Average training hours / LA10 (*) Latest data available. (**) Bureau of Labor Statistics. (***) Semiconductor Industry Association Suppliers of materials 112 107 108 104 102 Exempts(1) 30 27 26 32 31 External hires in manufacturing  % Operators 61 72 94 91 78 Average turnover rate by gender, by category Suppliers of equipment 61 40 40 40 40 Percentage of jobs filled externally vs overall jobs filled 92 96 89.65 Others (non-exempt) 44 43 41 43 38 and by region in 2011 / LA2  % Suppliers of spare-parts NA NA NA 35 38 Total 173 147 148 179 180 Newcomers induction program  % Total* 44 43 51 49 50 Exempts(1) Others Operators Subcontractors Back-end 56 59 65 62 59 Percentage of newcomers who par(*) Including training on equipment and outside training. Female Male Female Male Female Male ticipated in a formal induction session Subcontractors Front-end* 22 11 10 19 22 84.25 92.72 72.35 97.23 97.29 Internal mobility  % (e.g. Newcomers Seminar) during Europe 1.87 2.05 0.97 0.71 0.64 1.17 ISO 14001 certified/EMAS validated % their first year of employment Internal job request posting rate 88.8 90.2 17.92 40.54 36.75 Americas 3.77 5.18 3.20 0 0 0 Suppliers of materials 82 83.7 81.1 81.0 81.2 (exempt(1)) Performance assessment / LA12  % Suppliers of equipment 76 85 82.5 83.0 80 Exempt(1) open positions filled in Mediterranean 16.33 10.66 3.08 5.49 2.21 6.28 Total employees having com22.95 NA 78.4 78.3* 89.4 by internal candidates Suppliers of spare-parts NA NA NA 54.2 47.4 pleted the annual ePA Asia Pacific 12.40 14.65 11.00 28.0 43.36 73.98 Total 79.9 84.1 81.5 76.2 73.8** Exempts(1) having completed the NA NA 89.4 96 Collective bargaining / LA4 Subcontractors Back-end 91.0 97.0 97.0 97.0 98.3 annual ePA Number of collective agreements signed in the year 59 38 33 Promotion ratio female/male by category Subcontractors Front-end* 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 95.5 Exempts(1) assessed during a 67.4 In 2011, we estimate that 75% of ST employees were covered by union or employee-elected representation. and by region / LA13  % collective people review in the 62 53 21 43 OHSAS validated % 64 past 2 years Working time and overtime hours  2009 2010 2011 65 Suppliers of materials 30.0 37.0 41.0 44.0 49.7 (*) We have adjusted the 2010 data because there was a typing error in the 2010 Sustainability report. Employees with regular worktime 100 100 100 100 100 Suppliers of equipment NA 6.0 10.0 8.0 21.0 less than 48 hours per week (%) Female Male Female Male Female Male Career length and voluntary turnover rate / LA2 % Suppliers of spare-parts NA NA NA 20.0 15.8 Average weekly overtime % of voluntary turnover of new hires (below 2 yrs) 44.87 45.54 52.67 3.12 2.22 1.97 3.14 3.10 Exempts(1) 6 4 15 12 20 15 (hours per employee) Total NA 28.6 32.6 31.3 36.2 % of voluntary turnover of employees from 2 to < 5 yrs 13.12 18.07 27.83 Americas Others 1 2 10 10 6 13 Average weekly working time in selected countries Subcontractors Back-end 80.0 92.0 91.0 87.0 62.1 % of voluntary turnover of employees from 5 to < 10 yrs 3.40 5.31 7.82 North America ST standard working time 40.00 40.00 40.00 Operators NA* NA* 10 19 0 0 Subcontractors Front-end* 95.0 82.0 80.0 84.0 77.3 % of voluntary turnover of employees from 10 to < 20 yrs 1.86 2.02 1.79 Overtime 1.62 1.51 0.60 (*) The total number of Front-end subcontractors can change from one year to another, based on our response to the market evolution. This Exempts(1) 10 9 22 26 21 21 % of voluntary turnover of employees from above 20 yrs 1.21 1.06 0.72 list is updated each month versus planning data in order to give an interactive overview. China ST standard working time 40.00 40.00 40.00 (**) The decrease in 2011 is due to a modification in the scope of companies considered which now includes suppliers that are not certified to Asia-Pacific Others 39 13 7 5 10 16 Average turnover rate / LA2  % Overtime 3.59 5.00 5.03 ISO 14001 or EMAS but instead have adopted equivalent industry-specific standards. Average turnover rate 8.81 10.12 11.65 15.16 18.49 Malaysia ST standard working time 48.00 48.00 48.00 Operators 12 5 6 6 14 15 Suppliers and subcontractors’ compliance with EICC Average employee age  years Overtime 5.11 10.32 9.39 Exempts(1) 6 6 19 19 20 18 Indicator 2 2007 20088 2009 2010 2011 Average employee age 34 34 34 33 36 ST standard working time 44.00 44.00 44.00 Europe Others 4 5 20 17 19 16 Targeted suppliers/subcontractors Singapore Suppliers of materials 117 108 108 104 102 Number of nationalities in corporate staff / LA13 Overtime 4.02 5.88 1.53 Operators 1 0 23 16 25 16 ST standard working time 38.50 38.50 35.00 Suppliers of equipment NA 104 104 104 87 Different nationalities represented France 8 9 7 7 7 Exempts (1) 6 7 12 16 30 27 in the corporate staff Overtime 0.23 0.31 0.26 Suppliers of spare-parts NA NA NA 35 35 Japan Others NA* NA* NA* NA* NA* NA* Subcontractors Back-end 28 40 39 32 32 Number of nationalities in the headcount by region*/ LA13 Italy ST standard working time 40.00 40.00 40.00 Overtime 0.82 1.15 0.95 Operators NA* NA* NA* NA* NA* NA* Subcontractors Front-end* 22 11 10 19 22 Europe 68 74 ST standard working time 40.00 40.00 40.00 Phase 1 Introduction Agreement to comply with EICC Americas 29 26 Malta Exempts(1) 12 17 34 24 10 11 Overtime 2.78 6.00 4.50 Suppliers of materials 52.0 81.5 82.4 89.0 95.2 Mediterranean 18 16 Mediterranean Others 17 16 19 12 6 4 ST standard working time 44.00 44.00 44.00 Suppliers of equipment NA 34.0 41.4 50.0 99.0 Asia Pacific 36 36 Morocco Overtime 1.15 2.62 1.46 Operators 0 2 7 8 0 0 Suppliers of spare-parts NA NA NA 71.0 94.1 (*) Expatriates and assignees are counted in host country. Subcontractors Back-end 69.0 97 98.5 98.0 97.0 Gender breakdown by region  % Fair wages  % (*) Not applicable because in these regions the company hasn’t manufacturing areas. Subcontractors Front-end* 0 86.4 90.0 95.0 95.5 Percentage of employees paid up to 105% ♂ 74 73 74 74 75 of the legal or conventional minimum wage* 3.56 21.44 13.36 16.65 12.20 1/ It refers to employees who hold positions normally requiring graduate or post-graduate education and who are not eligible for overtime Phase 2 Assessment EICC Self-assessment questionnaire completed** Europe ♀ 26 27 26 26 25 (*) Employees paid above 105% are not part of this scope. compensation. Suppliers of materials 18 42 76 97 ♂ 74 76 79 79 79 Communication meetings / LA5 Suppliers of equipment 0 0 0 0 Americas ♀ 26 24 21 21 21 Number of meetings for the organisation/ Suppliers of spare-parts NA NA NA NA site management to present company/ ♂ 40 42 43 42 43 organisation/site results to all employees 10 10 15 11 15 Subcontractors Back-end 11 17 20 23 Mediterranean allowing time for open discussion ♀ 60 58 56 58 57 Subcontractors Front-end* 0 1 3 4 ♂ 51 53 53 55 57 Career development % (*) The total number of Front-end subcontractors can change from one year to another, based on our response to the market evolution. Asia Pacific This list is updated each month versus planning data in order to give an interactive overview. % of employees that had a promotion over the year 8.50 15.00 15.87 ♀ 49 47 47 45 43 (**) The number of SAQs is not the number of suppliers/subcontractors that have filled in SAQs. One supplier or subcontractor has to fill in one company level SAQ and SAQs for all their manufacturing sites that produce materials/equipment/products for ST. % of employee having a job function change in the year 27.37 32.95 25.02 Employees working part-time  % Women 84.77 84.96 84.25 Recordable Cases rate breakdown : industrial / domestic / LA7 Recordable Cases Industrial rate 0.28 0.23 0.23 0.17 0.18 Men 15.23 15.04 15.75 Recordable Cases Domestic rate 0.22 0.17 0.12 0.12 0.11 Unplanned absenteeism  % Unplanned absenteeism 2.90 3.00 2.47 2.67 2.77 Recordable Cases rate by region Asia Pacific 0.22 0.20 0.17 0.16 0.17 Europe & Mediterranean 0.68 0.57 0.56 0.46 0.46 Americas 0.75 0.36 0.18 0.12 0 Indicators Indicator Our Products 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Initiatives and changes resulting Customer Social & Ethics / EHS requirements in a reduction in GHG / EN18 / 3.3  Saved kTons CO2 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Related to PFC direct emissions 235 50 155 0 Number of customer requirements for Social & Ethics reduction per IPPC guidelines 157 277 252 267 376 and EHS requirements received at company level* Index Saving electricity 189 295 195 0 (*) This data includes all Customer Social & Ethics/EHS requirements requirements from our customers, received by our corporate-level Used green electricity 24 17 41 61 departments for support and validation. Many more are dealt with directly at local and regional level. Produced electricity by windfarm 9 8 8 7 Quality(1) (baseline 100 in 2004) / PR5 Q4' 04 Q4' 05 Q4' 06 Q4' 07 Q4' 08 Q4' 09 Q4' 10 Q4' 11 Total GHG gas emissions reduction 457 370 398 68.4 indicators index Customer complaints by volume 100 86.2 71.6 64.2 82.6 61.5 55 70.6* EHS Incidents / EN23 Cycle time to process failures analysis 100 72.7 62.6 71.9 62.2 65.4 71.1 59.8** Customer returns 100 41.1 38.3 40 33.7 30.8 20 58.9*** In 2011, ST has not recorded any incidents or spills. The following table shows the correlation between the STMicroelectronics Sustainability Report 1/ Quality indicators include ST-Ericsson. (*) Q4 low shipments strongly impacted our customer complaints by volume, even if the number of complaints received was stable. (**) In Consumption of electricity (per unit of production): and the ten Principles of the Global Compact, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) elements and 2011, our failures analysis cycle time significantly improved as a result of an efficient task force on cycle time reduction. (***) The customer normalized values / EN4 / 2.1  kWh/production unit the ISO 26000 standard. returns results have been mainly impacted by negotiated returns from distributors. Target 51.3 48.8 46.3 44 41.8 WEEE/ (EN27) Consumption of electricity 52.3 49.7 71 48 50.4 As a supplier of components to the electronics industry (and not manufacturers of electronic equipment), we are not directly affected by the European Directive 2002/96/ EC Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE). Consumption of natural gas (per unit of production): GRI Indicators Global Compact Principles ISO 26000 core subjects and issues normalized values / 2.1  GWh/production unit 2.1; 2.3; 2.4; 2.9; 3.1-3.8; 3.10; 3.11; The Environment Consumption of natural gas 42,9 39,9 51,6 29,4 29,7 Readers' Guide 3.13; 4.9; 4.14-4.16 In 2011, environmental performance sometimes failed to meet expected targets. There are Energy saved*: absolute values / EN5 / 2.1  GWh 2.3; 2.4; 2.5; 2.7; 2.8; 3.6; 4.1-4.3; two explanations: Energy saved 93 130 0 129 0 Company 4.8; 4.9; 4.11; 4.14-4.17 6.2 (*) Includes electricity and natural gas EC1; EC9; LA13; SO5; PR1 • the economic crisis of 2009 and the decrease of production in 2011 have impacted ST’s normalized indicators which are performance expressed per unit of production. However, the absolute values of energy, water and chemicals are consistent, irrespective of Direct and indirect energy consumption by primary sources / Our People 6.3; 6.4 production output, due to the need to maintain constant conditions in production areas EN3 / EN4 / 3.3 Recruitment, Learning and Development LA2; LA10; LA11; LA12 GC6 6.4.7 i.e. temperature, hygrometry etc. Breakdown of energy consumption (GWh) Electricity consumption 2,482 2,127 1,986 2,018 2,058 Employee Engagement 4.16; 4.17 6.2.3 • after 15 years of environmental improvement, it becomes more and more challenging over time to further advance our performance. Natural gas consumption 279 234 214 171 166 Global Eiversity and Equal Opportunities LA13 GC1; GC6 6.3.7 Others sources 1 0 0 0 0 Indicator 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Employee Safety LA7; LA8 6.4.6 Total energy consumption 2,762 2,361 2,200 2,189 2,224 Environmental burden : net values / EN16 / EN17 / EN19 / EN20 / EN26 / Percentage of energy consumption Employee Sealth and Well-being LA8 GC1 6.4.4; 6.4.6 4.1 / 4.3 / 4.4 89,86 90,09 90,27 92,19 92,54 due to electricity 4.8; 4.12 Emissions to air Breakdown of energy sources (%) Labor Rights and Social Issues GC1; GC3; GC4; GC5 6.3.10; 6.4.5 EC8; HR5; HR6; HR7; SO5 Global warming* MTCE 478,884 404,319 358,167 413,974 429,187 Green electricity purchased 3.01 2.04 2.63 5.79 8.56 Ozone depletion Kg R11 Eq 171 62 8 7 0 Electricity produced by ST's windfarm 1.1 0.92 1.03 1.09 1.13 Our Products 6.7 VOCs Tons 262 244 170 178 192 Photovoltaic and thermal solar 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.09 Customer Satisfaction 4.16; 4.17 6.7.3; 6.7.6 Atmospheric electricity produced by ST Kg SO2 Eq 58,178 63,142 55,370 36,581 41,525 66 acidification Electricity purchased from nuclear Conflict-free Minerals 4.17 GC1; GC2 6.3.5; 6.6.4 67 25.6 28.78 22.15 23.72 23.23 Photochemical Kg ethylene (CO2 free) HR2; HR7; PR3 15,761 48,969 35,044 25,292 38,125 oxidant creation Eq Electricity purchased from fossil fuel sources 60.18 58.34 64.48 61.57 59.53 Eco-design EN2; EN5; EN6; EN26; EN27; PR1; PR3 GC7; GC8; GC9 6.5.3; 6.7.4; 6.7.5 Air emission toxicity** Kg PH3 Eq 4,881 4,720 4,101 4,484 3,075 Emissions to water*** Natural gas 10.1 9.91 9.7 7.81 7.46 Responsible Products (env/soc) EN6; EN26; PR1 GC1; GC8; GC9 6.5.3; 6.7.4; 6.7.5 Eutrophication Kg (P+N) 381,889 414,730 305,502 396,271 378,339 Other fuels 0 0 0 0 0 Aquatic oxygen Total 100 100 100 100 100 Intellectual Property and Innovation 6.6.7 Kg COD**** 351,967 834,032 626,835 709,202 667,146 demand Heavy metals to water Kg heavy 13,277 10,354 8,934 9,579 9,796 The Environment 4.8; EN1; EN2; EN18; EN26 6.5 metals 4.17 Aquatic ecotoxicity Kg Cu Eq 10,398 7,598 6,698 5,774 4,032 Water Management GC7; GC8; GC9 6.5.4 EC2; EN8, EN10, EN21; EN25; SO1 (*) Includes direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our manufacturing plants and indirect emissions from energy consumption and transport, reported in Metrics Tons of Carbon Equivalence (MTCE). Does not include GHG emissions from controlled manufacturing sites, subcontractors and foundries. (**) Emissions of substances are considered only if they exceed the minimum threshold of 3ppm, expressed in Energy Management EC2; EC6; EN3; EN4; EN5; EN7 GC7; GC8; GC9 6.5.4 phosphine equivalent. For Volatile Organic Compounds, Atmospheric Acidification, Photochemical Oxidant Creation and Air Emission Toxicity the Particulate Matter is not covered. (***) Domestic waste water is included.(****) Total Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD). EC2; EC6; EN4; EN5; EN7; EN16; Transports and Logistics GC7; GC8; GC9 6.5.3; 6.5.5 EN17; EN29 Environmental costs versus savings / EN30  US$m Waste Management EN2; EN22; EN24 GC7; GC8; GC9 6.5.3 Total costs 28 41 48 53 52 Energy savings 201 192 87 219 203 4.13 Management of Chemicals GC7; GC8; GC9 6.5.3 Water savings 27 25 15 25 24 EN1; PR3 Chemical savings 90 86 58 87 69 4.13 Total saving 318 303 160 331 296 GHG Emissions from Operations EC2; EN3; EN16; EN17; EN18; EN29; GC7; GC8; GC9 6.5.3; 6.5.5 Balance (cost savings) 290 262 112 278 244 SO1 The method used to calculate the savings shown in this table is the following: 1) we set a baseline using the 1994 model with the assumption that there are no installation enhancements, except for chemicals for which the baseline is 2000; 2) this baseline is projected each year (in The Community 4.16; 4.17 6.6; 6.8 relation to the quantities produced); 3) each year, the actual value is compared to this projection; and 4) the result shows the theoretical benefits due to the installation improvements concerning the savings for energy, water and the use of chemicals. Total costs cover expenditure Local Sustainability Impacts SO1; EC1; EC8; EC9; SO1 6.8.3; 6.8.5; 6.8.6; 6.8.7; 6.8.9 of environmental management areas (including waste and remediation) and yearly net investment and equipment depreciation. 4.13 Environmental investments / EN30  % Public Affairs and Industry Networking EC9; SO5 6.6.6 % of total company investments 0,67 0,48 0,40 0,06 0,50 4.13 Consumption: absolute values / EN1 / EN3 / EN4 / EN8 / Partnerships in R&D and Education 6.8.4 2.1 / 2.2 / 2.3 SO1; EC1 Electricity GWh 2,482 2,127 1,986 2,018 2,058 4.8; 4.9; 4.12 Water 1,000m3 21,729 18,194 16,346 17,393 17,314 Management of Sustainability in Supply Chain GC1; GC3; GC4; GC5; GC6; GC9 6.6.6 EC6; HR1; HR2; PR3 Chemicals tons 20,498 17,883 12,451 17,138 17,076 4.6; 4.9 Natural gas GWh 279 234 214 171 166 Bribery and Corruption GC10 6.6.3 SO4; HR3; HR4; SO2; SO3; SO4 Waste split / EN22  Tons External awards 2.10 6.2 Total Waste 43,628 46,367 33,439 40,775 38,593 Reuse & recycled 36,264 41,143 29,164 36,113 35,387 2.8; 3.9; 3.12 EC1; EC5; EC7; LA1; LA2; LA4; LA5; Burnt & incinerated 4,973 3,487 3,170 3,522 2,134 LA7; LA10; LA11; LA12; LA13; EN1; Landfill 2,391 1,684 1,105 1,140 1,072 Additional Indicators EN3; EN4; EN8; EN16; EN17; EN19; EHS Fines / EN28 EN20; EN22; EN23; EN26;EN28; In 2011, ST has not received any fine. EN30; PR5 Evaluating our practices Glossary against IS0 26000 APG ASIC CAO Automotive Products Group Application Specific Integrated Circuit Chief Administrative Officer GLWO GRI GWP Global Logistics & Warehousing Organization Global Reporting Initiative Global Warming Potential SITELESC SMEs Micro and Nanotechnology Industry Association Small and Medium Enterprises SOC System-on-Chip CDP Carbon Disclosure Project H&S Health & Safety Socially Responsible CEC Corporate Ethics Committee IC Integrated Circuit SRI Investment Det Norske Veritas Business Assurance France S.A.R.L. (‘DNV Business Assurance’) has been CEO Chief Executive Officer ICT Information and Substances of Very High Communication Technologies SVHC commissioned by the management of STMicroelectronics NV (‘the Company’) to conduct a CFO Chief Financial Officer Concern International Labor gap analysis on the current status of the Management of Key Sustainability Issues and how they CFS Conflict-Free Smelter ILO Organization TAM Total Available Market are integrated within the organisation’s practices In accordance with clause 5.2.2 of the ISO Comprehensive Health Industrial & Multisegment TCOO Total Cost of Ownership 26000 “Guidance for Social Responsibility”. CHEWS and Employees’ Wellness IMS Sector Technology Research & Services TR&D Development International Organization for Complementary MOS (Metal ISO CMOS Standardization UPW Ultra-pure Water Oxide Semiconductor) Industrial Technology VAP Validated Audit Process COO Chief Operating Officer ITRI Research Institute To that respect the scope of work agreed in the way best practices are being which states the robust implementation VOCs Volatile Organic Compounds CTO Chief Technology Officer upon with the Company did include the implemented. of best practices for reaching the iTSCi ITRI’s Tin Suppy Chain initiative World Business Council for DA5 Die Attach 5 Consortium WBCSC following tasks: Company’s Sustainable Objectives. J&K Japan & Korea Sustainable Development During our visits on the Company’s Dow Jones Sustainability • Review of Principles and Core sites we have interviewed employees We acknowledge the efforts made by DJSI KPI Key Performance Indicator World Semiconductor Index WSC Subjects and how their implementation at different levels in the organisation the Management of STMicroelectronics Council LCA Life Cycle Assessment DNV Det Norske Veritas contributes to the Company’s about their perception on the Company’s to use ISO 26000 as a framework to Waste of Electrical and Micro-Electro-Mechanical WEEE Sustainability Strategy and the Strategy and how the Principles and the integrate social responsibility into their Democratic Republic of the MEMS Electronic Equipment DRC Systems achievement of Sustainability relevant Core Subject of the ISO 26000 values and practices. Congo Annual report filed with the Objectives; standard were being applied in relation Microcontrollers, Memories & DU Digital Unify MMS 20-F Securities and Exchange DNV is not involved in the actual Smartcards to the Sustainability Strategy and in the Employee Assistance Commission • Visits to three sites (Rousset-France, management of Sustainability Issue EAP Metric Tons of Carbon 68 particular context of the organisation. Program MTCE Tantalum, tin, tungsten and Ang Mo Kio-Singapore, Muarfor the organization. It is left to the Equivalent 3TG No interview with External Stakeholders gold Malaysia) and interviews with internal responsibility of the organization to ECHA European Chemical Agency was conducted. Participation of External Non-Governmental stakeholders. These visits took place in identify and implement opportunities for Lead-free labelling for RoHSNGO Stakeholders to the definition of the Organization April 2012. improvement in this domain. compliance (the EU Directive Company’s Sustainability Strategy was ECOPACK® on Restriction on Use of NYSE New York Stock Exchange GRI indicator prefixes As a leading service provider in the checked through records and documents DNV Business Assurance expressly Hazardous Substances) ODS Ozone Depleting Substances EC Economic Impact field of sustainability solutions, DNV review. disclaims any liability or co-responsibility Business Assurance promotes the use for any decision a person or entity Environmental, Health & Organization for Economic EN Environment As Principal Considerations we can state EHS of ISO 26000 toward companies willing would make based on the content Safety OECD Cooperation and HR Human Rights that as STMicroelectronics’ Sustainability Development to be more efficient in contributing to of this letter to the Management of Electronics Industry LA Employment Strategy and objectives are just being EICC Sustainable Development. STMicroelectronics NV. Citizenship Coalition Occupational Health & Safety rolled out a particular emphasis was OHSAS Assessment Series (OHSAS PR Responsibility Product To facilitate this DNV Business Assurance put on the actual implementation of Community Eco180 01) SO Society uses a tool that : the ISO 26000 Standard through the EMAS Management and Audit With Best Regards. Scheme OTT Over The Top organisation. We found best practices Allows stakeholders to share their views EMEA Europe, Middle East & Africa PFCs Perfluorinated Compounds The ST Sustainability Report 2011 already well implemented in the fields of For DNV Business Assurance, with the organisation; is printed on paper produced by a Governance, Labour Practices (Health European Nanoelectronics PFOS Perfluorooctyl Sulfonate & Safety issues); The Environment ENIAC manufacturer that is certified to ISO Promotes the importance of Initiative Advisory Council PQE Product Quality Excellence 9001 and ISO 14001. Printing uses stakeholders’ dialogue ; (management of GHG emission); Jean-Christophe CARRAU electronic Performance Customer Issues and Fair Operating Global Service Responsible ISO 26000 ePA PTM Package Test Manufacturing chlorine-free pulp which enables both Recognizes the principles of Social Appraisal Practices (anti-corruption practices). R&D Research & Development recyclability and renewability, and Responsibility; ERM Enterprise Risk Management a chemical free, pre-press system. On the other hand it was perceived that RC Recordable Cases Facilitates the review of Core Subjects European Round Table of Furthermore the paper used is certified some actions were implemented but ERT Registration, Evaluation and so as to identify relevant issues; Industrialists REACH by the Forest Stewardship Council and needed stronger internal awareness to Authorization of Chemicals the Program of Endorsement for Forest Environmental, Social and Is transparent with regard to the better follow the guidance provided by ESG Restriction of Hazardous Certification Chain of Custody. These Corporate Governance RoHS activities performed, the subjects the ISO 26000 standard on the Core Substances confirm that the paper used comes from included in the scope of work and Subjects of Human Rights (particularly Electronic Semiconductor ESIA Responsabilité Sociale controlled forests that are well managed in the supply chain), The Environment Industry Association the Stakeholders involved and their RSE d’Entreprise according to strict environmental, social contribution to the improvement of the (Energy & Water management) and EWS Electrical Wafer Sort and economic standards, and links the Management of Key Sustainability Issues. Fair Operating Practices (promoting SAM Serviceable Available Market FEM Front-end Manufacturing production chain from source of timber sustainability in the sphere of influence). Self-Assessment through to paper manufacture and the Since the tool is aimed at applying the AP Front-end Manufacturing SAQ Questionnaires FEM final printing process. ISO 26000 standard the reports and This document represents a meaningful Asia-Pacific comments made have to be understood synthesis of the complete report provided SE Sustainable Excellence FCPA Foreign Corrupt Practices Act as opportunities for improvements to STMicroelectronics in April 2012 and Securities and Exchange Global e-Sustainability SEC GeSI Commission Initiative GHG Greenhouse Gases © STMicroelectronics June 2012Printed in France -All rights reserved. The STMicroelectronics corporate logo is a registered of the STMicroelectronics group of companies. All other names are the property of their respective owners. For more information on ST products and solutions, visit www.st.com
