Sustainability Report 2011 In promoting innovation in the productivity of resources and materials, we are committed to To Our Readers Editorial Policy Boundary of the Report The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group (“the Group”) is committed to The Report covers JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation (“the Comfulfilling its corporate social responsibility (CSR). In every facet of our pany”) as well as its 53 major domestic and overseas affiliated business activities, we are therefore dedicated to assisting the sustaincompanies as of April 1, 2011. Further, the reporting boundaries of able development of society. respective indicators are as follows. We issue a sustainability report each year in order to disclose apBoundaries of the Data Domestic Overseas Total propriate corporate information to a broad range of our stakeholders, Economic Data*1 12 12 24 including customers, suppliers, shareholders and investors, industryEnvironmental Data 11*2 4*3 15 government-academia groups, local communities, employees, and Social Data *4 38 16 54 other interested parties. As an important communication tool, *1. This represents the number of reporting companies covered in the “Economic Effects on this Report is designed to enhance stakeholders’ understanding of Stakeholders” section of the Economic Activities Report. In addition to consolidated our CSR activities. subsidiaries (not including companies that do not conduct business activities), the nonconsolidated subsidiary SCM Minera Lumina Copper Chile is included. Our Sustainability Report 2011 has been prepared in accordance with *2. Included are operating sites that engage in production activities and which the Company the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 of the Global Reporting controls directly and companies that have relatively substantial environmental impacts, specifically companies that operate factories classified as a Type 1 Designated Energy Initiative (GRI), the GRI Mining and Metals Sector Supplement, and the Management Factory or companies for which reporting is required under the laws and regulations pertaining to the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR). 10 sustainable development principles of the International Council on *3. The four companies included are Changzhou Jinyuan Copper Co., Ltd., Nippon Mining & Metals Mining and Metals (ICMM), as required by the ICMM's Assurance Pro(Suzhou) Co., Ltd., JX Nippon Mining & Metals Philippines, Inc., and Gould Electronics GmbH. cedures. Taking into consideration our Code of Conduct, this Report *4. This represents the number of reporting companies covered in the “Involvement with Our Employees” section of the Company’s Social Activities Report. details our activities from the perspectives of management as well as economic, environmental, and social pursuits. This Report, which represents a comprehensive discussion of the Group’s CSR activities, is Publication Date posted in full on JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation’s website. November 2011 (Publication date of previous report: September 2010) Reporting Period In principle, this Report covers our business activities for the period from April 2010 to March 2011 (fiscal 2010). In order to ensure comprehensive disclosure, however, certain information regarding important events that occurred prior to and/or after this period have been included. This Report also covers our activities in and after April 2011, to recover and reconstruct from the Great East Japan Earthquake, which occurred on March 11, 2011. “At the Occurrence of the Great East Japan Earthquake” subsections within each The indicators that are externally assured are section report on the effect of the March 11, 2011, Great East Japan Earthquake marked with “ .” on the Group and the measures it took in response. P39, 44, 46, 48, 69 For a more detailed explanation of the underlined text throughout this Report, please refer to the glossary on pages 97 to 100. 1 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Contents Message from the President 3 About JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation 5 JX Group Mission Statement/Code of Conduct/JX Nippon Mining & Metals’ Corporate DNA and CSR/Corporate Data/Business Overview/ Operating Sites CSR Activities of the JX Nippon 14 Mining & Metals Group CSR Action Policy 15 Communication with Stakeholders 16 CSR Activity Report 19 Material Issues of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group 21 Developing Environment-Friendly Technologies Implementing Initiatives Regarding Climate Change Issues including Global Warming assisting the sustainable development of society. Establishing a Recycling-Oriented Society Improvement Activities in Fiscal 2010 31 The Group’s CSR Roots 33 Management 34 Group Companies Covered under This Report (Company names as of July 1, 2011) Corporate Governance 35 Resources Development Ichinoseki Foil Manufacturing Co., Ltd. Economic Activities Report 40 Kasuga Mines Co., Ltd. JX Nippon Mining & Metals JX Nippon Exploration and Korea Co., Ltd. Introducing Our Business Activities: 41 Development Co., Ltd. Nikko Metals Hong Kong Ltd. Upstream (Resources Development Business) 41 JX Nippon Drilling Co., Ltd. JX Nippon Coil Center Co., Ltd. SCM Minera Lumina Copper Chile*1 Midstream (Smelting and Refining Business) 43 Nikko Fuji Electronics Smelting and Refining Dongguan Co., Ltd. Downstream (Electronic Materials Business) 45 Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. Nippon Mining & Metals (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Downstream (Recycling and Environmental Services Business) 47 Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd. Sankin Hibi Harbor Nikko Fuji Precision (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. Technology Development 49 Transportation Co., Ltd. Nikko Metals Shanghai Co., Ltd. Sanyu Electronic Industry Co., Ltd. Business Results in Fiscal 2010 51 Nissho Ko-un Co., Ltd. PPC Plant Saganoseki Co., Ltd. Other Business Economic Effects on Stakeholders 52 Nissho Maintenance Factory Co., Ltd. JX Metals Trading Co., Ltd. Topics in Fiscal 2010 53 Pan Pacific Copper Shanghai Co., Ltd. Nippon Marine Co., Ltd. Japan Copper Casting Co., Ltd. Nikko Logistics Partners Co., Ltd. Environmental Activities Report 54 Changzhou Jinyuan Copper Co., Ltd. Circum Pacific Navigation Co., Ltd. Basic Environmental Policy 55 Recycling and JX Nippon Mining Environmental Services Ecomanagement, Inc.*1 Medium-term Plan for Environmental Conservation 56 JX Nippon Environmental Yoshino Mines Co., Ltd.*1 Services Co., Ltd. Energy Conservation, Energy Consumption, and Related Issues 57 Oya Mines Co., Ltd.*1 Kamine Clean Service Co., Ltd. Hokuriku Mines Co., Ltd.*1 Conserving Resources, Utilizing By-products, and Recycling 59 JX Nippon Tomakomai Shin-Takatama Mining Co., Ltd.*1 and Reducing Waste Materials Chemical Co., Ltd. Kaneuchi Mining Co., Ltd.*1 Environmental Risk Management 61 JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. Hitachi Mines Co., Ltd.*1 JX Nippon Mikkaichi Recycle Co., Ltd. Our Business Activities and the Environment 64 Shakanai Mines Co., Ltd.*1 JX Nippon Kurobe Galva Co., Ltd. Hanawa Mines Co., Ltd.*1 Environmental Management System 65 Electronic Materials Hokushin Mining Co., Ltd.*1 JX Nippon Mining & Metals USA, Inc. Initiatives for Closure Mines 67 Namariyama Mining Co., Ltd.*1 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Shimoda Hot Spring Inc.*1 Social Activities Report 70 Europe GmbH*1 Toyoha Mine Co., Ltd.*1 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Earning the Trust of Our Customers and Supplier 71 JX Nikko Art & Craft Co., Ltd. Philippines, Inc. Nikko Metals Trading & Services Involvement with Our Employees 75 JX Nippon Mining & Metals (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Singapore Pte. Ltd.*1 Involvement with Local Communities 84 Nikko Metals Taiwan Co., Ltd. Gould Electronics GmbH Materials Service Complex Malaysia Reference Materials 94 Sdn. Bhd. Overview of the Main Group Companies 95 Group companies included within the reporting boundaries of the “Involvement with Our Glossary 97 Employees“ section of the Social Activities Report (not including SCM Minera Lumina Copper Chile). GRI Content Index 101 *1. Companies newly added within the reporting boundary for this report (16 companies). Further, from July 2010 the Company assumed control of JX Nippon Mining Ecomanagement, Independent Assurance Report 106 Inc., and companies managing closure mines. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 2 Message from the President We will contribute to the development of a through innovation in the areas of energy, Masanori Okada President and Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the CSR Committee JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation 3 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Message from the President sustainable economy and society resources and materials. Regarding the Great East Japan Earthquake nothing more or less than our business activities. It is critical, therefore, The Great East Japan Earthquake, which occurred on March 11, 2011, is that our employees playing main roles in carrying out our business a disaster the likes of which Japan has never before experienced. We activities are constantly aware of the degree to which they can conwould like to take this opportunity to express our most heartfelt contribute to the sustainable development of the economy and society dolences to all those who have suffered. As for the JX Group, we too through their daily work. were affected, suffering damage to some of our facilities located in the Looking back, since the Company’s establishment over 100 years Isohara, Hitachi, and other areas of the Tohoku and Northern Kanto ago, we have worked to resolve environmental problems and pursue regions of Japan. Because of these damages, as well as losses of electric our business activities always with the aim of coexisting with local and water utilities, we were forced to suspend operations at the afcommunities as a top concern. Our construction of the Giant Smokefected facilities. Repairs, however, are being made and operations are stack and planting of cherry trees (Jiro Nitta’s novel Aru Machi no Takai gradually being restarted. The recent disaster also caused the escape Entotsu [A Tall Stack in a Town] was written on these themes) at the of tailings from storage areas at the Oya Mine (Miyagi Prefecture) and Hitachi Mine, the Company’s birthplace, are just two of the ways in Takatama Mine (Fukushima Prefecture). We are working with the greatwhich this aspect of our company has been manifested. Now, as a est urgency to remove this slag and prevent a secondary disaster, while member of the JX Group, we remember this aspect of our Group culupdating local residents on our actions. ture and re-acknowledge our commitment to live up to our social responsibilities in pursuing innovation in the productivity of resources As a Global Corporate Citizen Engaged in the Business of and a harmonious relationship with stakeholders – two elements of Resources and Materials our Code of Conduct. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation is the core company engaged Furthermore, we also believe that safety and disaster prevention in the nonferrous metals business in the JX Group, which is aiming to measures as well as compliance are prerequisites to the continuation become one of the largest “integrated energy, resources and materials of our business, and form the basis of our CSR activities. Despite our business groups” in the world. As a member of the JX Group, we are best efforts to conduct safe, disaster-free operations, however, we did constantly striving to realize the JX Group Values of ethics, advanced suffer two significant accidents in fiscal 2010. Reflecting seriously on ideas, relationship with society, trustworthy products/services, and the occurrence of these accidents, we are determined to once again harmony with the environment. While acting in accordance with these exert our utmost efforts to implement thorough safety and disastervalues, the Company has been active in businesses covering upstream prevention measures in order to ensure that such accidents never resources development, midstream metals smelting and refining, and happen again. the downstream areas of electronic materials and recycling and environmental services with copper at its core. As an integrated nonferrous Deepening Your Understanding, Welcoming Your Opinions metal manufacturer, the Company is forging ahead with a global mindRegarding the Group’s CSR Activities set under its basic policy to not only grow each field of its business in The Group has endorsed the 10 sustainable development principles of a steady and solid way, but also maintain a well-balanced approach. the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), which is devoted to developing a sustainable society, agrees with the thoughts of Our CSR Activities Are Nothing More or Less Than Our Business the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), and supports the Activities 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We have also disThe characteristics of our business are: cussed the ICMM Position Statement in our CSR Committee and have We supply society with the basic metal resources and materials that given our support to it. The Sustainability Report 2011 has been comsupport daily life and industry activities in a broad sense. piled in accordance with the initiatives listed above, as well as with the Our business activities—ranging from the exploration of resources Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 of the Global Reporting Initiaand the manufacturing and fabrication of the most cutting-edge tive (GRI) and the GRI Mining and Metals Sector Supplement, and has materials to materials recycling—are consistently geared to a incorporated the 10 sustainable development principles of the ICMM. recycling-oriented business structure that uses the limited resources The Group clearly recognizes its wide and diverse range of social from the earth as its primary raw materials. responsibilities. In addition to reviewing the CSR activities that we have Our business activities are developing globally, widely, and diversely. engaged in, we also actively work to communicate information about The Group has defined its Code of Conduct based on these characthese activities both inside and outside of the Group. By absorbing a teristics and our resolve that we will contribute to the sustainable wide range of views and opinions, we are determined to further deepdevelopment of both the economy and society based on the tenaen and advance our CSR activities going forward. cious development of technologies. In other words, we believe that I hope that this sustainability report will help readers deepen their developing our operations will contribute to the sustainable developunderstanding of our CSR activities and, at the same time, encourage ment of the economy and society; therefore, our CSR activities are them to candidly voice their opinions. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 4 About JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation JX Group Mission Statement JX Group Slogan JX Group Symbol JX Group Mission Statement JX Group will contribute to the development of a sustainable economy and society through innovation in the areas of energy, resources and materials. JX Group Values Our actions will respect the EARTH Ethics Advanced ideas Relationship with society Trustworthy products/services Harmony with the environment 5 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 About JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation In accordance with our JX Group Mission Statement and our Code of Conduct, we engage in CSR activities on the understanding that they are nothing more or less than our business activities. Code of Conduct Ensuring a stable supply of nonferrous resources and materials is our social mission. We are engaged in a wide range of operations from exploration, mining, smelting & refining to metal fabrication and electronic materials production. Based on “JX Group Mission Statement” and complying with Code of Conduct stipulated below, we will continue to pursue technical rationality and efficiency and make improvements in quality & product properties and other matters in all aspects of our operations from development, production and marketing. At the same time, we will continue to promote recycling of resources and materials to achieve zero emission. This is our way of achieving continuous innovation in the productivity of resources and materials. In the conduct of our business, we are committed to maintaining and enhancing a harmonious relationship with a wide range of stakeholders, including our customers and the communities in which we operate. We are committed to contributing to the sustainable development of society on a global scale. 1. Our social mission Based on continuous technological development and full awareness of our responsibilities in designing products, we will develop and produce a variety of products efficiently while minimizing waste. At the same time, we will promote recycling and reduce the impact of our operations on the environment. By doing so, we hope to obtain the satisfaction and trust of our customers and of society as a whole. 2. Compliance with laws and regulations and engagement in fair trade We will comply with domestic and/or overseas laws and regulations, and will engage in fair, transparent, and free competition and trade based on the fulfillment of our social responsibilities. 3. Disclosure of corporate information and protection of personal information We will communicate not only with our shareholders, but also with the public at large, and will disclose corporate information in an active and equitable manner while focusing on the protection of personal information. 4. Creation of an optimum working environment We will place top priority on health, safety, and disaster prevention and will ensure a comfortable working environment that respects employees’ personality, human rights, and individuality. 5. Environmental conservation Based on the awareness that tackling environmental issues is an essential requirement for corporate existence, we will engage in activities aimed at conserving the global environment, including biodiversity, in a voluntary, active, and continuous manner. 6. Enhancement and strengthening of risk management We will establish a risk management system based on scientific data to enhance and strengthen risk management. 7. Harmonious relationship with society We will commit ourselves to social contribution activities and work as a good corporate citizen to achieve a harmonious relationship with the rest of the society of which we are part. 8. International business operations In international business operations, we aim to contribute to sustainable development by protecting the fundamental human rights of people in countries and areas where we operate, and by respecting their cultures and customs. 9. Elimination of antisocial activities We stand firm against all antisocial forces and groups that threaten social order and safety. 10. Management responsibilities Management executives will take the lead in implementing this code of conduct and ensure it is thoroughly implemented across the Group. In the event of any non-compliance with the code of conduct, the management executives will investigate the causes, work to prevent a reoccurrence, disclose information to the public promptly and accurately, and be held accountable for the event. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 6 JX Nippon Mining & Metals’ Corporate DNA and CSR With the theme of “Roles to Be Carried Out by the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group toward the Development of a Sustainable Economy and Society,” a roundtable meeting was held between several members of the Company’s management team and the employees responsible for the day-to-day business at each operating site to discuss and ascertain the Group’s corporate DNA, which has been nurtured for more than 100 years, and the CSR activities to be tackled by each and every employee. JX Group Mission Statement and JX Nippon Mining & Metals’ DNA Moderator: Initially, please talk about the JX Group Mission Stateinformation and protection of personal information,” both of which ment and JX Nippon Mining & Metals’ corporate DNA. The JX are stated in the Code of Conduct. Currently, my efforts are focused Nippon Mining & Metals Group’s Code of Conduct was compiled on preparing the financial statements in compliance with internaby incorporating the JX Group Mission Statement into our cortional financial reporting standards. porate DNA, which has been forged in the century since our Saito: As I work at the Recycling and Environmental Services Group, foundation. In your day-to-day business activities, what issues do I feel close to such concepts as “Harmony with the environment” you typically encounter with regard to the JX Group Mission and “Trustworthy products/services” in the JX Group Mission Statement or the Nippon Mining & Metals’ Code of Conduct? Statement and the sustainable development of society, which is Takamura: I work at the Technology Development Department of advocated in the Code of Conduct. the Isohara Works. As an engineer in the development field, the Soga: I personally feel conscious of “Ethics” in the JX Group Mission phrase “Advanced ideas,” or the “A” in the JX Group’s five key values Statement. When I took a post in Malaysia, I was assigned to a top abbreviated as EARTH, surfaces in my consciousness. I have been management position where I had to lead by example with full engaged in the development of larger-diameter silicon wafers for responsibility for my behavior. In fact, I noticed that it was not until semiconductors to increase from 300mm to 450mm. This enlargeI took responsibility for my actions that local employees really folment of wafer diameter has a direct impact on productivity imlowed me. Now I am a sales manager at the Tokyo Head Office, and provement for LSI chips. I believe that it is important for us to have I continue to take such responsibility based on a sense of ethics. advanced ideas continuously to contribute to the growth of the Kamegai: As I work at a copper smelting site, Saganoseki, my priority semiconductor industry. is to ensure safety and a comfortable working environment, which Uemura: I am in charge of sales of chemical products such as sulfuric falls under “Creation of an optimum working environment” in the acid and slag. As I have long been engaged in sales activity, I’m alCode of Conduct. In addition, I put into practice “Innovation in the ways conscious of whether our products can gain customers’ conproductivity of resources and materials” in my business field through fidence. Therefore, “Advanced ideas” and “Trustworthy products/ productivity improvement in collaboration with other smelting and services” from the JX Group Mission Statement are crucial phrases refining sites. for me. Masuda: I worked at the Toyoha Mine for about 10 years after joining Sato: I prepare the financial statements for release to investors. So I the Company, and I was especially conscious of the values of “Relaam always strongly conscious of “Compliance with laws and regulationship with society” and “Harmony with the environment” in the tions and engagement in fair trade” and “Disclosure of corporate JX Group Mission Statement. As I am now engaged in managing 7 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 About JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation closure mines from the Tokyo Head Office, I continue to take into hierarchical relationships when necessary. I think this trend repreconsideration harmonious coexistence with society and the global sents the original corporate culture of the JX Nippon Mining & Metenvironment. als Group. I believe that one reason we were able to safely close the Toyoha Mine was the trusting relationship between management Moderator: Next, I would like to ask your opinion about the Comand labor. pany’s corporate culture. Do you feel that the Company has an original culture or ethos? If yes, what is your view of that? Moderator: In summary, we have mentioned several catchphrases: Takamura: I especially feel the culture through the Company emfrontier spirit; free, vigorous, simple and sturdy atmosphere; mublem. I was disappointed that the “Janome mark” of the former Niptual trust; and the respect for coexistence with local communipon Mining & Metals Co., Ltd., disappeared pursuant to the ties. Can we consider that these features represent the Company’s establishment of the JX Group. Janome was initially designed by the corporate culture? founder, Fusanosuke Kuhara, in the illustrated form of an annular Okada: The Company is rapidly changing its culture through continueclipse to symbolize eternal corporate development. Meanwhile, I ing management integrations. Given such changing circumstances, swiftly became familiar with the new JX Mark, which was also deI have recently made it a point to speak with newcomers about our signed together with a circle to symbolize eternity and a well-roundentrepreneurship so that the Company’s corporate DNA would not ed status. I am confident that our culture is strongly inherited in the be ambiguous to them. development of smelting and refining and purification technoloCopper is our mainstay product, and it is indispensable for the gies, which are our strengths. The targeted metals in my developsustainable development of society. Meanwhile, resource development field include a variety of nonferrous metals such as copper, ment and smelting for producing copper inevitably have an adverse titanium and manganese. Accordingly, I feel that the technological effect on the environment. Our predecessors have labored to find buildup since the Company’s foundation has been applied to the a good balance between the positive and negative factors of copdevelopment of various electronic materials. per production in developing solutions. The efforts of our predecesUemura: When I became part of the sales staff, I was often told that sors helped to create today’s corporate culture and the dignity of Nippon Mining’s salespeople were samurai warriors without a spethe Company. In my opinion, one’s personality gradually deepens cific sovereign lord. This expression, I believe, means that Nippon as he or she gets older. Similarly, a corporation’s dignity is enhanced Mining’s salespeople often give the impression of being supported along with the continuation of its business activities. The dignity of by a frontier spirit in a free and vigorous atmosphere to best address the Company has been nurtured and supported for more than a innovations in anticipation of customers’ needs. I still feel such an century. It did not happen overnight. atmosphere as we contemplate challenging new fields such as Matsui: I personally believe that the starting point of our CSR activiurban mine development. ties was the construction of a giant stack and the afforestation of 10 Saito: At the Hitachi Metal Recycling Complex (HMC), we have enmillion trees in Hitachi City. deavored to put a new business on track through a trial-and-error In the days before the concept of CSR even existed and not long process by implementing new technologies to recover various after its foundation, the Company achieved the construction of a kinds of valuable metals from such waste as home electrical appligiant stack of 155.7 meters in height by investing vast funds and ances. I believe this business embodies the frontier spirit of meeting engaging close to 40,000 workers. The height of the giant stack was the challenges of innovation and overcoming difficulties. a world record at that time. This undertaking was underpinned by Soga: When I started a new posting in Malaysia, the mainstay busithe Company’s strong sense of mission that the Company must take ness of the locally incorporated corporation was electronic materiresponsibility for its smoke damage. In parallel with its construction, als processing. Subsequently, new business opportunities emerged, the large-scale afforestation of oshimazakura (a kind of Japanese including recycling and environmental services. Starting a new busicherry tree) and other plant species was executed as an initiative to ness overseas was accompanied by extreme difficulties. However, regenerate the natural environment. This innovative and challengwe succeeded in obtaining a recycling business license from the ing project was carried out a century ago. As described earlier, a Malaysian government and therefore could launch a new business. Kamegai: Since joining the Company, I have worked at the Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery. I feel strongly about the history and importance of our accumulated trust relationship with local communities. Our current jobs are based on that relationship of trust, which has been fortified by the laborious efforts of our predecessors and the cooperation and understanding of local residents. I firmly believe that we should address social and environmental issues on the basis of this relationship of trust. Masuda: I have the impression that mine workers are somewhat rough-natured persons who are prone to trivial disputes. However, they devote themselves to a targeted task with a single purpose regardless of JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 8 mind-set comparable to the frontier spirit and an original corporate Company can no more bother local residents” and “Business cannot culture respecting coexistence with local communities have long survive without the understanding of local residents.” The other been inherited as a part of the Company’s culture. point is that the Company focused on technological rationality and Yamaki: As for the construction of a giant stack and the afforestation scientific grounds in conducting these measures. One example of of cherry trees, which Mr. Matsui mentioned, I think that there are such an attitude was the establishment of agricultural and forestry two noteworthy points taking into account the background and experiment stations and weather stations. That is why the Compadetails. ny’s attitude to these issues was accepted as sincere by local people. One point is that these actions were not forced by any compulThe giant stack still stands as a symbol of that city although its sory laws or administrative guidance, and the Company did not height was subsequently altered. I believe this long-term attitude implement them out of necessity. The measures were taken based of the Company is the source of our CSR activities. on voluntary managerial decisions from a moral standpoint: “The Our CSR Activities and Tasks to Be Addressed Moderator: Now, please explain the actual circumstances at your used materials available as recyclable resources may sometimes be individual operating site and the major tasks regarding CSR handled as industrial waste because the relevant laws are not yet activities. adequate in China and Southeast Asian countries. We are currently Masuda: Environmental restrictions surrounding the management endeavoring to create a new mechanism that would contribute to operations of closed mines have become increasingly stringent. We creating a so-called recycling-oriented society, through which maare committed to treating and managing water discharged from terials deemed as waste could be directly recovered from the closed mines, which has long been a crucial task thoroughly customers. tackled by our predecessors. Takamura: The pursuit of environment-friendly electronic materials Okada: Currently, the Group owns 39 closed mines in Japan. At 12 of is also my future task as is the case with Mr. Soga. Recently, we have these 39, we treat and manage discharged water at our own exactively promoted product development of next-generation, transpense. This is quasi-perpetual work that must be continued for parent semiconductors, with which a considerable reduction in many years so that no dirty water flows into rivers. Water manageelectric power consumption can be expected for their use in flat ment is a social responsibility that we must address to continue our panel displays (FPD) and other products. businesses, and the Company is determined to continue this lowSato: My job is to prepare closing financial statements for disclosure, profile work. The Company has invested enormous energy in taking including quarterly reports, securities reports and annual reports. In responsibility for recovering any natural environment that it has preparing these documents, we take special care to use expressions damaged. I’m sure that this sense of responsibility is part of our that are easy to understand for the various stakeholders, including original corporate DNA. We have constructed water treatment and shareholders, investors and business partners. management facilities of a globally unprecedented scale at the site Moderator: On the manufacturing floor, sometimes we are asked of the Toyoha Mine, which was recently closed, by investing apwhether CSR is truly disseminated to the level of each employee. proximately ¥10 billion. In fiscal 2010, we sent our second-year emWhat do you think of such a concern? How would you address ployees to these facilities for on-site observation so that they can this point? better understand the Company’s initiatives for environmental conKamegai: On the spot, some employees react in a negative way toservation and coexistence with local communities. ward CSR by saying, “CSR seems difficult to understand, and I don’t Soga: Sales staff of electronic materials are often requested to offer know it well.” I explain to such people that CSR activities are nothing innovative and attractive proposals to customers. Above all, I am more or less than our business activities and doing our normal opmost conscious about environment-friendly electronic materials. erations in itself will lead to CSR activities. However, I feel the necesHighly recyclable materials that allow for repeated use are well resity to make such explanations in clearer and simpler terms. ceived by customers due to enhanced usefulness. Furthermore, Okada: Kaizen (or continuous improvements) and innovations in our daily operations are increasingly useful. This process is equal to CSR. How about explaining it in this manner? Isn’t this way the most understandable? Matsui: I understand that CSR refers to a mind-set of corporations that means “Gaining society’s confidence.” Many examples show that once a corporation has lost the confidence of society it cannot survive. In other words, each and every employee of the Company must work on his/her own job on a day-to-day basis with the phrase “Gaining society’s confidence” always in mind. CSR does not necessarily mean adding new CSR-related jobs to routine ones. This simple method explains why we believe CSR activities are nothing more or less than our business activities. 9 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 About JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Masanori Okada Hiroshi Matsui Nobuyuki Yamaki Michiharu Yamamoto (Moderator) President & CEO Director Director General Manager Chairman of the CSR Committee Deputy Chief Executive Officer Senior Executive Officer CSR Department Tomonori Uemura Toshihiro Kamegai Akio Saito Hikaru Sato Manager Manager Manager Manager Sales Department, Pan Pacific Sulfic Acid Section, Production Marketing Department, Recycling JX Nippon Business Services Copper Co., Ltd. Department, Saganoseki Smelter & and Environmental Services Group Corporation Refinery, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. Hiroshi Takamura Koji Masuda Takashi Soga Principal Engineer Principal Engineer Manager Technology Development Resources Development Rolled & Fabricated Products Department, Isohara Works Department, Metals Group Department, Functional Materials Division, Electronic Materials Group What Should We Do as a Constituent Member of Society? Moderator: Finally, please tell me what you should do as a connegative images as “tiring,” “dirty” and “dangerous,” I’d like to report stituent member of society. on the attractive character of the mining business to university stuUemura: The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group is a leading company dents. I will strive to relay a message that informs students that “minin global copper production. The Group therefore is proud of coning technology is an exclusive feature of JX Nippon Mining & tributing to the development of Japanese and, by extension, the Metals.” world’s industries. Conversely, we feel a strong responsibility for copYamaki: The resource materials industry traditionally has had a low per supply. profile. Of course, this perception has not changed substantially, but Saito: As the number of producer countries for several kinds of nonthe industry has been spotlighted as people are increasingly aware ferrous metals is considerably limited, many customers are alarmed of the usefulness, diversity and/or rarity of mineral resources. This by the supply. Consequently, there are customers who request that development is positive for us, but we should keep in mind in our the Company supply certain nonferrous metals as an emergency daily operations that social responsibility for our ongoing busimeans to diversify their supply sources. Some customers ask about nesses and the supply of good products are increasingly methods to effectively reuse industrial waste. In these fields, the important. Group must provide guidance in helping customers cope with their Matsui: I again repeat my conviction that CSR is a fundamental reown issues, and I believe that conducting our day-to-day operations quirement for corporations to survive and develop themselves in will serve, in this context, as a kind of social contribution. the future, that is, gain the confidence of stakeholders and society. Soga: Domestic customers are accustomed to neatly sorting used I’m confident that the Company, which has a long history of more materials by type into high-quality, recyclable raw materials. A than a century, can be proud of its worthy activities while sufficiently strong need for raw materials of high quality exists at the Group’s meeting this requirement. works, and the works use reliable recyclable raw materials that are Okada: Hearing your opinions, I now understand that your images of recovered from customers in Japan. On the other hand, we cannot the Company are not so different from mine. These images have always purchase high-quality recyclable raw materials in other been formed on the basis of the centennial history of our predecescountries because the sorting systems are often deficient. We theresors. A lesson that we can learn from the laborious efforts of our fore intend to globally streamline the recycling mechanism toward predecessors is that we must not shy away from harsh conditions. the establishment of a recycling-oriented society. We must confront them. This spirit of addressing any challenge lies Masuda: In recent years, I have had opportunities to lecture at uniat the root of the Group’s corporate DNA. I hope that everyone reversities. Although the mining industry is bedeviled by such members this point. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 10 Corporate Data Company Name: JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Domestic Paid-in Capital: ¥40 billion (as of April 1, 2011) Operating Sites: Hitachi Works (Ibaraki Prefecture) Isohara Works (Ibaraki Prefecture) Representative: Masanori Okada, Isohara Fabricating Works (Ibaraki Prefecture) President and Chief Executive Officer Technology Development Center Net Sales: ¥940.6 billion (consolidated result for fiscal 2010) (Ibaraki Prefecture) Ordinary Income: ¥70.7 billion (consolidated result for fiscal 2010) Kurami Works (Kanagawa Prefecture) Head Office: 6-3, Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Kawasaki Plant, Kurami Works (Kanagawa Prefecture) Tokyo 100-8164, Japan Tsuruga Plant (Fukui Prefecture) Overseas Business Lines: Resources Development Operating Sites*1: Chile Office Smelting and Refining Australia Office Manufacturing and Marketing of Electronic Materials Recycling and Environmental Services *1. The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group conducts business in 10 countries worldwide. Management Structure and Organization JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation employs an organizational structure that is comPresident prised of operating divisions, which engage in the Company’s operating activities; corpoCSR Committee Corporate Auditor rate divisions, which are responsible for the Technology planning, accounting, administrative, enviDevelopment Committee ronmental safety, and related support functions; and technology development divisions, Technology which are active in research and developCorporate Divisions Operating Divisions Development Divisions ment pursuits. Operating Divisions are conducted through the Metals Group, the Recycling and Electronic Materials Technology Recycling and Environmental Services Group, Metals Group Environmental Group Development Group and the Electronic Materials Group. Services Group Thin Film Functional Materials Division Materials Division As of April 1, 2011 About the JX Group Through the joint transfer of shares, Nippon Mining Holdings, Inc. and Nippon Oil CorpoJX Holdings, Inc. ration established the holding company, JX Holdings, Inc., in April 2010. The newly integrated JX Group will provide a stable and efficient supply of energy, resources, and JX Nippon Oil & JX Nippon Oil & Gas JX Nippon Mining & Energy Corporation Exploration Corporation Metals Corporation materials both in Japan and overseas. The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group is the metal business group company that plays a central role in the JX Group. About the logo for the JX Group Based on the JX Group’s basic philosophy, the JX Group logo represents the perpetuity of the global environment and the JX Group. This design, which shows the word “JX” crossing a sphere, expresses the contribution to a green earth, or a sustainable economy and society, through creation and innovation in energy, resources, and materials. 11 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 About JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Business Overview JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation is engaged in integrated nonferrous metals operations extending from resources development, smelting and refining, electronic materials manufacturing to sales and marketing, and recycling and environmental services. By pursuing technological rationality and efficiency as well as promoting materials stewardship, the Company strives to ensure the more effective use of value-bearing metal resources that will support the future. Upstream Resources Development Midstream Smelting and Refining As early as in the planning phase, the Company has actively particiThrough a collaborative relationship with global copper producpated in promising mine development projects. We are also eners—in terms of both quality and quantity—including domestic gaged in the development of our own mines and are currently and overseas companies, we have established a world-class copper promoting the Caserones Copper and Molybdenum Deposit Deproducer alliance for the production and marketing of nonferrous velopment Project in Chile. metals such as copper, gold, and silver. Los Pelambres copper mine in Chile Escondida copper mine in Chile Tamano Smelter, Hibi Kyodo Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Smelting Co., Ltd. Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. Copper concentrate production by mines Group refining capacity 1,170 in which the Group holds an equity entitlement 97 Fiscal 2010 thousand tons per year copper volume contained in concentrate tons per year Pan Pacific Copper: 610 thousand tons; LS-Nikko Copper: 560 thousand tons thousand The Natural Flow of Our Business Activities Downstream Downstream Recycling and Environmental Services Electronic Materials Business Activities include recycling, where precious and In this field, the Company focuses largely on thin other value-bearing metals such as copper are refilm materials and functional materials. The Company covered from recycled raw materials, and environmental boasts a top global market share in large numbers of services, where industrial waste materials are detoxified without products including treated rolled copper foil, sputtering targets generating any secondary waste. for semiconductors and flat panel displays (FPDs), and hypertitanium copper. HMC Department, Hitachi Works Chiongpin Recycling Center in Taiwan Sputtering target for semiconductors Phosphor bronze strips Volume of gold production through recycling Global market share 6.5 Fiscal 2010 tons per year No. 1 share in a family of products JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 12 Operating Sites Domestic Smelting and Refining 1 Hitachi Works, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. 2 Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. 3 Tamano Smelter, Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd. 4 Kasuga Mines Co., Ltd. 3 5 Saganoseki Works, Japan Copper Casting Co., Ltd. Recycling and Environmental Services Electronic Materials 1 HMC Dept., Hitachi Works 1 Isohara Works 2 JX Nippon Environmental Services Co., Ltd. 12 2 Isohara Fabricating Works 3 JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical Co., Ltd. 3 Copper Foil Dept. and Precision Plating Dept., 4 JX Nippon Mikkaichi Recycle Co., Ltd. 6 Hitachi Works 4 8 5 JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. 4 Kurami Works 6 Tsuruga Plant 5 Kawasaki Plant, Kurami Works 7 Kamine Clean Service Co., Ltd. 1 2 6 Ichinoseki Foil Manufacturing Co., Ltd. 8 JX Nippon Kurobe Galva Co., Ltd. 13 11 7 Kurami Office, JX Nippon Coil Center Co., Ltd. 5 6 10 8 Kawasaki Office, JX Nippon Coil Center Co., Ltd. 3 9 1 1 2 7 3 9 Takatsuki Plant, JX Metals Trading Co., Ltd. 5 8 10 Head Office / Meguro Works, Sanyu Electronic 4 7 industry Co., Ltd. 11 Tatebayashi Works, Sanyu Electronic Industry Co., Ltd. 2 5 12 Esashi Works, Sanyu Electronic Industry Co., Ltd. 4 13 Sakitama Works, Suzuki Manufacturing Co., Ltd. Overseas 1 4 1 6 7 8 2 3 4 5 2 1 2 9 10 11 3 12 7 Electronic Materials 1 2 1 JX Nippon Mining & Metals USA, Inc. 3 4 5 6 3 2 Gould Electronics GmbH 3 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Europe GmbH Smelting and Refining 4 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Korea Co., Ltd. 1 Changzhou Jinyuan Copper Co., Ltd. 5 Poonsan-Nikko Tin Plating Corp. 2 LS-Nikko Copper Co., Ltd. Resources Development 6 Nikko Metals Shanghai Co., Ltd. 3 Australia Office 1 Collahuasi Mine*1 7 Nippon Mining & Metals (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. 4 Pan Pacific Copper Shanghai Co., Ltd. 2 Escondida Mine*1 8 Nikko Fuji Precision (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. 3 Los Pelambres Mine*1 9 Nikko Fuji Electronics Dongguan Co., Ltd. Recycling and Environmental Services 4 Chile Office 10 Nikko Metals Hong Kong Ltd. 1 Nikko Metals Trading & Services 5 Chile Office, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. 11 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Philippines, Inc. (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 6 SCM Minera Lumina Copper Chile 12 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Singapore Pte. Ltd. 2 Nikko Metals Taiwan Co., Ltd. 7 Compania Minera Quechua S.A. 3 Materials Service Complex Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. *1. Mines in which the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group has invested. 13 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 CSR Activities of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group In the following section, we report on the CSR activities of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group. CSR Action Policy 15 Communication with Stakeholders 16 CSR Activity Report 19 Material Issues of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group 21 Developing Environment-Friendly Technologies Implementing Initiatives Regarding Climate Change Issues including Global Warming Establishing a Recycling-Oriented Society Improvement Activities in Fiscal 2010 31 The Group’s CSR Roots 33 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 14 CSR Action Policy The belief that “CSR activities are nothing more or less than our business activities” clarifies how we should incorporate our code of conduct into the day-to-day activities of the Group. In line with this CSR Action Policy, the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group is exerting efforts to smoothly carry out CSR activities that reflect the detailed annual plans set forth each fiscal year as well as undertake the strict implementation of the PDCA (Plan, Do, Check, and Act) cycle. Innovation in the productivity of resources and materials Harmonious relationship with stakeholders Common to the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group In line with the distinctive characteristic of our business that Complying with the Company’s Code of Conduct in relation we make use of the earth’s resources as a direct raw material, to such areas as fair trade, compliance with laws and we pursue innovation in the productivity of all processes and regulations, environmental protection and conservation, in all aspects of our business activities in order to continuously safety and disaster prevention, and disclosure. carry out mining, smelting and refining, electronic materials Promoting social contribution in Japan and overseas (social manufacturing, and recycling of the earth’s limited resources contribution programs promoted in line with the specific as efficiently as possible. characteristics of the Group’s business activities). Resources Development Developing technologies, such as bio-mining technologies, Conducting mining development while simultaneously Upstream to recover copper from unused low-grade copper sulfide meeting global standards, such as the World Bank ores. Environment, Health and Safety Guidelines. Smelting and Refining Enhancing productivity, including streamlining operations Developing sustainable smelting technology friendly to the Midstream and adopting advanced technologies, by strengthening environment with no emission of SOx and other environmentcooperation among the Group’s smelting operations friendly characteristics. (Saganoseki, Tamano and LS-Nikko). Developing hydro-metallurgical technology—the Nikko Chloride Process (“N-Chlo Process”)—to efficiently recover copper as well as precious and other metals from low-grade copper concentrates. Electronic Materials Developing products with innovative qualities and unique Developing environment-friendly electronic materials. Downstream features. Recycling and Environmental Services Promoting safe methods to process waste that is difficult to Promoting recycling with the goal of zero emissions. dispose of and requires special treatment, for example, asbestos and certain equipment containing trace amounts of PCB. Recovering rare and precious metals, rare earth minerals, and other similar materials from recycled materials (further developing urban mines). 15 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Communication with Stakeholders Stakeholders of the Group The business activities of the Group are supported by many stakeholders—individuals, organizations, and communities who have a vested interest in the Group. Stakeholders that have close and regular ties with us and the major responsibilities and activities in regard to these stakeholders, as well as our major communication tools are listed in the table below. We aim to CSR Activities of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group establish and maintain strong relationships of trust with our various stakeholders through close communication. Stakeholders Major responsibilities and activities of the Group Major communication tools Customers We consider it crucial to respond to the opinions Supplying value-bearing products Introducing and supplying products and and wishes of our customers, with whom we Providing product information from both services have frequent contact through our business safety and environmental perspectives Consulting about newly developed products activities. Further improving the quality of our products and other related matters Enhancing services Providing product information from both safety and environmental perspectives Exchanging information at exhibitions and other trade-related shows Suppliers We strive to foster relationships of mutual trust Carrying out open and fair trade transactions Conducting business through the daily with our suppliers—one of our key business Promoting environmental protection based transactions of JX Nippon Procurement partners—to ensure the continuity of the on the Basic Environmental Policy and the Corporation Group’s business. Green Purchase Guideline Collaborating to realize more-efficient logistics and recycling Shareholders As a core operating company of the JX Group, Undertaking proper and prompt disclosure Conducting shareholder meetings and investors we remain accountable to our shareholders and through the activities of JX Holdings, Inc. Holding investor and other meetings hosted investors. Accordingly, we make every effort to Increasing corporate value from economic, by JX Holdings, Inc. secure highly transparent corporate environmental, and social perspectives management. Employees While also key stakeholders in the Group’s overall Ensuring a work environment Implementing the Self-Statement System activities, employees play a central role in our Providing equal opportunities and securing Holding meetings of the Labor– CSR activities. We are building frameworks where diversity Management Council each employee can reach his/her maximum Improving the Group’s education and training Holding meetings of the Health and Safety capabilities. program Committee Enhancing the level of employee satisfaction Carrying out a survey regarding CSR issues Conducting roundtable discussions with CSR-related agendas IndustryWe recognize that these groups are important Making proposals in a wide range of areas Joining various organizations and attending governmentpartners in efforts to build new technologies Promoting the advancement of science and their regular conferences academia and nurture the next generation of human technology Implementing joint research and developgroups resources. ment with universities and research institutions Participating in national projects and other related events Global We have taken steps to clarify our preferred Complying with environmental legislation Participating in various projects proposed by environment policies and stance for addressing global and regulations the ICMM environmental issues. These policies and our Implementing initiatives to conserve the Sharing information and opinions at stance are reflected in our business activities. global environment and assisting the international conferences and other events sustainable development of society, as a corporate member of the ICMM Local and global Making the most of opportunities for exchange, Preserving the local environment by Contributing to local communities (participatcommunities we listen carefully to a multitude of voices from complying with environmental legislation and ing in cleanup as well as disaster prevention both local and global communities to efficiently regulations activities) develop our business activities. Preventing accidents and disasters at our Regularly conducting summer festivals and domestic and overseas operating sites opinion-exchange meetings Respecting cultures and customs in overseas Participating in international conferences, countries exhibitions, and other trade-related events Nonprofit We promote dialogue and collaborative ties with Collaborating in social contribution activities Supporting the activities of NPOs and NGOs organizations NPOs and NGOs that undertake distinctive across such fields as poverty alleviation and Exchanging opinions with NPOs and NGOs (NPOs) and programs and projects. The fruits of these environmental protection non-governdiscussions and this cooperation are reflected in Collaborating in business development mental organithe Group’s CSR activities. zations (NGOs) Future We continue dialogue with the next generation, Heightening awareness about environmental Conducting plant tours and other events as generations who will carry inheritance forward to the future conservation necessary society, in an effort to clarify the Group’s Enlightening future generations about the social role. importance of social-action programs by monozukuri – manufacturing products JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 16 Making Dialogue with Stakeholders The Group is creating wide-ranging opportunities to make dialogue with its various stakeholders. The aim of these endeavors is to reflect the “voices” of stakeholders in our CSR activities. In fiscal 2010, we issued the Sustainability Report 2010, as well as conducted an employee survey on the Group’s CSR activities. We also held CSR briefing sessions for our employees on 45 occasions, and at the same time we held 43 in-house roundtable discussions. Stakeholders meetings were also convened and attended by leading external opinion makers, while a CSR meeting was held to provide employees with the opportunity to speak directly with top management. Drawing on this dialogue, we are providing stakeholders with a deeper understanding of the Group’s CSR activities. At the same time, we intend to incorporate stakeholder opinions to further advance the Group’s CSR activities. Surveying Employees on the Group’s CSR Activities and Sustainability Report 2010 (Digest Version) The Group conducted an employee survey on the Sustainability ReTopics of interest in Sustainability Report 2010 port 2010 as well as the Group’s CSR activities. The following section Topics of interest were scored for 22 topics with respondents designatprovides excerpts from the survey’s findings and results. ing three interesting topics by giving 3 points for their first choice, 2 Survey period: November to December 2010 points for their second choice and 1 point for their third choice. The Parties surveyed: All directors, officers, and employees results revealed that three of the top five topics of interest in the SusResponse rate: 95.1% (responses received from 2,142 of 2,251 people tainability Report 2010, as determined by those surveyed, were related surveyed) to the “Material Issues for the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group.” This again reflects the significant interest that our employees maintain in About the use of the Sustainability Report material issues, similarly to the previous fiscal year. Six responses were prepared in advance with a precondition of “Multiple responses allowed.” The response of “Use the report as Top 10 Topics of Interest reference in daily work” accounted for a majority of all the responses, Topics Points and almost 40% of respondents selected the response of “Bring back Progress of Climate Change (Global Warming) and the Impact Thereof 1,534 home to circulate the report among family members.” Message from the President 1,393 Establishing a Recycling-Oriented Society 1,011 Use of the Sustainability Report Material Issues for the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group 941 Use Ratio (%) Group Philosophy and Code of Conduct 760 Use the report as job-related reference data 50.5 Developing Environment-Friendly Technologies 678 Bring back home to circulate the report among family members 37.3 Introducing Our Business Activities: Downstream (Electronic Materials Business) 676 Prepare any materials using the excerpt of the report’s content 5.1 Introducing Our Business Activities: Midstream (Smelting and Refining Business) 559 Distribute the report to customers 2.4 Introducing Our Business Activities: Upstream (Resources Development Business) 520 Distribute the report to business partners 2.4 Downstream (Recycling and Environmental Services Business) 492 Distribute the report to other stakeholders 2.3 Conducting CSR Briefing Sessions and Roundtable Discussions with Employees Each fiscal year, the CSR Department holds CSR briefing sessions at the energy conservation activities. Through these discussions, we believe Group’s operating sites both in Japan and overseas. These briefing sesthat we could further integrate the Group’s CSR Action Policy into our sions cover initiatives implemented at each operating site and the business activities, while at the same time share the same understandGroup’s initiatives regarding biodiversity, in addition to conventional ing of the CSR activities across the Group. A notable trend to emerge CSR-related topics. In fiscal 2010, briefing sessions were held at 25 dofrom this year’s discussions, particularly when compared with the premestic and 14 overseas operating sites. vious fiscal year, was more proposals were put forward by operating In conducting these briefing sessions, we also hold in-house roundsites themselves, each of which proactively offered proposals such as table discussions involving all positions of employees. These round“pursuing initiatives that take into consideration the characteristics of table discussions allowed us to hear directly from employees their individual operating site business activities” or “conducting a social acopinions regarding our CSR activities and frank comments about the tion program based on the distinctive circumstances of each local Sustainability Report 2010. At the same time, these roundtable discuscommunity at individual operating sites.” sions gave employees a better and broader understanding of the Going forward, we will consider how to realize these proposals in Group’s initiatives relating to compliance, risk management, and order to further advance and enhance our CSR activities. 17 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Stakeholders Meeting 2010 The Group holds a Stakeholders Meeting involving external experts Sustainability Report 2009, a stakeholders meeting was convened in from a variety of fields. At the meeting, we solicit diverse opinions, March 2010, and opinions and comments were given especially with comments and requests from these experts in relation to our CSR acregard to “CSR Activities and Corporate Value.” In this Report, we identivities and the topics released in our sustainability report issued for tify several key requests put forward by participating experts and outCSR Activities of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group the previous fiscal year. In the previous fiscal year, based on the line the Group’s responses. Sustainability JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Please feel free to give us your frank opinions about Sustainability Report 2010 Report 2010 to help us make the next report even better. We welcome any suggestions for improving this report. Sustainability Report 2010 Send your reviews on this report to: CSR Department, JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation 6-3, Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Tokyo, Japan E-mail: info@nmm.jx-group.co.jp Fax: +81-(0)3-5299-7343 Printed in Japan Mr. Shusaku Okumura Ms. Mikako Awano Mr. Satoshi Yura Prof. Jyunnichi Mizuo Network Representative, Senior Officer, Senior Fellow, Professor, The Japanese Global Convention on Biological Diversity, Center for Public Resources Faculty of Economics, Surugadai University Compact Local Network World Wide Fund for Nature Japan Development Director, Economic Research Institute, Surugadai University * Official titles of the panelists are as of the date of this meeting. Requests Put forward at the Stakeholders Meeting Held in March 2010 and the Group’s Response for Fiscal 2010 and Beyond Request Response We would like the Group to focus more efTaking into account the attributes of our business operations, we can do nothing about the forts on human rights and labor without fact that the material issues are selected primarily in the environmental aspect. The imporlimiting the description of the Report to tant challenges selected were identified as topics of interest in this Report with reference only environmental issues. to the seven core subjects of social responsibility, including human rights and labor practices, in the ISO26000. We ask that the Group reinforce initiatives The Group established the Citizenship Committee in April 2011 to activate its social contributoward the so-called Offensive CSR aption activities. In addition, in the Sustainability Report 2011 we introduced the Group’s initiaproach and be increasingly proactive in distives regarding closure mines, for which we had not previously disclosed information. closing information. Although the activities at the closure mines do not directly lead to an increase in revenue or profit, they are introduced in the Report as an example that indicates our initiatives toward the corporate social responsibility of the Group. We would like the Group to conduct CSR Previously, the Group has been committed to the CSR activities by considering that employactivities with its employees and their ees are principal participants in the activities. We now encourage our employees to actively families. engage in CSR activities with their families, for example, by having offered a questionnaire on “Energy conservation activities with family members in private hours” as part of the employee survey on the Group’s CSR activities conducted in fiscal 2010. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 18 CSR Activity Report CSR Action Policy Goals, Performance, and Evaluation for Fiscal 2010 and Goals for Fiscal 2011 PLAN DO Issues and goals Fiscal 2010 goals Initiatives Innovation in the productivity of resources and materials Promote innovation in productivity (1) Cases of commendations for innovation in productivity (including streamline of other Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. operations) JX Nippon Environmental Services Co., Ltd. Tamano Smelter, Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd. (2) Cases of commendations for streamline of other operations Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. Tamano Smelter, Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd. JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. Isohara Works Shirogane Works Promote innovation in productivity regarding environmental issues Reduce energy consumption intensity by (1) Cases of promoting energy conservation activities 5% from the average of the period Energy conservation via the shutdown of foundry machines due to the consolidation of between fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2005 manufacturing facilities (Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd., and Japan Copper Casting Co., Ltd.) Increase in adiabatic efficiency of annealing furnaces, the enhanced adoption of inverter fan motors, etc. (Kurami Works) Innovation in the productivity of Improvement of current efficiency, reduction of shutdown frequencies due to machine each operation and throughout failure, etc. (Shirogane Works) every aspect of our business Reduce CO2 emission intensity by 7.5% (2) Cases of reducing CO2 emissions activities from the average of the period between Improved recovery rate of waste heat from sulfuric acid (Tamano Smelter, Hibi Kyodo fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2005 Smelting Co., Ltd.) Improved production efficiency by increasing the processed volume of solid materials, etc. (JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical Co., Ltd.) Improved production efficiency by increasing the processed volume of waste (JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd.) Reduce final waste disposal intensity by (3) Cases of reducing the volume of waste and making effective use of value-bearing resources 70% from the average of the period Reduced volume of waste through the repeated in-process treatment of slag (Saganoseki between fiscal 2003 and Smelter & Refinery, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd., and Tamano Smelter, Hibi Kyodo Smelting fiscal 2005 Co., Ltd.) Reduced volume of waste disposed of in landfills via the enhanced sorting of waste plastics (Shirogane Works) Reduced volume of waste disposed of in landfills via the enhanced sorting of sludge (In fiscal 2010, a fact-finding survey and a review of the disposal method were conducted.) As for the waste disposed of in landfills, wreckage and waste plastics were disposed of and reduced to zero in 2008 and 2009. (Kurami Works) Continued initiatives toward zero final disposal volume of waste (four environmental business-related companies and the HMC Department, Hitachi Works) Other initiatives Recovery of rare metals from materials for thin-film solar panels (Isohara Works) Harmonious relationship with our stakeholders Eradicate misconduct Preventing misconduct Raising awareness about compliance Complying with goals related to compliance Secure safety and prevent disaster Securing safety and preventing disaster Creating an optimum working environment Compliance with the Code of Eradicating occupational diseases Conduct (Fair trade, compliance with laws and regulations, Organize education programs to raise Conducting employee education and training environmental conservation, safety awareness about CSR Participating in CSR briefing sessions and employee roundtable discussions and disaster prevention, disclosure Carrying out compliance education and training, and other programs of corporate information, and other related issues) Comply with laws and regulations Complying with laws and regulations Pre-registering those substances subject to REACH regulation Disposing systematically of PCB Others (strengthening measures to control asbestos and to avoid failure of necessary notifications to regulatory agencies, etc.) Engage in communication with local Promoting communication with local communities communities Participating in cleanup activities Engaging in communication through summer festivals and other events Promoting matters related to social Promote social action programs Promoting social action programs contribution and local communities Afforestation and reforestation activities at the sites of closure mines Supporting the activities of NPO 2050 (a program providing educational support to women of developing countries) Supporting those who have been affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake Obtain certifications Obtaining OHSAS and ISO certifications Obtaining OHSAS 18001 certification in fiscal 2010: HMC Dept. of Hitachi Works, Tatebayashi Works of Sanyu Electronic Industry Co., Ltd. Acquiring trust of stakeholders Obtaining ISO 14001 certification in fiscal 2009: HMC Dept. of Hitachi Works 19 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Evaluation: Attained goals = A Partially attained goals = B Did not attain goals = C CHECK ACT Fiscal 2011 goals (Numerical goal or Fiscal 2010 performance Evaluation degrees of progress to goals, and others) (Numerical data, variances from benchmarks, progress of development projects, and others) and challenges CSR Activities of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group President’s Award (encouragement award) President’s Award (encouragement award) PPC President’s Award (encouragement award) A Continue implementation PPC President’s Award (encouragement award) President’s Award (special encouragement award) President’s Award (special encouragement award) Works General Manager’s Award Works General Manager’s Award As the goals for preventing global warming to be achieved by fiscal 2010 have been Reduction of 5.4% from the average of the period between fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2005 A attained, new goals for reducing energy consumption intensity by 1% and CO2 emission intensity by 1% (compared with the average of the period from fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2010) are set for fiscal 2011 and beyond. However,the goal of the reduction of CO2 emission intensity may have to be revised in light of the installation of privately owned electrical power Reduction of 8.1% from the average of the period between fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2005 A facilities (that use fuels) in association with the shutdown of several nuclear power generation. As the goals for reducing waste to be achieved by fiscal 2010 have already been attained, a new goal of maintaining the ratio of non-valuebearing waste volume*1 at less than 1% is set Reduction of 78% from the average of the period between fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2005 A for fiscal 2011 and beyond. *1. Ratio of non-value-bearing waste volume: (Volume incinerated + Volume of final disposal)/Waste generated and others The ratio was 0.93% for fiscal 2010. Confirmed recoverability. A Conducted recovery operation Continue to ensure no occurrence of significant No occurrence of significant misconduct in fiscal 2010 reported A misconduct Promote activities to eradicate significant Accidents with lost working days and fatal accidents: 29 cases accidents and damage Fires, explosions: 1 case C Promote the activity toward creating and Occupational diseases: 0 cases ensuring a culture of safety Conducting CSR briefing sessions (45 times), holding employee roundtable discussions (43 times), and Participate in CSR briefing sessions carrying out employee surveys, when visiting 25 domestic and 14 overseas operating sites A Continuously carry out compliance education Carrying out employee surveys and training, and other programs Conducting specialized education by job grade, as well as education on antitrust law and the stamp duty Conducting investigations on suspect areas and relevant removal works for residual, scattering-type asbestos Taking necessary measures pursuant to the revision of environmental laws and preventive steps to avoid A Continue implementation leakage of notifications required in compliance with the relevant provisions of the laws and regulations Conducting follow-up on the REACH regulation and the final disposition of the PCB based on the predetermined plans Conducted annual events including cleanup activities and summer festivals at operating sites Participating in the Kurakake Mountain cleanup volunteer activities (Hitachi Works) A Continue implementation Cleanup activities at the Kehi-No-Matsubara Beach and the holding of a firefly appreciation event (JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd.) Supporting the afforestation at the sites of the Oe, Kameda and Takatama Mines, and reforestation activity in Nanyo City Continuing support of a program providing educational support to women of developing countries Supporting goods and donating relief funds to the devastated areas of the Great East Japan Earthquake A Continue implementation Supporting those who have been affected by the recent earthquake in New Zealand (JX Nippon Mikkaichi Recycle Co., Ltd.) Supporting the Japan Philharmonic Orchestra (Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd.) Continue regular inspections at operating sites and companies that have obtained OHSAS and ISO certifications Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd., Tamano Smelter, Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Continue endeavors to obtain OHSAS and ISO A Ltd., Kurami Works, Isohara Works, Isohara Fabricating Works, Hitachi Works, JX Nippon Environmental certifications Services Co., Ltd., JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical Co., Ltd., JX Nippon Mikkaichi Recycle Co., Ltd., JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 20 Material Issues of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group The Group addresses various economic, environmental and social challenges. From these challenges, four material issues that should be given priority in reporting to stakeholders were selected and consequently introduced in the Sustainability Report 2011. Important challenges are identified in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. The numerous important challenges identified were first prioritized, before four material issues were subsequently selected following discussions and deliberation by the CSR Committee. As a result, in addition to the three material issues for fiscal 2010—”Developing environment-friendly technologies,”“Implementing initiatives regarding climate change issues including global warming” and “Establishing a recycling-oriented society”—a fourth material issue, “Responses to the Great East Japan Earthquake,” has been included in this report. Steps in Selecting Material Issues Identifying important challenges 1st Step In accordance with the materiality principle stipulated in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 of the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI), 44 important challenges were identified. The material principle defined in the GRI content index External factors Relevant laws and other regulations with Main sustainability interest/topics and indicators strategic significance to the organization raised by stakeholders and its stakeholders Reasonably estimable sustainability impacts, risks, or The main topics and future challenges for opportunities identified through sound investigation the sector reported by peers and companies by people with recognized expertise Internal factors Key organizational values, policies, Significant risks to the organization strategies, operational management Critical factors for materializing systems, goals, and targets organizational success The core competencies of the organization The interests/expectations of stakeholders specifically invested in the success of the organization Prioritizing important challenges 2nd Step The 44 challenges identified in the first step were prioritized from two perspectives: materiality in regard to our business strategies and in regard to the level of stakeholder interest. Stakeholder interest Materiality in regard to our business strategies Topics raised at stakeholders meetings in 2010 Degree of urgency of each challenge Topics raised at roundtable discussions and identified Degree of influence that each challenge assumes through surveys in our economic activities Topics raised by newspapers and other public media CSR Action Policy Selecting material issues Stakeholder interest Importance to business strategies 21 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Results of the Selection of Material Issues In the selection of important challenges for the Sustainability Report practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, 2011, eight issues, including “Risk management” and “Governance,” and community involvement and development) in the ISO26000: which naturally should be pursued, were reviewed from among the Guidance on Social Responsibility. The 44 prioritized challenges were issues discussed at the CSR Committee in 2010 and 13 new issues, indeliberated by the CSR Committee in 2011, as was the case for selecting cluding “Non-procurement of conflict minerals” and the “Great East material issues in the Sustainability Report 2010, with the three material Japan Earthquake,” were chosen to finalize the 44 important challenges issues below being selected. Moreover, taking into consideration the for the Sustainability Report 2011. The challenges were then prioritized enormous impact on the Group business and Japanese society of the with scores in terms of degree of urgency, degree of incidence, the Great East Japan Earthquake that occurred on March 11, 2011, a fourth topic’s attractiveness at stakeholder meetings, employee surveys and material issue, “Responses to the Great East Japan Earthquake,” was other attributes. Furthermore, the important challenges selected were added in this special feature section of the Sustainability Report 2011. identified as topics of interest in this Report with reference to the seven Special Feature core subjects (organizational governance, human rights, labor The Three Material Issues Selected, as well as Their Risks and Opportunities A brief outline of the risks and opportunities as well as the approaches adopted toward each material issue is presented as follows. Issues Risks and opportunities Approaches Developing environmentChanging needs of customers and other Based on requests received from stakeholders, the friendly technologies stakeholders Technology Development Center plays a primary role Need to develop highly functional materials to in pursuing the development of technologies that are realize resource conservation, high recyclability, and capable of addressing foreseeable risks in each reduction of the environmental impact business field. Implementing initiatives Growing concern and pressure from society to The Group will systematically reduce the amount of regarding climate change address the issue of global warming and to particugreenhouse gas emissions from a variety of angles in issues including global larly bolster efforts to reduce CO2 emissions accordance with the activities of the Energy Conservawarming Demands imposed to further reduce environmental tion Subcommittee. impact through innovations in the productivity of resources and materials Establishing a recyclingTight demand-supply conditions in the resources The challenge of recovering value-bearing metals from oriented society market and higher resource prices stemming from recycled materials is imperative to the establishment of the global shortage of resources and their uneven a recycling-oriented society. The Group is promoting geographical distribution materials stewardship and is actively recovering metals Need to collect recycled materials and develop from urban mines. technologies to efficiently recover value-bearing metals from recycled materials Management of Material Issues The CSR Department annually reviews the material issues selected and accordance with these plans. The progress of each plan is periodically obtains their subsequent approval from the CSR Committee. The relreported to the CSR Committee, which has overall responsibility to evant divisions draw up action plans on an individual material issue manage each issue. basis with respect to specific initiatives and engage in activities in JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 22 Special Feature ❶ Developing Environment-Friendly Technologies Given revisions in domestic and overseas laws and governmental policies toward enhanced environmental protection, the Company has reduced the environmental impact at the manufacturing stage within the Group based on the belief that environmental consciousness will contribute to the sustainable development of society and corporations. Accordingly, the Company endeavors to reduce its environmental impact by promoting the development of environment-friendly products as a nonferrous manufacturer so that such environmental impact can be reduced when customers and end users employ the products of the Group companies. Establishing a Crystal control recycling-oriented society Development of technology green energy Purification Purification technology Implementing Energy technology Photovoltaic initiatives regarding conservation Powder control power generation global warming Geothermal power technology Polysilicon Development of generation urban mines Reducing CO2 Mine site Cathode materials emissions Electric vehicle (EV) Resource Exploration technology ECO Metal recovery technology conservation N-Chlo Process Advanced Metal recovery Environment analytical technology technology Bio-leaching and recycling Metal recovery technology Resource conservation Energy Social challenges conservation Reducing Elemental technologies of the Group CO2 emissions Business fields of the Group To precisely understand customers’ requests and effectively promote Taking into account resource depletion and the degradation of ore environment-friendly technologies, a branch of the Technology Degrade—phenomena often seen in recent years in the fields of resource velopment Center is placed in each plant aimed at strengthening the development and metal smelting and refining—the Group strives to product development function. As the Company is engaged in intedevelop technologies that would effectively utilize resources such as grated nonferrous metals operations extending from resource develbio-leaching and the Nikko Chloride (N-Chlo) Process. Meanwhile, in opment, smelting and refining to the manufacture, sales and marketing the electronic materials business, the Group continues to develop a of electronic materials, as well as recycling and environmental services, variety of products to address the various environmental concerns of the Technology Development Group was established to improve the customers and end users in addition to energy conservation and the application of relevant technologies and enhance synergies between reduction or elimination of hazardous substances. different technologies in different business fields. Under this R&D In the years ahead, the Group intends to continue developing enstructure, the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group is fully engaged in the vironment-friendly products by drawing on technologies accumuGroupwide development of environment-friendly products to realize lated through its consistent development of business activities. resource conservation, high recyclability and the reduction of environThe chart below presents part of our environmental technologies ment impact. related to electronic materials. Broad classification Narrow classification Major technology developments for Location for onset of effects electronic materials Resource recycling/ Miniaturizing High-performance copper alloys Customers Resource conservation Downsizing Under Bump Metallurgy (UBM) plating End users Weight saving Nano plating Reduction in the number Copper foil with integrated thin film resistor/TCR® Customers of components Replacement of precious metals High-purity metals End users Resource recycling/ Extending product life Highly functional foil End users Product life cycles Preventing global warming Reduction in power consumption Gallium Nitride (GaN) thick-layer substrates Customers and reducing CO2 emissions Transparent semiconductors End users Cathode materials for lithium-ion batteries End users Environmental risks Reducing substances that Lead-free surface-mounted chemicals Customers increase the environmental Cyanide-free electroless gold plating impact Arsenicum-free copper foil 23 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group is promoting the development of technologies that would contribute to mitigating environmental impact toward the goal of realizing the sustainable development of society and corporations. In this Report, we would like to introduce the advice and comments of Professor Shuzo Fujimura of the Tokyo Institute of Technology and Mr. Ken-ichiro Oka of Toray Industries, Inc., with regard to the orientation of the “Development of Environment-Friendly Technologies.” Promoting Innovation Management Q Would you please give your opinion on our Sustainability Report 2010? Special Feature I was impressed by your company’s keen and well-reflected approach. However, if I could point out one issue, the report is too conscious of the CSR format that derives from Europe, and I’m afraid that the corporate features of JX Nippon Mining & Metals are described ambiguously without clarity despite its century-plus history. If this weakness is improved with clear expressions, the features of your CSR must be further stressed to bring about a much more impressive report. Indeed, the report has adopted advanced features such as the inclusion of relevant clauses of the JX Group Mission Statement and the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group’s Code of Conduct into the CSR Action Policy. When personifying companies as human beings, we would prefer contacts with people who have good character, as a rule. I suppose, therefore, that CSR for corporations plays the role of the good character of people capacity to sufficiently understand the substance of the relevant in this analogy. Accordingly, I hope that you will assiduously pretechnologies and the mapping capability to imagine the future of pare the Sustainability Report because the report is a means for a targeted product by taking into account the role of technologies presenting the corporate character of each company. in the predictable business environment of the near future. An academic domain to study the method of achieving such solutions is Q Could you explain in detail your research theme, Innovation Management of Technology (MOT). As ensuring all the necessary Management? resources in this domain would be difficult for a single company, I In many cases, the term “innovation” is somewhat misunderstood. think the use of universities or graduate schools is needed. Its definition may be literally “innovative action that would accompany an economic success.” According to this definition, the basis Q What is your impression of the environment-friendly technolof innovation management is to deliberate how to increase the ogy development of the Company? probability that might lead to innovation. As corporations that It would be interesting to create a conceptual scheme one level have established superior systems can gain superiority in pursuing above the current technology development system based on a good results from their business activities, it becomes important wide range of technological developments. for us to carry out innovations after having determined the ideal For example, you might be a corporation that could propose image in advance. mutual portfolios relative to “clean energy” if you have a strong Addressing the above theory via an analogy to technology decooperative relationship with JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation, velopment, we will inevitably be required to have both the abstract one of the Group companies, as well as with the energy industry. Furthermore, if you could develop innovative technologies to finalize the whole energy consumption cycle without remaining an energy-consuming corporation, you might be able to create a new concept for an integrated energy company. Shuzo Fujimura Professor Department of Management of Technology/Department of the Innovation Graduate School of Innovation Management, Tokyo Institute of Technology JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 24 Necessity of Life Cycle Assessment Q Please state your impression of the CSR activities of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group. What I think is remarkable is that you have actively introduced and incorporated the opinions of stakeholders in your CSR activities. I understand that the Group endeavors to obtain stakeholder input through employee surveys and in-house and external stakeholder meetings to confirm the impact and degree of CSR activities. On the other hand, the wording “CSR activities are nothing more or less than our business activities” sounds beautiful. But for every employee to have such a consciousness in its core meaning, it would be necessary for you to have a framework or a mechanism in which the results of CSR activities are incorporated as part of the personnel evaluation system or other measures, in addition to continuing education to employees. Toray Industries is proactively committed to developing environment-friendly products, and in April 2011 launched a project under the direct control of the presiFurthermore, apart from our analysis, we make use of the results in dent. This project, which incorporates specific targets of the Green our business operation. I believe that practicing this approach, soInnovation business in the medium term management plan, has called life cycle management-based environmental management, led to a considerable change in employees’ consciousness. is essential. Q What are the major issues as a chemical materials manufacturer? Q What would be necessary to achieve considerable effects The chemical industry involves the heavy consumption of energy, through our environment-friendly technologies? and environmental conservation is therefore an important area to All the same, it must be “MIERUKA (visualization).” Toray Industries be addressed. The era in which we have to deal with such emerging has implemented two issues to evaluate the effects of its activities: issues as pollution has come to an end, and preventive initiatives, one is an original indicator of “Contribution to CO2 Reduction” and which require new values, are increasingly indispensable to solving the other is “T-E2A (TORAY-Eco-Efficiency Analysis),” a tool for use in such issues as protection of the global environment. Given this both environmental and monetary terms for the whole life cycle. global trend, CSR activities are becoming extremely difficult to These key issues are applied to all the products and technologies conduct, I believe. at Toray Industries, and corporate management, business strategies The reduction of CO2 emissions is one of the core global enviand research themes are becoming to be determined based on ronment-related issues. However, I feel that Japanese manufacturthe evaluation results from the effect of the visualization. For exers have done almost everything with regard to certain subjects of ample, engineers and researchers are encouraged to think of the energy conservation such as monozukuri (manufacturing) and the LCA as a component of product performance through the T-E2A exploitation of resources. At Toray Industries, therefore, we are acanalysis at the product design stage, as in the case of considering tive in evaluating and presenting not only the amounts of CO2 cost, even the cost itself should be the life cycle cost. By complying emissions that are produced in the manufacturing process but also with the aforementioned methodology, we can predict the overall the overall CO2 amount including that consumed in the usage and advantages of finished products and clearly show the strengths of abolition stages, using the life cycle assessment (LCA) method. our products. Until we have evaluated actual results, we cannot move forward with our philosophy, can we? Furthermore, it is an objective of LCM-based environmental management to foster a corporate culture in which people can work with a sense of mission that their operations contribute to the coexistence of the two mainstay tasks: solving global environment issues and sustaining the development of corporations and society. Ken-ichiro Oka Senior Director General Manager, Technology Center Global Environment Business Strategic Planning Dept. Toray Industries, Inc. 25 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Special Feature ❷ Implementing Initiatives Regarding Climate Change Issues including Global Warming Special Feature The continued advance of global warming not only causes changes in the environment, such as a rise in the sea level and abnormal weather, but also significantly affects the ecosystem. In this context, changes in our natural environment, which result in the depletion of water resources, have an escalating effect on both the farming and fishery industries that in turn place an increased burden on our food supply. In addition to causing significant and mounting damage to society, climate change has the potential to substantially impact the financial performance of our business activities. The Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) released by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) projects a real and highly likely surge in living costs associated with an increase of 2–3°C in the current global average temperature. Activities Undertaken by the Introducing Photovoltaic Power Generation at the Energy Conservation Subcommittee Hibi Kyodo Smelter, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. To ensure that the Group as a whole advances activities that reduce The Hibi Kyodo Smelter implemented a photovoltaic power generaCO2 emissions, a greenhouse gas, and promote energy conservation, tion system in December 2010 for the first time at its premises. Given the Energy Conservation Subcommittee was established as a working the rising interest in the environment, the Hibi Kyodo Smelter is focusgroup under the CSR Committee on October 1, 2008. ing on further reduction of CO2 emissions. One hundred solar panels The Energy Conservation Subcommittee has identified annual re(each 0.6m vertically and 0.8m horizontally) were installed at the faciliduction goals of 1.0% and 1.5% for energy consumption intensity and ties on a slope on the southern side of the smelter, and 20kW of elecCO2 emission intensity, respectively, as measured against the average tricity is generated for internal use. The implementation of the of the results for the period from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2005. Since its photovoltaic power generation system was decided because Okayaestablishment, the subcommittee has met on five occasions to follow ma Prefecture, in which the smelter is located, is one of the prefectures up on the status of progress, particularly with respect to energy costs where sunshine duration is the longest—with about 2,000 hours (inand the level of energy conservation improvement. For fiscal 2011 and cluding those with traces of sunlight) per annum. after, annual reduction goals of 1.0% for energy consumption and CO2 The installation of these solar panels is expected to reduce CO2 emisemission intensities have been identified as measured against the avsions by 13 to 17 tons annually. According to its three-year program, the erage result for the period from fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2010. smelter plans to increase and extend the photovoltaic power generation facilities. Solar panels JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 26 Initiatives to Develop Geothermal Power Generation as a Clean Energy It is said that geothermal heat is an inexhaustible energy source prothe world’s third largest geothermal resource. However, only a small vided by the Earth since its initial formation 4.6 billion years ago. Geopercentage of its potential geothermal heat is actually used for powthermal power generation, which skillfully derives and uses geothermal er generation. This report introduces geothermal development heat, is an environment-friendly process with fewer CO2 emissions. initiatives at the former Toyoha Mine site of the JX Nippon Mining & Japan is one of the world’s best-known volcanic countries and has Metals Group. Necessity of geothermal power generation as an effective use of renewable clean energy Global warming is one of critical issues which we are facing. The use of clean energy sources has attracted much attention toward the realization of a low-carbon society. As geothermal heat is simply a home-produced, clean energy with fewer CO2 emissions, its enhanced use as a substitutive energy option instead of nuclear energy is highly expected. CO2 emissions by power generation type Construction of facilities (indirect) Fuel for power generation (direct) ( g CO2/kWh) 1,000 975.2 88.4 800 742.1 37.8 606.5 600 128.7 518.8 886.8 111.3 400 704.3 477.8 200 407.5 53.4 28.5 21.6–24.7 15.0 11.3 0 Coal-fired Oil-fired LNG-fired LNG-fired Photovoltaic Wind Nuclear Geothermal Hydroelectric (steam) (mixed) Source: “Evaluation of Power Generation Technologies Using Life Cycle CO2 Emissions” (March 2000) and “Evaluation of Nuclear Power Generation Technologies Using Life Cycle CO2 Emissions” (August 2001) by the Central Research Institute of Electric Power Industry Outline of geothermal power generation In geothermal power generation, geothermal heat (steam) reserves Geothermal (steam) power generation system deep under the soil are taken out through a well and the steam is used to rotate turbines for power generation. Steam is taken out of a geological stratum at 1,000m to 3,000m in depth and returned in its entirety into the ground after being cooled. Geothermal power Power generation therefore is a renewable clean energy. Transformer transmission Steam-water line separator Geothermal power generation development initiative at the Toyoha Mine The Toyoha Mine (Sapporo City, Hokkaido Prefecture), which is owned by the Group, produced zinc, lead, silver and indium as one of the best Steam turbine mines in Japan. However, in 2006, it ceased operation as its ore reserves had been depleted. Meanwhile, mining workers were annoyed by the Power generator high bedrock temperature in the pit during operations, and the dynaSound Hot water spouted mite used for mining sometimes combusted spontaneously due to absorber with steam is returned into the ground abnormally high bedrock temperatures at the terminal stage. These phenomena suggested an abundant geothermal resource in the vicinity. Condenser In fiscal 2010, the Company conducted a surface survey in the ToyoPump ha District for the purpose of effectively utilizing geothermal heat at the Toyoha Mine site as recyclable, clean energy so that the Group can Geothermal Air reservoir Cooling water contribute to restricting global warming. This survey was adopted for fiscal 2010 in the “Geothermal Development Promotion Surveys Cooling tower (Development Feasibility Study)” of the New Energy and Industrial Cooling water effluent enters the returning well Technology Development Organization (NEDO). 27 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Results of the Surveys in Fiscal 2010 and Future Plans for Fiscal 2011 and Beyond As a result of surface surveys conducted in fiscal 2010 (geological/transFlow chart from surveys to the development and form fault surveys, electromagnetic sounding, etc.), the possible exisconstruction of plant facilities tence of a promising geothermal reservoir was determined at the Explanation to local residents Explanation to local residents Explanation to local residents Operation of a power generation plant Yunosawa Area of the Toyoha District. The Company plans, through consultations with local residents, to confirm the aforementioned geoPreliminary Development Construction of a research feasibility study power generation thermal reservoir over the next few years and conduct several drilling (1 year) (4 years) plant (4–5 years) surveys to precisely grasp the volume obtainable by geothermal Drilling survey development. Geothermal heat quantity assessment Meanwhile, Jozankei Hot Spring, a well-known and popular hot Feasibility study spring in Hokkaido Prefecture, is located near the planned power genEnvironmental eration plant site. Consequently, coexistence with this valuable hot impact assessment Special Feature spring resource and our geothermal power generation project will be Environmental assessment a priority. We intend to promote geothermal development while endeavoring to obtain the understanding of the local people. Geology of the Toyoha District Schematic cross-sectional view Geothermal Geothermal Yunosawa Takinosawa Usubetsu returning well production well Fault Fault River (concept) (concept) Upstream of the Toyoha Kurumizawa Jozankei Yunosawa Takinosawa Shirai River Mine Fault Hot Spring 1,000 1,000 500 500 0 0 –500 –500 –1,000 –1,000 –1,500 –1,500 0 1.0 2.0km Geothermal fluid Hot spring Existing mine wells Fault * Colored and altered on the schematic cross-sectional view prepared by NEDO (1988) voice Initiatives Taken by JX Nippon Mining & Metals USA Having a small ecological footprint does not mean that there are not opportunities to increase recycling, eliminate waste, or reduce energy consumption. Over the past few years, the Chandler Plant has identified and implemented a number of incremental improvements. Polyethylene foam and packaging from sputtering target received from Isohara Works and targets returned by customers to Chandler had been sent to landfills for disposal. We were able to identify a local company who would recycle the packaging and reuse the foam in the furniture industry. This first step reduced our landfill waste disposal by over 70% and recycled three tons of polyethylene a month. The next step was to transition to reusable packaging for target shipments between Isohara Works and Chandler. Through a joint effort that project is now complete and it has reduced our consumption of polyethylene products by several tons per month. Our current project is to look for energy savings in how we manage our facility’s air conditioning systems Steve Kohut with the recently installed Building Automation System (BAS). The Chandler Plant is located in the Arizona Director of Operation desert. Temperatures routinely reach 45˚C in summer and drop below 0˚C in winter. While much of the year is Department dry, we have a very hot and humid summer monsoon as well as winter rains. These extreme weather conditions JX Nippon Mining & make controlling facility air quality challenging. Metals USA, Inc. While the primary purpose of the BAS is to control the facility’s air quality for production needs, it also provides us for the first time with the ability to fully manage our air conditioning systems with settings appropriate for occupancy status. Our new ability to control localized settings by time of day and day of week will allow us to establish conditions appropriate for production needs and reduce energy consumption when noncritical areas of the plant are unoccupied. We look forward to reducing our facility’s energy needs while maintaining a comfortable work environment. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 28 Special Feature ❸ Establishing a Recycling-Oriented Society Value-bearing metals are contained in the huge volume of waste that is generated in the lives of humans. In particular, in urban areas with high concentrations of population, there exist so-called urban mines where waste containing value-bearing metals derived from recycled home electronic appliances is collected. We believe that the area in which we can best contribute to the sustainable development of society is the development of technologies and systems to extract the natural resources buried in these urban mines by optimizing proprietary metal extraction technologies. Establishing Rare Metal Recovery Technologies from Used Lithium Ion Batteries The Group commenced demonstration trials in an effort to recover and recycle cobalt, nickel, lithium and manganese from used lithium-ion batteries, as well as waste cathode materials used for lithium-ion batteries. We are committed to establishing a recycling-oriented society by promoting the commercial application of recovery technologies. Tsuruga Plant Establishing a Recycling Model for Recovered Metals Plans are in place to supply value-bearing metals recovered as raw The demand for lithium-ion batteries is projected to rise dramatically materials for use in the cathode materials of the in-vehicle lithium-ion in the years ahead. The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group is committed batteries manufactured by the Group’s Isohara Works located in Kitaito establishing a recycling-oriented society through appropriate rebaraki City, Ibaraki Prefecture, and by other manufacturers. In early 2012, sponses to environment-friendly, next-generation automobiles by the Isohara Works plans to significantly increase the manufacturing streamlining the system for stably providing the cathode materials of capacity of cathode materials for in-vehicle lithium-ion batteries to in-vehicle lithium-ion batteries, in addition to striving for a stable sup5,000 tons per annum from the current capacity of 300 tons. ply of the necessary raw materials for use in lithium-ion batteries. 29 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Supply system of cathodes for use in lithium-ion batteries Sales company Automobile Battery Cathode material manufacturer Electric Co•Ni•Mn manufacturer manufacturer Isohara Works Lithium carbonate Special Feature User Leaching Disassemble Cathode Recycled Solvent Collection <Al sheet> cathode materials extraction trader Crush Sort Waste lithium-ion battery cells Scrap metal, resins, etc. Aluminum package Separator Recycling and Environmental Services Group, JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation voice Message from the Tsuruga Plant Since April 2010, the Group has conducted demonstration trials as part of a project commissioned by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry at the Tsuruga Plant in an effort to recover and recycle cobalt, nickel, lithium and manganese from used lithium-ion batteries, as well as waste cathode materials used for lithium-ion batteries. The trials were completed in March 2011. Through these demonstration trials, we were able to verify the effectiveness of our proprietary technologies regarding the recovery of the rare metals concerned. On the other hand, to realize the commercial application as a recovery business of these rare metals from used lithium-ion batteries and other waste, it will be necessary to improve the quality of the recovered rare metals and pursue better economies in their recycling cost. To this end, targeting commercialization in October 2012, we are investigating various matters toward further demonstration trials and near-term commercial application by expanding several installations in the Tsuruga Tsuruga Plant Plant, which houses the core facilities used for the demonstration trials. General Manager Although the lithium and manganese recovered from lithium-ion batteries have yet to be recycled, the Toshihiko Yoshimi technologies and processes to do so would represent a world first. The Tsuruga Plant intends to take aggressive initiatives to stably supply raw materials for use in lithium-ion batteries and establish a recycling-oriented society by early realizing the commercial application of rare metal recycling technologies. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 30 Improvement Activities in Fiscal 2010 Improvement Activities at Domestic and Overseas Operating Sites The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group is conducting NPM activities, results. Furthermore, improvement activities based on the PDCA cycle as well as other improvement activities, to increase productivity, imfulfill an important role in our CSR activities. prove quality and reduce production costs at domestic and overseas Examples of activities playing a part in “innovation in productivity”— operating sites. Employees engage in improvement activities througha motto identified in the Group’s Code of Conduct—are outlined out their daily work based on the characteristics of their workplace. below. The cumulative effect of these efforts has brought about significant The Group’s NPM Activities The Total Productive Maintenance (TPM) method was developed by the Japan Institute of Plant Maintenance in 1971, based on “production methods that seek to maximize overall production system efficiency by improving personnel and facility quality.” When the Group joined this movement in 1994, it decided to transform the TPM method beyond its conventional framework. The result, borrowing the name of our predecessor company, Nippon Mining & Metals, was the “Nippon Mining & Metals TPM (NPM)” method. This method takes a dynamic approach to continuous innovation that is still in effect today. The NPM method seeks to minimize various losses through a zero-accident, zero-defect and zero-failure approach. We are now proactively applying the NPM method at all major operating sites. Examples of Activities at Domestic Operating Sites: Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. At present, our NPM activities, which are undertaken by seven specialinterest groups, have an ideal goal of “making us the copper smelter and refinery boasting the world’s No. 1 quality and cost competitiveness while ensuring safety and environmental friendliness” with Companywide efforts at improvement via the participation of all employees. In fiscal 2010, two in-house presentation meetings were held to introduce kaizen improvement activities. We endeavored to implement improvement proposals from employees by promoting top management’s diagnosis on autonomous maintenance actions. Meanwhile, we were active during the year under review in taking actions to raise our on-site application capability, as represented by our exhibits at the Karakuri Kaizen Exposition, which received an award for effort. Consequently, the number of improvement proposals increased 1.7 times compared with the previous fiscal year. The introduction of examples of kaizen improvement activities NPM activities presentation meeting served to horizontally disseminate them to other business units. In addition to the Synergy Investigative & Debriefing Session with the Oita Refinery of JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation, which was held twice in fiscal 2010, an exchange forum of the three smelting companies was held with the Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery of Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd., the Hibi Smelter of Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd., and Onsan Refinery of LS-Nikko Copper Co., Ltd., to share relevant examples. Exchange forum with three companies 31 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Examples of Activities at Overseas Operating Sites: Gould Electronics GmbH (Germany) Gould Electronics GmbH has been actively engaged in improving productivity and efficiency over the past few years. In cooperation with Hitachi and Philippine electrodeposited copper foil experts, its initiative has resulted in a tremendous yield increase, reduced electricity CSR Activities of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group consumption and a general reduction of losses (muda). During 2010, these improvements ensured stable on-time product supply to customers with better business economics. Introduced in March 2010 and supported by JX Nippon Mining & Metals’ long-term TPM partner, TPM activities implemented at Gould (G-TPM) have been a main contributor to enhanced employee involvement, motivation and process understanding—the basis for all improvements. “The One to Win” is our slogan to further strengthen individual skills and organizational strength. Meeting for improvement activities at Gould Electronics voice NPM Activities at the Kurami Works We heard comments from Mr. Taisuke Yamada of JIPM-Solutions Co., Ltd., who has guided the NPM activities at the Kurami Works since 1994, on his impression of the Company and its NPM activities. Q What is your primary impression of the Company? I have been in contact with the Kurami Works since the TPM method was implemented there. I believe that the initiatives carefully followed by both onsite workers and managerial staff brought about the present operating system that is capable of efficiently providing highly functional materials. The founder’s spirit of respecting communications with stakeholders has been firmly inherited and this factor has led to an unshakeable labor-management relationship of trust despite the harsh business climate that changed drastically after the so-called Lehman Shock. TPM Consultant Q Could you explain more about the NPM activities? JIPM-Solutions Co., Ltd. Previously, companies were usually committed to the task of how to reduce the difference between targets Taisuke Yamada and actual results. But don’t you think we should assume the ideal outcome from the beginning? For example, with electrical energy, it would be necessary to analyze and completely minimize the resulting losses based on the idea that the difference between theoretical value and actual result means a loss. Accordingly, in the PDCA cycle, we should start with the “check (C)” process followed by the “plan (P)” process. Next, kaizen improvement actions should be roughly deliberated for three groups: onsite workers, staff and managerial staff. According to this categorization of related personnel, onsite workers would engage in improvements of daily operations such as the detection of the source of problems and short-term disruptions to the production line (chokotei). Staff would work to improve the manufacturing processes or energy replacement, and core executives would engage in improvements at the factory level after doing market research from a macroscopic perspective. Thus, in addition to the appropriate role-sharing operations among the relevant personnel, it is important to thoroughly check and point out all losses for each process from the procurement of raw materials to the end user sale. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 32 The Group’s CSR Roots The Path toward Coexistence with Local Communities The history of the Group dates back to 1905, when founder Fusanosuke Kuhara commenced work on the development of the Hitachi Mine. Supported by the dynamic growth in Japan’s industrial sector at the time, this mine developed into a mine that boasted the nation’s leading production of copper ore. Later, smelting and refining operations were launched utilizing the copper ore extracted from the Hitachi Mine. Meanwhile, the Company was responsible for creating smoke damage due to the emission of sulfur dioxide from its smokestacks, which is said to be the fate of the copper smelting business. Smoke containing sulfur dioxide spread extensively to neighboring areas resulting in substantial damage to local agricultural produce. Taking steps to negotiate with local residents on the issue of compensation, the Company was active in collecting information relating to the damage caused by the smoke and strove to grasp the full extent of the damage. In other efforts, the Company took the lead in providing farmers with guidance on the cultivation of produce highly resilient to the smoke. The relationship with the local community nurtured over this period is today an invaluable asset to realize coexistence and coprosperity. As a part of the measures aimed at eliminating damage caused by the spread of the smoke, Fusanosuke Kuhara proposed the construction of a giant stack. At a large cost, and utilizing an aggregate workforce of 36,800 workers, construction of the 155.7 meter smokestack, Construction of the Hitachi giant stack and the giant stack on completion the world’s tallest at that time, was successfully completed in December 1914, dramatically reducing smoke damage. Moreover, approximately 10 million seedlings, including oshimazakura cherry trees and The giant stack in Hitachi as it stands today black pines, recognized for their resilience against smoke, were planted in the barren areas of the mountain and surrounds of the Hitachi Mine. As a result, much of the mountainside was restored to its natural beauty. With each spring season, the mountain is filled with the color of cherry blossoms and is a place of major pride for the residents of Hitachi City. Before long, the giant stack became a symbol of the relationship of coexistence and coprosperity between the industrial city of Hitachi and the Company. After mining and smelting operations were terminated in the Hitachi Region, two-thirds of the upper section of the Oshimazakura Cherry blossoms lining Heiwa Street in Hitachi City stack collapsed in 1993. Thereafter, the stack was repaired with a height of 54 meters, which remains today as a symbol of mutually beneficial ties between the Company and the local community. The Hitachi Region, which was previously the site of the Hitachi Mine, is currently the location of one of the Group’s principal operating sites. In addition, the Daioin District of Hitachi City is adjacent to the Takasuzu Natural Park. Within this park, an area of approximately 120,000 square meters of mountains and forest is the property of the Hitachi Works. As a Member of the JX Group The JX Group advocates the utmost respect in terms of five key values, time, serve as the cornerstone for the Group’s “trustworthy products/ abbreviated as EARTH. (For further details, please refer to page 5.) We services” as well as the source of a corporate culture that places the are proud that the aforementioned activities undertaken throughout utmost emphasis on “harmony with the environment.” the Hitachi Region were in fact the forerunners to these five EARTH Looking ahead, we will continue to take pride in our history and values. With a high sense of “ethics,” the Company addressed the issue corporate culture. At the same time, we recognize that in enriching of smoke damage. Through “advanced ideas,” the Company constructour understanding of the JX Group’s Mission Statement, we will be ed a giant smokestack, successfully eliminating the damage, and better positioned to put into practice that Mission Statement. thereby the Company could build a mutually beneficial “relationship with society” in the Hitachi Region. The approaches undertaken at that 33 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Management In the following section, we report on the management and CSR promotion systems used by JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation. Corporate Governance 35 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 34 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Systems within Overview of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals the JX Group Group’s Corporate Governance System JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation, as a core operating company Board of Directors of the JX Group, is engaged in the nonferrous metals business. JX The Company has established the Board of Directors*1 to discuss issues Holdings, Inc., the holding company of the JX Group, pursues its defined by laws, regulations, and the Articles of Incorporation, as well principal mission to promote Groupwide development, innovation, as other important management issues. The Board is composed of the and synergy, as well as to maximize corporate value by developing president and eight other directors, as well as three auditors. medium-to-long-term strategies for the JX Group and strategically *1. All nine directors are inside directors and serve concurrently as executive officers. allocating management resources in order to realize these strategies. To this end, we, along with the other core operating companies in the Executive Meeting JX Group, have a responsibility to contribute to the improvement of The Company has established the Executive Meeting as an advisory the corporate value of the JX Group, through operating independently body to the president. The committee has consultations regarding and autonomously our own business in accordance with the Group’s important issues related to the management of the Company. The strategy to achieve our business goals. status of operational execution is also reported to the committee. The committee consists of the president and executive officers, who the Board of Directors of JX Holdings president has designated to participate in the committee. The full-time The board of directors of JX Holdings is composed of a total of 16 direcauditors can also participate in the committee to deliver their tors, including: opinions. 8 full time directors of JX Holdings 4 directors including the presidents of JX Nippon Mining & Metals and the other two core JX Group operating companies Corporate Governance Structure of the JX Group 4 external directors General Meeting of Shareholders A total of six corporate auditors are employed, including two full-time JX Holdings corporate auditors and four outside auditors. The four external direcBoard of Directors Board of Auditors tors and four outside auditors are all independent directors/auditors. Independent Compensation Advisory Auditors Committee Collective conferences in the JX Group (Audit firm) Execution The JX Group convenes the JX Group CSR Council for the purpose of Executive Committee developing and promoting basic policy related to CSR. The following three committees have been created under the JX Group CSR Council Representative Representative Director and Director and JX Group based on the three areas of the JX Group’s CSR Action Policy. Chairman President CSR Council JX Group Compliance Committee: Discusses, reports, and shares Executive Presidents of Compliance information related to Groupwide compliance (including Vice Presidents Core Operating Committee information security and human rights) Senior Companies Vice Presidents and Others Corporate JX Group Corporate Citizenship Committee: Discusses, reports, and Citizenship Committee shares information related to Groupwide corporate citizenship Executive Officers Environmental JX Group Environmental Committee: Discusses, reports, and shares Committee information related to Groupwide environmental issues Internal Audit Dept. These committees consist of members chosen from JX Holdings and Reporting related to budgets, Management, etc. JX Group companies. account settlements, CSR, etc. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Board of Directors Executive President and CEO Meeting CSR Committee Compliance Committee Statutory Auditors Citizenship Committee Secretariat Safety and Environment to Auditors Committee Energy Conservation Subcommittee Technology Development Business Committee Divisions 35 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Internal Control System The Internal Control Group within the Internal Auditing Department Operation of the Internal Control System Related of JX Holdings comprehensively manages compliance with the to Financial Reporting Financial Instruments and Exchange Act of Japan and Groupwide Internal Control Group internal control systems. President and CEO within the Internal Auditing Further, acting in accordance with the JX Group’s response policies, Department of JX Holdings JX Nippon Mining & Metals is constructing an internal control system Status reports / Instruction on Independent to ensure appropriate financial reporting, as required by the Financial Instruction Reports on improving reports on evaluation plans inadequate areas evaluation plans Instruments and Exchange Act. Reports on the results Compensation for directors and corporate auditors Accounting & of evaluations Internal Bonuses for the directors of JX Nippon Mining & Metals are determined Finance Dept. Adjustment of Auditing Office on the basis of consolidated business results of the Company as well Management of evaluation plans Independent evaluation implementation and of internal control as of JX Holdings. Retirement benefits and stock options are not operation of offered. internal control Business Groups Coordination Depts. PPC Administration Dept. Operation of internal control / Self-evaluation Internal Control Operation Network Instruction and support relating to implementation and operation of Management internal control / Instruction on improving inadequate areas / Confirmation of status of improvements Operating Sites Operation of internal control / Self-evaluation CSR Promotion System The CSR Committee, an advisory body to the president, is responsible for determining basic policies for the Group’s CSR activities, assessing progress toward CSR-related goals, and evaluating CSR performance from economic, environmental, and social perspectives. The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group makes a concerted effort to get CSR activities pervaded and stick root across the Group. Key CSR Activity Initiatives Fiscal 2006 Period for introducing CSR activities The new “Nippon Mining & Metals Co., Ltd.” was incorporated by the management integration of three metals companies. The CSR Kick-Off Convention was held. The CSR Committee and two of its subcommittees (the Compliance Subcommittee and Risk Management Subcommittee) were newly established. The Corporate Philosophy, Code of Conduct, Basic Environmental Policy, Basic Policy on Health and Safety, and Green Purchase Guideline were compiled. CSR activities were implemented at 24 operating sites. Fiscal 2007 Period for promoting CSR activities at overseas operating sites The Corporate Philosophy and Code of Conduct were translated into five languages (including English and Chinese) and distributed to and posted at each overseas affiliate company. The boundary of CSR activities was expanded to 24 domestic and 4 overseas operating sites. Fiscal 2008 Period for expanding and spreading awareness of CSR activities The CSR Office was newly established within the Administration Department. The boundary of CSR activities was expanded to 24 domestic and 14 overseas operating sites. The CSR Action Policy was compiled. The Group began supporting the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) and participating in the United Nations Global Compact. The Energy Conservation Subcommittee was established under the CSR Committee. Fiscal 2009 Period for spreading and integrating awareness of CSR activities The CSR Office was separated from the Administration Department and became the CSR Department. Basic quality control policy was established. Fiscal 2010 Period for spreading and integrating awareness of CSR activities—a continuation from fiscal 2009 The Code of Conduct was revised and re-established based on the JX Group Mission Statement. Fiscal 2011 Period for spreading and integrating awareness of CSR activities—a continuation from fiscal 2009 The Group reviewed its CSR promotion system from the standpoint of consistency with that of the overall JX Group. The Basic Policy on Procurement was compiled. The Green Purchase Guideline was revised. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 36 CSR Promotion With the three committees and a subcommittee established under PDCA Cycle the control of the CSR Committee, an advisory body to the president, All companies and departments the Group is striving to upgrade the quality of its CSR activities. In Develop yearly action plans pursuit of this goal, the Group engages in CSR activities based on the CSR Action Policy, evaluates performance against the policy and sets PLAN new annual goals. At the same time, the Group confirms whether business activities are in compliance with the Group’s Code of Conduct by All companies and departments CSR Committee All companies and implementing the PDCA cycle (see the diagram at right). (For further departments Implement necessary ACT Approve and DO details regarding the goals and performance in fiscal 2010, please see measures, reflect results report at each stage Execute pages 19 and 20.) in next year’s plan of the PDCA cycle Meanwhile, as of April 1, 2011, the Group reviewed its CSR promotion CHECK system from the standpoint of consistency with that of the overall JX Group. All companies and departments Specific changes are described below. Check performance based on economic, The previous Compliance Subcommittee was renamed the environmental, and social reports Compliance Committee. The Safety and Environment Committee and the Citizenship Committee were newly established. CSR Promotion System The Risk Management Subcommittee was dissolved with the compliance-related matters to be handled by the Compliance President and CEO Committee and the safetyand environment-related matters to be CSR Dept. handled by the Safety and Environment Committee. CSR Committee (Administration Office: CSR Dept.) Determine basic policies, promotion systems, and action plans Evaluate and manage status of individual actions and progression of plans Decide important initiatives Meeting frequency Regular meetings: twice a year Special meetings: as necessary Members Chairman: the president Committee members: executives below the rank of vice president and those chosen by the Chairman of the CSR Committee Administration Office CSR Dept. Compliance Committee (Administration Office: Administration Dept.) Citizenship Committee (Administration Office: CSR Dept.) Safety and Environment Committee (Administration Office: Environment & Safety Dept.) Energy Conservation Subcommittee (Administration Office: Facilities Engineering Dept.) Spreading Awareness of CSR Activities in Fiscal 2010 CSR briefing sessions were held at operating sites both in Japan and Conducting CSR briefing sessions and roundtable discussions overseas. We also carried out an employee survey related to our CSR In fiscal 2010, we held CSR briefing sessions for our employees on 45 activities and held roundtable discussions regarding CSR activities at occasions to explain the reality of the Group’s CSR activities, and we operating sites both in Japan and overseas. Through these efforts, we held 43 in-house roundtable discussions to exchange opinions related worked to spread and share CSR awareness across the Group. to our CSR activities with employees. At the briefing sessions held at our major operating sites, the staff of the CSR Dept. of JX Holdings Publishing Sustainability Report 2010 directly provided the participants with a deeper understanding of the Both a full and digest version of Sustainability Report 2010 were pubharmony with the JX Group Mission Statement. lished in Japanese, while the full version was published in English. The Japanese and English full report attained the Application Level A+ as Carrying out an employee survey on our CSR activities defined in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 of the Global An employee survey on Sustainability Report 2010 and the Group’s Reporting Initiative (GRI). CSR activities was carried out, targeting executive officers and employees. With a response rate of 95.1% in the survey, we successfully 37 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 disseminated and shared the importance of CSR awareness. The opinConducting roundtable discussions ions and comments obtained through this survey will be used as tools With the theme of “JX Nippon Mining & Metal's Corporate DNA and for identifying areas for the enhancement of future CSR activities. CSR: Roles to Be Carried Out by the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group toward the Development of a Sustainable Economy and Society,” Introducing the activities of the Energy Conservation a roundtable meeting was held between several members of the Subcommittee Company’s management team and the employees responsible for the The Energy Conservation Subcommittee supports the promotion of day-to-day business at each operating site to discuss and ascertain energy conservation activities at various operating sites within the the Group’s DNA, which has been nurtured for more than 100 years, Group. This is achieved by formulating goals and action plans, as well and the CSR activities to be tackled by each and every employee. as monitoring the activities implemented, assessing the progress and (For further details, please see pages 7 to 10.) summarizing data related to energy consumption. Compliance Compliance Committee Environment and Occupational Health Basic policies, priority issues for each fiscal year, education, and other and Safety issues regarding compliance are managed by the Compliance ComEach operating site operates in compliance with ISO 14001 in order to mittee. The members of this committee consist of executive officers deal with environmental issues. (For further details pertaining to cerManagement in charge of divisions of the head office and managers responsible. tification, please see page 65.) Meanwhile, the Group has been emThe Compliance Committee meets regularly twice a year and at other ploying the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series times as needed to discuss the status of compliance throughout the (OHSAS) to move ahead with systemizing Groupwide compliance with Group and decide upon basic policies regarding compliance. At the the relevant laws and regulations in the areas of labor, health, and end of each fiscal year, the Committee is convened to hear progress safety, while also improving risk management. (For further details, reports with regard to compliance-related matters from all operating please see page 82.) sites and subsequently summarizes these results. In addition, from these reports the Committee assesses the risks of fraud and law violaCompliance Guidebook tions, identifies priority issues, and incorporates this information into In addition to the Compliance Guidebook, the Group has distributed future education programs. booklets describing the Code of Conduct, the Basic Environmental Inspection on the status of compliance is conducted through a comPolicy, and the contact information for the Group Hotline. bination of diverse methods, including interviews with employees for performance/behavioral assessments and employee self-assessments. Group Hotline The Group has established the Group Hotline for the purpose of Compliance-related Education Programs preventing violations of the law as well as quickly uncovering and With the aim of increasing awareness about compliance and improvrectifying issues regarding such violations. ing the level of understanding about basic points of concern, the In fiscal 2010, there were no reports of compliance violations, includGroup organizes and conducts compliance-related education proing mistreatment and discrimination. grams in Japan as part of the induction course for new recruits. The Group also organizes and conducts additional training programs for Investigation, Instruction on employees in their third year after joining the Company as well as for response, Hotline Administration Office investigation Whistleblower within the Company President and Representative Director both newly promoted managers and assistant managers. Additionally, status report and response Chief of in fiscal 2010, compliance-related education programs were impleAdministration Office Call Report mented based on the following two themes. Members of Administration Office Education regarding the antitrust law Call acceptance, The Company implemented an education program at its head office investigation, response regarding the antitrust law. A total of 78 employees working in the sales department at the head office and in related companies located Report near the head office took part in this program. Call Legal advisor Education regarding export control The Company holds explanation panels at its head office and at relevant operating sites regarding export control as one of the regular education programs. A total of 80 employees participated in these panels. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 38 Risk Management We endeavor to enhance and strengthen risk management by establishing a risk management system based on substantial data. Initiatives of the Risk Management computers, intra-company networks and USB memory devices. Subcommittee In line with the management integration of the Nippon Mining Risk management issues were handled primarily by the Risk ManageHoldings Group and Nippon Oil Corporation in fiscal 2010, the JX Group ment Subcommittee. This subcommittee met twice a year and identiIT Security Manual was stipulated as the Groupwide resource for fied and evaluated risks at major operating sites and divisions of the security-related rules. The Group intends to promote future internal Group based on basic risk management policies and action plans. educational activity based on the Manual. Effective from April 2011, the Risk Management Subcommittee was dissolved with the compliance-related matters to be handled by the Risk Management of Large-Scale Compliance Committee and the safetyand environment-related matNatural Disasters ters to be handled by the Safety and Environment Committee. The JX Group designated September 10–17, 2010, as “JX Group Disaster Prevention Week” with the aim of raising people’s awareness and imProtection of Personal Information proving knowledge of disaster prevention and conducted various The Company strives to properly manage personal information by preparedness drills in line with the prescribed countermeasures. setting forth the Personal Information Protection Rules based on the Consequently, the Group also conducted various disaster preparedPersonal Information Protection Policy stipulated below. ness drills during the week to manage risks regarding large-scale natural disasters, such as an earthquake, a storm or a flood, by establishing Personal Information Protection Policy countermeasures to be used at each operating site in the event of such Compliance with laws and the establishment and continual a large-scale disaster. improvement of internal rules On September 16, 2010, on the assumption of a large earthquake Proper collection, use, and provision of personal information with an epicenter in the northern part of Tokyo Bay occurring in the Implementation of security measures Tokyo metropolitan area, evacuation drills from the JX Building and Respect for the rights of individuals initial response drills of the Disaster Prevention Headquarters were Personal information training for executive officers and employees conducted. Executive officers and employees of the Group, who work at the offices in the JX Building, participated in these drills, and the Information Security Disaster Prevention Headquarters was established in the Company We are working to bolster our management system for information with President Masanori Okada as Chief of the Headquarters to take security. As one facet of these efforts, the Information Security Rules appropriate responses such as confirmation of the safety of employees and the Information Security Standards have been established in and their families and gaining a precise understanding of the disasterthe Company and its principal affiliated companies to enhance our affected circumstances at major operating sites. management systems and standards. Furthermore, we are systematically strengthening our IT-related security, management and use of At the Occurrence of the Great East Japan Earthquake After the occurrence of the Great East Japan Earthquake on March Esashi Works, Sanyu Electronic Industry 11, 2011, the Disaster Prevention Headquarters was quickly estabCo., Ltd. (Oshu City, Iwate Prefecture) • Precision Fabricated Materials lished at the head office of the Company with President Masanori • Plant operation was suspended due to adverse eﬀects such Oya Mine as direct damage to equipment, installations and/or Okada as Chief of the Headquarters. Within the Group, the six oper(Kesennuma City, Miyagi Prefecture) buildings, electric power failure and disrupted water supply. • Closure mine (Processing of mine drainage) ating sites shown on the accompanying map were damaged. The • Plant operation was resumed by the end of March. • Tailings were discharged due to the liquefaction of soil. Disaster Prevention Headquarters immediately started initiatives to • Residences and ﬁelds downstream were damaged. Ichinoseki Foil Manufacturing Co., Ltd. • The outﬂow of slag was almost wholly removed confirm the disaster-affected circumstances of major operating sites, (Ichinoseki City, Iwate Prefecture) by the end of June. the safety of employees and their families and the extent of the • Copper foil related products • Plant operation was suspended due to adverse eﬀects devastation and restorative needs of the peripheral infrastructure. such as direct damage to equipment, installations As an outline of the devastated circumstances at the affected and/or buildings, electric power failure and disrupted Takatama Mine water supply. operating sites was prepared two days after the earthquake, the (Koriyama City, Fukushima Prefecture) • Plant operation was resumed by the end of March. • Closure mine respective operating sites of the Group in Japan and South Korea • Tailings discharged due to a landslide were almost started transporting supporting goods (water, foodstuffs and other Isohara Works wholly removed. (Kitaibaraki City, Ibaraki Prefecture) daily necessities) bound for the devastated operating sites. • Sputtering Targets, Compound Semiconductor Hitachi Works Materials, Surface Treatment Agents, Cathode (Hitachi City, Ibaraki Prefecture) Materials for LiB • Copper Foil, Metallic Powder, Precision Fabricated • Plant operation was suspended due to adverse eﬀects Materials, Refined Copper such as direct damage to equipment, installations • Recycling and Environmental Services Business and/or buildings, electric power failure and disrupted • Plant operation was suspended due to adverse eﬀects such water supply. as direct damage to equipment, installations and/or • Normal plant operation was resumed at the end of July. buildings, electric power failure and disrupted water supply. • Normal plant operation was resumed except for several Loading operation of supporting goods at the head office facilities. 39 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Economic Activities Report Economic activities of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group, including its business performances and details of operations are reported. Introducing Our Business Activities: 41 Upstream (Resource Development Business) 41 Midstream (Smelting and Refining Business) 43 Downstream (Electronic Materials Business) 45 Downstream (Recycling and Environmental Services Business) 47 Technology Development 49 Business Results in Fiscal 2010 51 Economic Effects on Stakeholders 52 Topics in Fiscal 2010 53 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 40 Introducing Our Business Activities: Upstream (Resources Development Business) With regard to the Caserones Copper and Molybdenum Deposit Development Project (the “Caserones Project”), the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group conducted a feasibility study and an environmental impact assessment after acquiring the mining concession in May 2006. After environmental approval to develop the Caserones Project was granted by the Environmental Committee of Region III of Chile, the Company decided to advance the Caserones Project into the full-fledged development stage and began construction of the necessary facilities in April 2010. In this Report, we outline the progress of this project, as well as our initiatives in response to environmental issues and toward the local community, which SCM Minera Lumina Copper Chile (“MLCC”), an affiliated company in Chile, is managing. Camps at the Caserones Project View of operation in the construction field at the project site Progress of the Caserones Project Initiatives Regarding Biodiversity The chart below shows the planned layout of the major facilities. The photo above shows the construction field as of the end of April 2011. The camps, which will accommodate more than 8,000 workers at its peak, have already been completed, and construction workers have started living there in the boarding houses. Major facilities to be laid out under the Caserones Project Transplantation of the vega plant Vega plant rooted at the transplanted site 1 MLCC has set aside 0.87km2 of the overall owned area of 385km2 as a 2 protection area for animals and plants inhabiting the area. 3 We are in compliance with the following local regulations: 1) “In case trees are cut in a certain area, trees must be planted for an area 1.6 times 4 8 larger than the trimmed forest area,” and 2) “In case any protected plant 7 is cut out of necessity, 10 times the number of the same species of plant 5 must be planted.” In November 2010, under experts’ guidance, plants 6 in a wetland vegetation zone (9,400m2) of the Caserones Valley, in which valuable wetland plants are distributed and which is the planned construction site of our production facilities, were wholly transplanted to La Ollita Valley, the nearest place with an appropriate 1 Primary Crusher habitat. The vega plant, a rare plant that thrives in wetlands under arid 2 Crusher climates, is subject to legal protection. 3 Water Storage Pond At the site of the Caserones Project, MLCC has confirmed the exis4 Mills and Flotation Plant tence of 13 orders, 26 families and 52 species of animals. Eleven of these 5 Substation species, including condors and llamas, are classified as endangered. 6 Office and Warehouse As a result, MLCC is monitoring these endangered species and taking 7 Cu, Mo Filtering Plant measures to protect them. 8 Truck Repair Shop 41 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Initiatives toward the Local Community To be a good neighbor to the local community, MLCC is proactively building relationships of trust with these communities. Accordingly, MLCC is nurturing communication with the local communities. MLCC hired 17% of all workers engaged in the Caserones Project in the local community (Region III) as of June 30, 2011. To raise the ratio to the targeted requirement of 20%, MLCC has set up training programs to promote local employment in cooperation with Tierra Amarilla City and other municipalities. Also, MLCC focused on preparing an Environmental Social Management Plan for completion. This plan will be used to evaluate and manage the diverse effects of the Caserones Project on neighboring communities. Firefighting vehicle donated to a local fire company Water Management In the Caserones Project, MLCC plans to achieve water use of 518L/sec at its full-scale operation. This corresponds to water use intensity of 0.3 m3 of water per ton of processed ore, the lowest level compared with other copper mines in the world. This innovation was achieved by establishing a system to reuse approximately 80% of the wastewater by increasing the volume of repeatedly used water in the ore Power generator donated to the Christmas party with local children processing. Los Loros urban community In the lower reaches of the Copiapó riverine system, in which the Caserones deposits are located, a water shortage has become conspicuous due to the flourishing viniculture. MLCC takes various initiatives to keep a good balance with the water used for its mining business. MLCC’s initiatives in this regard include 1) discontinuing alfalfa cultivation by purchasing agricultural lands and mowing weeds Economic Activities Report Lecture under a training program Driving lesson using heavy equipment at riversides to restrict the large loss of water incurred through evaporation in the midand upstream areas of the Copiapó River, and 2) providing desalinated seawater for irrigation to communities downstream along the Copiapó River. Transportation Safety Measures Copper and molybdenum concentrates and refined copper produced from the Caserones Project will be transported by trucks to the port of Totoralillo and other ports along the Pacific Ocean before being shipped by sea. MLCC will make every effort to secure transportation safety by implementing safety training for truck drivers and enhancing Copiapó River (after mowing weeds and taking preventive measures for wastewathe monitoring systems of trucks in transit. ter penetration) Meanwhile, Highway C35, which will be used for the transportation of materials and shipment of products regarding the Caserones Project, passes through Los Loros, a small urban community with a population of approximately 1,000 residents. A bypass of 2.2km in length is under construction by MLCC to ensure safe transportation around Los Loros. Rendering of bypass after completion JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 42 Introducing Our Business Activities: Midstream (Smelting and Refining Business) In the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. (PPC), conducts copper smelting and refining operations at both its Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery and Hitachi Works, as well as at the Tamano Smelter of Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd., each of which is proud of its world-class technical capability, cost competitiveness and productivity. The Group’s annual production capacity of refined copper totals 610 thousand tons (a combined 450 thousand tons at the Saganoseki and Hitachi plants and 160 thousand tons at the Tamano Smelter*1), which is the largest in Japan and top-rated globally. PPC stably supplies high-quality refined copper. *1. Pro rata share of PPC’s equity About Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. PPC is an integrated copper operating company based on alliances between JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation and Mitsui Mining & Smelting Co., Ltd. Operating since January 2001, the company vertically integrates resource development, raw material procurement, production and sales. Also, both parent companies of PPC have developed a business alliance with LS-Nikko Copper Co., Ltd., which is a smelting company jointly owned with the LS Group of South Korea. Accordingly, PPC has established a solid position as a leading copper producer in Asia. * On April 1, 2010, PPC absorbed Nikko Smelting & Refining Co., Ltd., to directly control operation of the Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery and the Hitachi Works. Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery Tamano Smelter Smelting and Refining Process at the Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery Waste anode Blister copper Raw materials Copper matte Converter Converter blister Anode Anode Anode Refining plant Refined copper copper furnace casting wheel Precipitate Steam Energy source for plants Flash furnace Converter slag Waste-heat Waste-heat Precipitate Rare and boiler power plant reprocessing precious metals, Waste gas plant such as gold Copper slag Concentrated sulfuric acid concentrate Slag cleaning Flotation plant Electric Sulfuric Acid tanks Stack furnace (mineral dressing) dust collector acid plant (dust removal) (recovery of Copper sulfur) slag concentrate Iron concentrates Copper slag Shipping Bucket elevator 43 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Initiatives to Reduce CO2 Emissions and Energy Consumption The Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery and the Tamano Smelter are taking high-temperature gas to enable its use in drying materials or as an measures to utilize high-temperature waste gas produced at their sulenergy source. Both the Saganoseki and Tamano plants are moving furic acid plant during the copper smelting process to dry raw materiahead with construction of these facilities, which are scheduled to be als and use it as an energy source. At the sulfuric acid plant, a process completed in 2013. After construction is complete, the facilities will to recover sulfur from the copper concentrate that produces sulfuric generate electricity and allow us to reduce electricity costs by ¥700 acid creates high-temperature gas, with temperatures ranging from million to ¥800 million a year and lower CO2 emissions by approxi300°C to 500°C. Waste-heat recovery facilities will recover this mately 20 thousand tons per annum. Responding to the Deteriorating Grade of Copper Concentrate The number of quality mines that produce high-quality copper ore is the refractory materials used as the walls of the furnace from melting continually decreasing around the world. Consequently, the grade of and depleting. Furthermore, the prevention of melting and depleting copper found in ore is declining. The grade of copper concentrate (the allows us to extend the intervals between regular maintenance operapercentage of copper contained in ore) being used in the Saganoseki tions. With this measure, we plan to conduct regular maintenance Smelter & Refinery, which was around 35% in the mid-1990s, has reonce every two years—we have conducted yearly maintenance to cently fallen to below 30%. date. Going forward, we will extend the interval between maintenance The deteriorating grade of copper concentrate used results in an operations to five years. increase in the amount of copper concentrate necessary to keep opAlthough the extension of the interval between maintenance operation. At the same time, the relative increase in impurities, such as erations may increase the number of operating days in a year, we will iron and sulfur, produces more reactive heat with a higher temperanot devote the increased capacity to process more copper concenture, and consequently damages the flash furnace to reduce its useful trate. Instead, we will decrease the hourly input amount of copper life. To respond, we are taking measures to modify the shape of the concentrate and increase the processing time within the furnace. This water-cooling apparatus set on the outer wall of the furnace. This meawill improve the extraction percentage of copper. In this way, we are sure can increase the efficiency of the apparatus and thus help prevent streamlining our smelting operation to bolster its efficiency. Effects of Deteriorating Copper Concentrate at Efficient Copper Production at the Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery the Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery Extending maintenance intervals from annual Economic Activities Report Copper production capacity of to two years and then to five years the Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery 450 thousand t/year Increased temperatures in Increasing the number of annual operating days furnaces due to such impurities as iron and sulfur in copper concentrate Reducing the hourly input amount of copper concentrate 1.3 1.6 210 180 1.3 million tons of 35% grade 1.6 million tons of copper concentrate are needed 28% grade copper concentrate 210t/hour 180t/hour to operate at full capacity are needed to operate at full capacity Increasing the processing time of copper concentrate within the furnace Reducing the burden Improving the extraction on the furnace percentage of copper At the Occurrence of the Great East Japan Earthquake PPC produces refined copper via electrolytic copper refining at the Hitachi Works, located in Hitachi City, Ibaraki Prefecture. Although its production was partly suspended because part of its production facilities were damaged by the Great East Japan Earthquake, the Works resumed production on April 19, 2011, as a result of concerted efforts to recover. Crystallized electrolytic solution After cleaning JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 44 Introducing Our Business Activities: Downstream (Electronic Materials Business) In the Group’s electronic materials business, functional materials and thin film materials, which are used in IT-related devices and automotive applications, are developed, manufactured, and marketed. In order to remain well informed of the diverse customer needs for electronic materials, we are proactively undertaking “communication” initiatives with customers. Further, we take on “challenges” to incorporate these needs into our electronic materials with “speed.” As a result, we strive to remain the “First Vendor”—the most trustworthy business partner to customers. Responding to Diversifying Needs by Extending the Integrated Production System In April 2010, the Company consolidated Nikko Fuji Electronics Co., Ltd. components after pressing operations), whereas Suzuki Manufacturing (which had been wholly owned by JX Nippon Mining & Metals excelled in high-speed, microfabrication pressing, as well as the design Corporation), which had played a central role in the Group’s precision and manufacture of precision dies/molds. processing business, to establish a unified operating system that In implementing these measures, the Company has further extendwould allow the Company to become more proactive and timely in ed its integrated production system covering from raw materials to utilizing Groupwide management resources in the pre-plating field precision rolling, pressing and plating. Consequently, the Company is (precision plating on base materials before pressing operations). now prepared to respond to diversifying customer needs in every asAlso in April 2010, the Company acquired all the shares of Sanyu pect of development, quality, delivery time and cost, including the Electronic Industry Co., Ltd., a leading, dedicated company for Eco-Car (see the next page) and IT applications for which rapid comindustrial-use electroplating, and in February 2011, those of Suzuki puterization is in progress. At the same time, the Company will enManufacturing Co., Ltd., of which the major business was precision deavor to contribute to establishing a recycling-oriented society by pressing. Sanyu Electronic Industry had superior engineering capability promoting its recycling operations. in the post-plating business field (precision plating on pressed Conventionally Pre-plating Pressing (or Press) Products Various challenges Raw materials (technology, cost and delivery time) Pressing (or Press) Post-plating Products After the extension We collectively design an optimum manufacturing method for each product through a careful combination of high-level of the integrated technologies for the selection of raw materials and the pressing and plating processes. production system Blanking press Pre-plating Bending press Bending press Post-plating Raw materials Assembly Products Pre-plating Blanking and bending press Pre-plating Establishing a Recycling-Oriented Society Raw materials Pressing (or Press) Plating Collection of Shipment to scrap metals customers Recycling Assembly 45 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Developing the Business for Next-generation, Environment-friendly Vehicles (Eco-Cars) High growth potential is expected for the market of next-generation, environment-friendly vehicles (Eco-Cars), which include electric vehicles (EVs), plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs) and hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs). In the Group’s electronic materials business, aggressive business development focusing on the Eco-Car field is planned. In the following segment of this report, we introduce the Group’s new business development plans for Eco-Cars. Major Expansion of Production Capacity for Establishing a Manufacturer of In-vehicle Cathode Materials for Automotive Lithium-Ion Electronic Components and Materials and Batteries Constructing a Plant for Pressing and Plating The Isohara Works plans to significantly increase the manufacturing JX Nippon Mining & Metals has decided to establish JX Metals Precision capacity of cathode materials for in-vehicle lithium-ion batteries Technology Co., Ltd., a manufacturer of precision components and to 5,000 tons per annum from the current capacity of 300 tons. The materials (pressed and plated precision rolled products) for use in car above reinforcement of equipment and facilities was adopted as a electronic parts, and to build a new plant in Kakegawa City, Shizuoka “Fiscal 2010 Low-Carbon-Type, Employment-Creating Industrial Prefecture, to perform the pressing and plating of precision Location Promoting Business” sponsored by the Ministry of Economy, components and materials. The new company was set up in April 2011, Trade and Industry. Demand for lithium-ion batteries is rapidly increasand the new plant is to start operation in April 2013. ing for the in-vehicle power supplies that are indispensable in the An increase in demand for precision rolled products and precision next-generation, environment-friendly vehicles. components and materials, which are used in environment-friendly For in-vehicle lithium-ion batteries used in car electronic parts, a vehicles (Eco-Cars), is anticipated. At present, the Kurami Works manugood balance among high capacity, safety and the product’s life is factures precision rolled products and plants located in the Hitachi and essential and cathode materials for automotive lithium-ion batteries Isohara areas primarily perform the pressing and plating thereof. therefore must have the quality and character to adequately meet The establishment of a new company and the construction of a new these demanding requirements. The Company endeavors to establish plant as described above derive from the policy of strengthening and a sophisticated production system to stably supply high-purity and expanding the current supply system of precision components and homogeneous cathode materials that sufficiently meet the aforemenmaterials. We can therefore expect the reinforcement and expansion tioned quality requirements by reinforcing the production capacity of of this integrated supply system covering the raw materials, pressing the facilities for which its original, integrated processes are adopted. and plating processes—the Company’s core strength—to contribute much to the future growth of the Eco-Car market. Economic Activities Report Groundbreaking ceremony Planned construction site of the new plant of the new plant Cathode materials At the Occurrence of the Great East Japan Earthquake Five operating sites in the electronic materials business were affected Resumed operation by mid-April 2011 except for several by the earthquake. Operations at these sites were suspended due to products the damage to buildings or facilities and such adverse effects as the Shirogane Works (at present, Copper Foil Dept.) in Hitachi power failure and disrupted water supply just after its occurrence. All Works and Hitachi Fabricating Works (at present, Precision of the operating sites, however, immediately ensured the safety of Plating Dept.), Hitachi City, Ibaraki Prefecture their employees and their families, as well as the security of plant Isohara Works and Isohara Fabricating Works, Kitaibaraki City, buildings, equipment and facilities. Consequently, the operating sites Ibaraki Prefecture generally resumed operation after these recovery operations. Resumed operation in late March 2011 Ichinoseki Foil Manufacturing Co., Ltd., Ichinoseki City, Iwate Prefecture Esashi Works, Sanyu Electronic Industry Co., Ltd., Oshu City, Iwate Prefecture Cracks on a road in Hitachi City Evacuating to take refuge outdoors (Isohara Works) JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 46 Introducing Our Business Activities: Downstream (Recycling and Environmental Services Business) The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group is an integrated recycling and environmental services operator that has built a nationwide network of recycling and environmental services businesses. In order to fully leverage the processing capabilities of the Hitachi Metal Recycling Complex (HMC) Department of the Hitachi Works, located in Hitachi City, Ibaraki Prefecture, we are strengthening our ability to collect recycled materials as well as bolster our analysis and pre-treatment capabilities. Further, we strive to establish materials stewardship through such initiatives as advancing a project to recover lithium and other rare metals from used lithium-ion batteries. Outline of Recycling and Environmental Services Business Four affiliated companies working within environmental services, including the recycling and detoxification treatment of industrial waste, to achieve zero emissions, with ISO 14001 certification acquired. Kanto, Tohoku, Tokai, Kansai, Hokkaido Hokuriku and Chubu and Hokuriku and Hokuriku Four affiliated companies Recycled raw materials JX Nippon Environmental JX Nippon Tomakomai JX Nippon Tsuruga JX Nippon Mikkaichi and industrial waste Services Co., Ltd. Chemical Co., Ltd. Recycle Co., Ltd. Recycle Co., Ltd. Overseas mines Copper concentrate HMC Department, Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Hitachi Works Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. Manufacturing of electronic materials Electric and electronic devices CPUs, memory devices, semiconductors, and other similar components Electric and electronic devices PCs, mobile phones, TVs, and Chiongpin Recycling Center, Maruwn Corp./ other electric/electronic products Taiwan Re-tem Corp. Society 47 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 What is Materials Stewardship? Materials stewardship, which is advocated and promoted by the InterMaterials Stewardship Diagram national Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), embodies the range of activities required to ensure the optimal and appropriate use of Disposal Return to minerals and metals in society. In cooperation with its customers who environment Society’s need for minerals and metals work with IT-related businesses, the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group is recovering nonferrous metals as recycled materials, which the Group Reuse Product subsequently mines, smelts, and refines before sending them to sociUse and stewardship social benefit ety. Through these efforts, we are contributing to the development of Remanufacture a recycling-oriented society as well as aiming to realize materials Product Exploration innovation stewardship. and design Process stewardship Semi-fabrication Recycling Mine site and fabrication development Extraction Smelting mining and refining Reference: materials of ICMM Improving Analysis Capability to Support the Recycling Business The capabilities and technologies to precisely and rapidly measure the volumes of value-bearing metals, which are contained in recycled materials, are essential to firmly support the recycling business by ensuring fair trading with the purchasers of the recycled materials. The Group has determined to install a state-of-the-art analytical instrument, as well as pulverizing and automatic sampling equipment, at the Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery of Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd., for swifter analysis of recycled materials. The implementation of this Economic Activities Report equipment should contribute to increasing the volumes of recycled materials such as substrates and electronic components collected from used small household appliances, etc., and the recovered volumes of value-bearing metals. In addition, as the analytical instrument is capable of detecting rare earth minerals, its combined use in the rare earth recovery process from recycled materials is under review as a Pulverized recycled materials promising future task. At the Occurrence of the Great East Japan Earthquake As for operating sites in the recycling and environmental services business, the HMC Department of the Hitachi Works and JX Nippon Environmental Services Co., Ltd. (both in Hitachi City, Ibaraki Prefecture), were affected by the earthquake. Fortunately, however, the buildings and facilities of these operating sites suffered no serious damage. Consequently, both the HMC Department and JX Nippon Environmental Services resumed operation after the holiday weekend in May 2011. Cooperation with a local municipal body Hitachi City also suffered damage from the tsunami generated by the earthquake. In response to a request from Hitachi City, JX Nippon Environmental Services disposed of the wreckage caused by the tsunami and has carried out disposals at the rate of approximately 50 tons per month since May 2011. Wreckage produced from the tsunami damage JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 48 Technology Development The Group’s High-Purity Metals Lead the World The Group is promoting diverse technology developments for future business deployment by taking advantage of various elemental technologies that it has nurtured through mine development, smelting and refining and the development of electronic materials. In particular, the Group has produced high-purity metals by focusing on the development of purification technologies for various metals to create highly functional electronic materials. In this Report, we would like to introduce some of the Company’s technology developments regarding purification technologies. Characteristics of High-Purity Metals Metals often have unprecedented characteristics when their purity level is increased. Commercially available metals usually have a purity level of 2N (99%)–4N (99.99%). If the purity level is increased by one grade or more to 5N (99.999%) or higher, they are called “high-purity metals.” Compared to metals with conventional purities, these high-purity metals have such characteristics as: Improvement in corrosion resistance; Improvement in ductility (processing characteristics); A decline in recrystallization temperature; The coarsening of crystal grains; and A change in magnetic properties. Production of High-Purity Metals The Group has developed and produced the high-purity metals enumerated below, mainly for metals that have been subject to research or used for semiconductors (including compound semiconductors). 1A 2A 3A 4A 5A 6A 7A 8A 1B 2B 3B 4B 5B 6B 7B H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar K Ca Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co Ni Cu Zn Ga Ge As Se Br Kr Rb Sr Y Zr Nb Mo Tc Ru Rh Pd Ag Cd In Sn Sb Te I Xe Cs Ba La Hf Ta W Re Os Ir Pt Au Hg Tl Pb Bi Po At Rn Fr Ra Ac La Ce Pr Nd Pm Sm Eu Gd Tb Dy Ho Er Tm Yb Lu Ac Th Pa U Np Pu Am Cm Bk Cf Es Fm Md No Lr 23 elements currently in production 11 elements previously produced Elements currently under development or under trial production 49 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 The Group has enabled the purification of the following metals by taking full advantage of its original hydrometallurgical refining processes such as electrolysis, selective precipitation, ion exchange and solvent extraction, as well as pyrometallurgical refining processes, including distillation, zone melting, solid-state electrolysis and vacuum melting. Silicon Titanium Vanadium Chromium Manganese Iron Cobalt Nickel Copper Zinc Zirconium Niobium 5N 4N5 4N 4N 4N 5N 5N 5N 6N 6N 4N 5N 5N 5N 5N5 9N 4N5 5N5 Molybdenum Ruthenium Silver Cadmium Indium Tin Antimony Tellurium Hafnium Tantalum Tungsten 6N 5N 6N 6N 6N 6N 5N 6N 5N 4N5 5N 7N 6N 6N 6N * Zirconium: excluding hafnium; Hafnium: excluding zirconium; Metals Niobium: excluding tantalum Purities * All the metals exclusive of gas constituents (O,C,N,H,S) Development of Ultra-High-Purity Copper The Group covers operations from the mining exploitation of copper after having been subject to plastic forming. The ultra-high-purity 9Nore to the smelting of refined copper (4N) and the production of highCu has been adopted as a standard substance in the analysis field and purity copper (6N) for sputtering targets for semiconductors. In addiis used as a standard substance for temperature measurement. It is tion, the Group has established a production process for the world’s therefore acclaimed as the world’s highest-purity standard substance. highest-purity copper (9N-Cu). This ultra-high-purity 9N-Cu scarcely Furthermore, it is used in the basic research domain on the distortion rusts even if exposed to air and contains large crystal grains with a clear action of substances, which takes advantage of the velocity of dislocapink color. Its recrystallization temperature is remarkably less than that tion (or the linear lattice defect). of ordinary copper, and it gradually softens in room temperature even Economic Activities Report Examples of the Analysis of Impurities Contained in Copper with Various Purities (Unit: ppm) Iron Nickel Silver Aluminum Selenium Silicon Antimony Arsenic Lead Sulfur 4N 2.1 0.3 7.8 0.1 0.8 1.0 2.1 1.7 0.6 3.1 6N 0.002–0.03 0.001–0.01 0.1–0.3 0.004–0.06 <0.01–0.2 0.05 <0.02 <0.005 <0.001 0.01 9N <0.005 <0.001 <0.005 <0.001 <0.005 <0.005 <0.005 <0.005 <0.001 <0.005 Development of Purification Technologies When the purity level of metals is increased, new solid-state properties, which are completely different from those of ordinary pure metals, are seen. In other words, the characteristics of ordinary pure metals are unlike the attributes of high-purity metals in nature. Until recently, high-purity metals were mainly used in the semiconductor field, whereas purification technologies have been primarily applied to the recycling of value-bearing metals and analysis techniques. Their enhanced application in the future is foreseen in the field of nano-materials that have new functions or properties. More specifically, highly functional materials are expected to be produced by enabling the manufacture of materials and components that require more sophisticated processing precision by using nano-metals to be produced by drawing fully on the strength of the purification technologies. Appearance of 9N-Cu JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 50 Business Results in Fiscal 2010 (From April 1, 2010, to March 31, 2011) Economic Activities of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group: Business Performance and Details of Operations In fiscal 2010, the global economy gradually recovered, on the whole, develop the deposit. Meanwhile, in the smelting and manufacturing driven by high growth rates of the emerging countries including China fields, operation remained steady at the Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, due to expanded exports and domestic demand, in addition to the the Tamano Smelter and a smelting company jointly owned with the upward momentum of the U.S. economy, which was sustained by the LS Group of South Korea. A manufacturer of arabikisen in China befavorable effects of governmental stimulus policies. However, Japan’s came operational in March 2010 after the completion of state-of-thesituation became harsh as a slumping economy is feared in the afterart facilities with annual production capacity of 300 thousand tons. math of the Great East Japan Earthquake although the Japanese econIn the recycling and environmental services business, a plant at the omy primarily sustained by steady exports had earlier picked up after Hitachi Metal Recycling Complex (HMC) Works started operation on a a temporary stalemate due to the effect of the appreciation of the yen. full-fledged basis to reinforce our operating base for collecting diverse The international copper price followed an upward trend against a kinds of nonferrous materials from a wide variety of recycled materials. background of the global recovery of demand. Consequently, the copIn addition, to raise the collecting capacity of recycled materials, the per price on the London Metal Exchange (LME) rose to a record high Saganoseki Works started receiving recycled materials collected by a above US$10 thousand per ton in February 2011. On the other hand, in Taiwanese subsidiary to recover value-bearing metals. Furthermore, the foreign exchange market, the appreciation of the yen against the the effectiveness of our recycling technologies for rare metals conU.S. dollar moved from ¥93 to the U.S. dollar at the beginning of the tained in used automotive lithium-ion batteries has been confirmed fiscal year to less than ¥80 to the U.S. dollar in March 2011. through demonstration trials. We intend to have further demonstraThe global demand for copper was strong primarily in China, where tion tests and conduct various reviews to enhance the commercial high economic growth continues. The demand for electronic materials application of our recovery technologies. (functional materials consisting of copper foil, precision rolled products In the electronic materials business, the Company acquired all the and precision fabricated products, as well as thin film materials) was shares of Sanyu Electronic Industry Co., Ltd., a dedicated company for favorable in the first half of the fiscal year under review against a backindustrial-use electroplating, to strengthen its capability in the postdrop of production expansion overseas for finished products. However, plating process and converted Suzuki Manufacturing Co., Ltd., a preciaffected by the inventory adjustment for some finished products, desion press pressing company, into a wholly owned subsidiary, thereby mand for related electronic materials remained flat in the second half. establishing an integrated production system covering precision In these circumstances, the Group carried out the following policies rolling to pressing and plating. Moreover, the Group started building a in the metal business pursuant to the basic strategy in the mediumnew plant of precision components and materials (pressed and plated term management plan. precision rolled products) for use in car electronic parts in Kakegawa In the copper business, to raise the ratio of equity entitlement copCity, Shizuoka Prefecture. In the future, the Group aims to strengthen per mine production (the ratio of copper concentrate obtained from its supply system of precision components and materials. The Group sources where the Group owns mining rights to its total copper conalso started constructing relevant equipment that will allow the Isohara centrate requirements for its smelting and refining business) in the Works to carry out mass production of high-quality cathode materials resources development field, the Group additionally acquired the minused in automotive lithium-ion batteries, which are indispensable in ing rights for the Escondida Copper Mine (Chile) and promoted relethe next-generation, environment-friendly vehicles (Eco-Cars). vant construction works at the Caserones Copper and Molybdenum Consequently, the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group’s consolidated Deposit Development Project in Chile toward the targeted start of pronet sales amounted to ¥940.6 billion. Consolidated ordinary income duction during fiscal 2013. The Group also advanced research and evaluwas ¥70.7 billion. ation on the Quechua Copper Deposit (Peru) to determine whether to Consolidated Net Sales Consolidated Ordinary Income Consolidated Ordinary Income by Business Segment Upstream (Resources Development) Midstream (Copper Smelting, etc.) Downstream (Recycling and Environmental Services, Electronic Materials, etc.) Inventory-related income and expenses*1 (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 1,200 150 80 1,119.6 134.1 1,024.1 1,000 940.6 902.1 120 113.4 60 800 780.7 90 40 600 70.7 60 20 400 47.4 28.5 30 0 200 0 0 –20 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY *1. Inventory-related income and expenses, which were included in the midstream and downstream fields, are separately reported retroactively for prior years. 51 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Economic Effects on Stakeholders The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group develops its business activities by getting involved in the businesses of various stakeholders. The economic effects can be identified by stakeholder in the form of financial flows that represent how much the economic value, which is created through such operation as sales of products to customers, will be distributed to each stakeholder. Economic Effects The economic effects of specific items pertinent to stakeholders The projected benefit obligation was ¥16.8 billion for the severance are shown in the table below. The economic effects are identified by indemnity plans and ¥2.5 billion for the defined benefit plans (turned stakeholder and by the geographical area in which companies of the over by different funds from the Group). Of the total of ¥19.3 billion, Group operate. ¥2.5 billion was contributed to funds outside the Group as pension Sales revenue from customers was ¥940.6 billion, over 78% of which assets. As a result of deducting ¥0.2 billion in an unrecognized actuarial was recognized from sales in Japan, while over 98% was the sum of gain or loss, the remaining ¥16.7 billion was recognized as accrued sales in Japan and other Asian countries. retirement benefits for employees. The projected benefit obligation is Other revenue totaled ¥18.4 billion. The breakdown of this included calculated as of the end of the fiscal year, and the estimated pension dividends received from investments, interest received from financial benefit was allocated over the period of the pension plan with a disinstitutions and grants from public institutions. count rate of 2.0% for the most part. We paid ¥880.2 billion for the services rendered by suppliers, includDividends paid to shareholders totaled ¥0.6 billion. And ¥4.4 billion ing materials procurement. was interest on loans paid to creditors. Personnel expenses, including legal welfare expenses, totaled The Group recorded income taxes of ¥3.4 billion in fiscal 2010 on ¥36.6 billion. the financial statements. Additionally, we posted ¥3.0 billion as The postretirement benefit plan, which JX Nippon Mining & Metals other taxes and public charges, which we included as an expense. In and its domestic subsidiary companies have adopted, includes an aptotal, we recognized ¥6.4 billion as distributions to government proved retirement annuity system, a corporate pension plan under the administrations. constitution and a severance indemnity plan as defined benefit plans. An amount of ¥0.12 billion was donated to society as a part of our Also, JX Nippon Mining & Metals and some domestic subsidiary comsocial contribution program. panies employ a defined contribution corporate pension plan. Further, Revenue from national and regional governments (grants, tax credunder certain circumstances, premium severance payments are proits, etc.) amounted to approximately ¥0.6 billion centering on the revvided to employees. enue from entrusted operations as a result of the Company being Economic Activities Report Additionally, some overseas subsidiaries have defined benefit plans chosen for “a development project for a recycling technology to exand defined contribution plans. tract rare metals from used lithium-ion batteries,” for which public subscription was offered as an industrial technology development business of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Financial Flows by Geographical Area and Stakeholder (Value Added Through Operations) (Billions of yen) IN OUT Value Retained (IN-OUT) Item Sales revenue Other revenue Operating costs Personnel Dividends Interest paid Taxes Donations and expenses expenses Stakeholder Customers Investments / Suppliers Employees Shareholders Creditors National and Society Borrowers / regional Public governments institutions Items used to Net sales Dividends Cost of goods Labor costs Income tax calculate the received, sold, selling, (including and other amounts interest general and wages and taxes and received, gain administrative salaries, public charges on sales of fixed expenses welfare borne as an assets and (excluding expenses, and expense and marketable personnel postretireposted on the securities, expenses, taxes ment benefit income grants, etc. and public expenses) statement charges, and donations) Japan 735.1 18.2 683.5 32.1 0.4 2.7 5.9 0.05 28.7 Asia (excl. Japan) 189.0 0.2 183.1 2.1 0.2 1.6 0.3 – 1.9 North America 8.4 0 7.6 0.4 – – 0.1 – 0.3 Europe 8.1 0 6.4 1.2 – 0.1 0 – 0.4 South and – 0 (0.4) 0.8 – – 0.1 0.07 (0.6) Central Americas Total 940.6 18.4 880.2 36.6 0.6 4.4 6.4 0.12 30.7 *Figures in the table above are calculated by the geographical areas in which companies of the Group operate. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 52 Topics in Fiscal 2010 April 2010 JX Holdings, Inc., was established by the management integration of Nippon Mining Holdings, Inc., and Nippon Oil Corporation. Jointly with Mitsubishi Corporation and Mitsubishi Materials Corporation, Nippon Mining & Metals Co., Ltd., acquired 2.5% of the mining rights of the Escondida Copper Mine in Chile from International Finance Corporation (IFC). May Nikko Metals Taiwan Co., Ltd., held an opening ceremony for its Chiongpin Recycling Center. Nippon Mining & Metals held the “Forest of Ryuju Satoyama” memorial tree-planting festival in Nanyo City, Yamagata Prefecture. June Head office was moved from the Shin Nikko Building to the JX Building. Construction of new facilities was completed at Changzhou Jinyuan Copper Co., Ltd. July JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation was established as a core operating company of the JX Group (change of the Company’s name). JX Nippon Mining & Metals established its Code of Conduct based on the JX Group Mission Statement. September Sustainability Report 2010 was published. Mar Camino, a dual-purpose carrier of copper concentrate and sulfuric acid, which had been constructed by Nippon Marine Co., Ltd., started operation. November Nikko Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. (the name at that time), celebrated its 15th anniversary. JX Nippon Mining & Metals held factory tours for trainees of the International Institute for Mining Technology at the Hitachi Area Coordination Center. An agreement was concluded with Imabari Shipbuilding Co., Ltd., regarding the shipbuilding of a dual-purpose carrier of copper concentrate and sulfuric acid. December JX Nippon Mining & Metals decided to renew the scalping line in the precision rolling process at the Kurami Works. January 2011 Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. celebrated its 10th anniversary. JX Nippon Mining & Metals decided to significantly expand the manufacturing capacity of cathode materials for automotive lithium-ion batteries at the Isohara Works. JX Nippon Mining & Metals decided to significantly increase the number of electroless Ni/(Pd)/Au UBM plating lines at the Isohara Works. February JX Nippon Mining & Metals decided to establish a manufacturer of precision components for use in car electronic parts, and to build a new plant in Kakegawa City, Shizuoka Prefecture, to perform the pressing and plating of precision components and materials. JX Nippon Mining & Metals acquired all the shares of Suzuki Manufacturing Co., Ltd., a precision press pressing company. March Operating sites of JX Nippon Mining & Metals in Tohoku and Kita-Kanto were affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. 53 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Environmental Activities Report In the following section, we report on the Group’s efforts to create a clean and comfortable planet and a recycling-oriented society, in light of the structure of its environmental management system and its development of environment-friendly technologies. Basic Environmental Policy 55 Medium-term Plan for Environmental Conservation 56 Energy Conservation, Energy Consumption, and 57 Related Issues Conserving Resources, Utilizing By-products, 59 and Recycling and Reducing Waste Materials Environmental Risk Management 61 Our Business Activities and the Environment 64 Environmental Management System 65 Initiatives for Closure Mines 67 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 54 Basic Environmental Policy As a global manufacturer of nonferrous metal resources and materials, the Group will drive forward the following activities based on the basic policy that we will contribute to environmental conservation on a global scale through innovation in the productivity of resources and materials. Promotion of technology development that will improve productivity of resources and materials We will work to utilize resources effectively by developing technologies that will enable higher yield and extraction percentage, quality improvement, shorter process steps, recycling and energy saving, as well as by developing environment-friendly materials Disclosure of information and products. Active engagement in We will disclose the state of environmental conservation our environmental conservation related Not to mention compliance with operations in an active and fair manner environmental regulations, we will strive in order to further enhance communication to further reduce impact of our operations with stakeholders. on the environment. To this end, we will work to develop technologies for environmental conservation and work actively and continuously for environmental conservation. Enhancement of employees’ awareElimination of waste in operations ness of environmental conservation We will work to eliminate waste and save resources We will work to raise each employee’s and energy at every stage of our operations. awareness of environmental conservation through provision of environmental management education. Numerical Data of the Environmental Activities Report Please note that in certain instances the numerical data of Sustainability Report 2011 differs from the equivalent numerical data of Sustainability Report 2010. This is because the Company retroactively added the numerical data for past fiscal years of Hitachi Fabricating Works (currently Precision Plating Department, Hitachi Works), and Isohara Fabricating Works, which became operating sites under the Company's direct control; and the operating sites of Sanyu Electronic Industrial Co., Ltd., which became a member of the Group. In addition, the Company retroactively removed the numerical data for the past fiscal years of Nikko Coil Center Co., Ltd. (currently JX Nippon Coil Center Co., Ltd.), which were included in previous reports up to and including Sustainability Report 2010, because it is not an operating site under the direct control of the Company and it is not classified as a Type 1 Designated Energy Management Factory under the Energy Saving Act. In some tables, summations of individual figures and figures in total columns differ due to rounding. 55 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Medium-term Plan for Environmental Conservation Major Issues and Measures Environmental management system 1. Environmental management organization The General Manager of the Environment & Safety Department is responsible for coordinating environmental efforts. Based on the conviction that personnel on-site should be responsible for ensuring environmental protection, the top managers at each operating site serve as supervisory environmental managers. At the same time, we will further invigorate the Environment Measures Committee and advance mutual understanding between labor and management in relation to environmental protection. 2. Environmental management system Through Groupwide commitment, from top management to frontline employees, and through appropriate implementation of the ISO 14001 compliant environmental management systems, we will continuously strengthen environmental conservation measures and reduce environmental risks. 3. Environmental auditing Supervisory environmental managers at each operating site will carry out reviews of the results of internal audits conducted at each operating site and affiliated company to verify the status of environmental management and of compliance with environmental regulations. Additionally, the Environment & Safety Department’s environment and safety audit team will carry out periodic environmental audits of each operating site, research and identify problems as well as areas requiring remediation from an environmental management perspective, and continually strive to improve accident prevention and environmental conservation measures. Measures to be taken We will undertake the following measures to minimize the environmental impact of the Group’s business activities: Help prevent global warming Promote resource efficiency and recycling Reduce waste materials Better manage chemical substances Maintain biodiversity Promote our recycling business Promote technology and product development and introduce new technologies Promote green purchasing Conduct training, public relations initiatives, and social activities to communicate our Autonomous Action Plan and raise awareness of our environmental protection measures Environmental conservation at our overseas businesses 1. Environment-friendly operations in our overseas business activities We will ensure an appropriate approach to environmental conservation at overseas operating sites by promoting a thorough understanding of the need to take into account our environmental impact and of the need to strictly observe environmental regulations. 2. Environment-friendly importing and exporting activities In addition to adhering to the Basel Convention on waste materials, we will strive to ensure that our exporting and importing partners cause no harm in the area of environmental conservation. Numerical Goals In the Autonomous Action Plan for Environmental Protection, a medium-term action plan established in October 2006, we defined the prevention of global warming and reduction of waste materials as key issues. Accordingly, we have set numerical goals related to these issues. These numerical goals have been revised as necessary. Fiscal 2010 was the final year of the plan. Despite the impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake at the end of the fiscal year, we reached all of Environmental Activities Report the targets identified in the plan. The rate of reduction is measured against the average value for the fiscal 2003–2005*1 period. Item 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Approach Reduction in energy consumption intensity*2 Goal 1% 2% 3% 4% 5% Reducing 1% per year Achievement*4 3.0% 5.0% 2.7% 3.0% 5.4% Reduction in CO2 emission intensity*2 Goal 1.5% 3.0% 4.5% 6.0% 7.5% Reducing 1.5% per year Achievement*3, 4 5.0% 6.8% 5.4% 6.1% 8.1% Reduction in final waste disposal intensity*2 Initial Goal 6% 12% 18% 24% 30% Reducing 30% over 5 years Revised Goal – – – 60% 70% Reducing 50% in 3 years, 70% in 5 years Achievement 39% 63% 60% 73% 78% Boundary Domestic: All domestic operating sites under the Company’s direct control and domestic affiliated companies classified as a Type 1 Designated Energy Management Factory under the Energy Saving Act. Operating sites covered are as follows: Shirogane Works (currently Copper Foil Dept., Hitachi Works); Isohara Works; Toda Works; Kurami Works; HMC Works (currently HMC Dept., Hitachi Works); Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. (Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Hitachi Works); Tamano Smelter, Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd.; Japan Copper Casting Co., Ltd.; Nikko Environmental Services Co., Ltd. (currently JX Nippon Environmental Services Co., Ltd.); Tomakomai Chemical Co., Ltd. (currently JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical Co., Ltd.); Nikko Mikkaichi Recycle Co., Ltd. (currently JX Nippon Mikkaichi Recycle Co., Ltd.); and Nikko Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. (currently JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd.) Overseas: Changzhou Jinyuan Copper Co., Ltd.; Nikko Metals Philippines, Inc. (currently JX Nippon Mining & Metals Philippines, Inc.); Gould Electronics GmbH; and Nippon Mining & Metals (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. *1. Rates of some overseas operating sites are measured against fiscal 2006. *2. Due to differences in operations between operating sites, performance is evaluated by comparing intensities of the entire Group with the respective goals. The intensities of the entire Group are calculated as weighted averages of an indexed intensity for each operating site in a particular year on the basis of the average values for the period between fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2005. *3. The emission coefficient for electric power of 0.555 tons of CO2/MWh, which was initially established, is uniformly used. *4. Some operating sites’ energy usage volumes for fiscal 2009 were revised. As a result, reduction results differ from those shown in Sustainability Report 2010. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 56 Energy Conservation, Energy Consumption, and Related Issues Fundamental Policy Since the Kyoto Protocol took effect, industrialized countries overall are Under the medium-term plan that was revised in fiscal 2008, the responsible for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, such as CO2, by Group set its fiscal 2010 reduction goals for energy consumption 5% from 1990 levels in the five-year period from 2008 to 2012, with Japan intensity and CO2 emission intensity as 5% or more and 7.5% or more, being committed to reducing emissions to 6% below 1990 levels. From respectively, as measured against the average of the results for the the point of view of preventing global warming, the promotion of period from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2005. The Group could achieve these energy conservation measures has become an imperative issue. goals by monitoring progress each year. (For further details, please see The Group has already made more efficient use of energy in its page 56.) manufacturing processes by rationalizing smelting methods and makThe Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery of Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. ing effective use of hydroelectric power and photovoltaic power has participated in the trial implementation of CO2 emissions trading generation. in the Japanese market undertaken by the Japanese government. Energy Consumption and Energy Consumption Intensity in Manufacturing Activities In fiscal 2010, the Group’s overall energy consumption in terms of its product yield rates, streamline production processes, improve facilities, calorific value was 17,464 TJ, compared with 16,782 TJ in fiscal 1990, the and review operating conditions. base year of the Kyoto Protocol.*1 Additionally, although higher production volumes cause additional Currently, energy consumed at its smelters and refineries accounts energy usage volume, our overseas operating sites are working to for approximately 50% of the Group’s total energy consumption in Jareduce energy use through such efforts as decreasing electricity pan. These smelters and refineries are making various efforts to reduce intensity, as well as installing pump inverter control systems and highly energy consumption. These efforts include conducting smelting opefficient cooling systems. erations with a single flash furnace, streamlining smelting and sulfuric Going forward, we will further reduce energy consumption and efacid processes, and effectively using the waste heat generated. fectively recover waste heat. Further, we are making every effort to use energy more efficiently. Our efforts, which include improvement of current efficiency by introducing the permanent cathode method into the refining process, resulted in reduction of energy consumption. Consequently, although the energy consumption intensity at smelters and refineries deteriorated in comparison with that of fiscal 2009 due to a decline in production that reflected the prolonged economic downturn following the Lehman Shock, it has decreased to 67% of the intensity of fiscal 1990. Other domestic operating sites are also striving to reduce energy consumption by continuing to introduce cogeneration units, improve Anode furnace at Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery Energy Consumption (fuel + electricity) *2 Energy Consumption Intensity at Smelters and Refineries Total of domestic operating sites (fuel + electricity) Total of overseas operating sites (Calorific value in TJ) (GJ per ton of refined copper produced) 20,000 25 16,782 20.7 14,667 14,648 20 15,000 14,463 13.6 13.5 13.8 (66% *3) (65% *3) (67% *3) 15 10,000 10 5,000 2,816 5 2,187 2,357 0 0 1990 2008 2009 2010 FY 1990 2008 2009 2010 FY *1. The Group uses coefficients in correspondence with the Act on the Rational Use of Energy *2. Some operating sites’ energy usage volumes for fiscal 2009 were revised. at both domestic and overseas operating sites. (A coefficient defined in the Voluntary Action *3. These percentage figures are calculated in comparison with the intensity of fiscal 1990. Plan of the Federation of Economic Organizations (Keidanren) is used to calculate the data in fiscal 1990.) A breakdown of energy consumption is shown below. Fiscal 1990 (domestic only): Fuel (direct) 6,862 TJ; Electricity (indirect) 9,919 TJ Fiscal 2010: Fuel (direct) domestic 3,847 TJ, overseas 984 TJ; Electricity (indirect) domestic 10,801 TJ, overseas 1,832 TJ TJ (tera joule): 1012 J 57 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 CO2 Emissions from Energy Consumption*1 In fiscal 2010, the Group’s total CO2 emissions from energy consumppromoting the shift from in-house power generation to purchasing tion in Japan and overseas was 933 thousand tons. electric power from electric power companies at these sites. This has Energy consumed at smelters and refineries accounts for approxiresulted in a decrease of CO2 emissions by about 10% (approximately mately 50% of the energy the entire Group consumes. The Group has 10 thousand tons), despite an 18% increase in production volume. Also, reduced the CO2 emission intensity to 56% of the fiscal 1990 level as a these operating sites have shown an approximately 25% improvement result of energy conservation measures, such as conducting smelting in CO2 emission intensity. operations with a single flash furnace, and reductions in the emission *1. The emissions are calculated using emission coefficients in correspondence with the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. Coefficients that individual electric power coefficients of respective electric power companies. companies made public and statistical data released by the International Energy Agency (IEA) Due to unstable electric power supply conditions, some of our overare used to calculate amounts of emissions from electric power consumption of domestic and overseas operating sites, respectively. At the same time, using the latest publicly released data seas operating sites have had to rely on in-house power generation from the IEA, data of fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009 were recalculated. through the use of diesel engines. However, we have been further CO2 Emissions from Energy Consumption*2 CO2 Emission Intensity at Smelters and Refineries Total of domestic operating sites Total of overseas operating sites (Thousand tons of CO2) (Tons of CO2 per ton of refined copper produced) 1,200 1.5 1.34 967 1.2 900 819 814 776 0.80 0.77 0.75 0.9 (60% *3) (57% *3) (56% *3) 600 0.6 300 133 137 157 0.3 0 0.0 1990 2008 2009 2010 FY 1990 2008 2009 2010 FY *2. Due to recalculation of energy usage volumes for fiscal 2009 at some operating sites, the CO2 *3. These percentage figures are calculated in comparison with the intensity of fiscal 1990. emission volume was revised. CO2 Emissions from Sources Other than Energy Consumption and Other Greenhouse Gases*1 Operating sites in the recycling and environmental services business Calculated on a CO2 equivalent basis, emissions of these gases in are required to submit reports on the emission of CO2 from sources fiscal 2010 were approximately 74 thousand tons, of which approxiother than energy consumption*2 as well as the emission of other mately 3 thousand tons was N2O related. greenhouse gases. In the Group’s operations, nitrous oxide (N2O)*3 *1. Emissions are calculated using emission coefficients in correspondence with the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. meets the definition of other greenhouse gases. *2. Emitted during the incineration of waste oil, plastic, and rubber tires. *3. Emitted during the incineration of sludge, waste oil, plastic, and rubber tires as well as during fuel consumption. Environmental Activities Report Logistics Stage In fiscal 2010, the Group’s*1 energy consumption in Japan was 542 TJ, September 2010. (For further details, please see page 53.) The Mar and CO2 emissions were 38.3 thousand tons, compared with 608 TJ and Camino is the world’s only vessel transporting sulfuric acid on its out42.9 thousand tons, respectively, in fiscal 2009. In fiscal 2010, the CO2 ward voyage and copper concentrate on its homeward journey and emission volume decreased 11% year-on-year. This was due to a dethe ship helps further raise the logistical efficiency of the Group. cline in transport volume among operating sites caused by reduction The Group is making every effort to increase transport efficiency in output of refined copper and the occurrence of the earthquake by reducing the environmental impact on domestic and overseas disaster. At the same time, an increase in the number of large-scale transportation, while further improving the loading ratio. civil engineering works, which reduced transport requirements of slag *1. Figures are the sums of energy consumption and CO2 emissions of two logistics companies that are subject to the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. The number of Group companies to interim storage sites, was another factor to decrease the emissions. decreased from three in the last fiscal year to two during fiscal 2010 due to a merger between Further, in international transportation, Nippon Marine Co., Ltd. has Nikko Smelting & Refining Co., Ltd., and PPC. commissioned the Mar Camino, a dual-purpose carrier since Renewable Energy Hydroelectric power, which is generated by using the force of water power producer and supplier (PPS). Hydroelectric power generation flowing downstream in a flowing river, is a form of renewable energy totaled about 27 GWh in fiscal 2010, compared with approximately 28 that does not emit CO2. It is also a form of energy that is renewed GWh in fiscal 2009. through the water cycle. While the occurrence of an aftershock of the Great East Japan EarthThe Group has been engaging in hydroelectric power generation quake in April has forced the hydroelectric power plant to suspend its since 1907, the days of Kuhara Mining Co., Ltd., which was the predecesoperation, the Group is speeding up reconstruction efforts to restart sor of JX Nippon Mining & Metals. Currently, we generate hydroelectric in early fiscal 2012. power in Fukushima Prefecture, and sell the energy generated to a JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 58 Conserving Resources, Utilizing By-products, and Recycling and Reducing Waste Materials Fundamental Policy In Japan, it is becoming increasingly difficult to secure sites for final conservation and zero emission society. waste disposal. Therefore, reducing waste is becoming ever more In particular, we strive to reduce the volume of waste materials for important. final disposal. In 2008, we revised our goals for final waste disposal The Group aims to prevent the depletion of natural resources by intensity (final disposal volume / production volume or treatment volusing recycled resources as raw materials, more effectively utilizing ume). We subsequently established the new goal to reduce final waste by-products, and recycling waste materials. Needless to say, we are disposal intensity by over 70% of the average value for the period from also working hard to reduce waste output. At the same time, we are fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2005. We actively monitored operations in order to leveraging the sophisticated technologies we have accumulated achieve this goal. (For further details, please see page 56.) through our mining, and smelting and refining operations to recover Moving forward, we are making every effort to use recycled revalue-bearing metals from waste materials. sources and reduce the volume of final landfill disposal, improve the Furthermore, by properly disposing of waste oils, liquids, and other yield ratio and extraction percentage, streamline production processsuch substances, we are working to detoxify and reuse waste materials, es, and promote recycling. Through these efforts, we will contribute or at the very least neutralize the environmental impact. Through to creating a resource-conservation and zero emission society. these efforts, we are contributing to the creation of a resourceConserving Resources (Water Usage and Water Discharge Volumes) The Group’s water usage in fiscal 2010 amounted to 143,766 thousand On a long-term basis, however, it has remained at almost the same m3, of which 86% was sea water. The volume of water discharge was level. Also, water discharge intensity appears to be trending upward. 160,947 thousand m3, of which 91% was discharged into the sea. However, this is because some smelters and refineries have changed The water usage intensity at smelters and refineries, which accounts measurement methods in order to seek for more accurate data. for 89% of the Group’s total water usage, is trending slightly upward. Water Usage Discharge Volumes Total of domestic operating sites Total of domestic operating sites Total of overseas operating sites Total of overseas operating sites (Thousand m3) (Thousand m3) 180,000 180,000 161,325 159,715 152,543 155,330 152,564 150,000 141,220 138,614 141,890 150,000 120,000 120,000 90,000 90,000 60,000 60,000 30,000 30,000 2,028 1,568 1,460 1,876 1,289 992 1,022 1,232 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY Water Usage (domestic and overseas) (Thousand m3) Discharge Volumes (domestic and overseas) (Thousand m3) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 Sea water 132,306 121,138 118,685 123,128 Ocean 146,327 140,748 138,598 145,975 Ground water / 20,080 19,584 19,408 18,478 River 15,919 15,217 14,648 14,569 Industrial water Drainage systems 368 357 340 404 Waterworks 2,091 1,964 1,885 2,080 Total 162,615 156,322 153,586 160,947 Rainwater 95 103 96 81 Total 154,572 142,789 140,074 143,766 Water Usage Intensity at Smelters and Refineries Discharge Intensity at Smelters and Refineries (m3 per ton of refined copper produced) (m3 per ton of refined copper produced) 300 300 229.2 197.2 200.6 210.2 207.9 210.9 186.9 188.8 200 200 100 100 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY 59 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Resource Conservation (Recycled Resource Input Volume and Total Material Input) Unfortunately, the ores and other resources extracted from the natural (Thousand tons) environment are limited, and as a result these resources must be preProduct Input volume served for the next generation. Therefore, minimizing resources that Primary Copper concentrate, silicate ore, copper shot, are extracted directly from the nature by effectively utilizing recycled resources iron and copper elements (bare strips), nickel, 2,544 zinc, other metals, etc. resources has become a pressing issue. Recycled Copper and copper alloy scraps, silver and 292 In fiscal 2010, the Group’s total material input was 2,836 thousand resources gold residual slag, copper scraps, etc. tons. Of this, recycled resources accounted for 292 thousand tons, or Total 2,836 10% of the total material input. By-products In fiscal 2010, the Group produced 3,501 thousand tons of by-products, By-product Production Volume including 1,686 thousand tons of sulfuric acid, 1,248 thousand tons of Gypsum slag, 116 thousand tons of iron concentrate, and 451 thousand tons of 13% (451 thousand tons) gypsum. Iron concentrate 3% (116 thousand tons) Slag is utilized as a sandblasting material, a cement material, a caisFiscal 2010 son filler, and aggregate for waveproduction volume 3,501 dissipating blocks. Iron concentrate thousand tons and gypsum are used in cement. Sulfuric acid 48% (1,686 thousand tons) Filling a caisson with copper slag Slag 36% (1,248 thousand tons) Gross Generation of Waste Materials and Final Gross Discharge The gross generation of waste materials in fiscal 2010 was 235 thousand Gross Generation of Waste Materials and tons, of which 86%, or 202 thousand tons, was reused within the Group. Volume Recycled Internally As a result, final gross discharge, including sales of non-value-bearing Volume discharged outside the Group waste, was 33 thousand tons. The volume of landfill disposal*1, exclud14% (33 thousand tons) ing the volume recycled externally and others, was approximately 1.8 thousand tons in fiscal 2010, down significantly compared to that of fiscal 2005. This result is attributable to our efforts to continuously and repeatedly reuse all neutralized slag generated at smelters and refinerGross generation ies as well as expand applications of waste materials at operating sites for fiscal 2010 235 thousand tons manufacturing electronic materials. Environmental Activities Report *1. Defined as the volume of materials disposed of in landfills by the Group, as well as those materials for which the purpose of use could not be clearly identified as either recycling, heat recovery, or incineration before being discharged outside of the Group Volume recycled within the Group Discharge Outside the Group (Thousand tons) 86% (202 thousand tons) Purpose of discharge 2010 Recycling Sales of value-bearing metals 23.1 Waste 6.5 Volume of Final Landfill Disposal Heat recovery Waste 0.9 (Thousand tons) Incineration Waste 0.4 12 Final disposal Waste 1.8 10.4 Total waste 9.6 Total 32.8 8 Type of Waste (Thousand tons) Type 2010 Sludge 2.8 4 2.3 Cinder 1.6 2.0 1.8 Waste acid / Waste alkaline 1.6 Glass / Concrete / Ceramics / Porcelain 0.2 0 Waste plastic 0.9 2005 2008 2009 2010 FY Others 2.4 Total 9.6 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 60 Environmental Risk Management Fundamental Policy Air and water systems have a great influence on people’s health and the environmental impact, we have developed our own voluntary daily life. The Group places the utmost importance on protecting the standards to monitor air and water emissions at our operating sites. environment relating to these two systems. In addition to abiding by We also implement the PDCA cycle to reduce environmental risks. all relevant laws, regulations, and other ordinances to reduce Preventing Air Pollution The Group monitors waste gas emissions at all operating sites in comvolumes at domestic operating sites decreased 146 tons and 28 tons, pliance with laws, regulations, and other ordinances, as well as its own respectively, compared with those of the previous fiscal year. In addivoluntary standards. Emission volumes of sulfur oxides (SOx) and nition, the SOx and NOx emission intensities of smelters and refineries trogen oxides (NOx) in fiscal 2010 are described in the graphs below. remained at approximately the same level as those of fiscal 2008. Smelters and refineries have improved inversion rates from SO2 to SO3 One overseas operating site previously depended on in-house and effectively used recovered waste heat to generate power by the power generation by diesel generators, due to the unstable supply of use of turbines. These efforts have allowed us to cease operation of electricity. However, this operating site has been promoting a steady diesel power generators, which run on heavy oil. These operating sites shift from in-house power generation to purchased power since fiscal have also replaced the bricks used in flash furnaces with those that 2008. In fiscal 2010, it approximately halved the SOx emission volume have better heat resistance. The total of SOx and NOx emission compared with that of fiscal 2007. SOx Emission Volume*1, 2 NOx Emission Volume*1 Total of domestic operating sites Total of domestic operating sites Total of overseas operating sites Total of overseas operating sites (Tons) (Tons) 5,000 1,500 1,351 4,133 3,949 4,000 3,739 1,200 1,099 3,593 1,013 1,005 884 3,000 900 653 676 648 2,000 600 1,615 1,059 1,000 765 809 300 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY *1. Total of volumes from operating sites subject to legal requirements *2. Figures of domestic operating sites from the prior fiscal year were retrospectively revised. SOx Emission Intensity of Smelters and Refineries NOx Emission Intensity of Smelters and Refineries (Kg of SOx per ton of refined copper produced) (Kg of NOx per ton of refined copper produced) 10 1.0 0.8 8 0.8 6 5.3 5.2 5.2 0.6 5.0 0.4 4 0.4 0.3 0.3 2 0.2 0 0.0 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY 61 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Preventing Water Pollution The Group monitors water discharge at all operating sites in compliance with laws, regulations, and other ordinances, as well as its own voluntary standards. The amounts of chemical oxygen demand (COD) and biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) are outlined in the graphs below. COD*1 BOD*1 Total of domestic operating sites Total of domestic operating sites Total of overseas operating sites Total of overseas operating sites (Tons) (Tons) 160 60 51 127 116 117 120 109 39 40 37 33 80 20 38 40 40 15 17 5.6 5.5 2.5 3.1 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY *1. Total of volumes from operating sites subject to legal requirements Chemical Management Identifying Quantities of Specific Chemical Substances Released into the Environment and Improving Controls In 2008, the Act prescribing Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Further, the Group applies the Globally Harmonized System of Clas(PRTR) System was revised to increase items classified as Class I Desigsification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) in the compilation of Matenated Chemical Substances from 354 to 462 and Class II Designated rial Safety Data Sheets (MSDS). We strive to provide easy-to-understand Chemical Substances, which do not require registration but require information regarding the characteristics and handling of chemical issuance of Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS), from 81 to 100. substances. The Group strictly adheres to the Act. Also, as part of its environmenIn fiscal 2010, the Group released and transferred approximately 367 tal management activities, the Group is working hard to reduce its tons of chemicals that are required to be reported by the PRTR. This environmental impact by setting each operational site and affiliated represented a 61 ton increase from the previous fiscal year. The volume company targets for decreasing the use and release of specific chemiof chemicals released slightly increased by 1 ton. On the other hand, the Environmental Activities Report cal substances into the environment. addition of substances requiring registration under the PRTR resulted in an approximately 60 ton increase in the transfer of chemicals. Volume of Release / Transfer*2 Breakdown of Release Volumes*2 Total release volume Air Total transfer volume Water Group landfills (Tons) (Tons) 400 80 49 300 64 60 53 48 22 15 9 12 200 40 318 271 253 258 100 20 42 38 39 36 0 0 0 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY *2. Total volumes of chemicals released into water for fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009 were revised. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 62 Release and Transfer Volumes of Chemicals (Tons) No. Material Chemical Release volume Transfer volume number Air Water Group Waste Drainage landfills materials systems 1 1 Zinc compounds (water soluble) 0.8 2.7 0 47 0 2 31 Antimony and its compounds 0.3 1.1 0 4.1 0 3 44 Indium and its compounds 0 0.2 0 5.5 0 4 71 Ferric chloride 0 0 0 71 0 5 75 Cadmium and its compounds 0.6 0.1 0 11 0 6 80 Xylene 0.1 0 0 0 0 7 82 Silver and its water-soluble compounds 0 0.8 0 0 0 8 87 Chromium and trivalent chromium compounds 0 0.1 0 0.4 0 9 132 Cobalt and its compounds 0 0 0 4.6 0 10 144 Inorganic cyanide compounds (except complex salts and cyanates) 0.1 0.2 0 0.6 0 11 242 Selenium and its compounds 0.1 0.9 0 0 0 12 272 Copper salts (water soluble, except complex salts) 1.4 3.1 0 94 0 13 279 1,1,1-trichloroethane 0 0.6 0 0 0 14 281 Trichloroethylene 3.7 0.1 0 5.9 0 15 296 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene (pseudocumene) 0.1 0 0 0 0 16 305 Lead compounds 2.1 0.9 0 0.2 0 17 309 Nickel compounds 0.5 1.4 0 67 0 18 332 Arsenic and its inorganic compounds 1.5 2.0 0 0 0 19 374 Hydrogen fluoride and its water-soluble salts 0 12 0 3.5 0.3 20 405 Boron compounds 0 9.0 0 5.0 0 21 412 Manganese and its compounds 0 1.4 0 9.2 0 22 438 Methylnaphthalene 0.8 0 0 0 0 (g-TEQ) 23 243 Dioxins 0.41 0.0045 0 2.8 0 * There are 45 chemicals that are required to be reported. * Except dioxins, all chemicals reported have a total release and transfer volume of over 0.1 tons. * There is no discharge into Group landfills or the soil. Detoxification of Products Containing PCBs Compliance with the REACH Regulation Utilizing the early registration system of the Japan Environmental The European Union (EU)’s REACH Regulation, which applies precauSafety Corporation (JESCO)*1, the Group completed registration of tionary principle, came into effect in June 2007. The purpose of this products containing PCBs in fiscal 2005. This includes condensers and regulation is to harmonize the management of chemicals that are retransformers both in storage and in use. JESCO’s plans call for the disleased and transported within the region, and to clarify risks that the posal of these products to be completed by March 2015. chemicals bear and their impacts on the environment. *1. Japan Environmental Safety Corporation (JESCO): A special company wholly owned by the The Group assents to the intent of the regulation defined in REACH, Japanese government that successively handles the PCB waste disposal program formally conducted by the Japan Environment Corporation. and it has completed preliminary registration of products that are subject to the regulation and is currently preparing for official registration. 63 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Our Business Activities and the Environment The Group strives to reduce the environmental impact arising from its business activities by precisely identifying and analyzing the impact. Mass Balance Table for the Group Raw materials Energy Water PRIMARy MATERIALs ELECTRIC POWER FREsH WATER Total of domestic operating sites Total of domestic operating sites Total of domestic operating sites 2,320 thousand tons 10,801 TJ 18,762 thousand m 3 Total of overseas operating sites Total of overseas operating sites Total of overseas operating sites 224 thousand tons 1,832 TJ 1,876 thousand m 3 RECyCLED REsOuRCEs FuEL sEA WATER Total of domestic operating sites Total of domestic operating sites Total of domestic operating sites 272 thousand tons 3,847 TJ 123,128 thousand m 3 Total of overseas operating sites Total of overseas operating sites Total of overseas operating sites 20 thousand tons 984 TJ 0 thousand m 3 INPUT JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group Environmental Activities Report Principal products Emissions Refined copper 637 thousand tons CO2 sOx NOx Total of domestic operating sites Total of domestic operating sites Total of domestic operating sites Sulfuric acid 1,686 thousand tons 776 thousand tons 3,593 tons 648 tons Gold 39 tons Direct emissions 277 thousand tons Total of overseas operating sites Total of overseas operating sites 809 tons 1,099 tons Silver 361 tons Indirect emissions 499 thousand tons Platinum 770 kg Total of overseas operating sites 157 thousand tons Palladium 3,970 kg Direct emissions 62 thousand tons Other metals such as Indirect emissions selenium and tellurium 269 tons 95 thousand tons Electro-deposited and CHEMICAL subsTANCEs FINAL LANDFILL DIsPOsAL WAsTEWATER treated rolled copper foils 27 thousand tons (release and transfer) Total of domestic operating sites Total of domestic operating sites Total of domestic operating sites Copper alloy and special steel strips and other 367 tons 1,509 tons 159,715 thousand m 3 related products 36 thousand tons (domestic only) Total of domestic operating sites Total of overseas operating sites 313 tons 1,232 thousand m 3 OUTPUT JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 64 Environmental Management System The Group has established a Groupwide environmental management system in line with the basic environmental policy of contributing to global environmental conservation, and our Autonomous Action Plan for Environmental Protection, which takes future environmental risks into account. By developing an environmental management system based on the ISO 14001 standards, everyone within the Group is working together to continually improve environmental conservation activities and reduce environmental risks. Environmental Audit The Group conducts internal audits at each operating site at least once a year. At the same time, the environment and safety audit team of the Environment & Safety Department undertakes periodic environmental audits. Through these efforts, we are working to continually improve pollution prevention and environmental conservation activities. Environmental Education The Group conducts periodic environmental education, training, and drills for all levels of employees at each operating site in order to spread awareness regarding the Basic Environmental Policy and the Autonomous Action Plan for Environmental Protection. Further, several employees have acquired qualifications regarding the environment. The numbers of employees holding such qualifications is outlined below. Holders of Qualifications Regarding the Environment (People) EMS (Environmental Management System) Provisional Auditor 3 First Grade Mining Pollution Control Manager 77 EMS Internal Auditor (Outside training completed) 279 Certified Environmental Measurer 20 EMS Internal Auditor (In-house training completed) 243 Waste Disposal Facilities Engineering Manager 46 First Grade Air Pollution Control Manager 91 Qualified Managers of Specially Controlled Industrial Wastes 64 First Grade Water Pollution Control Manager 132 Registered Energy Manager (Heat) 15 Noise Abatement Manager 21 Registered Energy Manager (Electricity) 3 Vibration Abatement Manager 12 Registered Energy Manager (New system) 78 Chief Manager of Pollution Control 4 Operation Chief Handling Specified Chemical Substances, etc. 1,194 Dioxins Pollution Control Manager 9 * Includes affiliated companies under the control of the Corporate divisions (as of April 1, 2011) Obtaining ISO 14001 Certification Operating Sites That Have Obtained ISO 14001 Certification Domestic Isohara Works; Copper Foil Dept., Hitachi Works (including Ichinoseki Foil Manufacturing Co., Ltd.); Hitachi Works (including Hitachi Works, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd.; JX Nippon Environmental Services Co., Ltd.); Isohara Fabricating Works; Kurami Works (including Kurami Office, JX Nippon Coil Center Co., Ltd.); Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. (including Japan Copper Casting Co., Ltd., Nissho Ko-un Co., Ltd.); Hibi Smelter, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. (including Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd., Sankin Hibi Harbor Transportation Co., Ltd.); Headquarters, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. (including Osaka Office, Nagoya Office, Fukuoka Office); JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical Co., Ltd.; JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd.; JX Nippon Mikkaichi Recycle Co., Ltd.; JX Nippon Kurobe Galva Co., Ltd.; Esashi Works, Sanyu Electronic Industry Co., Ltd.; Tatebayashi Works, Sanyu Electronic Industry Co., Ltd.; Meguro Works, Sanyu Electronic Industry Co., Ltd.; Suzuki Manufacturing Co., Ltd.; JX Metals Trading Co., Ltd. Overseas JX Nippon Mining & Metals Philippines, Inc.; Gould Electronics GmbH; JX Nippon Mining & Metals Korea Co., Ltd.; Nikko Fuji Electronics Dongguan Co., Ltd.; Nikko Fuji Precision (Wuxi) Co., Ltd.; JX Nippon Mining & Metals Singapore Pte. Ltd.; Nikko Metals Shanghai Co., Ltd.; Bade Works, Nikko Metals Taiwan Co., Ltd. 65 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Emergency Response Measures When an accident or disaster occurs, there is the potential for related environmental accidents such as fires, spills of hazardous materials or chemical substances, or the anomalous occurrence of smoke or wastewater. The Group therefore strives to prevent accidents and disasters and to detect abnormality at an early stage through periodical inspections of equipment including meticulous preventive maintenance and regular patrols. Moreover, we conduct comprehensive disaster prevention drills and Fire fighting squad training training with our own fire fighting squads in order to prevent accidents and disasters from exacerbating. Emergency Procedures An example of JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical Co., Ltd. Site of Disaster (Emergency) President JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Detector Environmental Safety Manager, Recycling and Environmental Services Group Environmental Safety Manager, Environment & Safety Department Related Divisions Plant Manager Supervisor Assistant Manager Manager of Administration Dept. Authorities Lifestyle and Environment Department, Manager Iburi Subprefectural Office, Hokkaido Tomakomai Section, Iburi Subprefectural Environmental Manager Office, Hokkaido In-house firefighting squad Environmental Protection Section, Worksite protection squad Tomakomai City Environmental Activities Report Marine Safety Station Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations Through the sound operation of environmental management systems In fiscal 2010, there were no administrative penalties such as the at each operating site, the Group is enhancing compliance with envirevocation of licenses, orders to suspend operations, orders to susronmental laws and regulations. pend the use of facilities, orders to improve operations, or fines inThe Environment & Safety Department at corporate head office is curred from regulatory bodies due to violations of environmental laws the umbrella administration for compliance, working with supervisory or regulations. departments at each operating site. Environmental Accidents In fiscal 2010, there were no accidents, including spill incidents. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 66 Initiatives for Closure Mines The Company formerly engaged in resource exploitation of copper, gold, zinc and other metals domestically at several dozen mines including the Hitachi Mine, the birthplace of the Company. However, all of these mines finished their roles and have been closed. The Company continues to maintain and manage these closure mines as required from the viewpoint of environmental preservation. Current Status and Issues of Closure Mines Of the 39 closure mines that are held by the Company, 12 are currently under obligation to continue processing their mine drainage in accordance with the Mine Safety Law. JX Nippon Mining Ecomanagement, Inc., a Group company, is in charge of processing the mine drainage and managing former mining sites including the impoundments at the relevant closure mines. One of the indispensable maintenance and management operaDrainage processing facilities at the Kamikita Mine tions for closure mines is to properly process the acid mine drainage that goes out from pit mouths and other places by removing the pollutant heavy metals to alter and improve the water quality. As the acid mine drainage is discharged semipermanently and continually (with heavy rainfall or melting snow, the drainage volume increases two to six times compared to that during a drought), we have to process the acid mine drainage every day. JX Nippon Mining Ecomanagement has established an emergency contact system under which staff at the management facilities immediately inform the concerned parties Safety measure at the Mitate Mine (avalanche prevention fence) in case abnormal pH values are recorded or problems are detected. Furthermore, emergency water storage and/or privately owned power generators are also installed so that the staff can swiftly address any problem. The water quality of the drainage discharged after being processed complies with predetermined wastewater quality standards at lower measurements than those set forth in the national wastewater standards. Meanwhile, sludge separately produced during the course of the mine drainage processing is disposed of after appropriate treatment. In addition to the renovation of the drainage processing facilities at the closure mines, the Group focuses on implementing environmental Thickener (a kind of drainage processing facility) at the Oya Mine countermeasure works in view of various kinds of natural disasters. Taking into account the site conditions of the closure mines, we plan Map showing the location of Ryushoden Hokushin and execute environmental countermeasure works to prepare for posall 39 closure mines sible natural disasters such as torrential rains or landslides. At the same Toyoha time, we have launched countermeasures to reinforce the impoundOshamanbe ments in the aftermath of the recent Great East Japan Earthquake (see Kameda page 69 for details). Namariyama Kamikita The Group intends to upgrade and reinforce its management system for the closure mines to further reduce the environmental 12 closure mines for which the Shakanai Oyu Company is under obligation to Hanawa impact. Shinjo process drainage Oya Mitate Mikawa Mitsuzawa Yoshino Hokuriku Tashiro Akabane Kawamori Momodani Kaneuchi Takatama Taho Hitachi Shimane Kawayama Nikko Fujigaya Minenosawa Makidani Kawazu Hosako Shirataki Dogaya Matsuo Takaura Tada Ose 67 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Initiatives at the Site of the Yoshino Mine (Nannyo City, Yamagata Prefecture) The Yoshino Mine produced approximately 2.05 million tons of coarse ore (copper grade of 0.83%, zinc grade of 2.86%) from 1929 when the Company (Nippon Mining Co., Ltd., at that time) purchased the mine until 1974 when the mine was shut down due to the depletion of ore volume. Subsequently, the mine has been subject to the Group’s closure mine management operations such as environmental countermeasure works and the processing of mine drainage. Shinmotoyama neutralization room Neutralization processing facility In recent years, we have promoted steps to automate and rationalize the mine drainage processing systems. As a result, in fiscal 2008 and 2009, the onsite installations were renovated at the two drainage processing facilities and pumps and pipes located on the premises were renewed or newly installed. The mine drainage discharged from the former mining site is neutralized at the renovated treatment facilities and the processed wastewater is discharged to an adjacent river after the metal ingredients are Water pipe for the processed drainage Panel for managing the drainage removed and the pH is adjusted. In fiscal 2010, the mine drainage was processing facilities processed at a rate of 0.469 m3/min., and the water quality passed the relevant environmental standards at the wastewater discharge point. Former rest area inside the Yoshino Mine from the era of its operation Initiatives at the Site of the Takatama Mine (Koriyama City, Fukushima Prefecture) The Takatama Mine, which had been known as a promising gold mine since the early 17th century, was purchased by the Company (Nippon Mining Co., Ltd., at that time) in 1932. After affiliating with the JX Nippon Environmental Activities Report Mining & Metals Group, the mine produced approximately 2.83 million tons of gold-bearing silicate ore before the mine was shut down in 1976 due to the depletion of ore volume. Subsequently, the mine has been subject to the Group’s closure mine management operations with environmental countermeasure works. Since fiscal 2005, the Group has conducted forest maintenance such as thinning operations for an area of approximately 80 hectares out of the total area of 113.14 hectares as part of its environmental countermeasures project. In fiscal 2010, the maintenance operations Forests before maintenance operations continued similarly for an area of 7.66 hectares. Former smelting site Thinning operation at the Takatama Mine Forests after maintenance operations JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 68 At the Occurrence of the Great East Japan Earthquake Casualties Caused by the Great East Japan Earthquake and Responses at the Oya Mine Generally speaking, tailings, that is, residue such as sand and slime that remain after the recovery of value-bearing metals, are produced as a result of mining activities. The Group stores the tailings in the impoundment located near the former mine sites. The Great East Japan Earthquake that occurred in March 2011 devastated the former Oya Mine (located in Kesennuma City, Miyagi Prefecture), thereby causing a shutdown of drainage treatment operations due to a power outage at the facilities and an outflow of tailings from the impoundment via liquefaction. Fortunately, no human casualties occurred, but several private houses, agricultural fields and roads in View of the briefing session for local residents the downstream area were damaged by the outflow of tailings. After the earthquake, the Company immediately strove to maintain of removal operation of tailings and dirt and soil inspection in the the drainage processing function using its privately owned power presence of residents (as of July 31, 2011). As for damages to local generators. The Company also conducted an actual conditions survey residents because of the outflow of tailings, we are striving to proto get precise information on the damage of the tailings outflow and vide explanations on an individual basis. The restoration work of the then appropriately provided explanations on the intended responses impoundment is planned to start in October 2011. to residents living in the vicinity and related parties of administrative Although the impoundment of the Oya Mine was designed bodies. Subsequently, in early April, we held a briefing session for local in compliance with the relevant national standards, the tailings residents to explain the analysis of the tailings outflow conditions and outflow was caused by the unprecedented scale of the earthquake. the planned operations toward the recovery and restoration of the We intend to take necessary countermeasures to promote the impoundment, for which necessary measures were taken. restoration of the impoundment in close consultation with the conThe discharged tailings were removed by the end of June 2011, cerned parties such as the relevant administrative organizations. and we plan to take restoration measures to confirm the completion Tailings outflow conditions just after the Site view after the outflow of tailings Great East Japan Earthquake (March 2011) was recovered (June 2011) voice JX Nippon Mining Ecomanagement, Inc. The Company advocates the “Prevention of disasters and accidents” as one of the basic guidelines for its business operations. The Company has long been active in systematically executing environmental countermeasure works to prepare for natural disasters such as earthquakes, torrential rains, avalanches and landslides. Nevertheless, when the Great East Japan Earthquake occurred, tailings flowed out of the impoundment at two mine sites (the Oya Mine and the Takatama Mine). We have again become acutely aware of the importance of communication with local residents relative to the restoration measures at these mines. In the future, the Company will carry out restoration and perpetual countermeasures without delay while receiving instructions from related parties such as the government, prefecPresident & CEO tures, cities and the relevant administrative organizations. JX Nippon Mining Ecomanagement, Inc. Toshikazu Hayashi 69 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Social Activities Report In the following section, we will report on the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group’s relationship with society and its social activities with respect to each of its stakeholders. Earning the Trust of Our Customers and Supplier 71 Involvement with Our Employees 75 Involvement with Local Communities 84 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 70 Earning the Trust of Our Customers and Supplier The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group is dedicated to being the “best partner” to its customers and suppliers. Accordingly, it works to supply high-quality, safe products that are worthy of the trust of its customers. At the same time, we are striving to develop “win-win” relationships with our suppliers. We place the greatest importance on building trusting relationships with our customers and suppliers by reflecting their opinions on improving the quality of our products and services. Promoting Companywide Quality Management Customer needs for quality grow more sophisticated and more diverse which each operating site handled quality control, to consequently with each coming year. In order to respond to such customer needs, create a Groupwide quality control system. it has been a matter of great urgency to develop a system that proIn fiscal 2010, we established a Groupwide structure in which we can motes the sharing and effective use of knowledge and experience share knowledge, experience, and information about quality to conpertaining to quality control across the Group. duct horizontal development of quality improvement activities within We took the April 2006 management integration of the three core the Group. To this end, we implemented initiatives based on the folcompanies in the former Nippon Mining & Metals Group as an oplowing themes. portunity to address this issue. From the perspective of sharing information related to quality control, we integrated former systems, under 1. Establishment of a Companywide Quality 3. Reconstruction of Quality-related Education Management System Programs Established the Basic Quality Policy on October 1, 2009 Quality-related education programs were previously handled indeEstablished the Quality Management Rule on October 1, 2009 pendently by each operating site and entrusted to the educational institution of the Group. We reviewed and reorganized these programs JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Basic Quality Policy into a Companywide educational system by incorporating newly The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group hereby sets forth, and acts compiled quality control and problem resolution methods. The in observance of, this Basic Policy on Quality in order to contribute resulting new educational system became operationally effective from to the development of sustainable society while recognizing that fiscal 2011. its mission for the society is to stably supply nonferrous metals and Based on the aforementioned Basic Quality Policy, we will promote materials. the sharing of in-house information, knowledge and experience re1. Correctly grasp the requirements of the customers and of the lated to quality control throughout the Group. At the same time, we society in order to offer products and services that the will improve education and training programs for employees and encustomers will trust and be satisfied with. hance the Groupwide quality management system. 2. While paying due attention to safety and environmental conservation, improve and maintain quality at all processes The Group’s Quality-related Communication Structure from development, designing, production to delivery. 3. Establish quality management system, and carry out continual Quality Control System improvements and raise human resources. Headquarters Basic Quality Policy 4. Comply with all pertinent laws of both Japan and overseas countries, and offer to our customers and the society Quality Control Committee transparency with regard to the quality. Quality Management Rules * The Nippon Mining & Metals Co., Ltd. Basic Quality Policy, which was established in October Product Liability (PL) Meeting 2009, was reestablished as the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Basic Quality Policy, in line with the change of the Company’s name to JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation in July 2010. Quality Supervisor Quality Supervision Meeting Office 2. Sharing of Quality-related Information throughout Operating Sites Affiliated Plant A Plant B Plant C Plant D The Quality Supervisor Meetings (presided over by the General company Manager of the Technology Development Group) were held in May Based on the ISO 9001 standard, each operating site should implement its own quality control system. and October 2010 for the purpose of reporting on the audited status of compliance with the ISO 9001 standard, quality losses and qualityrelated complaints at operating sites under the direct control of the Company and the affiliated companies. In fiscal 2011, the fourth meeting was held in June 2011 with themes including “Feedback from the Earthquake Disaster.” The fifth meeting is scheduled to be held in November 2011. 71 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Quality Control and Assurance Systems at Operating Sites The Group’s quality control initiatives are not simply limited to the quality-related complaints and others. To accomplish these goals, we quality of products and services. The Group views quality managehave established a quality control structure that involves representament with a broader perspective that includes improving the quality tives responsible for sales, manufacturing, production management, of both its administration and management. In view of this concept technology and product development. Implementing the PDCA cycle of quality control, each operating site is operating its own quality manbased on this quality control structure, the Group is coming together agement system, principally based on the ISO 9001 standard, and conto promote quality improvements throughout the Group. ducting TPM and other improvement activities. Furthermore, several domestic and overseas operating sites have Taking into consideration the specific characteristics of the busiobtained ISO 9001 certification, the international standard for quality nesses that each operating site engages in, we have set concrete goals control systems. (Refer to page 31 for details regarding TPM.) for reducing the percentage of defective products and the number of Operating Sites that Have Obtained ISO 9001 Certification Domestic Hitachi Works (Precision Plating Dept., Copper Foil Dept.), Isohara Works, Kurami Works, Isohara Fabricating Works, JX Nippon Exploration and Development Co., Ltd., Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. (Hibi Smelter, Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Hitachi Works), Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd., Japan Copper Casting Co., Ltd., JX Nippon Coil Center Co., Ltd., JX Metals Trading Co., Ltd. (Takatsuki Plant), Ichinoseki Foil Manufacturing Co., Ltd. Overseas JX Nippon Mining & Metals Korea Co., Ltd., Changzhou Jinyuan Copper Co., Ltd., Nikko Fuji Electronics Dongguan Co., Ltd., Nippon Mining & Metals (Suzhou) Co., Ltd., Nikko Fuji Precision (Wuxi) Co., Ltd., Nikko Metals Shanghai Co., Ltd., Nikko Metals Taiwan Co., Ltd., JX Nippon Mining & Metals Philippines, Inc., JX Nippon Mining & Metals USA, Inc., Gould Electronics GmbH Quality Control Initiatives during the Stages of Development and Manufacturing Our customers require a high level of quality and reliability in our electronic materials. In order to live up to these requirements, we have employed various quality control measures at stages from product development and manufacturing, to shipping. Quality Control Flow Product development stage Manufacturing stage Pre-shipping stage Physical properties, surface conditions, purities, With systems of travel sheets and statistical We strictly adhere to internal standards that we and other characteristics of all products are to process control (SPC) systems, we have have developed for each product. Additionally, be checked by various analytical instruments developed a stringent quality control structure, we have developed a system that allows for and measures. Only products that pass these which covers the acceptance of raw materials thorough and continuous inspections of rigorous quality checks can move to to the shipping of manufactured products that products by using fine-tuned analytical mass-production stages. meet our quality standards. equipment. The results of these inspections are fed back to development and manufacturing departments through the statistical quality control (SQC) system, to consequently maintain and improve our quality and reliability of our products. Overview of Specific Initiatives and Their Results Isohara Works obtains ISO/TS 16949 certification The acquisition of this certification has allowed the Works to engage Social Activities Report Customers—especially those customers in businesses related to semiin more customer-oriented quality control activities to materialize conductors—require a particularly high level of quality. In order to higher quality performance. Accordingly, the Isohara Works is able to meet these requirements, in August 2009, the Isohara Works obtained provide high-quality products that accommodate highly sophisticatISO/TS 16949 certification—a standard for quality control systems ed customer requirements, thereby achieving greater customer employed in the automotive industry—encompassing the manufacsatisfaction. turing of sputtering targets for semiconductors, one of its mainstay products. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 72 Product Safety Initiatives To provide safe products, the Group thoroughly complies with appliExamples of specific initiatives cable laws and regulations. For the purpose of developing a preventive Developing safety measures for the shipping of copper ingots and approach toward product safety, and by taking into consideration the other heavy materials, as well as substances such as sulfuric acid that characteristics of each product, we are always aware of “product safety,” require special care (establishing and implementing Logistic Safety from product development to the manufacturing and sales stages. Action Plans, and sharing information regarding safety measures Moreover, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd.—handling 2 million tons of between Group companies, etc.) sulfuric acid annually (fiscal 2010)—is making every effort to improve Providing customers with environmental and safety related its education training programs designed for its logistics departments, information on all products through MSDS as well as partnering logistics companies, which are responsible for Implementing education and training programs regarding product carefully handling chemical substances by employing the aforemensafety activities tioned material safety data sheets (MSDS). In fiscal 2010, there were no Necessary quality control to ensure safety violations of any laws or regulations with regard to product safety or Developing environmentally friendly products to reduce the the provision of products and services reported. environmental impact (developing lead-free surface treatment agents ready for Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive, etc.) Awards Received from Customers In fiscal 2010, thanks to our highly acclaimed technological capabilities and product qualities, the Group received an award from a customer. Going forward, we will continue to work tirelessly to respond accurately to the demands of our customers. Customer Award Receiving company Background Hitachi Electronic Devices (Wujiang) Superior vendor in fiscal 2010 Nikko Fuji Electronics Dongguan Co., Ltd. Stable quality, observance of delivery Co., Ltd. schedules, etc. * Company name is as of fiscal 2010. voice Jada Electronics Limited Jada Electronics markets electro-deposited copper foils, rolled copper foils, and sputtering targets for FPDs and semiconductors, all of which are manufactured by the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group, primarily in China. I am mainly in charge of electro-deposited copper foils and therefore import such copper foils at the rate of 400 tons/month from JX Nippon Mining & Metals Philippines, Inc., and 200 tons/month from Gould Electronics GmbH for sale in the Chinese market. As for marketing in the Chinese market, human connections are extremely important, whereas the business environment surrounding the IT industry is changing rapidly and on a global scale. In other words, as the supply chain of the IT industry is structured globally, it is no longer sufficient to evaluate marketing only within the Chinese market. To address such changes in the business climate on a global basis, we should take risks handin-hand with our customers. Eddy Tam In China, there is a long tradition of fostering relationships of mutual trust in the business community. The Business Development Group has benefited together with customers when the business environment was favorable and shared the Manager pain under unfavorable conditions. In doing so, we have established and developed “win-win” relationships Jada Electronics Limited with our customers. In China, demand for highly adhesive copper foil, which features close adhesion to substrate resin via a lowroughening treatment to cope with high frequencies, is forecast to increase sharply. Consequently, it is no wonder that the requirements imposed by Chinese customers will become more and more demanding. We thus intend to grow and develop ourselves together with customers by firmly incorporating requests from customers into the electro-deposited copper foils of the Group. 73 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Partnerships with Suppliers The Group aims to develop “win-win” relationships with its suppliers Procurement Corporation.) JX Nippon Procurement strives to realize based on mutual trust. With the purpose of developing a procurement fair and highly transparent procurement in accordance with the JX system across the Group, we have entrusted our procurement function Nippon Procurement Purchasing Policies and strict compliance with to JX Nippon Procurement Corporation. (In July 2010, the former relevant laws and regulations. Nippon Mining Procurement, Inc. changed its name to JX Nippon JX Nippon Procurement Basic Purchasing Policy JX Nippon Procurement is committed to pursuing purchasing operations based on the JX Group Values (EARTH) to develop good partnerships with business partners and to fulfill its corporate responsibility to society. Ethics Respect for the letter and spirit of relevant laws and social norms in execution of business operations. Select business partners based on fair and honest evaluation of their compliance with laws and social norms, concern for the environment, and track record in areas such as quality, price and delivery. Maintain appropriate relationships with business partners based on the highest ethical values. Advanced ideas Consistently promote creativity and innovation through advanced ideas, and strive to adopt new products and services. Relationship with society Endeavor to achieve robust communication with business partners, and work together diligently to contribute to society through relationships of mutual trust. Trustworthy products/services Provide JX Group companies with high reliability and satisfaction through fast, accurate and highly transparent activities. Harmony with the environment Work persistently to create a sustainable society by promoting the purchase of equipment and services with low environmental impact. voice Nikko Metals Shanghai Co., Ltd. Nikko Metals Shanghai, which has 17 employees, engages in a variety of businesses primarily related to sales of precision rolled products and plating liquids and the collection of scrap metals mainly in the East China region centering on Shanghai. I am personally in charge of sales of plating and cleaning liquids. China has achieved remarkable economic development in recent years. In the course of such development, many corporations have faced significant challenges for CSR including such issues as the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, resource conservation and energy conservation. Social Activities Report The Company’s businesses are recycling-oriented ones ranging from proposals of optimum materials for customers to the collection of scrap metals. Our business activities, therefore, assume an important role from a CSR perspective, not to mention our contribution to the development of customers. We intend to meet customers’ expectations with sincerity in the course of further exploiting the Chinese Li Bei market while receiving appropriate guidance. Sales Department Nikko Metals Shanghai Co., Ltd. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 74 Involvement with Our Employees “People”—Our Greatest Asset The Group’s philosophy toward employees with each other. For 300 years since a vein was first discovered at the dates back to 1905, when the Hitachi Mine Hitachi Mine, many have tried to develop the mine, but have only was founded. Like many other mines, the ended in failure. The mine was beset with various issues to be solved, Hitachi Mine was located deep in the such as smoke damage. It was through free and vigorous discussions mountains. The founder, Fusanosuke that provided the solutions to these issues. And our flexible organizaKuhara, realized that it would be imperative tion underpinned such discussions. Engineers and experts at the time to provide employees with an environment considered deeply and argued aggressively to find solutions to these in which they can work with peace of mind, Fusanosuke Kuhara, issues, before they could finally develop the Hitachi Mine into one of the Company’s founder in order to build business success at the the leading domestic mines with considerable production capacity. Hitachi Mine, which was also located at a Today, we believe that such discussion will lead to the creation of desolate area distant from urban regions. For this reason, he focused new opportunities. In line with this thinking, we aim to develop a his efforts on raising the standard of living at the mine. The Group’s working environment in which employees feel free to exchange opinphilosophy of “respect for employees” originates with this initiative. ions regardless of position, age, or gender. Striving to create an environment in which employees could live with their families, Mr. Kuhara built a town that offered not only housing but also schools for children, hospitals, railroads, as well as recreational facilities. Living in the area, which was equipped with workplaces and residences, employees shared all their joys and sorrows with each other, while fostering a sense of togetherness. At the same time, a spirit of “respect for employees” was nurtured, which has subsequently been passed down to the current Group. This spirit of “respect for employees” has also influenced our busiCompany’s office in the Motoyama Company residential district in the ness activities, subsequently bringing free and vigorous discussions District Daioin District and a flexible organization where employees can freely communicate Breakdown of Employees (As of March 31, 2011) (People) Full-time Other Temporary Total Total A B Total A B Total employees workforce Domestic companies (38) 3,766 522 4,288 19 62 81 4,369 168 4,537 Overseas companies (16) 1,176 537 1,713 6 2 8 1,721 12 1,733 Total 4,942 1,059 6,001 25 64 89 6,090 180 6,270 * The “full-time” category encompasses regular employees and employees working equivalent hours to regular employees. A: Employees not on fixed-term contracts. B: Employees on fixed-term contracts. * The number of companies as of April 1, 2011. * The “domestic companies” category includes the Company. Respect for Human Rights The Group aims to create an organization where employees’ human The Group also rigorously inhibits forced labor, and no occurrences rights, personalities, and individuality are respected. Since fiscal 2008, of this issue have been found. the Company has participated in the United Nations Global Compact, Going forward, we will globally expand our operations. We aim to an international initiative that advocates 10 Universal Principles, includbuild a workplace where employees can be involved in their operation ing human rights and labor. Also, the Group’s Code of Conduct states by complying with laws and regulations in countries where overseas “respect for employees’ personality, human rights and individuality” in operating sites are located and enhancing harmonious relationships Article 4, in order to increase awareness about the Group’s attitude of with the local communities. respecting human rights in both domestic and overseas affiliated companies. Furthermore, the Group’s Compliance Guidebook, which Number of Managers Employed at Overseas Operating Sites is distributed to each employee, specifies to strictly inhibit unjust (As of March 31, 2011) discrimination and sexual harassment. (People) Also, the Group does not condone child labor or forced labor. An Local employees Of which, managers investigation into child labor conducted by the International Labour 1,713 126 Organization (ILO) shows that over 96 million children between the * Local employees are those employees who work full-time at our overseas operating sites. ages of 5 and 14 years old are currently working in the Asia-Pacific * Approximately 97% of local employees possess citizenship of the country in which they are region. The Group, developing its business in this region where apemployed. * Managers are those employees positioned as a manager or higher. proximately 1,500 employees work, has implemented strict control on employee age, especially through pre-employment examinations. As a result, no issues regarding child labor have been reported. 75 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Description of the Group’s Workforce The tables below describe the workforce of JX Nippon Mining & Metals and its 53 affiliated companies (38 domestic, 16 overseas) encompassed in the boundary of this Report. The average age of employees is 39 years old and the average number of years of service is 11 years. Composition of Managerial-level Employees by Region (As of March 31, 2011) (People) Managerial-level employees Others Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Japan 1,499 36 1,535 2,307 346 2,653 3,806 382 4,188 North America 11 0 11 0 0 0 11 0 11 Domestic South America 31 0 31 1 0 1 32 0 32 companies (38) Asia 47 0 47 3 1 4 50 1 51 Europe 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 Oceania 4 1 5 0 0 0 4 1 5 Subtotal 1,593 37 1,630 2,311 347 2,658 3,904 384 4,288 North America 15 1 16 37 13 50 52 14 66 Overseas Asia 184 105 289 821 383 1,204 1,005 488 1,493 companies (16) Europe 16 1 17 128 9 137 144 10 154 Subtotal 215 107 322 986 405 1,391 1,201 512 1,713 Total 1,808 144 1,952 3,297 752 4,049 5,105 896 6,001 * The figures stipulated in the table above represent the number of full-time employees. The managerial-level employee encompasses general managers, managers, assistant managers, and supervisors. * Number of companies as of April 1, 2011. * The “domestic companies” category includes the Company. Composition of Managerial-level Employees by Age (As of March 31, 2011) (People) Managerial-level employees Others Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Below 29 years 165 11 176 610 67 677 775 78 853 of age Domestic 30–49 years of age 873 21 894 1,181 208 1,389 2,054 229 2,283 companies (38) Above 50 years 555 5 560 520 72 592 1,075 77 1,152 of age Subtotal 1,593 37 1,630 2,311 347 2,658 3,904 384 4,288 Below 29 years 43 45 88 373 230 603 416 275 691 of age Overseas 30–49 years of age 129 57 186 481 152 633 610 209 819 companies (16) Above 50 years 43 5 48 132 23 155 175 28 203 of age Subtotal 215 107 322 986 405 1,391 1,201 512 1,713 Total 1,808 144 1,952 3,297 752 4,049 5,105 896 6,001 * The figures stipulated in the table above represent the number of full-time employees. The managerial-level employee encompasses general managers, managers, assistant managers, and supervisorssupervisors. * Number of companies as of April 1, 2011. * The “domestic companies” category includes the Company. Social Activities Report Average Age and Average Number of Years of Service (As of March 31, 2011) Age (years) Years of service (years) Men Women Total Men Women Total Domestic companies (38) 41.5 39.4 41.4 13.4 10.5 13.1 Overseas companies (16) 36.0 31.3 34.6 7.3 5.1 6.6 Average 40.2 34.8 39.4 11.9 7.4 11.3 * Number of companies as of April 1, 2011. * The “domestic companies” category includes the Company. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 76 Number of Employees Recruited (April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011) (People) Men Women Total Domestic companies (38) 329 61 390 Overseas companies (16) 192 94 286 Total 521 155 676 * Number of companies as of April 1, 2011. * The “domestic companies” category includes the Company. Number of Employees that Left the Companies (April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011) Number of employees that left Rate of employees leaving the companies (people) the companies (%) Men Women Total Men Women Total Below 29 years of age 31 6 37 4 7 4 Domestic 30–49 years of age 47 13 60 2 5 3 companies (38) Above 50 years of age 79 3 82 7 4 7 Subtotal 157 22 179 4 5 4 Below 29 years of age 216 316 532 34 53 43 Overseas 30–49 years of age 51 29 80 8 12 9 companies (16) Above 50 years of age 5 2 7 3 7 3 Subtotal 272 347 619 18 40 27 Total 429 369 798 8 29 12 * The number of employees that left the companies includes the number of those who left the companies due to age-limit retirement, personal circumstances, death, and involuntary retirement. * Rate of employees leaving the companies is the percentage of the number of full-time employees who left the companies to the total number of employees. * Number of companies as of April 1, 2011. * The “domestic companies” category includes the Company. Initiatives toward Diversity We believe it is necessary for the Group to improve the environment As of March 31, 2011, a total of 896 female employees were working of workplaces in which employees can harness their full potential, in at domestic and overseas operating sites in the Group. Of this, approxiorder to accommodate the evolving business circumstances while at mately 16% occupy managerial positions. JX Nippon Mining & Metals the same time continuously growing its business. In view of that, the employed 179 female employees, of whom approximately 15% were Group values diversity in both human resources and working ways. currently active in managerial roles. Regardless of gender, fair treatIn compliance with relevant laws and regulations in Japan and overment and base pay compensation are strictly controlled. seas, JX Nippon Mining & Metals is promoting the reemployment of retirees and creating workplaces where women can play significant Work-life Balance roles. We have set up an environment that supports various types of The Company believes that measures to help employees achieve a workers which includes systems for child rearing, elderly care, and inbalance between their professional and their family lives are essential. ternational volunteering. In fiscal 2010, eight employees used maternity leave and child rearing systems. Reemployment of Retirees The Company is promoting the reemployment of retirees, based on its reemployment program. We expect that the reemployment program will not merely engage retirees in day-to-day duties, but will also enable them to pass on their technological know-how and skills to younger employees as well as contribute to operational management by maintaining and improving safety and quality control. Status of Rehiring Efforts (JX Nippon Mining & Metals) (April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011) Initiatives to Employ the Physically Challenged The number of age-limit The number of those Reemployment ratio (%) Viewing the creation of a society in which each person can participate retirees (people) reemployed (people) in accordance with their aptitudes and capabilities as one of our 54 38 70 missions, we are actively increasing the percentage of the physically challenged in our workforce. Consequently, as of March 31, 2011, the physically challenged accountCreating Workplaces where Women ed for 1.94% of the Company’s employees, satisfying the 1.8% legal Can Play Significant Roles requirement. The Company aims to create workplaces that empower female employees to play active and significant roles. 77 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Maintaining a Good Relationship between Labor and Management Labor unions are organized in most domestic affiliated companies of For that purpose, after adequate explanation and discussion the Group. preliminarily made with sufficient duration, the provisional LaborBased on mutual trust between management and employees, a Management Council is held to obtain deeper understanding of the sound relationship is maintained. At all regular meetings between labor union, in line with labor agreement. representatives of management and a labor union of each company, In fiscal 2010, we held an extraordinary LaborManagement Council management discloses details of the business condition of the to adequately explain and discuss a strategic reorganization plan to companies to the union. Also, joint committees on health and safety gain the understanding of employees. issues at each company thoroughly discuss causes and other factors Furthermore, in fiscal 2010, there were no strikes or lockouts. involved in any accidents and any necessary remedial measures. The union thus plays an important role as a partner with management. Moreover, we believe that employees’ full understanding allows the smooth change of the companies’ business lines or organizational structure. Labor Union Members (As of March 31, 2011) The number of union members (people) Percentage of labor union members (%) Men Women Total Men Women Total Below 29 years of age 567 41 608 73 53 71 Domestic 30–49 years of age 1,460 161 1,621 71 70 71 companies (38) Above 50 years of age 379 21 400 35 27 35 Total 2,406 223 2,629 62 58 61 * The percentage of labor union members is the ratio of union members to the number of full-time employees. * The number of companies as of April 1, 2011. * The “domestic companies” category includes the Company. Human Resources Development and Personnel Systems We follow a basic policy of running our business operations with a Further, we have introduced the Competency Evaluation System, small number of highly skilled staff. To translate this policy into reality, Performance Evaluation System, and Self-Statement System into our it is essential to provide education and training programs that will personnel systems. We strive to foster a better working environment develop the individual skills of each employee. Amidst the rapidly and by integrating functions to improve communication between the structurally changing business environment, surviving against comCompany and its employees into the personnel systems. petitors in the global marketplace and sustainably growing our business increasingly requires us to vigorously strengthen our human Education and Training Programs Undertaken in Fiscal 2010 resources, an engine of our business activities. (Hours) Currently, the Company is developing and conducting CompanyManagerial General Total wide education and training programs based on themes to enhance staff employees expertise and improve the judgment of those who work on the manuTotal hours of programs 7,923 48,467 56,390 facturing floor, as well as cultivate strategic thinking among employAverage hours per employee 20.16 27.08 25.83 ees. Additionally, we encourage employees to participate in a wide Boundary: JX Nippon Mining & Metals Co., Ltd., JX Nippon Environmental Services Co., Ltd., and Social Activities Report range of education and training programs, including studying at overPan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. (Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Hitachi Works). seas graduate schools or at institutes for foreign language education in Japan as well as self-enlightenment seminars on financial analysis or presentation skills. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 78 Our Educational Program in Fiscal 2010 Educational Program Chart Programs at operating sites or workplaces Programs by job Programs supporting Type Companywide programs OFF-JT OJT classifications self-development General managers Education organized by JX Holdings, Inc. Programs with management goals Selective training for general managers (executive leader training) Selective training for managers (middle manager training) Managers Study abroad program Training for newly promoted managerial staff Programs in the Management framework of TPM Coordinators planners OJT programs outside of the Company (Academia / Industry) Programs in the 5th year Competency Evaluation Program Language study support after joining the Company Correspondence education program ISO Programs designed by job classification Training for (Industrial college) Open college TPM Programs in the 3rd year newly Safety after joining the Company promoted Experiment Environment supervisory planning Job rotation Programs in the 2nd year Quality staff members Supervisors after joining the Company Operational Programs at Programs for Challenge sheet Programs at 6 months after improvement external courses newly-hired employees joining the Company Qualification at the head office Intermediate acquisition Programs for new employees quality etc. (College graduates) management Training courses for Introductory locally hired staff at Instruction for candidates to be quality the Company’s management head office trained at headquarters Operators Entry-level training course for employees hired at operating sites Programs for (Industrial college / high newly-hired employees school graduates) at operating sites Systematic Education and Training for College Graduates For employees who are college graduates, we positioned the first five years after joining the Company as a period for systematic human resources development. During this period, they participate in various education and training programs that help develop specific business skills. Education and Training Programs Implemented in Fiscal 2010 Programs for new Understanding the current business conditions and management issues of the Company and its corporate social responsibility. employees Acquiring basic skills requisite to a business person, including business manners, English conversation, financial accounting, etc. Developing a sense of cooperation and community among employees entering the Company at the same time. Programs at 6 months after Looking back on their lives as members of society after entering the Company and examining current issues. joining the Company Strengthening basic skills requisite to a business person such as communication and presentation. Programs in the 2nd year Deepening understanding of the Company’s social responsibility in relation to operational management and its initiatives through the study tour of the Toyoha Mine after joining the Company and other activities. Deepening understanding of the Company’s corporate philosophy and its corporate DNA, and at the same time encouraging to be pride of the Company’s employees. Programs in the 3rd year Deepening understanding of the current business conditions and management issues of the Company. after joining the Company Acquiring additional business skills such as logical thinking. Understanding role expectations and enhancing motivation. Programs in the 5th year Enhancing self-advancement problem-solving ability. after joining the Company Acquiring business skills necessary for problem solving such as logical thinking, problem identification, problem resolution, project management, etc. as the final step in the education and training programs for college graduate employees. Logically and systematically implementing issues found in actual operations, and practicing business skills acquired in the programs into actual operations. 79 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Enhancing Education and Training Programs and subsequently evaluated. The results of these evaluations are reby Job Classification flected in employee bonuses. We have developed a system to promote education and training proBy properly managing the employee evaluation system, we are trygrams that are headed by executive employees. These programs are ing to build a sense of fairness and understanding through a long-term designed for the enhancement of specialized skills requisite to profesview of treatment of employees and development of abilities. sionals in order to carry out their duties. The contents of the programs are considered, and education and training are implemented in line Self-Statement System with the program by job classification. In this program, individual job The aim of this system is for the Company to identify each employee’s rotations are also planned. Periodically revising the content of the procareer interests and aspirations, and reflect them in the human regram, we are providing employees with opportunities to work in varisources development programs to the utmost extent. Once a year, ous job fields, and at the same time enhance the education and looking back at his or her performance, each employee completes and training programs for human resources development. submits the SelfStatement sheet, filling in his or her business affairs, skills they would like to improve and business lines they are willing to Ensuring Appropriate Personnel Evaluation challenge, and also any private circumstances they want to let the To maintain the Company’s policy of operating with a small number Company know. of highly skilled staff, one of the keys is to create a system that allows individual employees to fully realize their potential and make the best use of their unique abilities. To make this possible, we need to accurately evaluate their abilities. The Company has introduced the Competency Evaluation Program based on competency models and a performance appraisal system with management goals. The evaluation of the Competency Evaluation Program requires each employee to have an interview with his or her supervisor. The interview is conducted in line with competency items determined by the work that each employee is responsible for and their job position. This program aims to evaluate efforts to produce significant results required in the competency models. Results of the evaluation are taken into consideration in relation to employee promotion. Under the Performance Evaluation Program, employees set workrelated goals at the beginning of each fiscal year. The challenge levels of goals and goal attainment levels are discussed with their supervisors Promoting Physical and Mental Health Maintenance We believe that enhancing and maintaining the physical and mental well-being of employees is important. Mental Health Care Stress Checks Surveyed at Workplaces We recognize good mental health as an important factor in creating of the Company a happy life for each employee and his or her family as well as heightNumber of participants: approx. 2,700 ening productivity and creating lively workplaces. Taking a broad Parties surveyed: employees of the Company, contract employees, sense of mental health care, a wide range of initiatives, including facommission-based employees, short-term employees, temporary cilitating communication at workplaces, have been taken. employees, employees seconded from other companies, employees Social Activities Report In July 2008, we implemented the Mental and Emotional Health from affiliated companies, etc. Maintenance Plan, and subsequently worked to spread awareness of Results of the survey: reporting feedback to individuals, advising this plan throughout the Group. Each operating site has launched a individuals to have a mental checkup as necessary, conducting system to support employees to maintain good mental health. Some workshops to improve the various working environments, etc. measures involved in this plan cover the families of employees. Principal Measures Face-to-face counseling Counseling by means of telephone Online counseling Mental health training Workplace stress checks JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 80 Health and Safety Activities JX Nippon Mining & Metals Basic Policy on Health and Safety We place the highest priority on ensuring the health and safety for all members working at the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group and thereby strive to create a safe and secure working place. 1. We will continuously improve health and safety management levels through the establishment and efficient operation of health and safety management system. 2. We will work to identify, eliminate, and reduce hazards and harmful factors in all areas of business operations and to ensure no accidents occur. 3. We will work to maintain and improve employees’ mental and physical health by ensuring good communication and comfortable working environment 4. We will actively provide information and education in order to develop human resources that can act spontaneously and have strong safety competencies. 5. We will not only comply with health and safety laws and regulations, but will also establish and observe necessary voluntary standards. Management Policy on Health and Safety Health and Safety Related Performance The Group, acting in line with its Basic Policy on Health and Safety, sets in the Current Year*1 the Management Policy on Health and Safety each fiscal year. The In 2010, a fatal accident occurred although the overall occurrences of goals and focal measures of the policy in any particular fiscal year are accidents decreased. set in view of an analysis of the performance results for health and Category 2008 2009 2010 safety in the previous fiscal year. The Management Policy on Health Instances of accidents with lost work 15 15*4 13*5 and Safety for any particular fiscal year should be discussed and days and fatal accidents (people) approved by the Central Health and Safety Committee, and then Instances of accidents without lost 17 22 16 promulgated across the Group. Safety work days (people) performance Total (people) 32 37 29 at domestic Management Policy on Health and Safety for Fiscal 2010 operating sites*2 Frequency rate of industrial 0.61 0.61 1.36 accidents*3 Goals Accident severity rate*3 0.09 0.01 0.02 Significant accidents: zero Explosions and fires (occurrences) 0 0 1*6 Occurrences of accidents: reduction of 10% or more relative to the least number of accidents in the past Health Occupational diseases (people) 0 0 0 performance Explosions, fires: zero at domestic Occupational diseases: zero operating sites (Reference) Instances of accidents with lost work 17 9 8 Examples of focal measures Safety days (people) performance Instances of accidents without lost 9 10 6 Promoting elimination of significant accidents at overseas work days (people) Promotion of health and safety management activities in operating sites Total (people) 26 19 14 response to the actual situation at each operating site Reinforcing specialized education by job grade *1. Data on health and safety performance is counted on a calendar year basis. *2. The figures include the performances of affiliated and cooperative companies. *3. Both the frequency rate of industrial accidents (the number of casualties caused by occupational accidents per million hours of total actual work) and the accident severity rate (the number of work days lost per thousand hours of total actual work) were calculated on the basis of performances of the Company’s employees. (Reference) From January through December 2010, the frequency rate of industrial accidents and the accident severity rate of all businesses in Japan were 1.61 and 0.09, respectively. (Industrial Accident Trend Survey by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare) *4. The three fatalities related to the accident that occurred on June 13, 2009, are included. *5. The fatality related to the accident that occurred on September 19, 2010, is included. *6. There was no physical injury due to fire. Significant Accidents Related to Forklift Operation On September 19, 2010, a fatal accident occurred at the Hitachi Works. to start his shift. In reaction to a fatal accident in June 2009, the JX According to the accident investigation, the cargo handling device of Nippon Mining & Metals Group advocated “promoting elimination of a forklift fell on the head of a person while he was apparently inspectsignificant accidents” in the Management Policy on Health and Safety ing oil leakage under a cargo handling device. The casualty was an for fiscal 2010 and 2011 and all the Group companies have addressed employee of a cooperative company that contracts for premises transits achievement. Recognizing the grave occurrence of these significant port operation on behalf of JX Nippon Environmental Services Co., Ltd. accidents during fiscal 2010, the Group is endeavoring to prevent the Another fatal accident occurred at the Kurami Works on February 7, recurrence of similar accidents while carefully reviewing activities to 2011. An operator’s inappropriate steering of a forklift resulted in a coleliminate significant accidents. lision with an employee of a contracted company who was preparing 81 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Activities to strengthen management and education related to forklifts Activity Description Thorough check of compliance with Check whether the forklift-related laws and regulations are clearly specified in the work standards and observed at each operating forklift-related laws and regulations site and rectify immediately in case of ill-preparedness or deficiency. Thorough check of the hydraulic Check whether each hydraulic system is operating properly and repair immediately in case of abnormality. systems Improving forklift-related education Prepare the texts for repeated use in education programs, in which relevant laws and regulations, management items on safety for operators, managers and and cases of forklift accidents are summarized, to deepen employees’ understanding of forklift-related laws and regulations and supervisors management items on safety (for which instruction is provided on such occasions as skills training). Promoting the activity toward creating and ensuring a culture Group companies use the collection in their respective education proof safety across the Group grams to employees on a regular and systemic basis. The activity, which means that “Each operating site will thoroughly Thorough inspections are conducted based on the Group-wide address activities that are independently selected to help ensure a culstandards classified by cause. In fiscal 2010, we focused on the ture of safety,” started with the president’s directive issued in February “Prevention of Pinching Accidents by or between Automatic Opera2010. Also advocated in the Management Policy on Health and Safety tion Equipment” and the “Prevention of Falling/Tumble Accidents.” for fiscal 2011 is the cooperation of all the Group companies in tackling In fiscal 2011 and beyond, we will completely check the “Prevention this activity. of Accidents Caused by Contact with Harmful Substances” and the “Prevention of Explosion Accidents” to prevent the recurrence of Promoting elimination of significant accidents significant accidents. The Group has prepared and published a collection of cases regarding significant accidents for review to address preventive measures. All the Health and Safety Management Activities Health and safety management organizations president of Toray Plastic Films Co., Ltd.). Furthermore, in June 2010, a Apart from the Health and Safety Committees at each of our domestic lecture titled “Enhance the Layers of Safety—From a New Perspective” operating sites, we hold meetings of the Central Health and Safety was given by Kunio Yanagita, a nonfiction writer, as part of our safety Committee (once per annum) and the Central Health and Safety education program. Standing Committee (five occasions per annum) at the head office to review the health and safety performance in the fiscal year under reEstablishing and operating an occupational health and safety view, discuss health and safety management policies for the next fiscal management system year and discuss countermeasures associated with identifying the The Basic Policy on Health and Safety of the Group stipulates the causes of disasters and preventing recurrence. Moreover, we monitor establishment and efficient implementation of occupational health the status of health and safety management at the operating sites, and safety management systems. The operating sites and principal review measures for health and safety and exchange opinions at the affiliated companies have obtained OHSAS 18001 certification. The Labor-Management Joint Monitoring on Health and Safety (once per Tatebayashi Works of Sanyu Electronic Industry Co., Ltd., obtained the annum) and the Corporate Supervisors’ Meeting on Health and Safety certification in fiscal 2010. (twice per annum). Environment & Safety Audits Reinforcing specialized education by job grade The Group aims to eliminate disasters and accidents through audits The Group offers safety education to not only operators but also manconducted by the Environment & Safety Audits Team, working directly agers, supervisors and management executives in an effort to raise under the President and CEO. Operating sites and principal affiliated their awareness of safety issues. To this end, the Group endeavors to companies are subject to the audit. The problems identified are Social Activities Report provide managers and supervisors with specialized education proreported to top management and then passed on to each operating grams under the policy of ensuring their participation in training sessite to elicit improvement. The subsequent status of implementation sions to choose safety managers and the training for forepersons, as is reviewed later. well as guidance or follow-up programs to help them understand the occupational duties of subordinates thereof (e.g., forepersons and opCompliance with laws and regulations eration chiefs). Meanwhile, workshops on safety are regularly held for The Group has introduced a legal and regulatory monitoring system management executives for the purpose of gathering accurate information on revisions made with invited external lecto relevant laws and regulations regarding health, safety, and the enturers. In February 2010, vironment, and appropriately responding to the revisions. Upon rea lecture titled “Safety ceipt of the latest information on regulatory revisions each week, we Depends on Top Managecompile explanatory materials regarding important points in relation ment’s Way of Life” was to the revisions and manuals on how to respond to these revisions. We given by Michio Niwa distribute these materials to all operating sites so that they can under(non-regular staff of Toray stand the points and comply with the relevant laws and regulations Industries, Inc.; former Special safety lecture without fail. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 82 Operating sites that have obtained OHSAS 18001 Fiscal year certification Operating site*1 obtained Fiscal 2006 Hibi Smelter, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. (including Tamano Smelter, Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd., Sankin Hibi Harbor Transportation Co., Ltd.) Fiscal 2008 Hitachi Area Coordination Center (including Shirogane Works, HMC Works, Hitachi Fabricating Works Technology Development Center, Hitachi Works, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd., Nikko Environmental Services Co., Ltd., Hitachi Area Coordination Center, Nikko Foundry Co., Ltd., HMC Works obtained certification via extension audit in January 2010), Kurami Works (including Nikko Coil Center Co., Ltd., Kurami Office, Nikko Shoji Co., Ltd.), Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Nikko Smelting & Refining Co., Ltd. (including Japan Copper Casting Co., Ltd., Nissho Ko-un Co., Ltd., Nikko Plant Saganoseki Co., Ltd.), Nikko Metals Taiwan Co., Ltd. (Bade Works) Fiscal 2009 Isohara Works (including Nikko Foundry Co., Ltd., Isohara Administration Office), Toda Works, Tomakomai Chemical Co., Ltd., Nikko Mikkaichi Recycle Co., Ltd., Nikko Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd., Nikko Fuji Electronics Co., Ltd. (Isohara Works), Gould Electronics GmbH Fiscal 2010 Tatebayashi Works, Sanyu Electronic Industry Co., Ltd. *1. The names of the operating sites listed in the above table are as of their obtaining OHSAS 18001. Health and Safety Management of the Group 1. Basic concept JX Nippon Mining & Metals Basic Policy on Health and Safety was formulated in 2006 (for further details, please see page 81) and continued in place without change after the Company joined the JX Group. An underlying spirit of the basic policy is the respect of human dignity, as well as the “safety-first” concept for ensuring the health and safety for all persons working at the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group. Furthermore, note that all the Basic Policy sentences start with “we” as the subject. In other words, as for issues related to health and safety, all employees working at the Group are leading players and therefore every person in any position must pursue the goal through his/her own behavior. 2. About “safety first” It’s easy to say “safety first.” But having the knowledge is clearly different from practical action. For example, frontline operators are often requested to eliminate unreasonableness (muri), waste (muda) and lack of uniformity (mura) at the point of production. Waste and the lack of uniformity are indicators of efficiency and variation in quality. As these factors can be seen with numerical data and the defects thereof are conspicuous, we can positively improve them. However, unreasonableness is a concept related to unnatural behavior that involves certain risks. As a result, defects that result from unreasonableness are difficult to identify and problems tend to escape notice. Yet, we must prioritize addressing Jun Ogata unreasonableness. Kaizen to ensure true safety requires the elimination of waste, General Manager, Environment & lack of uniformity and unreasonableness, and this way of thinking must be purSafety Department sued as a core concept of our safety. On the other hand, whether to engage in unreasonable behavior largely depends on each employee’s mind-set. In the past, there might have been a general acceptance of unreasonable behavior if certain efficiency levels were achieved. Today, however, we prefer safety-first behavior. To that end, as stated earlier, we will need to identify key issues and address them through the kaizen to ensure true safety despite a possible temporary decline in efficiency. Taking into account the aforementioned factors, we will need to shift the priority of our values so that safety is placed above efficiency to realize safety-first workplaces. 3. Current performance and problems The number of casualties of the Group caused by disasters or accidents totaled 29 in 2010. Although this figure decreased compared with the previous calendar year, the instances of accidents with lost work days and fatal accidents were about the same. Moreover, significant accidents (for further details, please see page 81) continued to occur. It is regrettable that our initiative to eliminate significant accidents, which has been in effect since a fatal accident in 2009, has yet to deliver improved results. 4. Future activities and goals to be pursued We inevitably get good results by carefully conducting previously implemented safety activities on a step-by-step basis rather than committing ourselves to new ones. It is important that all the related people working on the premises share the same values. To that end, it is indispensable for top management at each operating site to motivate itself to achieve the goal of zero accidents and lead all other employees. It is often said that there is no silver bullet for safety. Of course, this proverb might be correct if it means that safety cannot be achieved rapidly with remarkable effects. However, it is top management’s responsibility to change our organizational values, indicate future orientation and get everyone working in concert. Accordingly, I believe that the unshakable belief from the top management that the goal of zero accidents must be achieved would be an alternative to the silver bullet and an expression of the respect of human dignity. 83 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Involvement with Local Communities Regional The Group’s domestic and overseas operating sites are regularly communicating with local and regional authorities, local chambers of commerce and other organizations, to build relationships of trust with them. Also, we actively promote exchanges with local communities by conducting summer festivals and other events. Communication with Local Communities In this section, we will introduce examples of communication with local communities in fiscal 2010. Participation in regional organizations (Fiscal 2010) etc.). Further, the Company is a member of the organizations listed The Company participates in chambers of commerce and other such below, and participates in regular meetings (Executive Committee) organizations in all regions in which it has operating sites (Tomakomai, and various other committees. Through these and other initiatives, we Kitaibaraki, Hitachi, Kurobe, Tsuruga, Tokyo, Samukawa, Tamano, Oita, are actively participating in regional organizations. Makurazaki, Tatebayashi, Oshu, the Philippines, Freiburg in Germany, Organization (Other) Participating operating site /Group Organization (Other) Participating operating site /Group company (Position with the organization) company (Position with the organization) Industrial Waste Association (Hokkaido, JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical Co., Ltd. Tamano Traffic Safety Association Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd. (Director) Toyama, Ibaraki, Fukui, Osaka) (Executive Secretary), JX Nippon Mikkaichi Saganoseki Machidukuri Kyogikai (NPO Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Pan Pacific Recycle Co., Ltd., JX Nippon Environmental Council for Revitalization of Saganoseki) Copper Co., Ltd. (Vice Director) Services Co., Ltd., JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Saganoseki Donation Allocation Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Pan Pacific Co., Ltd. (Director), JX Metals Trading Co., Ltd. Intermediately Association Copper Co., Ltd. (Vice Chairman) The Foundation For The Advancement of JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical Co., Ltd. Kyushu-chihou Kouzan-kai (Mining Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Pan Pacific Industrial Technology In Dohoh Area (Councilor) Association of Kyushu-district) Copper Co., Ltd. (Chairman), Kasuga Mines Kitaibaraki-shi Association for Safety of Isohara Works (Director), Isohara Fabricating Co., Ltd. (Director) Hazardous Materials Works (Director) Oita Labour Standards Association Nissho Ko-un Co., Ltd. Kitaibaraki-shi Boka-Kanri-Kyogikai Isohara Works (Director), Isohara Fabricating Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone Industrial Nikko Metals Shanghai Co., Ltd. (Fire Protection and Control Council Works (Director) Association of Kitaibaraki) Association for Safety of Hazardous Sanyu Electronic Industry Co., Ltd. Takahagi-chiku Koyo Taisaku Kyogikai Isohara Works (Director) Materials (Meguro, Tatebayashi, Esashi) (an association for employment Suzhou Foreign Business Association Nippon Mining & Metals (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. measures in Takahagi District) (Standing Director) Hitachi-roudoukijunkyokai (an Hitachi Works, Isohara Works (Director) Suzhou Nissho Club Nippon Mining & Metals (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. organization to provide information Association of Enterprises with Foreign Changzhou Jinyuan Copper Co., Ltd. about labor regulations, industrial Investment, Changzhou City accidents, and others) Wuxi Foreign Investors Industrial Nikko Fuji Precision (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. Hitachi Traffic Safety Association Hitachi Works Association Kurobe Water Resource Management JX Nippon Mikkaichi Recycle Co., Ltd. Dongwan Hongmeizhen Support Nikko Fuji Electronics Dongguan Co., Ltd. Committee (Director) Association Kurobe Industrial District Support JX Nippon Kurobe Galva Co., Ltd. Taoyuan Waste Committee Nikko Metals Taiwan Co., Ltd. (Director) Organization The Japanese Association, Manila, Inc. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Philippines, Inc. Reinan Environmental Conservation JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. Laguna Industrial District Organization JX Nippon Mining & Metals Philippines, Inc. Organization (Chairman) Japan Business Association of Arizona Nikko Metals USA, Inc. (President) Tsuruga Mikata Association for Safety JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. Copiapo River Water Utilization SCM Minera Lumina Copper Chile of Hazardous Materials (Vice Chairman) Management Association Samukawa Hazardous Substance Safety Kurami Works (Vice Chairman) Copiapo Valley Traffic Safety Association SCM Minera Lumina Copper Chile Association Tamono-shibu (Tamano branch division), Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd. (Assistant * The above is an abbreviated list of organization membership. Japan Coast Guard Association Branch Manager) Responding to complaints recorded in the table below. In all cases, the Company responded The Company responds earnestly to any complaints it receives from quickly and took appropriate corrective measures. Going forward, we local communities. It makes sincere efforts to rectify the situation by will redouble our efforts to prevent such complaints from arising in working to quickly assess the situation and develop necessary imthe future. Social Activities Report provement measures. The complaints received in fiscal 2010 are Operating site Complaint Response measure Future improvements, etc. Hibi Kyodo Smelting Dispersal of iron rust from the Completed painting the external surface of the chimney at the end of Co., Ltd. painted surface of a chimney November 2010 Dispersal of dust when loading Suspended loading in strong wind, provided verbal and written instruction Rigorously instruct operators to maintain about initiatives to sprinkle water and treat drain water to prevent dust from dispersal countermeasures. dispersing to those who made the complaint Hitachi Works Noise generation Gas extraction fans generate the noise. Covered the fans with a two-ply soundproof sheet, inspected the fans, fine-tuned the frequency of inverters, etc. Pan Pacific Copper “Burning-motor” odor generation Smoke leakage caused by an increase in gas emission volume resulting from Prepare a manual for leakages of gas Co., Ltd., raw material of the kiln furnace getting wet generated the odor. Immediately emissions from the kiln furnace. Prevent Saganoseki Smelter suspended its operation, and explained eradication of the smoke leakage and recurrence by strengthening control. & Refinery abnormal odor to the general public living in the vicinity SMC Minera Lumina Cutting off electric cables when Investigated damage situations and assessed compensation Agreed to raise average height of electric Copper Chile transporting heavy equipment cables to 7 meters. Complaints about the speed of Made a rule for road safety Rigorously instruct drivers engaged in the vehicles passing through from Caserones project to comply with the rule. the site of the Caserones project JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 84 Examples of communication with local communities Implementation of Plant Tours, Etc. (Fiscal 2010) Operating site Initiative Participants (Organization) Period of implementation Number of (Fiscal 2010) participants Hitachi Works Interns Hitachi Technical High School Second half of October 2010 6 Hitachi Works (HMC Dept.) Plant tour Trainees of the International Institute for Mining Technology Second half of November, 13 2010 Kurami Works Plant tour Samukawa Junior High School February 2011 20 Kasuga Mines Co., Ltd. Plant tour Bounotsu Welfare Cente May 2010 15 Tategami Elementary School July 2010 54 Bounotsu Gakuen August 2010 10 JX Nippon Kurobe Galva Co., Ltd. Plant tour Program organized by the city in which children visit local August 2010 16 companies Company study tour project aimed at facilitating youth August 2010 25 employment JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. Plant tour Kinki Shikoku Mining Association October 2010 34 Saganoseki Chamber of Commerce and Industry February 2011 10 Hibi Kyodo Smelter, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd., Plant tour Tamano Lions Club April 2010 19 Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd. JOGMEC July 2010 4 Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Pan Pacific Copper Plant tour Former Australian soldiers March 2011 3 Co., Ltd. Securities analysts February 2011 20 Individuals involved with the Esperanza Mine March 2011 10 Tanzania Minerals Audit Agency January 2011 6 Head Office, Meguro Works, Sanyu Electronic Workplace Meguro Chuo Junior High School January 19–21, 2011 2 Industry Co., Ltd. experience SCM Minera Lumina Copper Chile Plant tour Education for holders of heavy machinery operation licenses November 2010 20 On-site inspection by labor bureau July 2010 3 Inspection by Atacama public corporation for public-private November 2010 10 sector development Samukawa Junior High School Program organized by the city in Company study tour project Kinki Shikoku Mining Association Saganoseki Chamber of Plant tour which children visit local aimed at facilitating youth Plant tour Commerce and Industry Kurami Works companies employment JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Plant tour Plant tour Plant tour Ltd. JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., JX Nippon Kurobe Galva Co., Ltd. JX Nippon Kurobe Galva Co., Ltd. Ltd. Convivial Events (Summer festivals and other events to which members of the community were invited, fiscal 2010) Operating site Event details, number of participants, etc. Isohara Fabricating Works, Isohara Works Held JX Isohara Summer Festival 2010, August, location: Isohara Processing Works, 1,000 participants. Hitachi Works Conducted an outdoor event held as a part of the “Sanjin-sai” summer festival held on the company grounds and a martial arts tournament held in the Nikko Shido Kan (Held annually in July, approx. 2,000 participants). Kurami Works Conducted “Hazuki-sai” summer festival held on the company grounds (Held annually in August, approx. 7,000 participants). Participated in the “Shinko-sai” festival (Held annually in September, approx. 200 participants): The company participated in a festival held at the local Kurami Shrine. Part of the plant is opened to visitors and employees participated in carrying a mikoshi, a traditional Japanese festival event. JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. Held firefly viewing event in cooperation with the local NPO Aqua Sangha (June, approx. 20 participants). Hibi Kyodo Smelter, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Participated in the Hibi District Autumnal Festival of the Hibi District of Tamano City, Okayama Prefecture (October, approx. 160 Ltd., Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd. participants). Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Pan Pacific Participated in the “Seki no Tai-tsuri Odori Taikai” festival (Held annually in September, approx. 30 participants). Copper Co., Ltd. Kasuga Mines Co., Ltd. Held the “Sanjin-sai” festival (Held annually in October, approx. 30 participants) JX Nippon Kurobe Galva Co., Ltd. Participated in the Kurobe New Year’s Party in January 2011, in Kurobe, 200 participants. Participated in sand borer fishing contest, July 2010, in Kurobe, 20 participants. Nikko Metals USA, Inc. Participated in the Japan Business Association of Arizona’s New Year’s Party (January 2011, approx. 120 participants). Participated in Japanese speech contest, 200 participants. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Korea Co., Ltd. Held roundtable conference with prefectural governor of Gyeonggi-do at local office, March 2010, 30 participants. SCM Minera Lumina Copper Chile Held year-end social gathering with representatives of residents of the Copiapo area at local restaurant, December 2010, 50 participants. Held signing ceremony for cooperation agreement with Tierra Amarilla, June 2010, 70 participants, August, 60 participants. Held signing ceremony for fund cooperation agreement, “With Your Contribution, We Grow,” October 2010, 60 participants. “Hazuki-sai” summer festival “Hazuki-sai” summer festival “Shinko-sai” festival “Shinko-sai” festival Roundtable conference with Kurami Works Kurami Works Kurami Works Kurami Works prefectural governor of Gyeonggi-do JX Nippon Mining & Metals Korea Co., Ltd. 85 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Contributions to local communities activities as well as crime prevention activities and disaster preparedIn addition to contributing to society through its business activities, the ness drills. Through these activities, we are promoting continuous comGroup acts in accordance with its Code of Conduct and engages in munication and interaction with members of the local community, as social contribution activities geared toward helping develop and enwell as developing mutual understanding and friendship. rich local communities while also building harmony with these comMajor contribution activities in fiscal 2010 toward local communities in munities. The Group engages in a variety of activities including cleanup areas where Group operations are located are listed in the table below. Local Cleanup Activities (Fiscal 2010) Operating site Activity details Isohara Works, Isohara Fabricating Works Participated in a beautification campaign sponsored by Kitaibaraki City (Ibaraki Prefecture) and cleaned such areas as the coast of Isohara (May and July, approx. 300 participants). Isohara Fabricating Works Organized a beautification campaign and cleaned the area around the plant (Conducted 2 times in fiscal 2010, approx. 65 participants). Hitachi Works Participated in cleanup activities of the Miyadagawa River in Hitachi City (June and December, approx. 100 participants). Personnel of all operating sites comprehensively clean up the area surrounding operational sites at the beginning of every month. Kurami Works Participated in the Sagami River Clean Campaign (May, approx. 60 participants). Participated in a beautification campaign organized by Samukawa City (Kanagawa Prefecture) to clean the riverbed of the Sagami River, which flows through the area. JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical Co., Ltd. Participated in cleanup activities sponsored by Tomakomai City (April and October). Conducted autonomous cleanup activities around the plant (August). JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. Participated in “Operation Cleanup Fukui” sponsored by Tsuruga City in Fukui Prefecture (4 times a year, approx. 20 participants each time). Participated in various cleanup activities including the cleanup of the Kehi-No-Matsubara Beach, approx. 50 participants. Undertook weeding and trash collection along the public roads in front of the company, cleanup of the rivers within company grounds, and cleanup of the rivers and farm roads behind the company. Hibi Kyodo Smelter, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd., Conducted bi-monthly cleanup activities on the roads and sidewalks around the plant (Approx. 20 participants each time). Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd. Participated in cleanup activities of the coast of Shibukawa (June, approx. 10 participants). * The coast of Shibukawa is a specially designated area of the Setonaikai National Park. The Pan Pacific Copper Hibi Kyodo Smelter and Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd. are located on an area of land bordering the coast that is approximately 789,517m2. Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Pan Pacific Conducted cleanup activities of the public roads adjacent to the smelter (Once a month, approx. 25 participants each time). Copper Co., Ltd. Kasuga Mines Co., Ltd. Participated in volunteer activities in the local community (Cleanup of the port, mowing grass along public roads, and cleanup of the coast on Marine Day). Head Office, Meguro Works, Sanyu Electronic Cleaned the area near the works early in the morning (1 participant every morning in rotation). Industry Co., Ltd. Esashi Works, Sanyu Electronic Industry Co., Ltd. Participated in the business council clean campaign (June, October, more than 4 participants). Nippon Mining & Metals (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Conducted monthly cleanup activities of the area around the plant (Approx. 200 participants each time). JX Nippon Mining & Metals Philippines, Inc. Participated in cleanup activities along the shore of Laguna de Bay (April). Cleaning up the riverbed of Cleaning up the area around Helping clean the Kehi-NoCleaning up the Fukagawa River Cleaning up the Nikkori River the Sagami River the works Matsubara Beach within the grounds of the JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Kurami Works JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle company Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. Crime Prevention and Disaster Preparedness Drills (Fiscal 2010) Operating site Activity details Kurami Works Conducted disaster preparedness drills (October, approx. 200 participants). JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical Co., Ltd. Conducted disaster preparedness drills (November). JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. Conducted emergency response drills (July, approx. all company personnel participated). Held self-defense firefighting squad contest August, 7 participants Attended meeting of Tsuruga business council for advancing the creation of a safe, reliable city, September, February, 2 participants. Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Pan Pacific Conducted crime prevention patrols as part of the Saganoseki Donation Allocation Committee’s Umineko-Tai, a local patrol team Copper Co., Ltd. (Once a month, 8 participants each time). Social Activities Report Conducted disaster preparedness drills (June, approx. 150 participants). Conducted autonomous gate-front high-pressure gas training (February 2011, approx. 30 participants). Tatebayashi Works, Sanyu Electronic Industry Conducted self-defense firefighting squad firefighting drills (for personnel), November 2011, 80 participants Co., Ltd. Esashi Works, Sanyu Electronic Industry Co., Ltd. Conducted evacuation drills (for personnel), April 2010, 57 participants. Nikko Fuji Electronics Dongguan Co., Ltd. Conducted a firefighting education and training program for employees (November, 223 participants). Nippon Mining & Metals (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Conducted training on how to use fire extinguishers and fire hydrants, October 2010, 50 participants (organization managers and upward) Nikko Fuji Precision (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. Conducted firefighting and disaster preparedness drills. SCM Minera Lumina Copper Chile Held educational seminars for the prevention of alcohol and drug use, October 2010, 40 participants Disaster preparedness drills Disaster preparedness drills Disaster preparedness drills Emergency response drills Self-defense firefighting contest Kurami Works Kurami Works JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Co., Ltd. Ltd. Ltd. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 86 Traffic Safety and Blood Drive Activities (Fiscal 2010) Operating site Activity details Isohara Works Conducted monthly traffic safety activities (More than 750 participants). Conducted blood drives (November, 64 participants). Hitachi Works Organized road traffic safety volunteers on a monthly basis (Approx. 20 participants each time). Participated in events sponsored by the Hitachi Traffic Safety Association (5 times a year, approx. 50 participants each time). Conducted blood drives (March, September, 100 participants). Kurami Works Conducted road traffic safety lectures (December, approx. 80 participants). Conducted blood drives (November, approx. 30 participants). JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical Co., Ltd. Participated in road traffic safety lectures conducted by local municipal bodies responsible for traffic safety and the police (April). JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. Participated in traffic safety activities organized by residents of the prefecture (4 times in the year, 3 participants each time). Hibi Kyodo Smelter, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd., Hibi Participated in events of the Tamano area safe driving control council as a member (Several times each year, 1 Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd. participant) Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Conducted monthly JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group “Yamabiko Undo” traffic safety awareness activities (Approx. Ltd. 15 participants each time). Conducted blood drives (2 times a year, approx. 94 participants). Esashi Works, Sanyu Electronic Industry Co., Ltd. Participated in a safe driving control contest (February 2011, 150 participants). Conducted blood drive, March 2010, 20 participants. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Philippines, Inc. Conducted blood drives (4 times a year). SCM Minera Lumina Copper Chile Cooperated with pilgrimage to Potro village, April 2010, 150 participants. A road traffic safety lecture Blood drive Kurami Works JX Nippon Mining & Metals Philippines, Inc. Opening of company facilities The Group opens a number of its facilities to the public, such as the grounds, at principal operating sites and affiliated companies. These facilities are used throughout the year to hold a wide variety of events. Examples of opening facilities to the public are listed in the table below. Operating site Facility Activity details Isohara Works Employee club Provided an area for children’s events to be held. Hitachi Works Nikko Shido Kan Provided a place for children as well as junior high school and high school kyudo (Japanese archery) and kendo (Japanese fencing) teams for practice and games. Kurami Works Company grounds Provided an area for baseball tournaments to be held. Hibi Kyodo Smelter, Pan Pacific Copper E-No-Hara Grounds Provided an area for baseball practice and games (Used by 1,920 people per year, Co., Ltd., Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd. including local youth baseball groups and police station personnel). Kyohi Gymnasium Provided an area for volleyball, badminton, kendo and other sports tournaments to be held (Used by 13,680 local residents per year). Idle land on grounds of company Provided a space for local residents to park their cars as part of typhoon and flood tide dormitory countermeasures (Used by 1,922 people during the year). Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Pan Osuiki Baseball Field Provided an area for baseball tournaments and practice to be held. Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. Fujiu Grounds Provided an area for Ground Golf tournaments to be held. Kasuga Mines Co., Ltd. Grounds of company dormitory Provided an area to practice golf. Nikko Metals USA, Inc. Meeting room Japan Business Association of Arizona, council (10 people). SCM Minera Lumina Copper Chile MLCC Los Loros office Opened the office and held exchange events between MLCC personnel and local residents, 200 participants every month. Copiapo branch Opened the branch to provide venue for employment briefings and education for local residents, 45 hours per week. 87 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Participating in reforestation at Kurakake Mountain Approximately 500 trees of different varieties, including oshimazakura cherry and Japanese mountain cherry, were planted on Kurakake Mountain, adjacent to the Hitachi Works, during the Meiji and Taisho periods. Since fiscal 2008, reforestation activities on this mountain have been carried out under the supervision of the Kurakake Mountain Cherry Tree 100-Year Committee, an organization formed by the city of Hitachi. Employees of the Hitachi Works have been regularly volunteering in these activities. In fiscal 2010, the reforestation activities were conducted in the fall with approximately 100 people participating in them. These activities included cleaning the hiking tracks, removing and chopping up fallen wood, and cutting long grass. The city of Hitachi intends to establish the mountain as a place for people to relax as well as a site for children to observe nature, experience the forest, and learn about the environReforestation activities at Kurakake Mountain ment. To this end, the government and citizens of Hitachi, as well as companies located there, will work together to continue conducting reforestation activities going forward. Principal Displays in Exhibitions (Fiscal 2010) *Company names are those used during fiscal 2010. Related Group company Activity details Head Office, JX Nippon Mining & Displayed various manufactured products such as treated rolled copper foil, electro-deposited copper foil, and copper foil for Metals Corporation lithium-ion batteries at JPCA Show 2010 (June). Displayed treated rolled copper foil, electro-deposited copper foil, surface treatment agents, etc. at TPCA Show 2010, sponsored by the Taiwan Printed Circuit Association (October). Displayed ITO targets and IGZO targets at FPD International 2010 (October). Displayed various sputtering targets for semiconductors, 450mm-diameter polycrystalline silicon wafers, the electroless Under Bump Metallurgy (UBM) plating service, super high-purity copper sulfate, etc., at SEMICON Japan 2010 (December). Participated in NEPCON WORLD JAPAN 2010 (January 2011). IC Packaging Technology Expo: Displayed the electroless tin-plating process, super high-purity copper sulfate, functional surface treatment agents, etc. EV & HEV Drive System Technology Expo: Displayed NMC cathode materials, the world’s thinnest treated rolled copper foil (6μm), materials for automotive connectors, etc. Displayed various sputtering targets, etc., at SEMICON Korea 2011 (February 2011). JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical Participated in the Hokkaido Technical Information & Business Exchange Fair (Business EXPO) (November). Co., Ltd. JX Nippon Mikkaichi Recycle Co., Ltd. Participated in “Kurobe Fair 2010,” hosted by Kurobe City and the Kurobe City Chamber of Commerce and JX Nippon Kurobe Galva Co., Ltd. Industry (August), (30,000 visitors over two days). JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. Participated in the “Tsuruga City Environmental Forum,” hosted by the Tsuruga Kankyo Mirai Network of Tsuruga City (February 2011). Displayed at the “Tsuruga City Environmental Fair” (February, 20 people). JX Nikko Art & Craft Co., Ltd. Displayed and sold jewelry, precious metals, and arts and crafts at the Industrial Culture Festival of Saganoseki, Oita City (November). Nikko Metals Taiwan Co., Ltd. Displayed ITO sputtering targets at Display Taiwan 2010 and introduced the newly developed UHD-IV grade targets (June). Displayed various sputtering targets, 450mm-diameter polycrystalline silicon wafers and wafers for handling tests, etc., at SEMICON Taiwan 2010 (September and October). Social Activities Report FPD International 2010 SEMICON JAPAN 2010 Kurobe Fair 2010 Tsuruga City Environmental Forum Tsuruga City Environmental Fair JX Nippon Kurobe Galva Co., Ltd. JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 88 Awards received from external organizations In fiscal 2010, the Group received a wide variety of awards from public and industry organizations in the various regions in which it operates. Details about these awards are outlined in the table below. The fact that various day-to-day activities have been highly evaluated will serve as a driving force behind future efforts to develop our operations. Going forward, we will work to ensure the continuation of these activities. Public and Industrial Organizations, Etc. Operating site Organization Award details Reason Isohara Works Takahagi-chiku Koyo Taisaku Superior Employee Award Received for contributing to the development of the plant (target Kyogikai (an association for group for award: managers) employment measures in Takahagi District), Hitachi-roudoukijunkyokai (an organization to provide information about labor regulations, industrial accidents, and others) Hitachi Works Hitachi-roudoukijunkyokai (an Superior Employee Award Received by employees who have served a long term of continued organization to provide information service (those that set a good example for other employees) about labor regulations, industrial accidents, and others) Hitachi-shi Bosai Kyokai (an Superior Employee Award Received by employees who set a good example for other association of disaster prevention employees and have three or more years experience handling in Hitachi City) hazardous substances and managing fire prevention initiatives Japan Crane Association Superior Crane Operator Received by crane operators that have achieved significant results in promoting accident prevention and improving their operation of cranes, etc. Kurami Works Japan Copper and Brass Association Superior Employee Award Received by employees who possess a rich wealth of knowledge and technical skills (those that set a good example for other employees) JX Nippon Tomakomai Tomakomai Chamber of Commerce Employee Award for Long-term Received by employees who have served a long term of continued Chemical Co., Ltd. and Industry Continued Service service (those that set a good example for other employees) JX Nippon Tsuruga Fukui Prefecture Labor Standards Employee Award for Superior Received for implementing health and safety management Recycle Co., Ltd. Association, Reinan Branch Health and Safety initiatives and improving the standards for workplace health and safety over the course of many years Fukui Industrial Waste Association Superior Employee Award for the Received by employees who have performed duties diligently for Appropriate Disposal of Industrial many years and whose work has produced outstanding results Waste Fukui Industrial Accident Prevention Fukui Labour Standards Association Received for contributing significantly to raising health and safety Groups Liaison Council, etc. Chairman’s Award standards Saganoseki Smelter & Japan Boiler Association Japan Boiler Association Branch Received for the stable and safe operation of boilers Refinery, Pan Pacific Head’s Award Copper Co., Ltd. Japan Association for Safety of Japan Association for Safety of Received for controlling the safety of hazardous materials, promotHazardous Materials Hazardous Materials Director’s ing disaster preparedness, and establishing and maintaining safety Award systems The High Pressure Gas Safety Superior Employee Award Received for initiatives for the safety of high-pressure gas facilities Institute of Japan, Oita (individual) and safety instruction Changzhou Jinyuan Changzhou Municipal People’s Three-star Corporation Received for the company’s superior performance (sales and Copper Co., Ltd. Government income) Tian Ning Qu Municipal People’s Excellent Tax Paying Industrial Received for contributing to the local community through the Government Corporation payment of taxes Changzhou City Labor-Society Reliable Corporation for Received for employment maintenance Security Board employment maintenance Nippon Mining & Metals Suzhou Municipal People’s Corporation for Harmonious Labor Received for concluding and terminating labor contracts pursuant to (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Government Relations labor law regulations, paying salaries, and paying for overtime work Nikko Fuji Electronics Dongguan Foreign Trade & 20,000 yuan subsidy Received for being one of Hongmei Town’s leading-edge technolDongguan Co., Ltd. Economic Cooperation Bureau ogy companies Hongmei Town Promotion 4th Zheng Teng Feng Ze Yuan Cup Received for outstanding play during matches Department Basketball Tournament Environmental Operating site Organization Award details Reason JX Nippon Tomakomai Tomakomai Association for Safety of Superior Hazardous Material Working to prevent accidents by complying with laws and Chemical Co., Ltd. Hazardous Materials Handler regulations pertaining to hazardous materials and properly handling hazardous substances Saganoseki Smelter & Oita Disaster Prevention Association Award for Distinguished Contributing to the maintenance and management of fire and Refinery, Pan Pacific Management of the Safety of disaster prevention activities and hazardous material safety facilities Copper Co., Ltd. Hazardous Materials 89 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Awards from Customers Operating site Organization Award details Reason JX Nippon Tsuruga Fukui Prison Letter of Appreciation Received for supporting prison work as a contract company for Recycle Co., Ltd. many years Nikko Fuji Electronics Hitachi Electronic Devices (Wujiang) Fiscal 2010 superior vendor Received for stable quality, meeting delivery periods, etc. Dongguan Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Donations to Local Communities, Etc. (Fiscal 2010) Receiving organization Number of donations Amount (thousand yen) 1. Local public organizations (including 18 42,541 colleges and hospitals) 2. Other regional organizations (festivals, 50 39,506 events, municipal councils, etc.) 3. Nonprofit foundations, corporations, 17 8,100 charities, etc. Total 85 90,147 * The Group as a whole donated ¥0.12 billion (please see page 52). * Donations from overseas affiliated companies have been denominated in yen by using the average exchange rate for fiscal 2010. Industry Organizations Participated in by Group Companies (Abbreviated List for Fiscal 2010) Organization Participating Group company (Position with the organization) Japan Mining Industry Association JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation (Council Member), Kasuga Mines Co., Ltd., JX Nippon Exploration and Development Co., Ltd., Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. (Director), Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd. (Director), Nikko Logistics Partners Co., Ltd. International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation International Copper Association (ICA) Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. Mining Safety and Health Association, Japan Kasuga Mines Co., Ltd. SHIGEN SOZAI GAKKAI JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation, Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd. (Regular Member) Japan Society of Newer Metals JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation The Japan Institute of Metals JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation The Japan Society of Applied Physics JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Japan Institute of Electronics Packaging JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Copper Foil Industries Associations JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Japan Powder Metallurgy Association JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation The Japan Society for Analytical Chemistry JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Japan Copper and Brass Association JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Japan Catalyst Recovering Association JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation The Society of Resource Geology JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation, JX Nippon Exploration and Development Co., Ltd. Sulfuric Acid Association of Japan Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. (Vice Chairman), JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical Co., Ltd. (Director), Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd. (Director) Hokuriku Electric Association JX Nippon Mikkaichi Recycle Co., Ltd. Japan Galvanizers Association JX Nippon Kurobe Galva Co., Ltd. Japan Plating Suppliers Association JX Metals Trading Co., Ltd. Social Activities Report Japan Federation of Coastal Shipping Associations Nippon Marine Co., Ltd. (Special IMO-Related Committee Member, etc.) The Japanese Shipowners’ Association Nippon Marine Co., Ltd. (Coastal Shipping Committee Member, etc.) Japan Coastal Cargo Ship-operators Association Nippon Marine Co., Ltd. (Standing Director, etc.) Japan–Peru Business Committee Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. Korea Display Industry Association JX Nippon Mining & Metals Korea Co., Ltd. China Nonferrous Metals Industry Association Changzhou Jinyuan Copper Co., Ltd. Association of German PCB Manufacturers Gould Electronics GmbH ZVEI (German electrical and electronic manufacturers’ Gould Electronics GmbH association) WVIB (Association of Industrial Companies Baden eV) Gould Electronics GmbH JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 90 Social Contribution Memorial Tree-planting Festival for the Afforestation and Reforestation Activities “Ryuju Satoyama” Reforestation Project at the Sites of Closure Mines On May 2010, a memorial treeWith the aim of protecting the environment and preserving planting festival was held in biodiversity, the Group is conducting afforestation and reforestation Nanyo City, Yamagata Prefecactivities at closure mines in cooperation with local forestry unions. In ture, to commemorate the fiscal 2010, 2,500 Buna (Fagus crenata) and 2,500 Mizunara (Quercus “Ryuju Satoyama” Reforestation crispula) trees were planted at the site (approximately 3.0 hectares) of Project. At the opening cerethe closed Kameda Mine in Hakodate City, Hokkaido, and 2,100 Akaezo mony, local residents gave a (Picea glehnii) trees were planted at the site (approximately 5.0 performance of Ryuju drums hectares) of the closed Oe Mine in Yoichi County, Hokkaido. and Hideo Shiota, Mayor of Furthermore, reforestation activities were conducted at the site (apNanyo City, and Nobuyuki proximately 7.7 hectares) of the Takatama Mine, in Koriyama, FukushiYamaki, Senior Executive Officer of the Company, gave congratulatory ma Prefecture, to remove and chop up fallen wood and cut long grass speeches. After reforestation actions were demonstrated by a local in the forest of Akamatsu (Pinus densiflora) and other vegetation. forestry union, 1,000 trees were planted by local elementary school pupils in addition to the planting of oyamazakura cherry trees by some representatives of the event co-organizers. In 2009, the Company concluded an agreement with Nanyo City in Yamagata Prefecture to participate in the Ryuju Satoyama Reforestation Project. Nippon Mining Co., Ltd. (currently JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation), previously conducted operations at the Yoshino Mine located in Yoshino City. In view of the history of the Group and the relationship with the city, we decided to take part in the project. Akaezo (Picea glehnii) planted at the Buna (Fagus crenata) rooted on the site of The project will be conducted over a 13-hectare area located south of site of the closed Oe Mine the closed Kameda Mine Takehara Public Park, between the park and Ryuju Mountain, at an elevation of 376 meters. The area is home to a diverse range of wildlife including wild deer (Cervus nippon yesoensis). voice CSR Activities of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group The Group’s CSR activity to support the Niko Niko Scholarship operated by NPO 2050, an NPO that offers a program providing educational support to women in developing countries, significantly contributes to increasing the status and quality of life of women in developing countries. The Niko Niko Scholarship of NPO 2050 currently covers projects in five Asian regions (Pakistan, India, Nepal, Bangladesh and Guizhou Province in China), which are entangled with such global problems as overpopulation, poverty and the poor status of women. NPO 2050 chooses trustworthy local women’s organizations, which select qualified scholarship students and autonomously operate scholarship funds. The selected students are subject to the following terms and conditions to receive the scholarship: 1) must study and graduate from high school and/or college, 2) must not marry or get employed while in school, 3) must participate in a social contribution program after graduating, and so forth. NPO 2050 requests that the relevant organizations in the reKatsuhide Kitatani spective regions submit a list of former and new students and a simple report at the beginning of a new school Chairman, NPO 2050 term. NPO 2050’s staff visits the organizations every three years to verify that the scholarship funds are used for the intended purpose through direct interviews with the directors, teachers and scholarship students. Neither local organizations nor NPO 2050 receive management fees and commissions so that the supported funds can be fully used to support women in poor families. An annual amount of US$4,000–US$5,000 per person is provided to approximately 15 students in each country. When the project was established in 1994, NPO 2050 primarily selected elementary school pupils to persuade them to study at middle school or high school and then college or university. As a result, many graduates have come to play an active role in society as teachers, governmental or NGO staff, nurses, entrepreneurs or employees. They also have a glow from their participation in social contribution programs. Their unanimous desire is to do something to increase the status of women and contribute to the creation of a peaceful society. The beneficiaries’ existence and success have been strongly promoting changes in people’s consciousness in developing countries. 91 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 International ICMM Activities in Fiscal 2010 In fiscal 2010, the first year of the Strategy and Action Plan 2010–2012, As a member of the ICMM, JX Nippon Mining & Metals has develthe International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) focused on oped its Code of Conduct in accordance with the 10 ICMM Prinreviewing the principles on climate change and promoting several ciples. Moreover, the CSR Committee deliberated the contents of projects under the ICMM Council’s initiative, based on the recognition the following Position Statements and has determined our comthat climate change is one of the most challenging topics aimed at mitment thereto. conserving the global environment. Furthermore, the ICMM has proactively addressed global tasks regarding the environment, human Mining and Protected Areas rights, control of chemical substances, health and safety, indigenous Mining and Indigenous Peoples people and involvement with local communities by attending at the Implementing a Global Solution to Managing a Low Emissions World Economic Forum (WEF) roundtable meeting and the 3rd MateriEconomy: Policy on Climate Change als Stewardship roundtable meeting; holding workshops in Japan with Transparency of Mineral Revenues the Japanese government on the control of chemical substances; attending various kinds of international conferences regarding susMining: Partnerships for Development tainable development; and creating partnerships with external organizations such as the IFC. Meanwhile, 15 member companies prepared their sustainability reports in accordance with the Assurance Procedure, which outlines ICMM’s members’ commitment to obtain independent external assurance of their sustainability performance, including their implementation of the 10 ICMM Principles and public reporting of performance in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and their Mining and Metals Sector Supplement (MMSS), from the standpoint of ensuring transparency of business activities. All of the sustainability reports attained the Application Level A+ as defined in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 of the GRI. ICMM Principles 01. Implement and maintain ethical business practices and sound systems of corporate governance. 02. Integrate sustainable development considerations within the corporate decision-making process. 03. Uphold fundamental human rights and respect cultures, customs and values in dealings with employees and others who are affected by our activities. 04. Implement risk management strategies based on valid data and sound science. 05. Seek continual improvement of our health and safety performance. 06. Seek continual improvement of our environmental performance. 07. Contribute to conservation of biodiversity and integrated approaches to land use planning. 08. Facilitate and encourage responsible product design, use, re-use, recycling and disposal of our products. 09. Contribute to the social, economic and institutional development of the communities in which we operate. Social Activities Report 10. Implement effective and transparent engagement, communication and independently verified reporting arrangements with our stakeholders. Web ICMM website http://www.icmm.com/ JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 92 Endorsement and Support of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) was first ansociety and to the elimination of poverty in resource-rich nations. With nounced at the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johanmembership particularly strong among African nations, there are curnesburg, South Africa, in September 2002 by the then British Prime rently 23 countries implementing EITI. Minister Tony Blair. This initiative calls for the revenues and flows of In 2005, the ICMM announced that it would offer its continued supassets of companies in extractive industries, such as the oil, natural gas, port to EITI. Additionally, the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group enand metals industries, to be made transparent. Further, it encourages dorses the initiative and offers its own support. these companies to contribute to the development of a sustainable The EITI Principles 1. We share a belief that the prudent use of natural resource wealth should be an important engine for sustainable economic growth that contributes to sustainable development and poverty reduction, but if not managed properly, can create negative economic and social impacts. 2. We affirm that management of natural resource wealth for the benefit of a country’s citizens is in the domain of sovereign governments to be exercised in the interests of their national development. 3. We recognize that the benefits of resource extraction occur as revenue streams over many years and can be highly price dependent. 4. We recognize that a public understanding of government revenues and expenditure over time could help public debate and inform choice of appropriate and realistic options for sustainable development. 5. We underline the importance of transparency by governments and companies in the extractive industries and the need to enhance public financial management and accountability. 6. We recognize that achievement of greater transparency must be set in the context of respect for contracts and laws. 7. We recognize the enhanced environment for domestic and foreign direct investment that financial transparency may bring. 8. We believe in the principle and practice of accountability by government to all citizens for the stewardship of revenue streams and public expenditure. 9. We are committed to encouraging high standards of transparency and accountability in public life, government operations and in business. 10. We believe that a broadly consistent and workable approach to the disclosure of payments and revenues is required, which is simple to undertake and to use. 11. We believe that payments’ disclosure in a given country should involve all extractive industry companies operating in that country. 12. In seeking solutions, we believe that all stakeholders have important and relevant contributions to make—including governments and their agencies, extractive industry companies, service companies, multilateral organizations, financial organizations, investors, and non-governmental organizations. Web EITI website http://www.eiti.org/ Participation in the United Nations Global Compact The Company joined the United Nations Global Compact in July 2008. It supports the 10 principles on human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption, and is working to realize these ideals. The UN Global Compact’s 10 Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 93 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Reference Materials Overview of the Main Group Companies 95 Glossary 97 GRI Content Index 101 Independent Assurance Report 106 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 94 Overview of the Main Group Companies *As of July 1, 2011 Resources Development PPC Plant Saganoseki Co., Ltd. Gould Electronics GmbH Construction and maintenance of facilities by Manufacturing and sales of electro-deposited Kasuga Mines Co., Ltd. contract copper foils Extraction of gold-bearing silicate ore ¥20 million (100%) €5,113 thousand (100%) ¥10 million (100%) Oita, Oita Prefecture Eichstetten, Land Baden-Wurttemberg, Makurazaki, Kagoshima Prefecture Federal Republic of Germany Pan Pacific Copper Shanghai Co., Ltd. JX Nippon Exploration and Development Primarily trading of refined copper Co., Ltd. CNY8,277 thousand (100%) Geological surveys, test drilling Shanghai, People’s Republic of China ¥90 million (100%) Minato-ku, Tokyo LS-Nikko Copper Co., Ltd. Manufacturing and sales of refined copper, JX Nippon Drilling Co., Ltd. precious and rare metals, and sulfuric acid Test drilling W283,204 million (49.9%) JX Nippon Mining & Metals Korea Co., Ltd. ¥10 million (100%) Ulsan, Republic of Korea Processing and sales of indium Minato-ku, Tokyo tin oxide (ITO) targets Changzhou Jinyuan Copper Co., Ltd. W2,000 million (100%) SCM Minera Lumina Copper Chile Manufacturing and sales of copper wire Pyeongtaek-si, Gyeonggi-do, Ownership and development of equity rods (arabikisen) Republic of Korea interests in deposits at Caserones CNY282.4 million (61.4%) US$380,001 thousand (75%) Changzhou, Jiangsu Province, People’s Santiago, Republic of Chile Republic of China Compania Minera Quechua S.A. Ownership and development of equity interests in deposits at Quechua S/.173 million (100%) Lima, Republic of Peru Nikko Metals Hong Kong Ltd. Processing and sales of electro-deposited BioSigma S.A. copper foils Biotechnology research and development HK$17 million (100%) Electronic Materials ¥31.6 million (33.3%) Hong Kong S.A.R., People’s Republic of China Coline, Republic of Chile JX Nippon Mining & Metals USA, Inc. Processing and sales of sputtering targets, Smelting and Refining purchasing and sales of compound semiconductor materials Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. US$5 million (100%) Manufacturing and sales of refined copper, Chandler, Arizona, United States sulfuric acid, and other copper by-products, metal mining JX Nippon Mining & Metals Europe GmbH Ichinoseki Foil Manufacturing Co., Ltd. ¥28,450 million (66%) Importing and sales of sputtering targets Processing copper foil into sheets, bonding Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo €50 thousand (100%) copper foil to aluminum sheets Frankfurt, Federal Republic of Germany Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd. ¥30 million (100%) Smelting and refining of refined copper JX Nippon Mining & Metals Philippines, Inc. Ichinoseki, Iwate Prefecture ¥4,700 million (63.5%) Manufacturing and sales of electro-deposited Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo and treated rolled copper foils, purchase and sales of surface treatment agents Japan Copper Casting Co., Ltd. US$4 million (100%) Manufacturing of mold copper Binan, Laguna, Republic of the Philippines ¥200 million (65%) Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Nissho Ko-un Co., Ltd. Kitaibaraki Precision Co., Ltd. Cargo handling, trucking Cutting and grinding of metals and metal ¥135 million (100%) alloys Oita, Oita Prefecture ¥40 million (50.3%) Kitaibaraki, Ibaraki Prefecture JX Nippon Foundry Co., Ltd. Undertaking of manufacturing processes of Isohara Works and Shirogane Works of JX Nippon Mining & Metals by contract ¥10 million (100%) Kitaibaraki, Ibaraki Prefecture Business lines Capital (percentage of voting rights held directly or indirectly) Location 95 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 JX Nippon Coil Center Co., Ltd. Sanyu Electronic Industry Co., Ltd. Nippon Marine Co., Ltd. Slitting processing of fabricated metal Plating of electronic equipment Marine transportation services products ¥90 million (100%) ¥300 million (100%) ¥15 million (100%) Meguro-ku, Tokyo Minato-ku, Tokyo Samukawa, Kouza, Kanagawa Prefecture Nikko Logistics Partners Co., Ltd. Nippon Mining & Metals (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Logistics services and consultation Manufacturing and sales of precision rolled ¥100 million (90%) products and precision pressed products Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo CNY492 million (100%) JX Nippon Mining Ecomanagement, Inc. Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, Management of closure mines People’s Republic of China Suzuki Manufacturing Co., Ltd. ¥10 million (100%) Precision plating Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo ¥61.5 million (100%) Nasushiobara, Tochigi Prefecture Toyoha Mine Co., Ltd. Processing of the mine drainage ¥450 million (100%) Sapporo, Hokkaido Nikko Fuji Electronics Dongguan Co., Ltd. JX Nikko Art & Craft Co., Ltd. Manufacturing and sales of display Sales of arts and crafts components ¥20 million (100%) CNY29,578 thousand (100%) Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Dongguan, Guangdong Province, Recycling and Environmental Services Nikko Metals Taiwan Co., Ltd. People’s Republic of China Manufacturing and sales of electronic JX Nippon Environmental Services Co., Ltd. Processing of industrial waste materials, slitting processing and sales of ¥200 million (100%) fabricated metal products, sales of industrial Hitachi, Ibaraki Prefecture products, collection and sales of metal scrap, and copper and copper alloy scraps JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical Co., Ltd. NT$63.5 million (100%) Processing of industrial waste Bade, Tao-Yuan, Taiwan ¥100 million (100%) Nikko Fuji Precision (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. Tomakomai, Hokkaido Manufacturing of precision plated products for electronic components JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. CNY31,806 thousand (100%) Processing of industrial waste Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, ¥50 million (100%) People’s Republic of China Tsuruga, Fukui Prefecture JX Nippon Mikkaichi Recycle Co., Ltd. Materials Service Complex Malaysia Processing of industrial waste Sdn. Bhd. ¥50 million (100%) Slitting processing and sales of metal Kurobe, Toyama Prefecture materials and fabricated metal products, collection, sorting, and sales of metal scrap, JX Nippon Kurobe Galva Co., Ltd. sales of chemical products, electronic Hot-dip zinc-plating components Nikko Metals Shanghai Co., Ltd. ¥150 million (93.4%) RM30 million (100%) Slitting processing and sales of fabricated Kurobe, Toyama Prefecture Gelang Patah, Johor, Republic of Malaysia metal products Kamine Clean Service Co., Ltd. CNY42,498 thousand (100%) Undertaking of operational management of Shanghai, People’s Republic of China waste processing facilities by contract ¥10 million (100%) Hitachi, Ibaraki Prefecture Other Business Nikko Metals Trading & Services (Shanghai) JX Metals Trading Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Wholesale sales of nonferrous metals, Support of back-office operations, collection Poonsan-Nikko Tin Plating Corp. fabricated metal products, sulfuric acid, and of market-related information about People’s Plating of copper strips chemical products, manufacturing of surface Republic of China W2,000 million (40%) treatment agents, purchase and sales of CNY2 million (100%) Ulsan, Republic of Korea copper clad laminates (CCLs) Shanghai, People’s Republic of China ¥390 million (100%) Reference Materials JX Nippon Mining & Metals Chuo-ku, Tokyo Singapore Pte. Ltd. Import and sales of various electronic materials US$700 thousand (100%) Singapore, Republic of Singapore JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 96 Glossary Term Explanation Page(s) annealing A kind of heat treatment for precision rolled products; the process to increase the extendability of precision 19 rolled products by removing internal distortions via work hardening and recrystallizing the metallographic structure. anode A positive plate for refining with concentrations of trace quantities of precious metals such as gold and silver. 43, 57, 99, 100 Made of copper of over 99% purity, after separation and removal of impurities by smelting copper concentrate. arabikisen A kind of precision rolled product; it is a solid-core, intermediate expanded material that has an even 51, 95 cross-section over the whole length and is provided as lines in a coiled shape. The lines of 6mm or more in diameter have a cross-section in a round, triangular or polygonal form. Basel Convention The official name is the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes 56 and Their Disposal. The Basel Convention sets forth an international framework and procedures regarding the regulation of certain wastes that are transported beyond national borders. biodiversity/ The variation of life forms within a given ecosystem, biome, or on the earth. Covering biodiversities of genes, 6, 17, 18, 41, 56, 91, 92, biological diversity species, and ecosystems of a region. 103, 104 bio-leaching Leaching that takes advantage of a bioengineering technique. In this report, it refers to drawing on the 23, 97 efficacy of microorganisms with the aim of accelerating the leaching speed out of the low-grade copper ore when the copper constituent is made to leach out of the copper ore. bio-mining Mining that takes advantage of a bioengineering technique; the same as “bio-leaching.” 15 blister copper A semi-manufactured copper with an approximate copper content of 99% or more after removing sulfur, 43, 97 iron, and other impurities in a process using a flash furnace and a converter. BOD Biochemical Oxygen Demand: an index of water quality indicating the amount of oxygen needed to 62 decompose organic substances in the water by the activities of microorganisms; it is a typical index used for measuring organic river pollution. caisson filler A filler to be poured into caissons, the hollow concrete boxes used for building breakwaters and other 60 underwater structures, to prevent them from floating up by buoyancy. CCL Copper Clad Laminates: laminates with resin and copper foil used for printed circuit boards. 96 chokotei Short-term disruptions to the production line mainly due to machine failure. 32 COD Chemical Oxygen Demand: an index of water quality indicating the amount of oxygen needed to decom62 pose organic substances that are susceptible to oxidization; it is a typical index used for measuring ocean and lake pollution by organic substances. cogene (cogeneration) Efficient utilization of energy becomes available by feeding not only electric power but also heat through the 57 active use of waste heat when electric power is generated. “Cogene” is an abbreviation. compound semiconductor A semiconductor that consists of two or more elements. 39, 49, 95 converter An inclined-rotation furnace for converting sulfides, chiefly containing copper, which are a semi-manufac43, 97, 98 tured product in the copper smelting process that is called copper matte, into blister copper. copper and copper alloy A collective term for high-quality copper and copper alloy scraps. 60, 96 scraps copper concentrate 20–40% purity raw copper after concentration and separation of copper through breaking, crushing, and 12, 15, 42, 43, 44, 47, 51, floatation processing of copper ore. 53, 58, 60, 97, 98, 99, 100 copper matte An intermediate product in the copper smelting and refining process, sulfides containing chiefly copper. 43, 97 copper ore Copper-containing ore classified into three categories according to the length from the ground surface: 33, 44, 50, 97 copper oxide ore, secondary copper sulfide ore and primary copper sulfide ore. Primary copper sulfide ore (of high grade) and secondary copper sulfide ore are processed by pyrometallurgy, whereas copper oxide ore and secondary copper sulfide ore are processed by hydro-metallurgy. A smelting method for primary copper sulfide ore of low grade has not yet been established. Copper grade has tended to decline in recent years to about a 1% level currently. copper slag concentrate Powdered materials with high-copper content, obtained from the treatment of converter slag. 43 defined contribution A pension plan in which the amount an employee pays into the plan while he or she is working is fixed; 52 corporate pension plan although, after retirement the amount the employee receives as a pension benefit is not fixed as it reflects any losses or gains recognized as a result of fund management. dust collector Equipment for separating and collecting dust contained in the air flow. 43 ecological footprint The ecological footprint, an indicator of environmental sustainability, is a standardized measure of human 28 demand on nature expressed by area. It measures how much biologically productive land, water and forest areas a human population requires to produce the resources it consumes and absorb its carbon dioxide emissions. 97 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Term Explanation Page(s) EITI Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative: an initiative to increase the transparency of capital flows in the 4, 36, 93 extractive industries engaged in the development of mining, oil, coal, and other natural resources. Former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Tony Blair advocated this initiative at the Johannesburg Summit held in 2002. electroless plating A plating method that precipitates a uniform thin metal film without using electricity. 23, 53, 88 extraction percentage The ratio of intended products to the content, or more specifically the ratio of the production volume in the 44, 55, 59 smelting process to the metal content in the copper concentrate or in recycled materials. flash furnace A furnace that uses oxidation and the exothermic reaction of ores themselves to melt and separate copper 43, 44, 57, 58, 61, 97, 99 and iron in the form of matte and slag while recovering sulfur in the form of sulfur oxide gas. FPD Flat Panel Display: liquid crystal, plasma, and other types of planar displays. 9, 12, 73, 88, 98, 100 GaN Gallium Nitride: a semiconductor mainly used as a material for a blue light-emitting diode (LED). 23 GHS Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals: a system that classifies chemicals by 62 the type of hazard and proposes harmonized hazard communication elements. Global Compact A program regarding autonomous codes of conduct of companies, which was officially launched at the 4, 18, 36, 75, 93 United Nations Headquarters in New York in 2000. Participating companies in the world adhere to the 10 principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. green purchasing/purchase Purchase of products and services with the smallest possible environmental impact, with reference to 16, 36, 56 suppliers dedicated to reducing the environmental impact. GRI Global Reporting Initiative: an institution established in 1997 by the United Nations Environment Program 1, 2, 4, 21, 37, 92, 94, 100, (UNEP), Coalition for Environment Responsible Economies (CERES), and other entities, for the purpose of 101, 102 developing and disseminating globally applicable sustainability reporting guidelines. Its secretariat is located in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. GRI Mining and Metals A guideline supplementing the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 with issues 1, 4 Sector Supplement that the it does not cover. hydro-metallurgy A smelting process to produce objective metals by dissolving and refining ore with the use of chemicals, 15, 97, 99 such as sulfuric acid, at ordinary temperatures. ICA International Copper Association 90 ICMM International Council on Mining and Metals 1, 4, 16, 48, 90, 92, 93, 99 IFC International Finance Corporation: an organ of the World Bank Group established in 1956 to make invest53, 92 ments and loans to private-sector corporations in developing countries; its front office is located in Washington, D.C., in the United States. IGZO Indium Gallium Zinc Oxide: a kind of transparent, conductive material used in FPDs. 88 intensity The quantity of materials, labor, power, and other elements required for a fixed volume of industrial product. 19, 20, 26, 56, 57, 58, For example, the intensity of energy refers to the energy consumption necessary to produce or treat one 59, 61 metric ton. iron concentrate Powdered materials with high-ferrous content, obtained from the treatment of converter slag. 43, 60 ISO International Organization for Standardization: a nonprofit organization in the civic sector established to draft 19, 20, 79, 98 international standards that apply to industrial fields, except for the field of electrical equipment. Its headquarters is located in Geneva, Switzerland. ISO 14001 It stipulates the requirements for environmental management systems with the aim of attenuating the 19, 38, 47, 56, 65 environmental impact and risks caused by the activities, products, and services of an organization, and preventing their occurrence. ISO 26000 An international standard to guide social responsibility. The standard established by the ISO (see above) is 18, 22 stipulated with a view to social responsibility of a wide variety of organizations and entities other than corporations; it only provides guidelines and does not aim to certify. ISO 9001 An international standard, which provides quality control guidelines implemented by the International 71, 72, 98 Organization for Standardization, with the aim of improving customer satisfaction. ISO/TS 16949 A standard that adds specific requirements in the automobile industry in addition to ISO 9001, an interna72 tional standard for quality control. ITO Indium Tin Oxide: a kind of transparent, conductive material used in FPDs. 88, 95, 99 LME London Metal Exchange: established in 1877, the world’s largest futures exchange specializing in nonferrous 51 metals, listing seven metals including copper, nickel, lead, zinc, and aluminum. Reference Materials lockout A countermeasure taken by management in response to a labor dispute, including a strike that a labor union 78, 104 calls. Management temporarily shuts down offices and plants to lock out workers participating in the labor dispute to reject wage payment. LSI Large Scale Integration: a sole substrate containing numerous circuits, on which many functions that 7 correspond to a cluster of numerous integrated circuits (ICs) are integrated. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 98 Term Explanation Page(s) materials stewardship The range of activities required to ensure the optimal and appropriate use of minerals and metals in society 12, 22, 47, 48, 92, 105 promoted by ICMM. MSDS Material Safety Data Sheet: a data sheet supplied by the chemical substance supplier to provide information 62, 73 on the chemical substances used with the materials, to ensure the health and safety of the users who handle these chemical substances. N-Chlo Process Nikko Chloride Process: a hydro-metallurgical technology that efficiently extracts copper and gold, silver, and 15, 23 other precious metals from low-grade copper concentrates. neutralized slag Waste produced by a neutralization reaction in the smelting process. 60 newly developed UHD-IV A series of ITO targets supplied by the Company; features an improved yield compared with conventional 88 grade targets target products. NPO 2050 A nonprofit corporation in Japan; an organization that has the aim to hand over this beautiful planet to the 19, 91 next generation as a safe and peaceful place by getting concerned with global issues such as population, the environment and poverty and the improvement of women’s status through educational activities, surveys and research and international cooperation. OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series: an international standard that stipulates requirements for 19, 20, 38, 82, 83 health and safety management systems, with the aim to improve risk management systems and the performance of the systems. PCB Polychlorinated Biphenyl: a collective term that denotes biphenyl compounds having two connected phenyl 15, 19, 20, 63, 90 groups, to which numerous chlorines are added. This chemical compound is chemically stable and has been widely used as insulating oil, a heating medium, a plasticizer and lubricating oil but is currently forbidden to be used because its accumulation inside the body is harmful to living organisms. PDCA cycle The “Plan,” “Do,” “Check,” and “Act” cycle: a management method to continuously improve quality and business 15, 31, 32, 37, 61, 72 through repetition of this process. permanent cathode method A method for producing refined copper in which stainless steel plates are used as the cathodes in the 57 refining process, to improve current efficiency in comparison to conventional processes and produce higher-quality refined copper. phosphor bronze A copper alloy added with tin and a minute amount of phosphorus. 12 powder metallurgy A method to produce metal products by pressurizing, casting, and sintering metal powder. 90 precipitate Concentrates of gold, silver, and other value-bearing metals that precipitate at the bottom of refining tanks 43, 98 during copper refining. PRTR Pollutant Release and Transfer Register: a system under which information on the release of pollutants into 1, 62 the air, water, and soil, as well as transfers of waste and pollutants, is reported to a nation, which compiles the information and publishes the results. rare earth A collective term for 17 elements including scandium and yttrium, both of which belong to the third family 15, 48 on the periodic table, and 15 lanthanide series elements (atomic numbers 57 through 71). rare metal This term denotes metals of which the volume that exists in nature is considered rare, but there is no 15, 19, 29, 30, 43, 47, 51, absolute definition of rare. Generally speaking, it denotes nickel, cobalt, chrome, manganese, titanium 52 and so on. ratio of equity entitlement The ratio of copper concentrate obtained from sources where the Group owns mining rights to its total 51 copper mine production copper concentrate requirements for its smelting and refining business. REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals: a system of registration requiring all 19, 20, 63 manufacturers and importers of chemicals in quantities of 1 ton or more per year to identify and manage the risks related to the substances they manufacture and market. recycled (raw) resources Waste, etc., containing copper-recycling materials, gold, silver and other value-bearing metals. 59, 60, 64, 100 refined copper Copper of over 99.99% purity after refining with an anode as a positive plate. 39, 42, 43, 44, 50, 57, 58, 59, 61, 64, 95, 99 RoHS Restriction of Hazardous Substances directive: a directive of the EU regarding restrictions on the use of 73 certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. sandblasting material An abrasive used to repair or remove rust from vessels in the shipping industry. With the use of compressed 60 air, centrifugal force, or other such force, it is sprayed for abrasion. shot A granulated metal product. 60 silicate ore Ore that consists of quartz and other silicates, containing a minute amount of gold. 60, 68, 95 silver and gold slag Industrial waste that contains gold and silver. 60 slag Compound ferrous, silicate, and other oxides generated by various production processes. 4, 7, 19, 39, 43, 58, 60, 97, 98, 99 slag cleaning furnace A furnace that retains slag generated from a flash furnace for recovering copper from slag. 43 slitting Longitudinally slitting rolled copper, copper alloy, and special steel strips, as well as electro-deposited copper 96 foil, by the product width. 99 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Term Explanation Page(s) sludge Sediment containing putrescible organic matter, which is produced in sewage or industrial effluent 19, 58, 60, 67, 104 treatment processes. SOx Sulfur Oxide: a chemical substance in which SO2 and SO3 coexist in a mixed status; SOx is one of the major 15, 61, 64, 103 causative agents of air pollution together with nitrogen oxide (NOx). SPC Statistical Process Control: a statistical method to evaluate performance of production lines and project a 72 significant deviation on occurrences of rejected products. sputtering A method in which inert gas ions collide with metal and other targets to form an even high-quality thin film 12, 28, 39, 50, 72, 73, 88, consisting of ejected metal and other substances on the surface of the object. 95, 100 SQC Statistical Quality Control: a statistical method to control product quality with variability of qualities of entire 72 manufacturing lines, including raw materials, equipment and facilities, operations and finished products, rather than with qualities of individual products. supply chain The process from the production of raw materials through to the delivery to consumers. In recent years, as a 73 facet of corporate social responsibility, companies hold an increasing responsibility for the entire supply chain of each of their products. Sustainability Reporting Version 3 of the GRI (G3) published in October 2006: G3 particularly encourages a company to determine 1, 4, 21, 37, 92, 98,101 Guidelines 2006 what information to disclose by taking into account the materiality of each piece of information, as well as a boundary to be reported by considering control and significant influence to entities that could be involved in the boundary. tailing Residual dross that remains after the recovery of value-bearing metals out of ore. 4, 39, 69, 104 target A material put in a sputtering machine to form a thin film; used in semiconductors, FPDs, and other 12, 28, 39, 50, 72, 73, 88, applications. 95, 99, 100 test drilling The means of boring holes into the ground in order to investigate soil and rock properties, and identify water 95 sources and oil-bearing stratum. titanium copper A copper alloy with titanium added, which is often used for springs due to its comparable mechanical 12 strength with that of beryllium copper. total material input Total amount of recycled resources and primary raw materials such as copper concentrate, input into the 60 smelting process. Type 1 Designated Energy A production plant consuming more than 3,000kl of crude oil equivalent per annum as stipulated by the Act 1, 55, 56 Management Factory on the Rational Use of Energy (energy-saving law). UBM Under Bump Metallurgy: underlying metals of solder bumps, which are solder balls used to bond flip chips 23, 53, 88 and substrates. urban mine A collective term that denotes all the metals able to be recycled and classified from among the nonferrous 8, 15, 22, 23, 29 metals that were originally extracted from natural ores and made into various forms after going through smelting and refining processes and that were once used in human economic activities. visualization (“MIERUKA”) An initiative to clarify problems in a company’s operations by examining them based on numerical results for 25 objective assessments. wafer A thin plate cut from a single semiconductor crystal, used as a substrate of integral circuits. 7, 88 waste anode Anode after use in copper refining process. 43 yield The ratio of non-defective products to all products that have been manufactured; the fewer the defective 32, 55, 57, 59, 99 products, the higher the yield rate. zero emission A structure where no waste subject to landfill disposal is discharged. 6, 15, 47, 59 Reference Materials JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 100 GRI Content Index This report has an A+ application level as defined by the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006. C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria listed Same as requirement for 1.1 for Level C plus: Level B OuTPuT 2.1–2.10 1.2 G3 Profile 3.1–3.8, 3.10–3.12 3.9, 3.13 Disclosures 4.1–4.4, 4.14–4.15 4.5–4.13, 4.16–4.17 Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Not required Management Approach Management Approach Standard Disclosures Disclosures for each Disclosures for each OuTPuT G3 Management Indicator Category Indicator Category Approach Disclosures Report on a minimum of Report on a minimum of Respond on each core G3 G3 Performance 10 Performance Indicators, 20 Performance Indicators, and Sector Supplement* OuTPuT Indicators & Sector including at least one from at least one from each of indicator with due regard to Supplement each of social, economic, economic, environment, the materiality principle by Performance and environment human rights, labor, either (a) reporting on the Indicators society, and product indicator or (b) explaining responsibility the reason for its omission * Sector supplement in final version Number Item Content to be included Page(s) Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, 3-4 or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 21-30 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 11 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 12 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating 2, 11 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 11 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with 11, 13 either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 11 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 11-12, 52 customers/beneficiaries) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 11-12, 51 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or 11, 45, 53 ownership including: The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; and Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 73, 89 101 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Number Item Content to be included Page(s) Report Parameters 3.1 Report Profile Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided 1 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 1 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 1 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Back cover 3.5 Report Scope and Boundary Process for defining report content 1, 21 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint 1-2 ventures, suppliers) 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 1 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 1 operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions 52, 56-58, 60-63, 75-78, 81, 90 and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier 51, 55-58, 62 reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or 1, 55 measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 GRI Content Index Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 101-105 3.13 Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 106 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest 35 governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive 35 officer (and, if so, their function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members 35 of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or 35, 78 direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, 36 senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest Based on laws and statutory are avoided regulations and the articles of incorporation, for transactions in which there is a conflict of interest between a director and the Company, approval is sought from the General Meeting of Shareholders, which in the Company’s case is JX Holdings, Inc. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the This has not been included because highest governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, the Company does not have a environmental, and social topics process in writing for electing directors. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and 5-6 principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation Reference Materials JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 102 Number Item Content to be included Page(s) 4.9 Governance Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s 22, 36-37 identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, 36-37 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance 4.11 Commitments to External Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is 63 Initiatives addressed by the organization 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or 4, 75, 92-93 other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ 90 international advocacy organizations 4.14 Stakeholder Engagement List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 16 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 16 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by 16-18, 24-25 type and by stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, 17-18, 24-25 and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Economic Disclosure on Management Approach 5-6, 15, 41-52 EC1 Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating 52 costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s 22, 26 activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 52 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 52 EC6 Market Presence Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant Not applicable. The Company locations of operation consigns purchasing to JX Nippon Procurement Corporation. Therefore, the purchasing policy of JX Nippon Procurement Corporation is used. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the 42, 75 local community at significant locations of operation EC8 Indirect Economic Impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided 42, 87-88 primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Environment Disclosure on Management Approach 5-6, 15, 55-57, 59, 61, 65-66 EN1 Materials Materials used by weight or volume 60 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 60 EN3 Energy Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 57 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source 57 EN8 Water Total water withdrawal by source 59 EN11 Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas 33, 41, 86 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 41 in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 41 EN16 Emissions, Effluents, and Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 58 Waste EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 58 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Not applicable EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 61 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 59 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 60 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 66, 69 103 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Number Item Content to be included Page(s) EN26 Products and Services Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of 46 impact mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by Not applicable category EN28 Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for 66 non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations MM1 Biodiversity Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for production activities or Not applicable (The operation at the extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated(Land owned: Land owned or leased by the Caserones copper and molybdenum Company)(Land use: Production activities or the extraction of specific materials) deposit is scheduled to begin in 2013.) MM2 The number and percentage of total sites identified as requiring biodiversity 41 management plans according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place MM3 Emissions, Effluents, and Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges and their associated risks 67, 69 Waste Labor Practices & Decent Work Disclosure on Management Approach 6, 15, 75, 77-78, 81-83 LA1 Employment Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 75-76 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 77 LA4 Labor/Management Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 78 Relations LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including 78 whether it is specified in collective agreements LA7 Occupational Health and Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number 81 Safety of work-related fatalities by region LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to 80 assist workforce members and their families or community members regarding serious diseases LA10 Training and Education Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 78 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 78-80 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA13 Diversity and Equal Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category 76-78 Opportunity according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 77 MM4 Labor/Management Number of strikes and lockouts exceeding one week’s duration, by country 78 Relations Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach 6, 15, 75 HR1 Investment and Procurement Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include Not applicable Practices human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening The Company consigns purchasing on human rights and actions taken to JX Nippon Procurement Corporation. Therefore, the purchasing policy of JX Nippon Procurement Corporation is used. HR4 Non-discrimination Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 38 HR5 Freedom of Association and Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and For overseas subsidiaries, the Collective Bargaining collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these Company conducts operations in rights accordance with the labor laws and statutory regulations of the respective countries and does not restrict collective bargaining. For Japan, please see page 78. Reference Materials HR6 Child Labor Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and 75 measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor HR7 Forced and Compulsory Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 75 Labor labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 104 Number Item Content to be included Page(s) MM5 Indigenous Rights Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to Indigenous Peoples’ There are no operating sites in or territories, and number and percentage of operations or sites where there are formal adjacent to Indigenous Peoples’ agreements with Indigenous Peoples’ communities territories. Society Disclosure on Management Approach 5-6, 15, 38, 84, 86 SO1 Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and 42, 84-88, 90 manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting SO2 Corruption Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to 38 corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and 38 procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Not applicable SO5 Public Policy Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 92-93 SO8 Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for There were no fines or non-monetary non-compliance with laws and regulations sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. MM6 Community Number and description of significant disputes relating to land use, customary There were no significant disputes rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples relating to land use, customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples. MM7 Community The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used to resolve disputes relating There were no significant disputes to land use, customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples, and the relating to land use, or the customary outcomes rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples. MM8 Artisanal and Small-scale Number (and percentage) of company operating sites where artisanal and smallThere are no operating sites on, or Mining scale mining (ASM) takes place on, or adjacent to, the site; the associated risks and adjacent to, ASM sites. the actions taken to manage and mitigate these risks MM9 Resettlement Sites where resettlements took place, the number of households resettled in each, There were no operating sites where and how their livelihoods were affected in the process resettlements took place. MM10 Closure Planning Number and percentage of operations with closure plans Not applicable (Plans for closure of the Caserone copper and molybdenum deposit will be proposed at the beginning of its operation.) Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach 5-6, 15, 71-73 PR1 Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are 73 assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR3 Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of 73 significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR6 Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketPromoted as an issue of compliance ing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship relating to business activities in accordance with the Compliance Guidebook. PR9 Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations 73 concerning the provision and use of products and services MM11 Materials Stewardship Programs and progress relating to materials stewardship 29-30, 48 105 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 Independent Assurance Report Independent Assurance Report To the President and Chief Executive Officer of JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Purpose and Scope We were engaged by JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation (the “Company”) to provide limited assurance on its Sustainability Report 2011 (the “Report”) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. The purpose of our assurance engagement was to express our conclusion, based on our assurance procedures, on whether: the environmental, social and economic performance indicators marked with (the “Indicators”) for the period from April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011 included in the Report are prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Company’s reporting criteria; the Company’s self-declaration on the Global Reporting Initiative (“the GRI”) application level (A+) conforms to the application level criteria stipulated by the GRI; the Company’s policies are aligned to the International Council on Mining and Metals (“ICMM”)’s 10 Sustainable Development (“SD”) Principles and the applicable mandatory requirements set out in ICMM position statements as described on page 92; the Company has identified and prioritized its material issues as described on page 21; and the Company has approached and managed its material issues as described on page 22. The content of the Report is the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance engagement and to express our conclusion based on the work performed. Criteria The Company applies its own reporting criteria as described in the Report. These are derived, among others, from the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines version 3.0 of the GRI. We used these criteria to evaluate the Indicators. For the GRI application level, we used the criteria stipulated by the GRI. Procedures Performed We conducted our engagement in accordance with ‘International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, and the ‘Practical Guidelines of Sustainability Information Assurance’ of the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information (“J-SUS”). The limited assurance engagement on the Report consisted of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of information presented in the Report, and applying analytical and other procedures. The level of assurance provided is thus not as high as that provided by a reasonable assurance engagement. Our assurance procedures included: Interviews with the Company’s responsible personnel to obtain an understanding of its policy for the preparation of the Report. With respect to the Indicators, Reviews of the Company’s reporting criteria. Inquiries about the design of the systems and methods used to collect and process the Indicators. Analytical reviews of the Indicators. Examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the generation, aggregation and reporting of the Indicators in conformity with the Company’s reporting criteria, and also a recalculation of the Indicators. Visit to JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical Co., Ltd. selected on the basis of a risk analysis. Evaluating the overall statement in which the Indicators are expressed. Evaluating the Company’s self-declared GRI application level against the application level criteria. An assessment of the alignment of the Company’s policies to the ICMM’s 10 SD Principles and the applicable mandatory requirements set out in ICMM position statements through documentation reviews and interviews. Interviews and documentation reviews of the Company’s process of identifying and prioritizing its material issues. Interviews and documentation reviews of the Company’s approach to and management of its material issues. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that: the Indicators in the Report are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Company’s reporting criteria as described in the Report; the Company’s self-declaration on the GRI application level does not conform to the application level criteria stipulated by the GRI; the Company’s policies are not aligned to the ICMM’s 10 SD Principles and the applicable mandatory requirements set out in ICMM position statements as described on page 92; the Company has not identified and prioritized its material issues as described on page 21; and the Company has not approached and managed its material issues as described on page 22. We have no conflict of interest relationships with the Company that are specified in the Code of Ethics of J-SUS. We conducted our engagement Reference Materials with a team with expertise in environmental and social aspects as well as assurance engagements. KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Tokyo, Japan November 30, 2011 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 106 Please feel free to give us your frank opinions about Sustainability Report 2011 to help us make the next report even better. We welcome any suggestions for improving this report. Send your reviews on this report to: CSR Department, JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation 6-3, Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8164, Tokyo, Japan E-mail: info@nmm.jx-group.co.jp Fax: +81-(0)3-5299-7343 Printed in Japan
