Annual Review 2011 contents From the CEO Letter to Stakeholders Performance Stakeholder Engagement About This Review Board of Directors Executive Leadership Team Determination How We Are Organized Biopharmaceutical Businesses Diversified Businesses Global Opportunities Colleagues Governance Ethics Innovation Research & Development Clinical Trials Leading Medicines Leading Consumer Healthcare Products Ensuring Our Global Supply Chain Humanity Expanding Access to Health Patient Safety Environment GRI Index Corporate Information Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Annual Review 2011 From Our CEO To Our Stakeholders Last year I said we would create value in the short and long term by improving the performance of our innovative core, making the right capital allocation decisions, earning respect from society, and continuing to promote an ownership culture of confidence and trust. Our goal with this annual review is to highlight the actions we are taking and the progress we are making through our four imperatives—to invest in the right areas for growth that take advantage of our core capabilities; to manage how we are allocating our capital; to earn respect from society; and to build an ownership culture that makes the most effective use of our global talent. Our 2011 Performance—Hitting All Targets Our financial performance in 2011 was strong. We met or exceeded every component of our full-year financial guidance, despite the headwinds from a challenging global business environment and the reality of absorbing about $5 billion in revenue declines due to changes in the patent status of some products, most notably Lipitor in the U.S. We also made substantial progress in our nonfinancial performance indicators, including access to medicines, environmental stewardship and other measures of our social responsibility. Complete information on our 2011 performance can be found here. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual From Our CEO 1 Annual Review 2011 Building Value Through Our Four Imperatives Our current and future success is rooted in the progress we make in executing against our imperatives. Here is a brief summary of our progress in 2011. Improving the Performance of Our Innovative Core In 2011, we recast our approach to science and innovation. We reduced our adjusted R&D1 spending by nearly $1 billion compared with 2010 and embarked on a series of actions designed to increase our probability of success and help us deliver more differentiated products in areas of high unmet medical need and on a smaller and more flexible cost base. These actions included narrowing our therapeutic areas of focus, improving our ability to identify failures earlier in the research cycle, advancing the most promising compounds in our pipeline, and investing in our R&D network and the capabilities needed to drive sustainable biomedical innovation. Throughout 2011, we saw a steady cadence of late-stage pipeline progress, including positive clinical data presentations, regulatory submissions, regulatory approvals and new product launches. We also saw the emergence of a promising mix of earlyto mid-stage compounds. We have five assets that we believe are positioned to be nearand mid-term drivers for our business units—Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 Adult, Eliquis, tofacitinib, Xalkori and Inlyta. In December 2011, we received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for the use of Prevnar 13 by adults 50 years of age and older. It is now approved in more than 40 countries, including markets within the European Union, and represents a significant expansion of our successful Prevnar/Prevenar franchise for preventing pneumococcal disease. In 2011, Pfizer and our partner, Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS), received approval in 1 See the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K the European Union for Eliquis, a twice-daily oral anticoagulant, for the treatment for the year ended December 31, 2011 for the of blood clots in patients after elective hipor knee-replacement surgery. In definition of “adjusted income” and its components, addition, in late 2011, the FDA and the European Medicines Agency accepted including “adjusted research and development expenses”, and for a reconciliation of 2011 for review the Pfizer and BMS applications for Eliquis for an indication in a larger “adjusted income” and its components to 2011 patient population, to prevent strokes in patients with atrial fibrillation. The net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. companies also have submitted that indication for review in Japan. and its components. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual From Our CEO 2 Annual Review 2011 We are pleased with the results we have seen with tofacitinib in the Phase III rheumatoid arthritis (RA) program, which demonstrated efficacy in an extensive clinical program involving more than 5,000 RA patients. The FDA and the European Medicines Agency accepted for review our new drug applications for adult patients with moderately to severely active RA, and we have submitted that indication for review in Japan as well. In 2011, we launched Xalkori (crizotinib), a treatment for a certain type of lung cancer marked by a specific gene mutation, in the U.S. It is a breakthrough in lung cancer treatment and is the first new drug approved by the FDA for lung cancer in six years. Xalkori represents our first entry into precision medicine—an R&D approach that defines the molecular and biologic predictors of efficacy and “We expect that in five years many then groups patients based on the unique molecular or genetic characteristics of our late-stage clinical trial starts of their disease. With this approach, medicines can be developed for betterwill reflect a precision medicine R&D defined populations of patients, often with superior efficacy when compared approach.” to medicines that are developed through non-precision approaches. We expect that in five years many of our late-stage clinical trial starts will reflect a precision medicine R&D approach. Early in 2012, we received FDA approval for Inlyta for patients with previously treated advanced renal cell carcinoma. With the approval of Inlyta and with other medicines such as Sutent and Xalkori as well as the work under way in finding new treatments in hematology and lung cancer, we are building a leading oncology business. Behind these therapies, there is a next wave of new molecules in development aimed at significant unmet medical needs, including Alzheimer’s disease, Crohn’s disease, a range of cancers, severe pain, and cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. We are also investing in several promising vaccine candidates aimed at preventing life-threatening infectious diseases, such as meningitis. I am encouraged by the depth and breadth of our current pipeline and believe it positions us well for the future. Making the Right Capital Allocation Decisions In 2011, we reduced our operating expenses and took several steps to allocate capital in ways that resulted in greater shareholder value. In fact, we returned more than $15 billion in capital to shareholders through dividend payments of over $6 billion and stock repurchases of approximately $9 billion. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual From Our CEO 3 Annual Review 2011 During 2011, we also embarked upon a rigorous process to look at the long-term value-creation potential of all of our businesses. After completing this process, we determined that our Animal Health and Nutrition businesses are distinct enough from our core businesses that their value may not be fully realized within Pfizer and, therefore, may best be optimized outside. For this reason, we decided to explore strategic alternatives, including a full or partial separation of each of these businesses from Pfizer through a spin-off, sale or other transaction. We have been making good progress and remain on track to announce our strategic decision for each business in 2012, with any separations occurring between July 2012 and July 2013. In addition, we continued to pursue business development opportunities and form external collaborations to leverage our core capabilities, build on our portfolio and strengthen our geographic presence. For example, we signed a framework agreement with Zhejiang Hisun Pharmaceuticals in China to establish a joint venture in the branded generics area and a memorandum of understanding with Shanghai Pharma to explore potential business opportunities in China. We completed the acquisition of King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which strengthened our pain portfolio, and acquired Icagen, Inc., a biotech firm specializing in new pathways for the treatment of pain. With the acquisitions of Alacer Corp. and the Ferrosan Holding A/S consumer healthcare business, we expanded the portfolio of Pfizer Consumer Healthcare’s brands and entered new markets. Earning Respect From Society Pfizer operates in a global society that gives us a license to operate. That license is rooted in the respect and trust we earn. “Pfizer operates in a global society that gives us a license to operate. We strive for society’s respect and trust in a number of ways. The effort begins That license is rooted in the respect with listening to and learning from our customers and other stakeholders. and trust we earn.” Through what we hear and what we learn in quantitative and qualitative research, we know that customers want access to information from us that will help them live longer, healthier and happier lives. In 2011, we took new approaches to connect us with customers. For example, our Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Freda Lewis-Hall, shared health and medical information in ways that encourage people to take charge of their health care, especially in areas such as stroke prevention, smoking cessation and the early diagnosis of cancer. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual From Our CEO 4 Annual Review 2011 We continue to support patient-access programs such as Pfizer Helpful Answers—a U.S. initiative that provides our medicines for free or at a savings to uninsured and underinsured patients who qualify. In the last five years alone, Pfizer has helped 3.8 million patients receive more than 40 million Pfizer prescriptions through the program. Globally, we have extended our long-term commitments to help nations achieve the UN Millennium Development Goals, particularly in health care. Specifically, we continue to work to support the global elimination of blinding trachoma by donating our oral antibiotic, Zithromax, and recently we joined an innovative partnership of public and private organizations led by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation that includes a consortium of global pharmaceutical companies in a new, coordinated effort to accelerate progress toward eliminating or controlling 10 neglected tropical diseases by the end of the decade. In addition, we launched the Re:Search partnership, through the World Intellectual Property Organization, to speed up progress in finding treatments and cures for neglected tropical diseases that now affect more than 1 billion people. During 2011, we maintained leadership in disclosing our interactions with health care providers in the U.S. and further improved our speed in posting clinical trial results online. We further advanced our environmental stewardship in 2011 by making continued progress in energy efficiency, greenhouse-gas reduction, water conservation and the management of waste. A review of our environmental record and progress is available in this report. Pfizer engages vigorously in public policy discussion to help make certain that our innovation serves patients today—and tomorrow. You can learn more about our public policy approach, including information about our U.S. Political Action Committee here. We also continue to assess and update our internal standards for a variety of business practices to help ensure compliance with all relevant laws and regulations in the markets in which we operate. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual From Our CEO 5 Annual Review 2011 Creating an Ownership Culture In December 2011, we were pleased to During the past year, the diverse talents, experiences and abilities of our announce the election of Helen H. Hobbs, colleagues allowed us to navigate multiple forces of change while keeping a focus M.D., and Marc Tessier-Lavigne, Ph.D., on our commitment to create consistent and steady growth in revenues and to Pfizer’s Board of Directors. Dr. Tessierearnings over time. Lavigne and Dr. Hobbs have made extraordinary scientific contributions throughout Ongoing success in our industry requires us to be faster as we become more their careers, and we believe they will be innovative and entrepreneurial. It requires colleagues who understand the tremendous assets to Pfizer’s diverse and business, seize opportunities to make an impact and take personal accountability independent Board. for their actions and a set of behaviors that will drive value throughout the company. One of our Directors will retire in April 2012. Michael S. Brown, M.D., who joined our In 2011, we thoroughly explored what our culture is and how it needs to evolve. Board in 1996, has served as Chair of the We engaged with leaders across the business and sought the candid input of Science and Technology Committee and as a member of other key committees during approximately 11,000 colleagues globally. We concluded that we need a culture his tenure. His expertise and counsel on where colleagues behave like they are owners of the business, are not afraid scientific matters in particular throughout to take thoughtful risks, deliver on their commitments, treat each other with his tenure have been invaluable to the trust and respect and work with integrity each and every day. Developing this company. All of us are deeply grateful for ownership culture will be key to our success. his insights, contributions and dedication to Pfizer. I am personally proud of Pfizer’s colleagues. Pfizer people care. They embody our humanity and innovative spirit, and are determined to tackle some of the most pressing health care challenges of our time. We are committed to creating an ownership culture that unleashes the creativity of our colleagues around the world. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual From Our CEO 6 Annual Review 2011 Looking Ahead In 2012, we will stay the course. We will work to increase our momentum by continuing to maximize the value of our in-line portfolio, accelerate our R&D strategy, advance our pipeline, effectively allocate our capital, operate efficiently to create a more flexible cost base, meet our financial commitments and maintain high standards of corporate governance and business ethics—all while embracing an ownership culture. After the potential separation of our Animal Health and Nutrition businesses, Pfizer will be a global biopharmaceutical company with a core of innovative products that address unmet medical needs sustained by a productive R&D engine, a portfolio of unpatented products that help meet the global need for less-expensive, quality medicines, and a complementary Consumer Healthcare business with several well-known brands. Together, I believe that these elements will position Pfizer to generate strong cash flow and steady growth in earnings per share over time. I remain confident that we are taking the right actions to create value for you, our shareholders. Thank you for your continued trust in us. We respect it, and with determination and perseverance, we will continue to earn it, every day Sincerely, Ian C. Read Chairman and CEO Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual From Our CEO 7 Annual Review 2011 From Our CEO Financial Performance (three-year summary) As of and for the year ended December 31, % change (Millions, except per common share data) 2011(a) 2010 2009(a) 11/10 10/09 Revenues $ 67,425 $ 67,057 $ 48,269 1 36 Research and development expenses $ 9,112 $ 9,392 $ 7,824 (3) 20 Acquisition-related in-process research — $ 125 $ 68 (100) 84 and development charges Restructuring charges and certain $ 2,934 $ 3,201 $ 4,330 (8) (26) acquisition-related costs Income from continuing operations $ 8,739 $ 8,211 $ 8,529 6 (4) Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. $ 10,009 $ 8,257 $ 8,635 21 (4) Diluted earnings per common share $ 1.27 $ 1.02 $ 1.23 25 (17) attributable to Pfizer Inc. shareholders Weighted-average shares—diluted 7,870 8,074 7,045 (3) 15 Number of common shares outstanding 7,575 8,012 8,051 (5) — Working capital $ 29,659 $ 32,377 $ 24,929 (8) 30 Goodwill & other identifiable intangible assets, net $ 98,900 $ 101,483 $110,372 (3) (8) Total assets $ 188,002 $ 195,014 $212,949 (4) (8) Total debt (b) $ 38,949 $ 44,013 $ 48,637 (12) (10) Total Pfizer Inc. shareholders’ equity $ 82,190 $ 87,813 $ 90,014 (6) (2) Shareholders’ equity per common share $ 10.85 $ 10.96 $ 11.19 (1) (2) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 20,240 $ 11,454 $ 16,587 77 (31) Property, plant and equipment additions $ 1,660 $ 1,513 $ 1,205 10 26 Purchases of common stock $ 9,000 $ 1,000 — * 100 Cash dividends paid $ 6,234 $ 6,088 $ 5,548 2 10 (a) For 2011, includes King Pharmaceuticals Inc. commencing on the acquisition date of January 31, 2011. For 2009, includes Wyeth commencing on the acquisition date of October 15, 2009. (b) Our short-term borrowings are rated P-1 by Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) and A1+ by Standard & Poor’s (S&P). Our long-term debt is rated A1 by Moody’s and AA by S&P. Moody’s and S&P are major corporate debt-rating organizations. * Calculation not meaningful. Detailed information on our financial and operational performance can be found in the 2011 Financial Report. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Performance 1 Annual Review 2011 From Our CEO Non-Financial Performance We continue to track our progress against key areas of non-financial business performance. In addition to the metrics below, we have provided progress updates and additional metrics throughout the annual review. Access to Medicine 17 10 15 Number of top 20 global burdens Number of global programs Number of emerging markets in of disease addressed by products and commercial transactions which Pfizer has implemented and pipeline1 to increase access to medicines intra-country tiered pricing3 in emerging markets2 Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Performance 2 Annual Review 2011 Employees 0.59 INJURIES PER 100 EMPLOYEES TOTAL INJURY RATE4 Pfizer has averaged 8% injury rate reduction annually for the past four years Environment5 2.7 54 264 MILLION METRIC TONS CO2 EQ6 MILLION CUBIC METERS7 THOUSAND METRIC TONS8 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS WATER WITHDRAWAL WASTE GENERATED Total GHG emissions in 2011 Total water withdrawal in 2011 Total quantity remained were 5% lower than 2010 was 12% lower than 2010 unchanged from 2010 with 51% recycled 1 As defined by the World Health Organization. Burdens of illness not addressed include road traffic accidents, prematurity and low birth weight, and self-inflicted injuries. 2 Program/commercial transaction defined as a Pfizer investment or dedicated contract of over $250,000 with a national government or procurement agency, MLO, NGO, private institution or aid agency. Represents multi-country initiatives only and does not include numerous local initiatives to address access. 3 Represents minimum number of emerging markets with pricing tailored to different patient segments (for at least one product), allowing access for more patients. 4 Represents 90% of Pfizer employees and directly-supervised contractors. 5 Data are baseline adjusted, reported absolute, using reporting boundaries per the WRI GHG Protocol; and account for the King Pharmaceuticals acquisition and Capsugel divestiture. Expanded environmental reporting will be posted on www.pfizer.com later this year. 6 Total direct and indirect emissions (including fleet and aviation). Does not include Scope 3 emissions. 7 In 2011, Pfizer adopted the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators for water, discontinuing previously reported self-defined “Net Water Use” KPI. 8 Quantity of non-hazardous waste decreased by 9% compared to 2010 while the quantity of hazardous waste increased by 3%. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Performance 3 Annual Review 2011 From Our CEO 2011 Performance and 2012 Guidance1 MEtric 2011 guidance2,3 2011 2012 guidance actual3 (as of Jan. 2012)4 Reported Revenues $66.2 to $67.2 billion $67.4 billion $60.5 to $62.5 billion Adjusted Cost of Sales5 19.8% to 20.3% 19.3% 20.5% to 21.5% as % of Revenues Adjusted SI&A Expenses5 $19.4 to $19.9 billion $19.4 billion $17.0 to $18.0 billion Adjusted R&D Expenses5 $8.1 to $8.4 billion $8.4 billion $6.5 to $7.0 billion Adjusted Other Approximately $800 million $542 million Approximately $1.0 billion (Income)/Deductions5 Effective Tax Rate on Approximately 29% 29.5% Approximately 29% Adjusted Income5 Reported Diluted EPS6 $1.20 to $1.30 $1.27 $1.37 to $1.52 Adjusted Diluted EPS5 $2.24 to $2.29 $2.31 $2.20 to $2.30 Operating Cash Flow N/A $20.2 billion $19+ billion 1 Please refer to Pfizer’s 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of the substantial risks and uncertainties related to the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Review. 2 At exchange rates that reflected a blend of the actual exchange rates in effect during the first nine months of 2011 and mid-October 2011 exchange rates for the remainder of 2011. Our 2011 guidance did not assume the completion of any business-development transactions not completed as of October 2, 2011, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions. It also excluded the potential effects of the resolution of litigation-related matters not substantially resolved as of October 2, 2011. 3 Included revenues and expenses related to the Capsugel business as a discontinued operation through July 31, 2011. The gain on the sale of Capsugel was reflected in Reported Diluted EPS6 guidance and actual results, but was not reflected in Adjusted Diluted EPS5. 4 Our 2012 financial guidance did not assume the completion of any business-development transactions not completed as of December 31, 2011, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions. Also, our 2012 financial guidance excluded the potential effects of the resolution of litigation-related matters not substantially resolved as of December 31, 2011. The current exchange rates assumed in connection with the 2012 financial guidance were the mid-January 2012 exchange rates. 5 “Adjusted Income” and its components and “Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS)” are defined as Reported Net Income6 and its components and Reported Diluted EPS6 excluding purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items. Adjusted Cost of Sales, Adjusted Selling, Informational and Administrative (SI&A) expenses, Adjusted Research and Development (R&D) expenses and Adjusted Other (Income)/Deductions are income statement line items prepared on the same basis, and, therefore, components of the overall adjusted income measure. As described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, we use Adjusted Income, among other factors, to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company. A reconciliation of 2011 Adjusted Income and its components and Adjusted Diluted EPS to 2011 Reported Net Income6 and its components and Reported Diluted EPS6, as well as reconciliations of full-year 2012 guidance for Adjusted Income and Adjusted Diluted EPS to full-year 2012 guidance for Reported Net Income6 and Reported Diluted EPS6, are provided in our Form 8-K filed on January 31, 2012. Additional information regarding our 2011 financial performance can be found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. The Adjusted Income and its components and Adjusted Diluted EPS measures are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) net income and its components and diluted EPS. 6 “Reported Net Income” is defined as net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. in accordance with U.S. GAAP. “Reported Diluted EPS” is defined as reported diluted EPS attributable to Pfizer Inc. common shareholders in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Performance 4 Annual Review 2011 From Our CEO Stakeholder Engagement We regularly engage with patients, customers, investors, colleagues, suppliers, business partners and other stakeholders around the world. This sustained engagement provides us with valuable insights about how we are performing, what we need to do to meet the changing needs of society, and how emerging trends may affect our business. We understand that no company is beyond criticism, and that people who have a stake in our company may have a variety of different views about our policies and business practices. We work to find common ground, and often do, even with our most serious critics. In fact, our shared goal is the same—improved global health. It is important that we continue to strive for a collaborative approach with key stakeholders in addressing important social and environmental issues, such as improving health outcomes and creating sustainable changes in the ways health care is delivered, while enhancing value for our shareholders and other stakeholders. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Stakeholder Engagement 1 Annual Review 2011 From Our CEO About This Review This fully integrated Annual Review discusses many dimensions of our performance—financial, social and environmental—in one review. It demonstrates the integral relationship between our responsibilities as an enterprise and our core business strategies and their execution. It is produced for all of our stakeholders— patients, the medical community, investors, colleagues, customers and the public at large—to give an overall picture of how we are doing and, more importantly, how we are making progress toward our stated commitments. Scope of Reporting This review covers Pfizer’s worldwide business and provides information on our activities for the year ending on December 31, 2011. This review describes key dimensions of both the company’s financial and non-financial performance and includes updates on our products; our R&D pipeline; our commitment to quality, safety and high ethical standards; and our responsibilities to all stakeholders, starting with our patients. This review also describes critical challenges in society—from expanding access to health to our environmental impact—and our strategies for managing them. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual About This Review 1 Annual Review 2011 Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines As global standards for integrated reporting do not exist, we considered the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3) in preparing this review. A comprehensive GRI Index can be found on our website at www.pfizer.com/responsibility. We self-declare this review to GRI Application Level B. Corporate Responsibility Management This review was developed by Pfizer’s Policy, External Affairs and Communications Group, whose leader is a member of the Executive Leadership Team and reports directly to the CEO. Corporate responsibility is embedded in our business strategy and vision, and many corporate responsibility issues are managed within our business units and functional groups to ensure thorough integration in all of our work. The Corporate Responsibility team sets the strategic direction for corporate responsibility at Pfizer and supports the integration of corporate responsibility throughout the company. The team is also responsible for Pfizer’s flagship global health philanthropic programs. Pfizer’s Corporate Responsibility team provides annual updates to Pfizer’s Board of Directors on progress in achieving corporate responsibility goals. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual About This Review 2 Annual Review 2011 From Our CEO Board of Directors Dennis A. Michael S. M. Anthony W. Don Frances D. Ausiello, M.D. (2, 4, 5, 6) Brown, M.D. (4, 6) Burns (1, 2, 4) Cornwell (2, 3, 5) Fergusson, Ph.D. (3, 5, 6) Physician-in-Chief, Distinguished Chair, Biomedical Chairman Emeritus, Founder and Retired Chairman President Emeritus, Massachusetts General Sciences, Regental Professor, Ryder System, Inc. and CEO, Granite Broadcasting Vassar College Hospital University of Texas Corporation Southwestern Medical Center. Will retire as a Board Member effective as of the 2012 Annual Meeting. William H. Helen H. Constance J. James M. George A. Gray III (4, 6) Hobbs, M.D. (4, 6) Horner (1, 4, 5) Kilts (3, 6) Lorch (7) Chairman, Investigator, Former Assistant to the Founding Partner, Chairman Emeritus, Gray Global Strategies, Inc. Howard Hughes Medical President of the United States Centerview Capital Armstrong Holdings, Inc. Institute and Director of Presidential Personnel John P. Suzanne Nora Ian C. Stephen W. Marc Tessier-Lavigne, Mascotte (4, 5, 6) Johnson(2,3,6) Read (1) Sanger (2, 4) Ph.D.(5, 6) Retired President and CEO, Retired Vice Chairman, Chairman of the Board and Retired Chairman and CEO, President, Blue Cross and Blue Shield The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. CEO General Mills Rockefeller University of Kansas City, Inc. 1) Executive Committee (5) Regulatory and Compliance (2) Audit Committee Committee (3) Compensation Committee (6) Science and Technology (4) Corporate Governance Committee Committee (7) Lead Independent Director Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Financial Performance 1 Annual Review 2011 From Our CEO Executive Leadership Team Ian C. Olivier Frank A. Mikael Geno J. Read Brandicourt, M.D. D’Amelio Dolsten, M.D., Ph.D. Germano Chairman of the Board President and General Executive Vice President, President, Worldwide President and General and CEO Manager, Primary Care Business Operations and Research & Development Manager, Specialty Care Chief Financial Officer and Oncology Charles H. Douglas M. Freda C. Kristin C. Cavan M. Hill, III Lankler, J.D. Lewis-Hall, M.D. Peck Redmond Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Group President, Worldwide Human Resources Chief Compliance and Risk Chief Medical Officer Worldwide Business Corporate Strategy, Animal Officer Development and Innovation Health and Consumer Healthcare Amy W. David Sally Schulman, J.D. Simmons Susman Executive Vice President, President and General Executive Vice President, General Counsel, President and Manager, Emerging Markets Policy, External Affairs and General Manager, Nutrition and Established Products Communications Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Financial Performance 1 Annual Review 2011 Determination. How We Are Organized Pfizer is firmly focused on the needs of customers, starting with patients and extending to all key stakeholders. Our organization reflects that focus. Our Worldwide Research and Development group discovers prescription medicines and vaccines and develops them until “proof of concept.” A promising product is then transferred to one of our Biopharmaceutical Businesses, which works to prove the new product in the clinic, obtain regulatory approvals, launch it and manage it through its life cycle. Pfizer Diversified Businesses serves those who use our consumer health care products, nutritionals and animal health products. Pfizer Global Supply anchors all our groups with state-of-the-art production services and a secure, efficient supply chain. Enabling Functions advance a range of business goals, including strong financial controls, strict compliance, and wideranging engagement with colleagues, business partners and the public. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Global Opportunities 1 Annual Review 2011 Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Global Opportunities 2 Annual Review 2011 Determination. Biopharmaceutical Businesses Our patient-centric, customer-facing biopharmaceuticals businesses are responsible for life cycle management of promising new medicines that have achieved “proof of concept” in our labs. They also ensure that patient and customer needs inform the development of new medicines and vaccines. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Biopharmaceutical Businesses 1 Annual Review 2011 Consumer Healthcare Our Primary Care unit offers solutions that help patients and health care providers Key Medicines manage chronic, costly conditions, and improve outcomes and overall health. Through leadership in areas such as the management of pain, heart disease and Celebrex depression, Primary Care medicines treat conditions that account for a large and Chantix/ Champix growing portion of the world’s health care costs. Our pipeline includes molecules with potential in women’s health, pain, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, Eliquis allergy and respiratory, and Alzheimer’s disease and other dementias. Lipitor 2011 Highlights Lyrica Oxecta Eliquis (apixaban) approved in exclusivity in many parts of the European Europe for the prevention of venous Union. Hypercholesterolemia increases Premarin thromboembolism (blood clots) in joint children’s risk of developing cardiovascular Pristiq replacement patients; accepted for review disease later in life. in Europe and the U.S. for stroke prevention Toviaz in patients with atrial fibrillation. Completed acquisition of King Pharmaceuticals, supplementing Viagra Oxecta (oxycodone HCL, USP), Tablets Pfizer’s long-standing strength in pain CII approved in the U.S. for management management. of acute and chronic pain and utilizing technologies designed to deter abuse Completed acquisition of Icagen, Inc., and misuse. an innovative leader in pain research, adding extensive research expertise and Pediatric study led to approval in Europe of technology in the field of ion channels a chewable form of Lipitor (atorvastatin) and enhancing Pfizer’s ability to develop to treat children with hypercholesterolemia potential first-in-industry drugs for the (the presence of high cholesterol in the treatment of pain and related conditions. blood) and six-month extension of Lipitor For more information visit Pfizer Pharmaceutical Products. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Biopharmaceutical Businesses 2 Annual Review 2011 Specialty Care Our Specialty Care unit features a robust portfolio of market-leading medicines Key Medicines and is a leader in vaccines and the treatment of inflammation, two important areas of innovation and growth in biomedical science. In addition, Specialty Care Benefix understands the devastating impact of rare diseases on patients and is dedicated Enbrel to addressing these serious unmet medical needs by seeking to discover, develop and deliver treatments for them. Specialty Care medicines help address Genotropin potentially life-threatening and debilitating diseases at every stage of life. Geodon 2011 Highlights Prevnar 13/ Prevenar 13 Revatio Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 Tofacitinib Vfend Approved for various indications in adults Reported results of Phase III pivotal Vyndaqel 50 years and older in the U.S., EU, Australia trials for this novel, oral JAK inhibitor and more than 10 other countries. that is being investigated as a targeted Xiapex immunomodulator and disease-modifying Approved for infants and young children therapy for moderate-to-severe active Zyvox in more than 110 countries, launched rheumatoid arthritis. in nearly all places where approved, and part of more than 55 national childhood Applications for marketing approval of immunization programs—reflecting 100 tofacitinib for the treatment of adult percent growth versus 2010. patients with moderate-to-severe active rheumatoid arthritis have been filed with Introduced in the national childhood regulatory authorities in the U.S., Europe, immunization programs of 14 of Japan and Switzerland. 16 developing countries that have launched programs under the auspices of Pfizer is also studying oral tofacitinib the Advance Market Commitment. The in psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, juvenile AMC is an innovative private-public idiopathic arthritis, inflammatory bowel health program designed to accelerate disease (ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s access to pneumococcal vaccination disease) and renal transplant, and in poor countries on an affordable and topical tofacitinib in both psoriasis and sustainable basis. dry-eye disease. Recognized with the 2011 Prix Galien USA Award for “Best Pharmaceutical Agent”— considered among the industry’s highest accolades for excellence in scientific innovation that improves the state of human health. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Biopharmaceutical Businesses 3 Annual Review 2011 Specialty Care 2011 Highlights Enbrel (etanercept) Vyndaqel (tafamidis) In the U.S., along with our marketing Vyndaqel is the first therapy approved in partner Amgen, launched an integrated the European Union for the rare and fatal print, digital, TV and disease awareness neurodegenerative disease transthyretin campaign featuring world-class golfer and familial amyloid polyneuropathy (TTRpsoriatic arthritis patient Phil Mickelson. FAP). It is indicated in the EU for the This successful campaign empowers treatment of transthyretin amyloidosis in patients with psoriatic arthritis, rheumatoid adult patients with stage 1 symptomatic arthritis or plaque psoriasis to take polyneuropathy, to delay peripheral action and educate themselves about neurologic impairment. their condition and work with a medical specialist to make an informed decision about treatment options. For more information visit Pfizer Pharmaceutical Products. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Biopharmaceutical Businesses 4 Annual Review 2011 Oncology Oncology investigates the complexities of cancer to discover and develop Key Medicines innovative treatment options and bring them to patients worldwide. Our robust oncology pipeline has both biologics and small-molecule compounds in Inlyta development, including several first-in-class treatment candidates, with more than Sutent 100 clinical trials under way. Torisel 2011 Highlights Xalkori Unprecedented number of regulatory Maintained and expanded advanced renal filings: Xalkori (crizotinib) in the U.S., EU cell carcinoma franchise, which includes and Japan; Inlyta (axitinib) in the EU, Sutent, Torisel (temsirolimus) and Inlyta Japan, and U.S.; and bosutinib in the U.S. (axitinib), which is approved in the U.S. and and EU. under review by regulatory agencies in EU and Japan. Xalkori (crizotinib) approved in the U.S. and Korea as first and only therapy for patients Showcased growing hematology franchise, with locally advanced or metastatic ALKwith key data on bosutinib presented at positive non-small cell lung cancer. Within 2011 oncology congresses. one business day of approval, Xalkori was available nationwide in the U.S. Focused and refined pipeline, advancing key compounds into Phase III trials, Crizotinib discovery chemistry team, led by including the investigational agents Dr. J. Jean Cui, recognized as “Inventors dacomitinib and inotuzumab, and of the Year” by the Intellectual Property established innovative partnerships Owners Association. and collaborative relationships for the continued clinical development of Sutent (sunitinib malate) approved in the promising compounds both within and U.S. for a third indication—the treatment outside of Pfizer. of progressive, well-differentiated pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (NET) in patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic disease, a rare cancer reported in two to four people per million annually worldwide. For more information visit Pfizer Pharmaceutical Products. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Biopharmaceutical Businesses 5 Annual Review 2011 Emerging Markets and Established Products Emerging Markets and Established Products offer large growth opportunities for KEY GLOBAL ESTABLISHED Pfizer to reach more patients around the world with its high quality medicines. PRODUCTS MEDICINES The global off-patent pharmaceutical field is one of the fastest-growing segments in the global pharmaceutical marketplace. Norvasc Today, 79 percent of prescriptions in the U.S. are filled with generics and Zosyn/Tazocin other off-patent medicines. By 2020, off-patent medicines and their generic Effexor equivalents are estimated to account for more than 50 percent of global pharmaceutical sales. Currently, we have over 600 off-patent Pfizer legacy brands Fragmin and other generic products in our Established Products portfolio that we offer at the highest quality standards with consistency of supply. Protonix As one of the leading pharmaceutical companies in emerging markets, Pfizer brings its innovation and high quality medicines to over 70 emerging KEY INNOVATIVE MEDICINES IN countries. We do so by offering our Primary Care, Specialty, Oncology and EMERGING MARKETS Vaccines portfolios. Enbrel Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 2011 Highlights Lipitor In Emerging Markets, we offer Prevenar 13 Throughout 2011, we were able to supply Lyrica Pediatric to help protect millions of children patients, particularly those in the U.S., from pneumococcal disease in over 97 with medications that faced sudden Vfend emerging markets around the world, and critical supply shortages. This was including 14 underdeveloped markets via accomplished by leveraging Pfizer’s the GAVI-AMC initiative. Pfizer also gained global scale and rapidly responding to approval for Prevenar 13 Adult indication competitors’ supply interruptions. in 20 emerging markets, giving us the opportunity to help protect Adults 50+ from pneumococcal disease. Pfizer introduced the “Lipitor For You” program, which makes it possible for many patients to remain on Lipitor, a brand they know and trust in the face of generic competition. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Biopharmaceutical Businesses 6 Annual Review 2011 Determination. Diversified Businesses Pfizer’s Diversified Businesses are responsible for meeting and anticipating customer needs with innovative, meaningful products that advance health and well-being. Consumer Healthcare Pfizer Consumer Healthcare is one of the largest over-the-counter (OTC) health Key products care product businesses in the world. Millions of people rely on our products to live healthier lives—using them to relieve pain, control coughs and balance Advil nutrition, among other needs. Many of our well-known products have reached Caltrate international status, and Advil and Centrum rank among the global Top Ten, a testament to the success of our science-based solutions. Centrum Chapstick 2011 Highlights Robitussin Thermacare Launched 25 consumer health care Expanded into strategic new markets and products in more than 15 countries—more product categories by acquiring Ferrosan’s than twice the number of launches over consumer health business. Ferrosan the previous year. Many represented expanded our global portfolio to include category “firsts,” including the Canadian leading brands within multivitamins and debut of Advil Nighttime, the first sleep minerals, probiotics, omega-3s and more, aid of this type approved for OTC use in such as IMEDEEN, whose proven formulas that market. The year also marked the U.S. work deep in the dermal layer, where launch of the ProNutrients brand (Omegatraditional skin therapies cannot reach. 3s, Probiotics and Fruit & Veggie), Centrum Specialist, and Caltrate Gummy Bites, Adapted our research and development among others. International key launches organization to meet the needs of included Caltrate Plus in China, Caltrate consumers in high-growth markets by Plus Glucosamine in Taiwan and Centrum opening a new R&D center in Suzhou, Cardio in 13 countries across Europe. China. Drove Advil to become the No.1 brand in its category in North America—and the No. 1 selling OTC analgesic brand in the world. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Diversified Businesses 1 Annual Review 2011 Nutrition Our Nutrition Unit’s portfolio includes a full line of infant formulas, follow-on Key products formulas, growing-up milks, and prenatal and adult supplements. Safety and quality are our highest priorities. We market our infant formulas in accordance Illuma with the principles of the World Health Organization Code of Marketing of Breast Progress Gold Milk Substitutes. We meet or exceed all food quality and safety standards set by the Codex Alimentarius Commission, and comply with all regulations in the Promil Gold countries where we operate. Promise Gold 2011 Highlights S-26 Gold SMA Gold Announced exploration of strategic Launched 32 new products, including the alternatives for the business; options reformulated Gold line, illuma, Picky Eater, may include a full or partial separation Specials, Bonna and Enercal Plus. from Pfizer through a spin-off, sale or other transaction. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Diversified Businesses 2 Annual Review 2011 Animal Health A world leader in the discovery, development, and manufacture of innovative Key Medicines animal vaccines, medicines and diagnostics, we are working to help ensure a safe, sustainable global food supply from healthy beef and dairy cattle, pigs, poultry Convenia and fish—while helping companion animals and horses live longer, healthier lives. Excenel Our portfolio includes many of the world’s leading veterinary brands in Fostera PCV pharmaceuticals and biologicals, complemented by innovative immunodiagnostic products and a range of animal health services for veterinarians. Improvest/Improvac Revolution/Stronghold 2011 Highlights West Nile-Innovator Announced exploration of strategic and has exclusive global rights to any new alternatives for the business; options products or intellectual property arising may include a full or partial separation from this research. from Pfizer through a spin-off, sale or other transaction. Received U.S. and Canadian approvals for Fostera PCV, a vaccine that protects against Entered into a joint venture with Jilin porcine circovirus, the most common illness Guoyuan Animal Health Company Ltd. in pigs. to develop, manufacture and distribute animal vaccines in China, the world’s Received U.S. and Canadian approvals second-largest animal health market. for Improvest (known as Improvac in other markets), a novel immunologic product Integrated the Alpharma LLC animal for swine. health subsidiary of the King Pharmaceuticals acquisition. Alpharma’s Became the founding animal health portfolio of medicated feed additives, industry member of the Global Strategic water-soluble therapeutics, and probiotics Alliances for the Coordination of Research complemented Pfizer’s portfolio and on the Major Infectious Diseases of brought nutrition expertise. Animals and Zoonoses, which is funded by the European Commission and coordinated Received $10 million innovation grant from by the U.K.’s Department for Environment, The Netherlands Ministry of Economic Food and Rural Affairs. This alliance brings Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation to together thousands of scientists from develop novel anti-infective veterinary research and regulatory organizations medicines with potential use in food across five continents. production animals. Pfizer was the only commercial partner selected for this project Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Diversified Businesses 3 Annual Review 2011 Determination. Global Opportunities The world’s fastest-growing markets are now outside the U.S. and EU. Consequently, we are increasing our efforts and resources to pursue opportunities in less developed countries. Our efforts range from bringing a new product like Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 into more than 100 countries less than two years after its approval to finding new markets for our consumer health care brands; from working with governments on smoking cessation initiatives to expanding our business with global institutional buyers. Pfizer can bring great strengths to the challenges of new markets. For one thing, we are not new to burgeoning markets such as China, India and Brazil, where our long-standing presence is bolstered by a growing number of commercial and scientific alliances. Our global distribution networks are well-established and readily leveraged for growth. In fact, we recently added a distribution center in Kenya to increase our ability to capture larger markets in Africa, itself a region of great promise. Our global manufacturing capacity is strong, even as we continue to adapt its global footprint to maximize efficiencies. Our off-patent and generic portfolio is broad and growing, in a world where half of all prescriptions are for such medicines. Our brands are well-received and highly regarded around the world. People trust our products, and for good reason—they are backed by strong science and reliable quality. The world is our market, and we are ramping up our efforts to meet its demands. We have largely reshaped the ways new medicines are brought through regulatory approval and launched, and are able, in many cases, to submit new drug applications to multiple authorities at once. Lessons learned from one Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Global Opportunities 1 Annual Review 2011 market are being applied in others. In pursuing growth in our business, from our perspective, there is no such thing as a mature market—just people with growing medical and personal health care needs, people we can help through our products and knowledge. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Global Opportunities 2 Annual Review 2011 Determination. Colleagues – Creating an Ownership Culture Each of us, each colleague, is taking ownership of what we do and what we accomplish, as individuals and as a business. Ten years ago, Pfizer made a deliberate choice—to begin calling our co-workers “colleagues” rather than “employees.” This was more than a symbolic change. It was a shared recognition that Pfizer’s most important assets leave our building at the end of each workday, and that much of Pfizer’s value is represented by intangible assets—the intellectual property, proprietary technology and customer goodwill created and protected by our colleagues. Over the past year, we made another deliberate choice—to engage our colleagues as owners of the business and build an ownership culture. Again, this was more than a symbolic change. Our drive to create an ownership mindset is rooted in research done among more than 11,000 global Pfizer colleagues, asking them very directly what was right about our corporate culture, and what needed improvement. We sharpened our approach through numerous meetings with colleagues at all levels, from the people working at the front lines of manufacturing, research and customer service to the Executive Leadership Team. We then boiled the findings down to five attributes that we believe can distinguish us from our competitors. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Colleagues 1 Annual Review 2011 Colleagues told us that the ownership culture they wanted would: 2011 Highlights • Allow them to seize opportunities to think differently, take thoughtful risks and be accountable for results, and try new approaches to Created OWN IT!, a new culture model doing things. for the entire enterprise, applying to all colleagues in all regions of the world. • Help them advocate for and drive long-term, well-aligned strategies that Launched a global recruitment brand, advance Pfizer’s mission and shape the industry. “Many Paths, One Goal,” established to share the multitude of careers and job • Give them the freedom—and responsibility—to confront corrosive, selfopportunities at Pfizer. Our hiring practices serving and mean-spirited behaviors. and internal job posting program promote Pfizer’s continued interest in growing • Depend on them to deliver on the commitments they make talent. We are committed to maintaining with speed, decisiveness and integrity. a diverse and inclusive environment where all colleagues contribute to the • Encourage them to give voice to their thoughts, invest time in candid organization’s success. and constructive debate, and get straight talk from each other and from their leadership. Created an additional resource for colleagues seeking confidential guidance about raising and resolving work-related Early in 2012, Pfizer’s Chairman and CEO, Ian Read, launched this ownership issues, through the company’s Office model to colleagues, with the goal of pushing Pfizer toward a culture of fuller of the Ombudsman. engagement, where there is a common language and a common set of expectations and behaviors. This new ownership model recognizes that Pfizer and its competitors have outstanding brainpower, and that it is how Pfizer engages, utilizes, develops and expands our brainpower that spells the difference between being “a leading company” and being the undisputed leader, the team that everyone wants to play for. Building an Ownership Culture An ownership culture is rooted in engagement—how willing colleagues are to invest extra effort in their work, stand up for the company in daily activities, and treat their positions within Pfizer as “more than just a job.” Engagement itself is rooted in communication and dialogue and begins with clear, frequent and candid conversations about how the business is doing and what we can collectively do to change it. Pfizer has a strong heritage of engaged conversation with colleagues. Today, company-wide “town halls” conducted by members of Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Colleagues 2 Annual Review 2011 the Executive Leadership Team follow each quarterly report on financial results. 2011 Highlights These meetings are designed to put those results into context, answer questions from colleagues around the world, and demonstrate how investors and other stakeholders view our performance. These “town halls” are conducted by webcast Created a new interactive and innovative and are beamed to Pfizer’s major sites. We also invest in a robust intranet online learning experience, Make It Your Business, which provides every colleague presence, called PfizerWorld, to keep colleagues informed of events around with foundational knowledge to build the company and to help them share best practices. At sites in all the nations business and financial acumen and to where Pfizer people work, local management is accountable for making sure that understand how Pfizer meets commitments colleagues know how the business is progressing and are fully engaged in its to stakeholders, including patients, success. Pfizer invests substantially in the training needed to stay compliant and customers and shareholders. in surveys of our colleagues that measure inclusion, engagement and colleague understanding of our opportunities and challenges. The Pfizer Senior Leader Experience has now reached the top 800 senior leaders at Anchored on the bedrock of candid communications, the ownership mindset Pfizer. This program focuses on developing takes root when colleagues have a greater opportunity to take thoughtful risks and executing strategies to gain and try new ideas. The following are examples from the many thousands that competitive advantage while leveraging could have been discussed here. In 2011, a group of Pfizer colleagues took up the innovation. Additionally, leaders gain task of reviewing the thousands of labels that Pfizer uses for its medicines around insight into leadership styles and how they directly impact the performance of their the world, organizing them into a new database and creating a system where any teams and organizations. label, in any market, could be called up in seconds to a computer screen by any colleague authorized to do so. Initial estimates to have an outside company do Pfizer’s Cornerstones of Management the bulk of the work started at $250,000 and went up rapidly from there. These program is designed to accelerate the colleagues found a way to get the system up and running for under $20,000. A development of our managers to best second example concerns the transformation of Lipitor from a patent-protected handle current and future business medicine in the United States to one facing generic competition. A team of challenges in an increasingly complex, Pfizer colleagues took a new approach to help patients satisfied with the Lipitor dynamic and global marketplace. In 2011, experience stay on the brand they trusted. As a result, Lipitor has remained over 3,700 of our managers began this competitive and the rate of market erosion due to Lipitor’s loss of exclusivity has innovative program. been slower than those of many other major drugs that have lost exclusivity. This greater competitiveness with generics means many more patients are able to access Lipitor and adds millions of dollars to Pfizer’s top and bottom lines. These and many other examples demonstrate that Pfizer colleagues understand the importance of every dollar earned and saved in building the company for longterm success. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Colleagues 3 Annual Review 2011 Determination. > Colleagues Diversity and Inclusion 2011 Accolades Named one of the Global Top 20 Diversity and inclusion are core values of Pfizer, and for Best Companies for Leadership by the Hay Group good reason. The ownership culture we want to build is rooted in inclusion, the recognition that good ideas Named one of DiversityInc’s 25 Noteworthy Companies come from all sources. The willingness to encourage diversity of thinking sharpens both planning and Named in 2011 Working Mother Best performance. Consequently, we place a high value 100 Companies on inclusive behaviors and respect for individuals, Pfizer earned the highest possible score in communities and cultures. Our commitment to diversity the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s and inclusion helps all our colleagues connect their Corporate Equality Index special skills, knowledge and life experiences with those of 2011 Top 50 Companies for stakeholders outside our company. Executive Women Pfizer Animal Health’s Diversity & Inclusion Council recognized for outstanding We have a long history of all-colleague groups that take an active role in creating contributions and achievements an inclusive environment and developing diverse talent, finding ways to increase our business among diverse groups, and ensuring that the company is treating people fairly wherever we operate. In 2011, we intensified and expanded upon this approach by creating a number of Pfizer Colleague Councils, an internal network of specific groups, each with a sponsor from the Executive Leadership Team. The seven groups formed to date represent individuals from the Asian, Black, Latino, Women, Veterans, Disabled, and LGBT (Lesbian, Gay, Bi-sexual and Transgender) colleague populations. We are committed to being a global employer of choice and are proud of the recognition we have received over the past year for being a good place to work, including the accolades we have received to the right. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Colleagues 4 Annual Review 2011 Determination. > Colleagues Talent Development One of the most important responsibilities of leadership at Pfizer is bringing along the next generation of leaders. Pfizer leaders have a range of tools available to help them recruit and develop talented people, and Pfizer’s senior leaders review the pipeline of talent and its alignment with the most essential jobs in the company. Beyond making sure we have a sustainable supply of leaders, we also challenge colleagues to discover new ways to learn, perform and grow, and to create—and own—a unique experience at Pfizer. As our organization adapts to an evolving market, it is becoming less hierarchical, and demanding both focused expertise and a global mindset from our colleagues. We believe the best preparation for success—as individuals and as a company—is creating an ownership culture and a manager mindset at all levels. This will give us maximum flexibility in deploying people to meet changing needs. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Colleagues 5 Annual Review 2011 Determination. > Colleagues Health and Safety Resources For more on Pfizer’s commitment to We are committed to providing a safe and healthy work health and safety in the workplace, view Workplace Responsibility. environment for everyone working at Pfizer facilities or otherwise executing Pfizer’s business. We require our commercial, manufacturing and R&D facilities to have active health and safety programs. Our goal is to avoid injuries and ill health caused or made worse by work—we call this injury-free. Over the past four years we have made great progress reducing injury rates by more than 40 percent and now have lower rates than the industry average. A key area of focus has been global fleet safety. Since Pfizer’s launch and implementation of the fleet safety program in the U.S., we have made significant progress in reducing the number of motor vehicle accidents and associated injuries. Now we are building on the success of this program by rolling out similar fleet safety programs across the globe. We have strict controls to ensure that our work with chemical and biologic materials is well managed to protect human health and the environment. We use the outcomes from risk assessments to identify and apply risk mitigation strategies to assure workplace safety at every stage of research and development, production and distribution. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Colleagues 6 Annual Review 2011 Determination. Governance Good corporate governance is fundamental to our success and to the confidence and trust of our stakeholders, especially our investors. Therefore, we seek to ensure that good governance and responsible business principles and practices are fully integrated into our culture, values and day-to-day business. Pfizer remains a leader in corporate governance, including outreach to our shareholders and other stakeholders. We continue to drive innovations in policies, practices and disclosures on corporate political activities and other key governance areas. For example, in the wake of the United States Supreme Court’s 2010 decision in Citizens United v. The Federal Election Commission, we have engaged in extensive discussions with shareholders and stakeholders seeking clarification about Pfizer’s policies on corporate political expenditures. These discussions led to our decision in 2011 to adopt a strict policy against Pfizer making “independent expenditures” in connection with any federal or state election. All of the members of our Board of Directors are independent, other than Ian Read, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Our Directors are highly engaged, not only through attendance at Board and Committee meetings, but also through ongoing discussions with senior leaders and outside advisers, as well as reviews of reports and analyses. The scope of the Board’s oversight is broad, covering a wide range of matters that impact shareholder value and affect our stakeholders, including strategy, financial performance, compliance and public policy. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Governance 1 Annual Review 2011 One of the Board’s key responsibilities is to evaluate and determine its optimal leadership structure so as to provide independent oversight of management and a highly engaged and high-functioning Board. Based on its experience, considerable engagement with shareholders, and an assessment of research on this issue, the Board understands that there are a variety of viewpoints concerning a board’s optimal leadership structure; that available empirical data concerning the impact of board leadership on shareholder value is inconclusive; and, accordingly, that there is no single, generally accepted approach to board leadership. Given the dynamic and competitive environment in which we operate, the right board leadership structure may vary as circumstances warrant. Consistent with this understanding, the independent Directors do not follow any particular structure as a presumed preferred approach and consider the Board’s leadership structure on at least an annual basis. This consideration includes the pros and cons of alternative leadership structures in light of the Company’s operating and governance environment at the time, with the goal of achieving the optimal model for Board leadership and effective oversight of management by the Board. Based upon these considerations, and following a lengthy review, the independent Directors determined in December 2011 to elect Ian Read, our CEO, as Chairman. This determination was based on the independent Directors’ strong belief that Mr. Read, particularly in view of his extensive experience in and knowledge of the research-based biopharmaceutical industry, has demonstrated the leadership and vision necessary to lead the Board and the company in the current challenging industry and macroeconomic environment; that Mr. Read has a fundamentally investor-driven viewpoint; that Mr. Read’s leadership had generated strong performance in 2011; and that Mr. Read does not have an employment agreement and would be serving as both Chairman and CEO at the pleasure of the Board. The independent Directors also believe that this unified structure provides our Company with strong and consistent leadership and that, given the significant regulatory and market environment in which we operate, having one clear leader in both roles provides decisive and effective leadership, both within and outside the Company. At the same time, the independent Directors also selected George A. Lorch to serve as Lead Independent Director, a position that, at Pfizer, entails significant responsibility for independent Board leadership. He served as Non-Executive Chairman of the Board from December 2010 to December 2011 and will continue to exercise his strong leadership skills in his new role. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Governance 2 Annual Review 2011 Executive Compensation Aligned With Shareholders’ Interests We believe that executive compensation policies should reflect that shareholder funds are at stake and must be used wisely. Therefore, the overarching goal of our compensation approach is to align each executive’s compensation with Pfizer’s short-term and long-term performance and to provide the compensation and incentives needed to attract, motivate and retain key executives who are crucial to Pfizer’s long-term success. To this end, we regularly consult with shareholders to refine our executive compensation philosophy, program and practices. The compensation of our Executive Leadership Team—the CEO and the executive officers reporting directly to the CEO—is determined by the Compensation Committee of Pfizer’s Board of Directors. This Committee, composed exclusively of independent Directors, seeks to align our compensation program with our pay-for-performance philosophy and our shareholders’ interests. The Committee has engaged an independent compensation consultant who has no other ties to the company or its management and who meets stringent selection criteria. We continue to implement and maintain appropriate practices, including a number of controls that mitigate risk, in our compensation program and related areas. Pfizer executives are required to own Pfizer common stock equal in value to a multiple of salary, ranging from at least six times salary for our CEO, to at least four times salary for the other members of our Executive Leadership Team. Ownership must be achieved over a five-year period. For a detailed explanation of the Company’s compensation philosophy, which is set by the Compensation Committee, please see the Compensation Discussion and Analysis section of Pfizer’s Proxy Statement or visit the Investor’s section of Pfizer’s website www.pfizer.com/investors/. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Governance 3 Annual Review 2011 Determination. Ethics Strong standards of ethics and strong ethical performance are at Pfizer’s core. We are committed to upholding the highest ethical standards in every aspect of our business. Our training programs and organizational structures have been developed to go beyond compliance. All colleagues are expected to take ownership of compliance and to perform all tasks with integrity. We continuously scrutinize our internal practices and have put into place procedures for taking immediate action when we identify potential violations. We offer a Compliance Helpline, an Open Door Policy and anti-retaliation protections, and launched in 2011 an Office of the Ombudsman to further encourage all Pfizer colleagues to report potential violations or concerns. Compliance Pfizer’s Compliance Program, established under the direction of Pfizer’s Board of Directors, is led by our Chief Compliance & Risk Officer (CCRO), who reports to the CEO and is a member of the Executive Leadership Team. The CCRO and staff provide oversight of Pfizer’s compliance programs and guidance to help colleagues stay fully compliant with applicable laws, regulations and company policies. In addition, we have a robust internal audit group, with a direct reporting relationship to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors as well as a reporting relationship to the Chief Financial Officer. Both the CCRO and the head of Corporate Audit have wide authority to investigate any compliance issues in their respective areas. As part of our commitment to continuous improvement, we regularly review our compliance program to make certain that it remains best in class. Colleagues worldwide are trained every year on Pfizer’s Code of Conduct, known as the “Blue Book.” Pfizer has made considerable investments to combat bribery and corruption. Our International Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Corporate Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Ethics 1 Annual Review 2011 Procedure, designed to prevent and detect violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and its foreign law counterparts, requires the adoption of local procedures and training of appropriate colleagues. We have established reporting mechanisms that include a compliance helpline (available in more than 100 languages) and Web reporting tools, where available, that allow colleagues around the world to raise concerns and seek guidance. Where permitted by law, suspected compliance issues may be reported anonymously. These efforts support our expansion globally and help make certain that our business is conducted in accordance with the highest ethical standards around the world. In 2011, the Regulatory and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors was formed. This Board-level Committee is dedicated to assisting the Board of Directors with overseeing and reviewing the company’s health care related regulatory and compliance issues, including its compliance programs and the status of compliance with related laws, regulations, internal procedures and the company’s Corporate Integrity Agreement. Public Policy, Political Contributions and Lobbying Engaging in public policy is crucial in creating an enabling environment to 2011 Highlight improve access to quality medicines and health care. As a highly regulated industry, we believe that public policy engagement, including lobbying and political contributions, is an important and appropriate role for companies in Pfizer ranked among the best of the S&P open societies, if such engagement is conducted in a legal and transparent 100 for disclosing corporate political activmanner. We comply with all applicable lobbying registration and disclosure ity in the first-ever CUNY/Baruch College’s laws, and provide added transparency beyond legal requirements. Pfizer reports Index of Corporate Political Disclosure. Executed by Baruch College’s Robert quarterly on lobbying expenses. We publicly disclose our Pfizer Political Action Zicklin Center for Corporate Integrity, and Committee and corporate political contributions and grants for health care compiled only from the information made education on our website. Pfizer has also voluntarily signed onto the European public by each company, the Index meaCommission’s new register of interest representatives. sures a company’s willingness to voluntarily disclose and be transparent about its corporate political activity. Pfizer is the only Ethical Sales and Marketing pharmaceutical company ranked in the Index’s top tier. The use of prescription-only medications and vaccines is intermediated by a number of experts, including doctors, pharmacists and payers. Patients depend on these intermediaries to make the right choices in medicines, with the goal of the best health outcome. It is important that these intermediaries, doctors in particular, fully understand the range of options for treatment available to them, and also fully understand the risks and benefits of each treatment. Patients should similarly be informed about treatment choices so they are better equipped to engage in discussions with their doctors and know how to use products safely and effectively. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Ethics 2 Annual Review 2011 We are thus committed to promoting our products responsibly and reporting about our business practices in a fashion that promotes transparency. We believe that it is important to educate patients and providers about health care treatments, so that physicians who prescribe our medicines can make decisions rooted solely in the best interests of the patient. Pfizer adheres to all applicable laws and regulations as well as to industry standards. To ensure our communication and marketing approaches uphold the highest standards, Pfizer has extensive mandatory, company-wide training on these standards of communication and conduct. Disclosing Payments to Health Care Professionals Transparency in our relationships with health care professionals sets the right tone for our business. We publish on our website Pfizer’s payments and the value of noncash items provided to licensed U.S. health care professionals, including in connection with speaking engagements and clinical research activities. Our disclosure of research payments further identifies major academic institutions involved with clinical trials, and the principal investigators on clinical trials. We do not pay health care professionals for prescribing our medicines or as an inducement for promoting our medicines, vaccines or nutritional products. Pfizer was the first biopharmaceutical company to report payments to investigators conducting Phase I–IV clinical trials, in addition to disclosing payments for consulting and speaking. We believe that sharing this information will help the public understand the full breadth of the important collaborative work done by industry, academia and health care professionals to advance patient health. Direct-to-Consumer Advertising Responsible consumer advertising has proven value in helping patients engage in more informed conversations with their health care providers, leading to better health outcomes. In all of our consumer advertising, we adhere to applicable FDA regulations and guidance. We also abide by the PhRMA Guiding Principles on Direct-to-Consumer (DTC) Advertising About Prescription Medicines. We follow strict internal standards that have been developed to ensure the information we share with consumers is: (1) scientifically sound; (2) balanced; (3) easy to understand; and (4) helpful in encouraging people to consult with a health care professional. And we continue to examine our internal protocols to ensure our DTC standards keep pace with industry standards, guidance, law and regulation. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Ethics 3 Annual Review 2011 Human Rights Resources As a global company, we operate in complex economic, social and political environments. These complexities bring with them an enlarged role for us View Pfizer’s Political Action Committee in ensuring human rights within our operations and in working for human Report. betterment through our increasingly broad global presence. Learn more about the policies and practices Thus, we account for and respect human rights in all of our business activities, that govern how we work together. wherever we operate in the world. We fully support the principles contained in the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the International Labour Learn more about the policy on InteracOrganization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Pfizer tions with Health Care Professionals. is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact and we support its Ten Principles on human rights, labor, environment and the fight against corruption. Learn more about the policy on Payments to Health Care Professionals. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Ethics 4 Annual Review 2011 Innovation. > Research & Development Engine For Sustainable Innovation We have launched a multiyear effort to accelerate Pfizer’s R&D strategy and create an Engine for Sustainable Innovation (ESI). Pfizer has responded to today’s biopharmaceutical R&D challenges with a rigorous strategy to drive steady progress towards three horizons centered on delivering the portfolio, innovating new capabilities, and creating the R&D ecosystem of the future. In 2011, Pfizer made significant changes in our R&D model to accelerate the implementation of this strategy, create an ongoing flow of important medicines and vaccines, and improve return on invested capital. These changes reflect our commitment to: Greater Focus Strengthening our scientific core and focusing on areas of greatest medical and commercial potential Strategic Externalization Forging novel partnerships to access the best science and focus internal activities on those driving competitive advantage for Pfizer Differentiated Innovation Positioning ourselves for breakthrough innovation by developing the approach and the culture to deliver the most important medicines and vaccines, with a special focus on Precision Medicine R&D—an approach to discovering and developing medicines and vaccines that deliver superior outcomes for patients, by integrating clinical and molecular information to understand the biological basis of disease Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Research & Development 1 Annual Review 2011 To initiate this acceleration effort, in February 2011 we selected the research 2011 Highlights areas in which we believe we can deliver the greatest medical and commercial impact. Based on these choices, we honed and prioritized our programs and portfolio. We also shifted our site network to more closely align with key hubs Prioritized the portfolio, providing for science and technology, putting us in closer contact with leading biomedical additional resources to accelerate the most promising programs. research institutions and providing access to a deep talent base in the life sciences. We established new models to access the best external science and Launched a specialized research unit for technology, and we created novel and flexible partnerships to externalize R&D pain and sensory disorders, Neusentis, services that can be done by specialized service providers enabling Pfizer to focus located in Cambridge, U.K. internal resources on the highest value activities. In making these changes, we reduced both our research site footprint and the number of vendors who provide Discontinued 91 programs in the pre-proofservices. Taken together, these and other changes are helping us improve Pfizer’s of-concept portion of our pipeline and performance as an innovator, while reducing the cost base from which we 12 in the post-proof-of-concept portion, develop and deliver differentiated medicines and vaccines. to focus more resources on promising drug and vaccine candidates, and found In summary, our ESI efforts reset our R&D investments in a careful manner, to development partners or new homes create a higher return platform from which we can grow. Improving R&D return is for some of the assets in discontinued a priority for the entire industry to sustain an innovative biopharmaceutical R&D programs. model. It requires that we shift from a “high volume” R&D approach that was the industry paradigm for several decades to a more selective approach in which Refreshed and strengthened key research units—Cardiovascular, Metabolic and we strive to increase the value of every activity we undertake, reduce the cost of Endocrine Diseases, Inflammation failures and increase our probability of success. That’s a shift from pursuing high and Remodeling, Immunology and volume, to seeking to deliver high value. And it requires us to work differently. In Autoimmunity, Neuroscience, Oncology the last year, Pfizer has addressed this challenge head-on. and Vaccines. With biomedical innovation at our core, everything we do is centered on inventing and delivering the novel medicines and vaccines that people need. That is our purpose, and it is well worth our efforts. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Research & Development 2 Annual Review 2011 Horizons of Innovation As referenced above, our R&D strategy spans three horizons, which are described below. Horizon 1: Deliver the Portfolio In 2011, a number of new medicines and indications emerged from our reinvigorated pipeline and were approved, underscoring our ability to translate science into patient benefit. Key regulatory authorizations included Xalkori in the U.S.; Xiapex, Vyndaqel and Eliquis in the EU; and Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 for the prevention of pneumococcal pneumonia in adults over 50, in the U.S. and EU. As of February 2012, we had 90 new medicines and vaccine programs in development. These include treatments for diabetes, hypercholesterolemia, lupus, hematological and solid tumors, acute pain, Alzheimer’s and other neuropsychiatric diseases, and a Staphylococcus aureus vaccine, as well as multiple indications for tofacitinib, our novel JAK-3 inhibitor already under review in Europe, the U.S. and Japan for rheumatoid arthritis (Click here for an overview of our pipeline). We continue to work to more effectively integrate scientific, business and financial parameters, so that we can deliver on the promise of our mid-stage pipeline of highly differentiated molecules and vaccines—and bring to market the next wave of important medicines and vaccines. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Research & Development 3 Annual Review 2011 Horizon 2: Innovate New Capabilities Several emerging science and technology platforms are driving important new R&D capabilities and the progress of our pipeline. Examples include ion channel technology that offers the potential for a new approach to treating pain and other disorders associated with this mechanism. Our recent acquisition of Icagen further strengthens our leading capability in this area. Our growing portfolio of antibody drug conjugates could yield powerful treatments for cancer, including inotuzumab, which is currently in Phase 3 studies for Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma. Our vaccine technology platforms are making it possible for Pfizer to expand into vaccines for all ages and geographies, with an important program in prevention of meningococcal B disease in adolescents. We also are investing in the next generation of sophisticated small molecules, including tissue-selective drugs, such as liver-selective glucokinase activators against type 2 diabetes. A new, more expansive approach to external collaboration is essential to our R&D strategy—forging partnerships that connect the assets and capabilities of different sectors to speed the development of new medicines. Our Centers for Therapeutic Innovation, or CTI, blends the research expertise of academics in disease, targets and patient populations with Pfizer’s R&D knowledge, resources and development capabilities. CTI’s innovative business model is based on partnerships to accelerate the translation of science into novel antibody-based treatments, and positions Pfizer to broaden and diversify its R&D pipeline with additional next generation therapeutics. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Research & Development 4 Annual Review 2011 Horizon 3: R&D Ecosystem of the Future In our third horizon, we will move to a much more networked R&D model— shaping the innovation ecosystem of the future and optimizing the promise of Precision Medicine. The R&D ecosystem of the future will scale and expand the emerging collaborations getting underway today, drawing on the total capabilities in the biomedical research community, reducing silos and increasing productivity. Precision Medicine R&D will be a major focus of our efforts. This approach should lead to better selection of disease pathways and identification of patient sub-populations that demonstrate better clinical outcomes. Ultimately, Precision Medicine R&D is intended to result in treatments that deliver bigger treatment effects, with acceptable or favorable safety profiles. As the recently fast-tracked and approved Xalkori (for ALK-positive Non Small Cell Lung Cancer patients) attests, Precision Medicine holds considerable promise for patients and our business. We are driving a Precision Medicine strategy across Pfizer, with the following goals in mind: By 2012, half of proof-of-concept study starts will have a Precision Medicine approach. By 2015, two out of every three drugs entering Phase III will have a Precision Medicine approach. By 2020, four out of every five drugs launched will be Precision Medicine drugs. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Research & Development 5 Annual Review 2011 Innovation. > Research & Development Partnering to Expand R&D CTI Partnerships Impact CTI New York Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University Pfizer is a leader, but we do not act alone. More and Columbia University Medical Center Hospital for Special Surgery more, we are collaborating with peer firms, research Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center organizations, leading academics, global health The Mount Sinai Medical Center organizations, governments and patient groups to speed NYU Langone Medical Center new medicines and vaccines to the people who need Rockefeller University them. Weill Cornell Medical College CTI Boston Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center In fact, we work with more than 250 R&D partner organizations. To increase the Boston University School of Medicine and success of our partnerships, we are placing our R&D groups in the mainstream Boston Medical Center of the world’s greatest science and technology hubs, from Cambridge, U.K. to Children’s Hospital Boston La Jolla, California. This is strategic—and key to our efforts to strengthen Pfizer’s position as a leading biomedical innovator. Harvard University Partners HealthCare (Massachusetts Centers for Therapeutic Innovation General Hospital, Brigham & Women’s Hospital) One of Pfizer’s newest partnerships, The Centers for Therapeutic Innovation Tufts University and Tufts Medical Center (CTI), represents a new approach to biopharmaceutical R&D. A groundbreaking, University of Massachusetts Medical open-innovation network, CTI’s four Centers in Boston, New York City, San Francisco and San Diego are partnered with many of the country’s leading School in Worcester academic medical institutions. Our goal is to bridge the gap between early scientific discovery and its translation into new medicines. CTI San Diego Sanford-Burnham Medical Research Institute A key aspect of CTI is Pfizer’s commitment to establish local Centers that University of California San Diego enable Pfizer and academic medical center teams to blend the research expertise of academics in disease, targets and patient populations with Pfizer’s CTI San Francisco developmental expertise and resources. This model puts our scientists to work University of California San Francisco side by side with those of our CTI partners. Pfizer funds preclinical and clinical development programs, offers equitable intellectual property and ownership rights, and broad rights to publication, and Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Research & Development 6 Annual Review 2011 provides unprecedented access to its antibody libraries and other proprietary 2011 Highlights technologies. In exchange, Pfizer obtains access to many novel targets and hypotheses, and an opportunity to accelerate the translation of important new discoveries to the clinic. CTI’s collaborative and entrepreneurial business model Leased and broke ground on a has the potential to improve our R&D productivity, and broaden and diversify our 180,000-square-foot site on the campus of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology pipeline with next generation therapeutics. (MIT) for lab space that will be the new home of two of Pfizer’s research units— In its first year, CTI has built a portfolio of 16 projects in a variety of disease Cardiovascular, Metabolic and Endocrine areas. Our goal to advance three programs to proof of mechanism by 2014 is Diseases, and Neuroscience. within reach. Announced collaborations with U.S. payers Medco and Humana to improve Eliquis – A Profile in Partnered Drug Development patient outcomes through collaborative use of genomic and real world data to Showing what we can accomplish through external partnerships within our enhance development and use of the right industry, Eliquis (apixaban) has been approved in Europe for the prevention of medicines for the right patients. venous thromboembolism following elective hip or knee replacement surgery, and is under EU, Japanese and U.S. FDA review for stroke prevention in patients To better position Inlyta (axitinib) with atrial fibrillation. An oral anticoagulant, Eliquis has shown in clinical trials in the Asian market, partnered with to be superior in efficacy, safety and mortality to warfarin, the 50-year-old SFJ Pharmaceuticals to develop the standard of care. compound as adjuvant therapy for renal cell carcinoma in Japan, Korea, China and Eliquis is a new oral direct Factor Xa inhibitor, a class of agents being studied for Taiwan. their potential to prevent and treat blood clots, and was discovered by BristolMyers Squibb. In 2007, Pfizer and Bristol-Myers Squibb entered into a worldwide collaboration to develop and commercialize Eliquis. This global alliance combines Bristol-Myers Squibb’s strengths in cardiovascular drug development and commercialization with Pfizer’s global scale and vast expertise in this field. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Research & Development 7 Annual Review 2011 Innovation. > Research & Development Advancing Our Pipeline Resources View our roster of new drugs that recently Our strategy of prioritization and sharper scientific emerged from the pipeline. inquiry has yielded a focused portfolio of promising drug candidates. As of year-end 2011, the Pfizer pipeline had 90 programs in process, from Phase I through registration. These included 70 new chemical entities, 23 additional indications, 49 small molecules, 24 biologics and three vaccines in development. For the latest pipeline, visit Pfizer.com/research Programs in Clinical Trial or Registration as of February 28, 2012 Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Research & Development 8 Annual Review 2011 Innovation. > Research & Development Treating Neglected and Rare Diseases We see both opportunity and purpose in working to eradicate diseases of the developing world and to find effective treatments for diseases that are devastating but may affect only a very few. Pfizer has a long history of contributions to research aimed at controlling or eliminating diseases that disproportionately impact poor patients in the developing world. We are currently working to address malaria in pregnancy, the most common and yet preventable cause of maternal and perinatal morbidity and mortality in sub-Saharan Africa. About 125 million pregnancies are at risk of malaria every year and 10,000 women and up to 200,000 babies die as a result. The emergence of resistance to sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine, the currently adopted Intermittent Preventative Treatment in Pregnant Women (IPTp), has prompted a need to develop new and effective regimens. Pfizer and Medicines for Malaria Venture are working together to develop a fixed-dose combination tablet of azithromycin and chloroquine for IPTp. This program is currently in Phase III of clinical development. More information on Pfizer’s malaria efforts in sub-Saharan Africa is available on our website. Pfizer also provides a variety of treatments, and seeks to develop new ones, for HIV/AIDS, through our joint venture with GlaxoSmithKline, known as ViiV Healthcare. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Research & Development 9 Annual Review 2011 WIPO Re:Search: Sharing Innovation in the Fight Against 2011 Highlights Neglected Tropical Diseases In partnership with the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) and A novel collaborative research agreement BIO Ventures for Global Health (BVGH), Pfizer and the R&D pharmaceutical between Children’s Hospital Boston and industry launched an R&D consortium, known as WIPO Re:Search, in October Pfizer is directed to the development of 2011. The consortium was created to accelerate the discovery and product new therapies for Duchenne muscular development of medicines, vaccines and diagnostics to develop new solutions for dystrophy. We are providing access to select neglected tropical diseases, malaria and tuberculosis. This work is unprecedented proprietary compounds that will be tested as it includes diverse global health partners such as multilateral organizations, in the hospital’s world-class academic nongovernmental organizations and patent offices, as well as private and public research laboratory, and committing Pfizer resources, such as expertise in medicinal research organizations from around the world, including the National Institutes chemistry, to this cause. of Health, Medical Research Council (South Africa), Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Indian Council for Medical Research, and the GlycoMimetics, Inc. and Pfizer entered U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. into an exclusive worldwide licensing agreement for a drug candidate, GMIThe consortium addresses several factors that have previously impeded the 1070, currently in development to treat development of effective solutions including inadequate networks for sharing patients experiencing vaso-occlusive information, the need for a central information point where prospective partners crisis associated with sickle cell disease. can learn of ongoing work and capabilities in specific diseases, cumbersome GMI-1070 has received Orphan Drug and intellectual property licensing procedures, and inadequate funding to support Fast Track status from the U.S. Food and vibrant and consistent R&D. When fully in place, WIPO Re:Search will provide Drug Administration. While the genetic three services: and molecular cause of sickle cell disease has been known for more than 50 years, therapy has not significantly advanced. • A comprehensive platform/database, hosted by WIPO, of patent and other proprietary information (such as clinical trial results) on Vyndaqel (tafamidis) was approved compounds and technologies available for licensing for neglected in the EU in November 2011 for the tropical diseases research. treatment of transthyretin familial amyloid polyneuropathy (TTR-FAP) in adult patients • A partnership hub, managed by BVGH, providing a forum where with Stage 1 symptomatic polyneuropathy. interested parties can learn about licensing opportunities, available This approval represents a major funds for research and networking opportunities within their advance as Vyndaqel is the first and only respective fields. medication approved to delay neurologic impairment for patients suffering from this • A range of specific supporting activities to increase and improve rare, progressive and nearly always fatal licensing agreements and to quickly resolve disputes over neurodegenerative disease, estimated to intellectual property. affect 8,000 people worldwide. Pfizer’s contributions to WIPO Re:Search include patents for veterinary agents that might provide clues to more effective treatment of human worm infections and intellectual property covering selected vaccine technologies. In addition, we are sharing information from our animal health research that has the potential to be leveraged for human neglected tropical parasitic diseases. For more information, please visit the WIPO Re:Search website, available at Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Research & Development 10 Annual Review 2011 www.wiporesearch.org. Resources Rare Diseases For more information on Pfizer’s Malaria Efforts, view Malaria Efforts. Rare diseases affect millions of patients and their caregivers around the world— yet fewer than five percent of the estimated 7,000 rare diseases have approved treatments. Pfizer is dedicated to addressing these unmet medical needs by seeking to discover, develop and deliver medicines for them. Currently our pipeline includes a number of medicines in development for rare diseases, including Gaucher disease and complications of sickle cell anemia. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Research & Development 11 Annual Review 2011 Innovation. Conducting Clinical Trials to the Highest Standards Clinical trials are at the heart of biomedical progress, and we honor volunteers for clinical trials as the unsung medical heroes of our day. We have always been committed to the highest standards of integrity and Transparency in Clinical conduct in clinical trials, and now we are working to further improve our clinical Trials by the Numbers trial infrastructure. Our goal is to make the clinical trial process simpler and better, and to make sure that all of our trials are done to the highest standards, fully protecting the rights and welfare of the trial participants. 80,000+ monitoring visits conducted at clinical trials sites around the world in 2011 Building Quality and Accountability Into Clinical Trials 100+ data-monitoring committees overseeing the safety of Pfizer trials around Late in 2010, Pfizer launched the Clinical Trial Excellence Project, a top-to-bottom the world. re-engineering of our clinical trial process to make sure that quality procedures are built into every step of the way. The project is achieving its milestones and 2,000 clinical and medical colleagues is expected to complete in late 2012. When complete, it will give us additional sharing responsibillity for clinical trials state-of-the-art capabilities to help ensure patient safety, data integrity and full compliance with ethical and regulatory standards for clinical research. 2,500+ clinical trials registered to clinicaltrials.gov To improve efficiency and accountability, we have established strategic partnerships with the respected global firms, Icon and PAREXEL, for clinical trial implementation services. We will be moving 200 of our existing 800 ongoing trials to Icon and PAREXEL, and all future trials will be handled in collaboration with them. We are committed to leading the efforts for transparency in clinical trials. As of December 2011, we have registered more than 2,500 studies to clinicaltrials.gov. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Clinical Trials 1 Annual Review 2011 Global Standards 2011 Highlights Clinical trials are not executed directly by Pfizer but rather through independent investigators. We are responsible, however, for making sure that we have clear Launched a “speaking book,” Safe Use policies and procedures in place for these investigators, and that they fully of Medicines, in Uganda and Senegal. understand their responsibilities to the clinical trial volunteer. We continue to Designed specifically for sub-Saharan expand the diversity of the people involved in our clinical trials as that improves Africa, the book requires no understanding our knowledge of the safety and efficacy of our medicines. To date, Pfizer has of written words. It features a combination executed clinical trials in more than 60 countries. of colorful pictures, text and sound. The book is available in both English and French Wherever we operate, our clinical trial policies and processes require that and the recorded voices are local. Each page has a button to press to hear the text informed consent, independent ethics reviews, post-study care and the use of read out loud. placebos conform to well-established international ethical standards. Created a “speaking book” for the IPTp To ensure informed consent, we have invested in programs such as “speaking Malaria Trial to help support the process of books” that illustrate the advantages and disadvantages of clinical trial informed consent. enrollment in simple-to-understand local language, backed by illustrations. In a first for the industry, all Pfizer Clinical We also build local capacity worldwide, providing training in good clinical practice Research Units were accredited by the to all investigators and all sites. We have developed a certification program for Association for the Accreditation of Human our clinical research staff and contractors, and more than 2,500 of them have Research Protection Programs (AAHRPP). successfully completed this program. Commissioned, and saw completed, a Wherever we conduct clinical trials, we do so in accord with consistently applied, clinical trial manual, “Reviewing Clinical constantly reviewed ethical and patient review standards. We sponsor a number Trials: A Guide for the Ethics Committee,” of initiatives to help the independent investigators who enroll patients in and authored by experts from the University of Hong Kong, the AAHRPP and leading manage clinical trials. bioethicists from around the world. Over 1,800 people from more than 80 countries downloaded it when launched, and it has Diversity in Clinical Trials since been translated into Chinese, Spanish Diversity in clinical trials helps illuminate the factors that cause differences in and Portuguese. disease rates and paves the way for more effective medicines and medical procedures. We actively encourage and seek out participants who represent the Pfizer Global Health Fellows are working with AAHRPP to improve ethical research full spectrum of humanity. standards in China. In collaboration with the Steve Biko Bioethics Centre, trained researchers and research ethics committee members from eight African countries in the ethical and legal responsibilities involved in research participant protections, research conduct and reporting, and research ethics review processes. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Clinical Trials 2 Annual Review 2011 Innovation. Leading Medicines Pfizer’s portfolio includes 12 products with individual revenues exceeding $1 billion in 2011. Many of our leading prescription medicines are top-sellers in their categories, and are among the most widely recognized and well-tested treatments in the world. Key Medicines Celebrex Celebrex (celecoxib capsules), a prescription nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory, is a treatment for the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis, and in the U.S. and certain EU countries for the management of acute pain in adults. Celebrex is supported by continued educational and promotional efforts highlighting its efficacy and safety profile for appropriate patients.. One of the most studied arthritis pain For more information visit Pfizer medicines available today Pharmaceutical Products Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Leading Medicines 1 Annual Review 2011 Enbrel Enbrel (etanercept) is used to treat moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis, moderately to severely active polyarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, adult chronic moderate to severe plaque psoriasis and ankylosing spondylitis, a type of arthritis affecting the spine. A biologic that can be self-injected, Enbrel was the first biologic approved for moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis, and has more than a decade of continuous safety data in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. No. 1 most prescribed biologic by For more information visit Pfizer rheumatologists Pharmaceutical Products Lipitor Lipitor (atorvastatin) is prescribed to treat elevated LDL-cholesterol levels in the blood. In 2011, it was the most widely used branded prescription treatment for lowering cholesterol and the best-selling prescription pharmaceutical product of any kind in the world. Lipitor is proven to reduce the risk of heart attack, stroke and other cardiovascular events in patients with certain cardiovascular risk factors or with heart disease. Despite losing exclusivity in many markets, including the U.S. in 2011, Lipitor continues to be one of Pfizer’s most important products. Studied in more than 400 ongoing or For more information visit Pfizer completed trials, including more than Pharmaceutical Products 80,000 patients Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Leading Medicines 2 Annual Review 2011 Lyrica Lyrica (pregabalin) is indicated for the management of fibromyalgia, neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy (diabetic nerve pain), post-herpetic neuralgia (pain after shingles) and as an adjunctive therapy for adults with partial onset seizures in the U.S., and for neuropathic pain, adjunctive treatment of epilepsy and general anxiety disorder in certain countries outside the U.S. First approved treatment for fibromyalgia For more information visit Pfizer in the U.S. Pharmaceutical Products Norvasc Norvasc (amlodipine besylate), despite facing generic competition since 2007, remains the world’s most prescribed brand name pharmaceutical for high blood pressure. Pfizer makes and distributes generic versions of Norvasc through the Established Products/Emerging Markets Business Unit and continues to make the branded version widely available. No. 1 most prescribed branded medicine For more information visit Pfizer for high blood pressure Pharmaceutical Products Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Leading Medicines 3 Annual Review 2011 Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 Pediatric Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 (Pneumococcal 13-valent Conjugate Vaccine [Diphtheria CRM197 Protein]) is a 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine. First introduced in 2009, it is now the world’s top-selling pneumococcal vaccine, and is approved for infants and young children in more than 110 countries. It was recently approved in the U.S. and Europe and more than 10 other countries for use in adults 50 years and older. World’s top-selling pneumococcal vaccine For more information visit Pfizer Pharmaceutical Products Pristiq Pristiq (desvenlafaxine) is used to treat major depressive disorder in adults, and is believed to work on two chemicals in the brain, serotonin and norepinephrine. In contrast to many other antidepressants that must be started at a low dose and titrated up to a therapeutic dose, Pristiq patients can start at a dose proven to relieve depression symptoms: 50 mg, one pill, once a day. In addition, Pristiq does not undergo CYP2D6 metabolism in the liver, thereby reducing the risks of pharmacokinetic drug-drug interaction with other medications that do need to be metabolized through this important enzyme system. Once-a day, 50 mg dose, proven to relieve For more information visit Pfizer depression symptoms Pharmaceutical Products Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Leading Medicines 4 Annual Review 2011 Sutent Sutent (sunitinib malate) is used by oncologists to treat advanced renal cell carcinoma, including metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC), gastrointestinal stromal tumors after disease progression on, or intolerance to, imatinib mesylate, and advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. The third indication was approved in late 2010 in the EU and in 2011 in the U.S. Sutent’s efficacy in firstline mRCC includes two-year survival data, the first time that overall survival of two years has been seen in the treatment of advanced kidney cancer. Most-prescribed oral mRCC therapy For more information visit Pfizer in the U.S. Pharmaceutical Products Viagra Viagra (sildenafil citrate) is the No. 1 prescribed treatment for erectile dysfunction (ED) in the world and one of the world’s most recognized pharmaceutical brands. Introduced in 1998, Viagra is backed by more than 13 years of patient experience, and has been shown to effectively treat ED in men who have concomitant health issues such as hypertension, depression and diabetes. No. 1 prescribed treatment for erectile For more information visit Pfizer dysfunction in the world Pharmaceutical Products Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Leading Medicines 5 Annual Review 2011 Zyvox Zyvox (linezolid) is the world’s best-selling branded agent for the treatment of certain serious complicated skin and nosocomial pneumonia infections caused by gram-positive pathogens, including methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). Zyvox works against MRSA by a unique mechanism of action, minimizing the potential for cross-resistance. Available in both oral and intravenous forms, and approved for adults and children, Zyvox offers doctors considerable flexibility in the transition of patients from hospital settings to home or other convalescent care World’s best-selling branded agent for the For more information visit Pfizer treatment of MRSA Pharmaceutical Products New From Our Pipeline Eliquis Eliquis (apixaban), which is being developed and commercialized with our alliance partner Bristol Myers-Squibb, was approved in Europe in May 2011 for the prevention of venous thromboembolism in patients who have undergone elective hip or knee replacement. Filings for stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation have been accepted in Europe and the U.S. The companies also have submitted that indication for review in Japan. Inlyta Inlyta (axitinib) was approved in January 2012 in the U.S. for the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma after failure of one prior systemic therapy. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Leading Medicines 6 Annual Review 2011 Oxecta Oxecta (oxycodone HCL, USP), Tablets CII was approved in the U.S. in June 2011 for the management of moderate to severe pain where the use of an opioid analgesic is appropriate. Oxecta is the first immediate-release oxycodone medicine that applies technology designed to discourage common methods of tampering associated with opioid abuse and misuse. Pfizer is licensing the technology in Oxecta from Acura Pharmaceuticals. Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 Adult – new indication Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 (Pneumococcal 13-valent Conjugate Vaccine [Diphtheria CRM197 Protein]) for adults 50 years and older was approved in the U.S. and Europe and more than 10 other countries for various syndromes of pneumococcal disease in 2011. Revatio – new indication Revatio (sildenafil) was approved in Europe in May 2011 for the treatment of pediatric patients aged 1 to 17 years old with pulmonary arterial hypertension. Sutent – new indication Sutent (sunitinib malate) was approved in the U.S. in May 2011 for the treatment of progressive, well-differentiated pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (NET) in patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic disease, a rare cancer reported in two to four people per million annually worldwide. Vyndaqel Vyndaqel (tafamidis) was approved in the European Union in November 2011 for the treatment of transthyretin familial amyloid polyneuropathy (TTR-FAP) in adult patients with Stage 1 symptomatic polyneuropathy. This approval represents a major advance as Vyndaqel is the first and only medicine to delay neurological impairment for patients suffering from this rare, progressive and nearly always fatal neurogenerative disease, estimated to affect 8,000 people worldwide. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Leading Medicines 7 Annual Review 2011 Xalkori Xalkori (crizotinib) was approved in the U.S. in August 2011 as the first and only therapy for patients with locally advanced or metastatic ALK-positive non-small cell lung cancer. Xiapex Xiapex (collagenase clostridium histolyticum) was approved in Europe in February 2011 as a new nonsurgical treatment option for Dupuytren’s contracture—a thickening and contracture of tissue beneath the palm and fingers, in adult patients with a palpable cord. Dupuytren’s disease is a slowly progressive connective tissue disorder that can cause the affected finger to bend into the palm of the hand. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Leading Medicines 8 Annual Review 2011 Innovation. Leading Consumer Healthcare Products Pfizer Consumer Healthcare’s products include over the counter (OTC) medicines, supplements and other treatments that are top-sellers in their categories and familiar to consumers around the world. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Leading Consumer Healthcare Products 1 Annual Review 2011 Key Medicines Advil Advil is the No. 1 selling branded OTC analgesic in the world for symptoms including headache, muscle aches, minor arthritis or other joint pain or backache. Advil PM offers the power of Advil with a gentle sleep aid when pain keeps you up at night. In 2011 Advil Nighttime was approved in Canada where it is the first product of its kind. Children’s Advil provides unsurpassed fever relief: nothing relieves fever faster* or keeps it down longer—up to 8 hours of relief in just one dose.† Advil also offers respiratory products, such as Advil Congestion Relief that can help temporarily relieve symptoms associated with the common cold and flu. * Based on reducing fever below 100°F † Among leading OTC fever reducers/pain relievers #1 selling branded OTC Learn more about Advil by analgesic in the world visiting: advil.com Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Leading Consumer Healthcare Products 2 Annual Review 2011 Caltrate Caltrate is the No. 1 selling brand of calcium supplements globally and in the U.S. In the U.S. only, Caltrate delivers 1,200mg of calcium and 800 IU of vitamin D3 in just two tablets a day. Each tablet is rich in vitamin D3 which helps aid in the absorption of calcium. Recent launches include Caltrate Plus in China, Gummy Bites in the U.S. and Caltrate Plus Glucosamine in Taiwan. No. 1 selling branded calcium Learn more about Caltrate by supplement in the world visiting: caltrate.com Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Leading Consumer Healthcare Products 3 Annual Review 2011 Centrum Centrum is the No. 1 selling brand of multivitamins in the world, providing a range of complete and scientifically advanced multivitamins for adults and children. Centrum multivitamins help fill dietary gaps and support important life benefits including energy, immune function metabolism and eye health. The product range includes Centrum Kids, Centrum Under 50 (Adults, Men, Women) and Centrum 50+ (Adults, Men, Women). Centrum Specialist is a new line of enhanced complete multivitamins that gives you all the benefits of a Centrum Complete multivitamin plus additional support for a specific health benefit. There are four Centrum Specialist products: Energy, Heart, Vision and Prenatal. In the U.S., the new line of Centrum ProNutrients dietary supplements includes an Omega-3, a Probiotic, and a Fruit & Veggie product that builds upon 30 years of Centrum science to help consumers take their nutrition to the next level beyond multivitamins. No. 6 OTC brand in the world, Learn more about Centrum by sold in 87 countries visiting: centrum.com Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Leading Consumer Healthcare Products 4 Annual Review 2011 Chapstick ChapStick is the leading lip care brand in the United States and has been replenishing, rehydrating and protecting lips for over 125 years. Three popular products are Moisturizer, Learn more about Chapstick by Classics Cherry and Classics Original visiting: chapstick.com Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Leading Consumer Healthcare Products 5 Annual Review 2011 Robitussin Robitussin has been providing effective relief from cough and cold symptoms for over 50 years. It is the No. 3 branded cough remedy worldwide and is available in over 40 countries. In addition to our extensive lineup of cough and cold products, we introduced new Robitussin Nasal Relief Tablets for both day and nighttime in the U.S. Now you can get multisymptom relief of nasal congestion, headache and sore throat in a convenient tablet form from Robitussin. No. 3 branded cough remedy worldwide, Learn more about Robitussin by available in over 40 countries visiting: robitussin.com Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Leading Consumer Healthcare Products 6 Annual Review 2011 Thermacare ThermaCare Heatwraps deliver heat that penetrates deep, warming the muscle right where it hurts—to relax, soothe and unlock tight muscles. ThermaCare HeatWraps have transformed the field of heat therapy in recent years by making it portable, safe and long-lasting. ThermaCare HeatWraps keep on working Learn more about Thermacare by even after you take them off. Up to 8 hours visiting: thermacare.com on + up to 8 hours off = up to 16 hours of back pain relief Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Leading Consumer Healthcare Products 7 Annual Review 2011 Innovation. Ensuring Our Global Supply Chain We believe that providing fast, flexible and innovative supply solutions is entirely compatible with demanding high standards for quality, safety and environmental protection. Our Global Supply Chain We strive to ensure that all Pfizer products are produced to the highest standards, in compliance with all applicable regulations, and are always available when needed. 3,000+ Formulations 54 Internal Logistics Centers We select external partners, including the suppliers who help us produce active ingredients, secure packaging and entire lines of our medicines, based 500+ Suppliers on a number of factors including competitive pricing, but price is never the determining factor. We apply rigorous systems of quality assurance, including 89 Manufacturing Sites inspections and audits of both Pfizer-owned facilities and other facilities in our supply network, and insist that quality systems include direct oversight of the 200 Transportation Centers “chain of custody” of suppliers. Our dedicated quality assurance colleagues, located in our major markets, speak local languages, understand the local business environment and closely follow the operating practices of our suppliers. Our oversight of quality extends to the evaluation of process changes, deviations and trends, and onsite reviews during production. Environment, Health and Safety Within the Supply Chain For our supply chain, we seek to ensure that our chemical and biological product suppliers demonstrate strong performance in the management of environment, health and safety (EHS) risks. We have established an external supply EHS support function to that end. We check our suppliers by onsite evaluations (139 in 2011); EHS evaluation results are used when deciding to select a supplier. Where improvement is needed, we help suppliers reduce risk with targeted training and coaching, for example to upgrade facilities and management systems. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Ensuring Our Global Supply Chain 1 Annual Review 2011 2011 Highlights In 2011, we established a partnership with the Institute of Sustainable Communities (ISC), an organization committed to advancing sustainability in developing countries through education and training. We also participate Pfizer’s EHS external supply team in the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) as an active supporter completed a total of 213 supplier assessments: of collaborative industry efforts to improve performance in supply chain management. • Asia 89 (42% of assessments) • Americas 61 (29% of assessments) • EU / AfME 63 (29% of assessments) Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Ensuring Our Global Supply Chain 2 Annual Review 2011 Innovation. > Ensuring Our Global Supply Chain Meeting Drug Shortages Drug shortages—particularly involving generic injectables, cancer agents and anesthetics—are occurring with increasing frequency in the U.S. as other companies cut costs and rely on older manufacturing plants. The FDA reports that U.S. prescription drug shortages more than doubled from 2005 to 2009 and reached an historic high in 2010, with 178. Of these, 132 were sterile injectable drugs, particularly older cancer agents and surgical anesthetics. Integrated solutions are needed to solve the problem of drug shortages. In the meantime, Pfizer has stepped up production and is applying its global reach and supply capabilities to deliver some critical medicines and help alleviate shortages. • Pfizer stepped in to supply Solu-Medrol, an anti-inflammatory steroid, and Flagyl, an antibacterial, to patients when other suppliers had manufacturing disruptions. • From January to August 2011, Pfizer met all demand requirements for Camptosar, which is used to treat colon and rectal cancers, after a competitor recalled large batches of product due to contamination. • Pfizer is currently managing and supporting all requests for doxorubicin hydrochloride, an oncology injectable, after the FDA approved the product’s reintroduction in March 2011, following severe market shortages. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Ensuring Our Global Supply Chain 3 Annual Review 2011 Generic cancer and anesthetic injectables often are not simple to produce, due to the specialized equipment and controlled temperatures they require, as well as the complexity of their manufacturing processes. The ability of Pfizer’s Established Products Business Unit and Pfizer Global Supply to supply these medicines is a testament to our capabilities, as well as to our customer and patient focus. That said, we want all manufacturers and purchasers of these medicines, as well as regulators, to join us in finding longer-term solutions to this critical issue. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Ensuring Our Global Supply Chain 4 Annual Review 2011 Humanity Expanding Access to Health No one should go without essential medicine. We have long recognized our responsibility to help provide affordable access to medicine to people who cannot afford our products, and further, to help build the world’s capacity to deliver better health care to more people. Of the 7 billion people on earth, one-third do not have regular access to 2011 Highlights essential medicine. Our approach to expanding access is aligned with the UN Millennium Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 recognized for Development Goals and includes developing commercially viable business excellence in scientific innovation with models to provide sustainable, long-term access for underserved populations; the 2011 Prix Galien USA Award for Best maintaining a strong portfolio of philanthropic investments that build global Pharmaceutical Agent. health care capacity and serve patients who have yet to be reached through our Global Health Partnerships received commercial businesses; and engaging in select partnerships with NGOs, private the “Citizens Award”—the Corporate institutions, governments, aid agencies, health care professionals and patients Citizenship Award for Best International where we can bring special resources and expertise. Ambassador—from the Business Civic Leadership Center. We believe that these investments build Pfizer’s long-term value to our investors by strengthening our reputation, opening new opportunities and giving us Received an award from China’s Ministry of a foundation for expanding our operations in emerging markets. Pfizer has Commerce Executive Committee of Foreign decades of experience and, now, growing businesses in these countries. Our Investment Companies, for Pfizer’s support success is rooted, in some part, in our willingness to invest not only in product and of the Chinese Foundation for Lifeline commercial development, but also in our strategic use of social investments to Express, a foundation that provides free improve living standards and health care systems. cataract operations. We continue to forge partnerships with stakeholders and peers, so that we Received the National Outstanding are better able to serve the needs of people everywhere with life-enhancing, Volunteer Award from the Philippine National Volunteer Service Coordinating commercially viable health care solutions. Agency of the National Economic and Development Authority. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Expanding Access to Health 1 Annual Review 2011 Humanity. > Expanding Access to Health Efforts to Increase Access We have implemented a portfolio of different partnerships and programs as part of our strategy to increase access to our medicines and improve health care for underserved populations in both developed and developing countries. Providing Important Medicines Through Institutional Buyers One of our approaches is to work closely with global institutional buyers who purchase medicines for the neediest of patients. For example, Pfizer has longstanding business partnerships with both the U.S. Agency for International Development and the United Nations Population Fund to make our injectable contraceptive, Depo-Provera, available to women all across the globe, from subSaharan Africa to Southeast Asia to Latin America. We are working to expand our relationship with such institutional buyers to make a broad portfolio of our medicines accessible to as many low-income patients as possible. Bringing Prevenar 13 to Children in Need Worldwide We have broadened and extended our commitment to help protect millions of infants and young children in the developing world from pneumococcal disease, the leading cause of vaccine-preventable death in young children. Pfizer will now supply up to 480 million doses of Prevenar 13 through 2023, under the auspices of the GAVI Alliance’s Advance Market Commitment (AMC) for pneumococcal vaccines. Our initial agreement with the AMC, for 300 million doses over a 10-year period, was made in 2010, less than a year after the commercial introduction of Prevenar 13 in the U.S. and Europe, a historic precedent given the average 10–15-year lag between the introduction of newer vaccines in developed versus developing countries. To date, under the AMC, Prevenar 13 has been introduced into the national childhood immunization programs of Benin, Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Expanding Access to Health 2 Annual Review 2011 Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of Congo, the Gambia, Guyana, Honduras, Malawi, Mali, Nicaragua, Rwanda, Sierra Leone and Yemen. To meet the growing global demand for Prevenar 13, we are increasing our manufacturing capabilities through a combination of capital investment, process improvements and efficiency measures throughout our supply network. Additionally, we are developing a preserved, multidose vial which, subject to the required regulatory approval, World Health Organization prequalification and AMC eligibility requirements, is expected to offer an additional option for health authorities in developing nations. Pfizer Helpful Answers At Pfizer, we believe that all patients should have access to our medicines. That’s why the Pfizer Helpful Answers family of patient assistance programs was created. For over 20 years, we’ve been committed to helping uninsured and underinsured Americans get the medicines they need. With just one call to our toll-free number, or a visit to our website (www.PfizerHelpfulAnswers.com), patients or their advocates will be directed to the Pfizer Helpful Answers program that might best meet their needs. Also, if we learn that patients are taking a medicine not made by Pfizer, we will refer them to other industry resources that might be able to help. In the last five years alone (2007–2011), Pfizer has helped 3.8 million uninsured and underinsured patients get access to more than 40 million Pfizer prescriptions for free or at a savings.* To help raise awareness of these programs, Pfizer Helpful Answers has been partnering with leading national, regional, and local community-based and patient-focused organizations to ensure patients know that help is available. Learn more about Pfizer’s efforts in the community at www.AdvocateCornerPHA.com. * Pfizer Helpful Answers is a joint program of Pfizer Inc and the Pfizer Patient Assistance Foundation.™ Global Health Fellows The Global Health Fellows Program is an international corporate volunteer program that places our colleagues with international development organizations designed to address global health issues and improve access, quality and efficiency of health care for underserved patients. Since 2003, over 300 Global Health Fellows have devoted more than 250,000 hours of volunteer service in 45 countries. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Expanding Access to Health 3 Annual Review 2011 Assignments have included optimizing supply chains and business functions, and Resources scaling up promising health prevention approaches. The program focuses on creating high social impact. Over time it has also yielded demonstrable business For more about Pfizer’s Helpful Answers impact as Fellows return to Pfizer with a broader world vision and renewed focus visit the Pfizer’s Helpful Answers website. on innovative ideas for reaching underserved communities with health solutions. Download Pfizer’s report, Innovative In 2010, Pfizer introduced a team-based volunteer component to the program to Partnerships: Progress Toward Achieving expand opportunities for colleagues to participate. Close to 50 colleagues have the Millennium Development Goals. participated on Global Health teams in Groton, Connecticut, Peru, Mexico and For more about Global Health Fellows Colombia. Teams work on three-week projects with community-based nonprofit visit the Global Health Fellows website. partners and government health institutions to strengthen health care delivery. For example, the team in Groton focused on care improvements for Alzheimer’s For more information about the Neglected patients, while a team in Colombia focused on helping the country’s National Tropical Diseases partnership, see www.UnitingToCombatNTDs.org. Cancer Institute to design a targeted cancer curriculum for health care providers. Millennium Development Goals Pfizer strongly supports the Millennium Development Goals established by global leaders in 2000. Focused on alleviating the suffering of the world’s poorest people, the goals address poverty and hunger, disease, maternal health, child mortality, gender equality, education, environmental sustainability and the need for a partnership to advance global development. While we can contribute to all of the Millennium Development Goals, we are most keenly focused on those that are health-related, improving access to essential medicines in developing countries and underserved areas, and strengthening the capacity of health partners and systems to help prevent disease and to diagnose serious diseases early, when treatments are generally less expensive and more effective. Pfizer has joined an innovative public-private partnership to eliminate or control 10 neglected tropical diseases by 2020. Partners include the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the governments of the U.S., U.K. and U.A.E., the World Bank, the WHO and other leading global health organizations, and more than a dozen leading pharmaceutical companies. As part of our contribution, we have committed to continue donating azithromycin until at least 2020, in the fight to combat trachoma, the leading cause of blindness in the developing world. We are also donating the drug and placebo to a study on the reduction in mortality of children treated with azithromycin. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Expanding Access to Health 4 Annual Review 2011 Humanity. > Expanding Access to Health Investments in Health We offer a strategic, coordinated approach to improve access to medicines and health care for underserved patients around the world. Our social investments focus on effective and sustainable health care delivery while empowering our colleagues, strengthening our stakeholder relationships, and ultimately having a positive impact on society and our business. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Expanding Access to Health 5 Annual Review 2011 PROGRAMS DESCRIPTION TARGET REGION IMPACT Pfizer Helpful Answers Provide Pfizer medicines for free U.S. Enabled 3.8 million uninsured or or at a savings to patients underinsured patients to get access to who qualify more than 40 million Pfizer prescriptions from 2007–2011 (Pfizer Helpful Answers) Infectious Disease Institute Build capacity for prevention, Africa Provide ongoing care and treatment to treatment, training, research more than 37,000 patients, with outreach and clinical services in Uganda to 376,000 individuals; ~6,800 health care workers from 27 countries received training in HIV/AIDS since program inception Global Health Fellows Improve access, quality and Global—Africa, Asia, Develop innovative public health models efficiency of health care for Latin America, that address challenges in cancer and underserved populations Europe, U.S. tobacco control, in an effort to combat through individual and team noncommunicable diseases globally volunteer assignments International Trachoma Eliminate trachoma by 2020 Africa, Asia, More than 285,000,000 patients treated Initiative through the donation of Latin America with Zithromax to date Zithromax and an integrated public health strategy Mobilize Against Malaria Educate treatment providers Ghana, Kenya, Enabled more than 1,000 licensed and patients to improve Senegal chemical sellers to provide better malaria malaria treatment education to over 20,000 people in Ghana Global Health Partnership Strengthen innovative public Global—47 countries More than 97,000 patients served and health partnerships that address in Asia, Latin 266,000 health care workers trained from challenges in cancer and America, Europe, 2008–2011 tobacco control, in support of Africa and U.S. the noncommunicable diseases movement Diflucan Partnership Program Donate Diflucan for treatment 63 countries in Africa, Provided over $1.2 billion in medicine to of two fungal opportunistic Asia, Latin America sites in 63 countries to date infections associated with HIV/AIDS * Data on file Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Expanding Access to Health 6 Annual Review 2011 Humanity Patient Safety Patient safety is a core value and our absolute first priority—from the moment a compound is cleared for clinical trials, to its approval by regulators for use by patients, through its manufacture and distribution, and for as long as it is for sale and in use anywhere in the world. We begin with the understanding that every medication, from aspirin to the most complex cancer therapy, carries both risks and benefits. We use our science to quantify those risks and benefits, and our medical knowledge to communicate with doctors and patients, so that the best treatment decisions can be made. Thousands of Pfizer colleagues in specialized groups are devoted to drug safety, risk management, quality assurance, data collection and analysis, global security, medical communication and regulatory compliance. These professionals focus intently on the safe, effective and appropriate use of our medicines, vaccines and other products, and have the authority and resources to make sure that patient interests trump all others. Pfizer invests heavily in highly sophisticated technologies and processes to provide possible signals of any change in the benefit/risk profile of a medicine, including new approaches centered on “real world” experience outside clinical development. Part of patient safety is ensuring consistent supply of needed medicines. In 2011, Pfizer stepped in to cover drug shortages caused by others in the industry. Read more. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Patient Safety 1 Annual Review 2011 Protecting Patients From Counterfeit and Substandard Medicines Medicines are reasonably easy to counterfeit. Pfizer has taken a leadership position among pharmaceutical companies to protect patients, working in close coordination with many national authorities and multinational coalitions to fight the counterfeiting of medicines. Since 2004, these efforts have prevented more than 65 million counterfeit dosages of Pfizer medicines from being dispensed to patients around the world, and led to the confiscation of enough active pharmaceutical ingredients to manufacture 68 million more. Our partnerships with enforcement authorities—which include training authorities from 94 countries and a standing offer to test suspected Pfizer products at no cost—are key to our progress. As of December 31, 2011, we had confirmed the presence of Pfizer drug counterfeits in 93 countries, including breaches of the legitimate supply chain in 47 of them. We are also experimenting with direct-to-consumer models that greatly reduce even the possibility of counterfeiting. Pfizer Israel has piloted a virtual clinic and Internet pharmacy for Viagra, the world’s most counterfeited drug. In addition to removing barriers to treatment, the virtual clinic is designed to thwart counterfeiting by giving patients a trusted online alternative source for the medicine. As a result of the pilot program’s success, there are now plans to launch the Viagra virtual clinic in Europe and adapt the model to other Pfizer brands. Innovations in Patient Care and Safety As a leader in biopharmaceutical research, we have great interest in new tools that help physicians and other health care professionals improve patient care and ensure patient safety, including mobile health platforms. For example, our collaboration with Epocrates—the leading mHealth software provider, used by 1 million physicians in the U.S.—improves real-time decision-making by providing health care professionals with detailed, up-to-date clinical information on Pfizer products, as well as one-click access to doctors working for Pfizer. Another leadership area for Pfizer is adverse event reporting. These systems, commonly used by governments around the world, are integral to the early warning system on unexpected drug safety issues, by allowing doctors and patients to report their experiences with a medicine directly to regulators. These experiences are then recorded by the regulating agency and forwarded to the manufacturer for mandated investigation and closure. We have sought to improve the quality of adverse event reporting to make it easier for doctors and patients to report adverse events and to get a bigger picture from each report. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Patient Safety 2 Annual Review 2011 Re-engineering of the adverse event management system inside the company, in 2011, led to better, faster, adverse event reports, at rates consistently above the already-high industry standards. In addition, our public U.S. website remains the only major biopharmaceutical company website that allows a direct link for patients to file adverse event reports with the FDA. Communicating Safety Information We empower patients, their caregivers and the public with up-to-date, meaningful information—trying to make certain that people can understand clearly the benefits, risks and proper use of our medicines. Pfizer’s External Medical Communications team has hundreds of medical professionals literally at the beck and call of doctors around the world to discuss how our medicines are properly prescribed, and to answer questions about the risk and benefit profile. In 2011, this team answered more than 800,000 inquiries from prescribers, and that number is expected to jump to more than 1 million inquiries in the year to come. The Pfizer Medicine Safety Education website shows how a medicine’s safety profile is determined, monitored and communicated. This highly interactive site has had more than 100,000 unique visitors since its launch in late 2008. It includes a direct link to MedWatch, the FDA’s Safety Information and Adverse Event reporting program. Our research and development of a medicine does not end with its launch. Additional benefits and, sometimes, new risks can become apparent after an approved medicine is used by large numbers of patients. In many cases we conduct post-marketing clinical trials or take other approaches to analyze the real-world use of our medicines while protecting the privacy of patients. Through our website, we provide information about our post-marketing study commitments and the results of the studies we implement. Overall, Pfizer is building on a heritage of patient safety to help make certain that doctors and patients have the information needed to drive the best possible patient outcomes. We know the risks of medicines are very real and must be respected, and we are committed to being best in class when it comes to using the newest technologies to discover and evaluate safety signals. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Patient Safety 3 Annual Review 2011 Humanity Environment – Pfizer’s Green Journey We are committed to a more sustainable future. To us, advancing health includes being good stewards of the environment. We take a strategic, integrated approach to our environmental initiatives with the 2011 Highlights goals of moderating our consumption of resources, reducing our effects on the environment and increasing our energy efficiency. Pfizer has harnessed the power of the wind at its global supply facility in Puurs, Pfizer’s baseline commitment is to comply with all applicable environmental, Belgium. A 45-story wind turbine will supply health and safety (EHS) laws and our own internal standards. We have 5,100 megawatts per year, or 12 percent sophisticated approaches to assessing and managing risks designed to make of the electricity consumed by the Puurs certain that we have the most rigorous controls in place where they are most site, reducing the production unit’s annual needed. Our approach to EHS includes extensive audits and reviews. People at all carbon footprint by 2,040 tons. The wind levels of the company are involved with managing environmental risk, beginning turbine’s life cycle is about 20 years, and with oversight by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and extending will pay for itself in less than four years. through teams at each of our major sites. For more information on our EHS program including compliance and environmental remediation, please see Through the efforts of Pfizer’s Green www.pfizer.com/ehs. Chemistry teams across the globe, Lyrica is now greener with less energy used An Environmental Sustainability Council governs our “green journey” program and resulting in an 80 percent reduction in focuses on three areas key to our business: helping to mitigate climate change carbon dioxide emissions. Pregabalin, the active ingredient in Lyrica, is made and its impacts; minimizing the environmental impact of our products and using biocatalysis (nature’s enzymes), less processes by advancing stewardship across the supply chain and life cycle of our solvents and fewer raw materials. products; and managing water resources in a sustainable way. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Environment 1 Annual Review 2011 Mitigating Climate Change and Its Effects 2011 Highlights Pfizer has long recognized the risks posed by global climate change, such as more severe weather events and potential adverse impacts on human health, and We are committed to significantly reducing has, as a precautionary step, taken significant voluntary action to reduce its own our product packing while protecting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We have reduced our GHG emissions by 40 the quality of our products. We have percent since 2000. In 2011, we published our Climate Change position to ensure recently debuted a folding carton using that stakeholders could easily see our perspective on this important global issue. recycled cardboard, one of the eco-friendly packaging initiatives at Pfizer that help Pfizer has made significant progress in assessing the extent of our GHG emissions, reduce the company’s environmental footprint. The new packaging will gradually setting reduction targets and goals, measuring changes in our year-to-year become standard for all Norvasc packs performance, and transparently reporting our results. We have been consistently produced by our Illertissen, Germany, recognized by the Carbon Disclosure Project for our commitment to reducing our site with the intent to have all products carbon footprint. packaged at the site (Celebrex, Cardura, Relpax, Toviaz, Mono Mack, Champix, Our GHG reduction program includes our voluntary and public commitment to Zeldox and Vfend) use similar packing in reduce GHG emissions and to use cleaner energy. We have reduced our GHG the future. emissions every year since 2000. Our current goal is to reduce CO2 emissions by 20 percent on an absolute basis from 2008 through 2012 and we are on target A new company initiative is helping U.S. to achieve this. We are using cleaner energy technologies and estimate that 25 health care professionals return empty percent of our electricity comes from sources that include solar, wind, hydro and styrofoam shipping containers for cogeneration. We work with key chemical suppliers to identify opportunities to Prevnar 13. The containers maintain the save energy and reduce their carbon footprint. product at specific temperatures, necessary to ensure product quality during shipping. Through the Pfizer ProPak Initiative, we We are proud of these accomplishments, which are the result of implementing are providing customers with directions hundreds of energy conservation and efficiency projects at our sites worldwide, for prepaid shipping and receiving building “greener” facilities, optimizing our sales vehicle fleet, and increasing use of approximately 60 percent of our outbound renewable energy sources. shipments back for recycling. Pfizer Newbridge won the Irish National Product Stewardship Achievements Sustainable Energy Award for its environmental awareness program, Pfizer’s Product Stewardship achievements include the development of greener “You Have the Power.” Since its launch in processes, packaging improvements and reductions and waste minimization January 2011, “You Have the Power” has through measures such as solvent recovery. set the direction and goals for the site’s environmental sustainability program, Our industry-leading Green Chemistry Program seeks to integrate environment, and has been a great source of colleague health and safety considerations throughout the life cycle of our products, from engagement through building awareness, discovery to commercial manufacture and eventual disposal. knowledge sharing, active project participation and recognition for energy We have adapted our product stewardship program with our changing footprint to results achieved. ensure we understand, appropriately communicate and adequately manage risk. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Environment 2 Annual Review 2011 Pharmaceuticals in the Environment 2011 Highlights Pharmaceuticals have become chemicals of emerging concern to the public because of their potential to reach drinking water. Patient use of medicines The International Society for is the principal pathway by which pharmaceuticals (prescription and over the Pharmaceutical Engineering recently counter) find their way into the aquatic environment. Typically, a fraction of recognized Pfizer as its 2011 Company of the medicines taken by patients is excreted and enters waterways. To a lesser the Year for Pfizer’s work in providing extent, pharmaceuticals can enter the environment through improper disposal of a consistent level of leadership and support medicines and from manufacturing discharges. for the global pharmaceutical industry. In addition, eight Pfizer facilities were candidates for the 2011 Facility of the Pfizer has an active program to assess and address the issues associated with Year Award and two were category winners pharmaceuticals in the environment (PIE) which includes detailed wastewater — Strängnäs, Sweden, and Freiburg, assessments to ensure good environmental management of our internal Germany. Strängnäs was recognized for operations. Operational Excellence for its Pegasus Bio 7 Manufacturing Facility, while Freiburg We have also teamed with a number of our manufacturing suppliers to evaluate was acknowledged for Environmental their materials handling and production cleaning processes. We continue to Sustainability based on its Strategic engage our stakeholders including industry groups, the scientific community, Plant Restructuring and Energy Master regulatory agencies, patient groups and nongovernmental organizations to Plan project. advance the knowledge of PIE. Pfizer also participates in product take-back programs in countries that operate them. Resources Sustainable Water Management For more about Pfizer’s Green Journey, visit the Protecting the Environment website. In many areas of the world, the scarcity of clean water presents significant challenges to public health and the environment. An important part of our Global Sustainability TV features Pfizer’s responsibility as a global health care company is to seek to ensure that our Green Journey—see Episode 4. water usage does not negatively affect the communities where we operate by diminishing the supplies of clean water or degrading the quality of that water. See Pfizer’s Climate Change Position Statement. We require our facilities worldwide to quantify water use, report performance Pfizer’s Green Journey: Integrating against reduction targets, and support community efforts during drought Environmental Sustainability Into Business conditions. Through our global Water Sustainability Program and following the Operations. Watch the full video on Pfizer’s framework under the UN Global Compact Water Mandate, Pfizer has broadened YouTube Channel. its data collection for water metrics (following GRI), set a 10 percent reduction World Pharmaceutical Frontiers goal from 2012 through 2016, and increased focus on water preservation Magazine features Pfizer’s energy and projects at those sites located in water challenged areas. green chemistry successes in its September 2011 issue. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual Environment 3 Annual Review 2011 GRI Index 1. Strategy and Analysis GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization From Our CEO (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. From Our CEO 8 Ethics Research and Development Environment Health and Safety Covered Partially Covered Not Covered 2. Organizational Profile GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle 2.1 Name of the organization. Corporate Overview 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Pfizer Products 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, How We Are Organized operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Contact 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, Global Opportunities and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization About This Review 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Accolades Covered Partially Covered Not Covered Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 1 Annual Review 2011 3. Report Parameters report profile GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. About This Review 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) About This Review 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. report scope and boundary GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle 3.5 Process for defining report content. About This Review 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, About This Review leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. N/A 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information N/A provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, N/A boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI Content Index GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. GRI Index Assurance GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). Covered Partially Covered Not Covered Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 2 Annual Review 2011 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement GOVERNANCE GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees Governance under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, Corporate Governance such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is Governance also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the Corporate Governance organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the Fact Sheet number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest Governance governance body, senior managers, and executives (including Charter Compensation departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance Committee (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure Corporate Governance conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the Governance members of the highest governance body for guiding the Corporate Governance organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of Governance conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and Ethics social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 3 Annual Review 2011 COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach Ethics 7 or principle is addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, Clinical Trials principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes Sales and Marketing or endorses. Access Manufacturing and Supply Chain 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: has positions in governance bodies; participates in projects or committees; provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; views membership as strategic. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Stakeholder Engagement whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Stakeholder Engagement engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Covered Partially Covered Not Covered Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 4 Annual Review 2011 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic Disclosures The economic dimension of sustainability concerns the organization’s impacts on the economic conditions of its stakeholders and on economic systems at local, national, and global levels. The Economic Indicators illustrate: • Flow of capital among different stakeholders; and • Main economic impacts of the organization throughout society. Financial performance is fundamental to understanding an organization and its own sustainability. However, this information is normally already reported in financial accounts. What is often reported less, and is frequently desired by users of sustainability reports, is the organization’s contribution to the sustainability of a larger economic system. disclosure on management approach (economY) Provide a concise disclosure on the Management Approach items outlined below with reference to the following Economic Aspects: • Economic Performance; • Market Presence; and • Indirect Economic Impacts. GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle GOALS AND PERFORMANCE From Our CEO Organization-wide goals regarding performance relevant to the Humanity Economic Aspects. Innovation Use organization-specific Indicators (as needed) in addition to the GRI Performance Indicators to demonstrate the results of performance against goals. POLICY From Our CEO Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that defines the organization’s Global Opportunities overall commitment relating to the Economic Aspects listed above, or Expanding Access to Health state where this can be found in the public domain (e.g., web link). ADDITIONAL CONTEXTUAL INFORMATION From Our CEO Additional relevant information required to understand organizational Global Opportunities performance, such as: Expanding Access to Health • Key successes and shortcomings; • Major organizational risks and opportunities; • Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and • Key strategies for implementing policies or achieving performance. Covered Partially Covered Not Covered Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 5 Annual Review 2011 economic performance indicators ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including Financial Performance revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Humanity 7, 8 organization’s activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local 6 minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior 6 management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and Investments in Health services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic Investments in Health impacts, including the extent of impacts. Covered Partially Covered Not Covered Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 6 Annual Review 2011 Environmental Disclosures The environmental dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s impacts on living and non-living natural systems, including ecosystems, land, air, and water. Environmental Indicators cover performance related to inputs (e.g., material, energy, water) and outputs (e.g., emissions, effluents, waste). In addition, they cover performance related to biodiversity, environmental compliance, and other relevant information such as environmental expenditure and the impacts of products and services. disclosure on management approach (environment) Provide a concise disclosure on the Management Approach items outlined below with reference to the following Environmental Aspects: • Materials; • Energy; • Water; • Biodiversity; • Emissions, Effluents, and Waste; • Products and Services; • Compliance; • Transport; and • Overall GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle GOALS AND PERFORMANCE Environment—Priorities and Organization-wide goals regarding performance relevant to the Strategies Environmental Aspects. Use organization-specific Indicators (as needed) in addition to the GRI Performance Indicators to demonstrate the results of performance against goals. POLICY Environment—Climate Change Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that defines the organization’s overall commitment related to the Environmental Aspects listed above or state where this can be found in the public domain (e.g., web link). ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY Environment—EHS Governance The most senior position with operational responsibility for Environmental Aspects or explain how operational responsibility is divided at the senior level for these Aspects. This differs from Disclosure 4.1, which focuses on structures at the governance level. TRAINING AND AWARENESS Coaching and Training Procedures related to training and raising awareness in relation to the Environmental Aspects. MONITORING AND FOLLOW-UP Assessment and Improvement Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and preventive actions, including those related to the supply chain. List of certifications for environment-related performance or certification systems, or other approaches to auditing/verification for the reporting organization or its supply chain. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 7 Annual Review 2011 ADDITIONAL CONTEXTUAL INFORMATION Protecting the Environment Additional relevant information required to understand organizational performance, such as: • Key successes and shortcomings; • Major organizational risks and opportunities; • Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and • Key strategies and procedures for implementing policies or achieving goals. Covered Partially Covered Not Covered environmental performance indicators ASPECT: materials GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 8 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 8, 9 ASPECT: energy GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 8 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 8, 9 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy Environment—KPI Dashboard 8, 9 based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Environment—KPI Dashboard 8, 9 reductions achieved. ASPECT: WATER GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Environment—KPI Dashboard 8 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 8 Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 8 Annual Review 2011 ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or 8 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and 8 services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 8 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing 8 impacts on biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list 8 species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. ASPECT: EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS, AND WASTE GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Performance Highlights 8 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Environment—KPI Dashboard 8 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions Environment—KPI Dashboard 8, 9 achieved. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 8 EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 8 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 8 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 8 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste 8 deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water 8 bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and Environment—Pfizer’s Green 8, 9 services, and extent of impact mitigation. Journey EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are 8, 9 reclaimed by category. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 9 Annual Review 2011 ASPECT: COMPLIANCE GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Environment—KPI Dashboard 8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. ASPECT: TRANSPORT GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and 8 other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. ASPECT: OVERALL GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments 8 by type. Covered Partially Covered Not Covered social Disclosures The social dimension of sustainability concerns the impacts an organization has on the social systems within which it operates. The GRI Social Performance Indicators identify key Performance Aspects surrounding labor practices, human rights, society, and product responsibility. labor practices and decent work The specific Aspects under the category of Labor Practices are based on internationally recognized universal standards, including: • United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and its Protocols; • United Nations Convention: International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; • United Nations Convention: International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights; • ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of 1998 (in particular the eight core conventions of the ILO); and • The Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 10 Annual Review 2011 disclosure on management approach (labor practices and decent work) Provide a concise disclosure on the following Management Approach items with reference to the Labor Aspects listed below. The ILO Tripartite Declaration Concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy (in particular the eight core conventions of the ILO) and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, should be the primary reference points. • Employment; • Labor/Management Relations; • Occupational Health and Safety; • Training and Education; and • Diversity and Equal Opportunity. GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle GOALS AND PERFORMANCE Colleagues Organization-wide goals regarding performance relevant to the Labor Aspects, indicating their linkage to the internationally recognized universal standards. Use organization-specific Indicators (as needed) in addition to the GRI Performance Indicators to demonstrate the results of performance against goals. POLICY Human Rights Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that defines the organization’s Colleagues overall commitment related to the Labor Aspects, or state where this can be found in the public domain (e.g., web link). Also reference their linkage to the international standards indicated above. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY The most senior position with operational responsibility for Labor Aspects or explain how operational responsibility is divided at the senior level for these Aspects. This differs from Disclosure 4.1, which focuses on structures at the governance level. TRAINING AND AWARENESS Procedures related to training and raising awareness in relation to the Labor Aspects. MONITORING AND FOLLOW-UP Colleagues Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and preventive actions, PSCI and External Certifications including those related to the supply chain. EHS External Supply: List of certifications for labor-related performance or certification systems, Commitments and Actions or other approaches to auditing/verifying the reporting organization or Compliance its supply chain. ADDITIONAL CONTEXTUAL INFORMATION Human Rights Additional relevant information required to understand organizational Colleagues performance, such as: • Key successes and shortcomings; • Major organizational environmental risks and opportunities related to issues; • Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and • Key strategies and procedures for implementing policies or achieving goals Covered Partially Covered Not Covered Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 11 Annual Review 2011 labor practices and decent work performance indicators ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, 6 gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided 6 to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 1, 3 agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including 3 whether it is specified in collective agreements. ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 12 Annual Review 2011 ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 1, 6 per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. 1, 6 Covered Partially Covered Not Covered human rights Human Rights Performance Indicators require organizations to report on the extent to which human rights are considered in investment and supplier/contractor selection practices. Additionally, the Indicators cover employee and security forces training on human rights as well as non-discrimination, freedom of association, child labor, indigenous rights, and forced and compulsory labor. Generally recognized human rights are defined by the following Conventions and Declarations: • United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and its Protocols; • United Nations Convention: International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; • United Nations Convention: International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights; • ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of 1998 (in particular the eight core conventions of the ILO); and • The Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action. disclosure on management approach (human rights) Provide a concise disclosure on the following Management Approach items with reference to the Human Rights Aspects listed below. The ILO Tripartite Declaration Concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy (in particular the eight core conventions of the ILO which consist of Conventions 100, 111, 87, 98, 138, 182, 20 and 1059), and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises should be the primary reference points. • Investment and Procurement Practices; • Non-discrimination; • Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining; • Abolition of Child Labor; • Prevention of Forced and Compulsory Labor; • Complaints and Grievance Practices; • Security Practices; and • Indigenous Rights. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 13 Annual Review 2011 GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle GOALS AND PERFORMANCE Human Rights Organization-wide goals regarding performance relevant to the Human Rights Aspects, indicating their linkage to the international declarations and standards listed above. Use organization-specific Indicators (as needed) in addition to the GRI Performance Indicators to demonstrate the results of performance against goals. POLICY Human Rights Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that defines the organization’s overall commitment to the Human Rights Aspects (including policies which may be reasonably considered likely to affect the decision of employees to join a trade union or bargain collectively), or state where this can be found in the public domain (e.g., web link). Also reference their linkage to the international declarations and standards indicated above. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY The most senior position with operational responsibility for Human Rights Aspects or explain how operational responsibility is divided at the senior level for these Aspects. This differs from Disclosure 4.1, which focuses on structures at the governance level. TRAINING AND AWARENESS Procedures related to training and raising awareness in relation to the Human Rights Aspects. MONITORING AND FOLLOW-UP Colleagues Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and preventive actions, PSCI and External Certifications including those related to the supply chain. EHS External Supply: List of certifications for human rights-related performance, or certification Commitments and Actions systems, or other approaches to auditing/verifying the reporting Compliance organization or its supply chain. ADDITIONAL CONTEXTUAL INFORMATION Human Rights Additional relevant information required to understand organizational performance, such as: • Key successes and shortcomings; • Major organizational risks and opportunities; • Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and • Key strategies and procedures for implementing policies or achieving goals. Covered Partially Covered Not Covered Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 14 Annual Review 2011 human rights performance indicators ASPECT: INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures 1, 4, 5, 6 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. 1, 6 ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of 1, 3 association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 15 Annual Review 2011 ASPECT: CHILD LABOR GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents 1, 5 of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. ASPECT: FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents 1, 4 of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s 1, 2 policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights 1 of indigenous people and actions taken. Covered Partially Covered Not Covered Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 16 Annual Review 2011 society Society Performance Indicators focus attention on the impacts organizations have on the communities in which they operate, and disclosing how the risks that may arise from interactions with other social institutions are managed and mediated. In particular, information is sought on the risks associated with bribery and corruption, undue impudence in public policy-making, and monopoly practices. disclosure on management approach (society) Provide a concise disclosure on the following Management Approach items with reference to the Society Aspects: • Community; • Corruption; • Public Policy; • Anti-Competitive Behavior; and • Compliance. GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle GOALS AND PERFORMANCE Ethics Organization-wide goals regarding performance relevant to the Aspects indicated above. Use organization-specific Indicators as needed in addition to the GRI Performance Indicators to demonstrate the results of performance against goals. POLICY Ethics Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that defines the organization’s overall commitment relating to the Society Aspects or state where this can be found in the public domain (e.g., web link). ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Compliance The most senior position with operational responsibility for Society Aspects or explain how operational responsibility is divided at the senior level for these Aspects. This differs from Disclosure 4.1, which focuses on structures at the governance level. TRAINING AND AWARENESS Procedures related to training and raising awareness in relation to the Society Aspects. MONITORING AND FOLLOW-UP Colleagues Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and preventive actions, PSCI and External Certifications including those related to the supply chain. EHS External Supply: List of certifications for performance or certifications systems, or other Commitments and Actions approaches to auditing/verifying the reporting organization or its supply chain. Compliance ADDITIONAL CONTEXTUAL INFORMATION Ethics Additional relevant information required to understand organizational performance, such as: • Key successes and shortcomings; • Major organizational risks and opportunities; • Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and • Key strategies for implementing policies or achieving performance. Covered Partially Covered Not Covered Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 17 Annual Review 2011 society performance indicators ASPECT: COMMUNITY GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices 1 that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. ASPECT: CORRUPTION GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks 10 related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption 10 policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 10 ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Ethics 10 development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political Ethics 10 parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. ASPECT: compliance GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Covered Partially Covered Not Covered Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 18 Annual Review 2011 product responsibility Product Responsibility Performance Indicators address the aspects of a reporting organization’s products and services that directly abet customers, namely, health and safety, information and labeling, marketing, and privacy. These aspects are chiefly covered through disclosure on internal procedures and the extent to which these procedures are not complied with. disclosure on management approach (product responsibility) Provide a concise disclosure on the following Management Approach items with reference to the Product Responsibility Aspects: • Customer Health and Safety; • Product and Service Labeling; • Marketing Communications; • Customer Privacy; and • Compliance. GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle GOALS AND PERFORMANCE Patient Safety Organization-wide goals regarding performance relevant to the Research & Development Product Responsibility Aspects. Ethics Use organization-specific Indicators (as needed) in addition to the Sales and Marketing GRI Performance Indicators to demonstrate the results of performance Compliance against goals. POLICY Patient Safety Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that defines the organization’s Research & Development overall commitment to the Product Responsibility Aspects, or state where Ethics this can be found in the public domain (e.g., web link). Sales and Marketing Compliance ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY The most senior position with operational responsibility for Product Responsibility Aspects, or explain how operational responsibility is divided at the senior level for Product Responsibility Aspects. This differs from Disclosure 4.1, which focuses on structures at the governance level. TRAINING AND AWARENESS Procedures related to training and raising awareness in relation to the Product Responsibility Aspects. MONITORING AND FOLLOW-UP Colleagues Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and preventive actions, Compliance including those related to the supply chain. List of certifications for product responsibility-related performance or certification systems, or other approaches to auditing/verifying the reporting organization or its supply chain. ADDITIONAL CONTEXTUAL INFORMATION Patient Safety Additional relevant information required to understand organizational Research & Development performance, such as: Ethics Sales and Marketing • Key successes and shortcomings; Compliance • Major organizational risks and opportunities; • Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and • Key strategies for implementing policies or achieving performance. Covered Partially Covered Not Covered Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 19 Annual Review 2011 product responsibility performance indicators ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products Environment and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage Research & Development of significant products and services categories subject to such Patient Safety procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, Product Labeling and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes Ethics 10 related to marketing communications, including advertising, Compliance promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Covered Partially Covered Not Covered Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 20 Annual Review 2011 From Our CEO Corporate and Shareholder Information Stock Listings Our Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. It is also listed on the London and Swiss stock exchanges, and traded on various United States regional stock exchanges. Stock Transfer Agent and Registrar Computershare Trust Company, N.A. 250 Royall Street Canton, MA 02021 Telephone: 1-800-PFE-9393 Outside the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico: 1-781-575-4591 Internet: www.computershare.com Shareholder Services and Programs Please contact our Stock Transfer Agent and Registrar with inquiries concerning shareholder accounts of record and stock transfer matters, and also for information on the following services and programs: Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual About This Review 1 Annual Review 2011 Shareholder Investment Program direct purchase of Pfizer stock dividend reinvestment automatic monthly investments Book-entry share ownership Direct deposit of dividends Forward-looking Information Please refer to Pfizer’s 2011 Form 10-K for a description of the substantial risks and uncertainties related to the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Review. Our Form 10-K is available on our website at www.pfizer.com/sec and on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website at www.sec.gov. Political Action Committee (PAC) To review our most recent PAC and corporate political contributions report, go online at www.pfizer.com/pac. Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Our global EHS initiatives, Environmental Sustainability Program and performance metrics may be found online at www.pfizer.com/ehs. Helplines Patients, customers and health care professionals who have questions about any of our products should call 1-800-438-1985. Uninsured or underinsured patients who need help getting their Pfizer medicines should call Pfizer Helpful Answers, our family of patient assistance programs that provide Pfizer medicines for free or at a savings to patients who qualify. To learn more, visit www.PfizerHelpfulAnswers.com or call 1-866-706-2400. Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual About This Review 2 Annual Review 2011 Additional Information You can find more information about Pfizer online at www.pfizer.com. Real-time news about Pfizer can be found on our Facebook page (www.facebook.com/ Pfizer) and through Twitter (www.Twitter.com/Pfizer_news). This Annual Review is produced by Pfizer’s Policy, External Affairs and Communications group. ©2012 Pfizer Inc. All rights reserved. All trademarks appearing in this Annual Review are owned by or licensed to Pfizer Inc or its affiliates. Design: Ideas On Purpose, New York Pfizer Annual Review 2011 www.pfizer.com/annual About This Review 3
