Sustainability Report 2011 The Principle of Responsibility EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG Top themes in 2011 1st quarter 2nd quarter 3rd quarter 4th quarter Top employer E-mobility Official start-up of the RheinInvolvement of local people The internationally active research in the model energy state felden hydroelectric power plant in Forbach and Leutkirch company CRF once again confers the EnBW's e-bike is a further contribuAfter a construction period of around In Forbach, EnBW informs the poputitle of Top German Employer on tion to Baden-Württemberg's endeaeight years and investment of 380 lation about the current status of its EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg vour to become a model energy state million €, the newly built run-of-theexpansion concept for the planned new AG in 2011 in recognition of its good and is showcased at the Automobile river power plant in Rheinfelden now pumped-storage power plant. The and modern personnel management Summer 2011 in Stutt­gart. EnBW generates eco-electricity for a kick-off event for the participation of practices. The following year, EnBW is provides visitors with all the facts and computed 170,000 households. The local people takes place for the Leutawarded this title for the eighth time figures of the environment-friendly new plant has an installed capacity of kirch – sustainable town project. in succession. bike as well as details of the charging 100 MW, four times the volume of the Together with partners and the town infrastructure and the functioning of old power plant. council, EnBW develops a concept for GKN I and KKP 1 the charging station. the energy-efficient, emission-reduced nuclear power plants go offline Environmental management and decentral supply of electricity to After the events in Fukushima, EnBW EnBW Baltic 1 in line with ISO 14001 the municipality. also shuts down two of its nuclear goes into operation The process of ISO 14001 certication power units, Neckarwestheim I and EnBW Baltic 1, the first commercial that begun in 2006 is continued. It Working together Philippsburg 1. In July, the governoffshore wind farm in German waters, con­firms that an environmental to combat leukaemia ment decides to withdraw from goes into operation and feeds the first management system has been The cross-location typing programme nuclear energy generation by the year kilowatt-hour of electricity into the grid. introduced and is being applied organised by the occupational medi2022. Meanwhile, the expansion of The wind farm has a total capacity of effectively. A further company is cine department of EnBW lasts four renewables continues to gather pace. around 50 MW and can generate awarded certification in the year weeks. Around 1,000 employees agree 185,000,000 kWh of electricity a year under review, which means that a to be entered in the German Bone for some 50,000 households. total of 22 EnBW companies are now Marrow Donor Database. The motto of ISO 14001 certified. the programme is Working together to Increased onshore activities combat leukaemia . EnBW acquires an onshore wind farm with a capacity of 6 MW in Friedberg EnBW amphibian protection proin the state of Hessen and signs gramme – Stimuli for Diversity“ agreements with a partner on the The state-wide support programme for development of two wind farms. amphibian protection has been sucEnBW is responsible for project cessfully launched. It makes a key management, financing, construction contribution toward improving the and operation. In years to come, the habitats of local amphibian species company also intends to become throughout the state and promoting the increasingly active in the field of positive development of the amphibian project development. population. EnBW is funding the programme in addition to its existing environmental protection measures. Key figures 2011 2010 Change in % Economic indicators External revenue. total million € 18,789.7 17,509.0 7.3 Adjusted EBITDA1 million € 2,453.0 2,858.7 -14.2 EBITDA1 million € 1,808.7 3,315.0 -45.4 Adjusted EBIT1 million € 1,598.1 1,926.1 -17.0 EBIT1 million € 670.9 2,124.8 -68.4 Adjusted group net profit1. 2 million € 647.7 964.3 -32.8 Group net loss/profit1. 2 million € -867.3 1,157.2 -174.9 Earnings per share from group net loss/profit1. 2 -3.6 4.7 -174.9 Cash flow from operating activities million € 1,740.1 2,560.9 -32.1 Free cash flow3 million € 690.8 1,060.1 -34.8 Capital expenditure million € 1,319.0 2,327.9 -43.3 Return on capital employed (ROCE)1 % 11.7 14.2 -17.6 Ecological indicators4 Total water extraction – surface/river water5 million m3 2,762 3,027 -8.8 Use of fossil primary sources of energy (coal/natural gas) GJ 227,272,589 215,572,150 5.4 Use of biogenic energy sources (biomass) GJ 8,855,220 9,297,054 -4.8 Use of nuclear fuel6 t uranium 38 84 -54.8 Total weight of conventional waste t 558,470 776,929 -28.1 Total weight of radioactive waste g/kWh 0.0013 0.0014 -7.1 Waste/Recycling rate7 % 80.0 96.3 -16.9 Specific CO2 emissions from electricity generation8 g/kWh 346 299 15.7 Direct CO2 emissions million t CO2eq 21.9 21.0 4.3 Indirect CO2 emissions million CO2eq 1.1 1.1 0.0 Other indirect CO2 emissions million t CO2eq 17.3 Investment in environmental protection million € 253 184 37.5 Social indicators Employees overall9 20,296 20,952 -3.1 Share of women overall % 25.6 25.5 0.4 Share of women in management positions % 10.2 9.9 3.0 Fluctuation rate % 4.6 4.2 9.5 Health rate10 % 95.7 95.8 -0.1 Social commitment Donations of EnBW AG incl. membership fees million € 1.13 1.15 -1.4 1 Prior-year figures adjusted 2 Based on the income accruing to the shareholders of EnBW AG 3 Free cash flow before financing 4 Absolute environmental ratios provide concrete information on material flows 5 Own generation including contracted power plants; not included: long-term procurement agreements and short-term procurement where the primary sources of energy are unknown 6 Uranium from own generating activities: total heavy metal load 7 Own generation including contracted power plants; not included: long-term procurement agreements and short-term procurement where the primary sources of energy are unknown 8 Own generation of electricity comprises own and part-owned plants as well as long-term procurement agreements 9 Number of employees without apprentices/trainees and without inactive employees 10 Regular working days – lost days through inability to work Our business areas Electricity Gas Energy and Generation and trading environmental services Generation/Trading/Optimisation Procurement Thermal waste disposal 13,402 MW 56.7 billion kWh 1.3 million t of generation capacity, including of gas procurement without of thermal waste disposal 2,538 MW of renewables procurement for power plants capacity Storage facilities Contracting 59.5 billion kWh 269.0 million m3 1,290 MW own generation 1 of storage capacity including of installed thermal the gas storage facility in Etzel output Share of adjusted EBIT 2 Transport and distribution Water supply 80 % 15,967 km 89.5 million m3 Publisher gas grid of water sold EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG Durlacher Allee 93 Sales 76131 Karlsruhe Electricity grid and sales 54.9 billion kWh www.enbw.com of gas sold Industry and Politics Transport and distribution Corporate Responsibility, 153,166 km Sustainability and Corporate Positioning electricity grid unit (responsible) Corporate Communications Sales Coordination and editing 64.5 billion kWh EnBW Systeme Infrastruktur of electricity sold und Support GmbH, Marketing and Communication Services Share of adjusted EBIT 2 Share of adjusted EBIT 2 Share of adjusted EBIT 2 ISBA: R.3035.1207 13 % 3% 12 % July 2012 1 Own generation also includes long-term procurement agreements and part-owned power plants. 2 The Holding/Consolidation business area (share -8%) is not listed in the overview. UNGC GRI G3 Report element Scope Page Social performance indicators: human rights SR 2011 p. 49-51, 65 Management approach AR 2011 p. 44, 83-86 1-6 HR1 Principles and policies on monitoring human rights Full reporting SR 2011 p. 50, 56-57 1-6 HR2 Screening of suppliers and contractors Full reporting SR 2011 p. 50, 56-57 1-6 HR3 Employee training in the area of human rights Full reporting SR 2011 p. 50, 56-57 1, 2 , 6 HR4 Incidents of discrimination, actions taken Full reporting SR 2011, p. 62-65, 75 1-3 HR5 Ensuring freedom of association throughout the organisation Full reporting SR 2011 p. 50 1, 2, 5 HR6 Principles/Measures to prevent child labour Full reporting SR 2011 p. 50 1, 2, 4 HR7 Principles/Measures to prevent forced or compulsory labour Full reporting SR 2011 p. 50 1, 2 HR 10 Percentage/Number of organisational units that have performed human rights reviews Partial reporting SR 2011 p. 57 1, 2 HR 11 Grievances related to human rights filed and actions taken Partial reporting SR 2011, p. 57 10 Social performance indicators: society SR 2011 Foreword, p. 14-16, 56-57, 66-70 Management approach S01 Management of the impacts of operations on communities Full reporting SR 2011 p. 46-47 S02 Corruption: investigated organisational units Full reporting SR 2011 p. 57 10 S03 Corruption: trained employees Full reporting AR 2011 p. 210-211 10 S04 Corruption: actions taken Full reporting SR 2011 p. 57 1-10 S05 Participation in public policy development and lobbying Full reporting AR 2011 p. 210-211 S07 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour, anti-trust, Full reporting AR 2011 p. 97 and monopoly practices and their outcomes S08 Sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations Full reporting AR 2011 p. 97 1, 8 Social performance indicators: responsibility for products and services SR 2011 p. 46-47, 56-57, 65 Management approach 1 PR1 Principles concerning the health and safety of customers Full reporting SR 2011 p. 65 EU25 Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving the company's operations Full reporting SR 2011, p. 76 8 PR3 Principles/Procedures for product labelling Full reporting AR 2011 p. 40 PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws/voluntary codes related to marketing In Progress 1 PR8 Principles/Procedures for customer data protection Full reporting SR 2011 p. 49, 56 PR9 Monetary fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the use of products and services Full reporting AR 2011 p. 97 EU26 Percentage of population unserved in licensed distribution areas Full reporting Link to follow EU28 Frequency of power failures Full reporting www.transnetbw.de/kennzahlen EU29 Average duration of a power failure In Progress EU30 Average availability of power plants In Progress With the publication of the 2011 Sustainability Report, EnBW has also submitted its first declaration of conformity with the German Sustainability Code to the German Council for Sustainable Development. The EnBW declaration of conformity can be viewed in the database at www.deutscher-nachhaltigkeitskodex.de. You can find further information on the Code on the website of the German Council for Sustainable Development at www.nachhaltigkeitsrat.de/projekte/eigene-projekte/deutschernachhaltigkeitskodex. 79 ect ha g C in Contents Connecting The Principle ending of Responsibility eh Chan pr gin Com g 04 Foreword 06 About this report Changing C1 07 Changing 08 Report: onshore wind farm in Schopfloch Co mprehending C2 19 Comprehending 20 Report: Forbach pumped-storage power plant The Principle The Principle of Responsibility ing Compre 10 Panorama view: our big wheel in the northern of Responsibility 22 Panorama view: the visitor centre at the ect he ing Conn ec nn ng Co ing Black Forest ha g t Altbach location nd C in mprehending 13 Renewables – overview of important EnBW projects 25 Stakeholder activities in 2011 Co 14 Strategy: EnBW and the energy transition 26 In dialogue with our stakeholders The Principle of Responsibility 17 Interview: Q&A with Chief Financial Officer ing Conn Connecting ng ec ha t Thomas Kusterer g C in The Principle ending of Responsibility eh Chan pr gin 29 Connecting C3 Com g Connecting 30 Report: direct marketing of renewables The Principle 32 Panorama view: the pioneering municipality in the Allgäu region ending 35 Sustainable town: a solution for many municipalities of Responsibility eh Chan Changing pr gin g Com Innovation and growth Processes The Principle Employees and commitment of Responsibility ing Compre 37 Report: direct marketing of renewables ect 49 Report: sustainable supply chain he 59 Interview: EnBW is an attractive employer nn ing 39 Interview: Q&A with the direct marketers 51 Interview: Q&A with coal buyer Jochen Co nd 62 Supporting and challenging our employees: Changing 40 Conventional power plants – clean, reliable Oesterlink change as an opportunity The Principle and efficient 52 Targeted environmental protection: 66 Report: education partnerships of Responsibility ing Compre ect he 41 Nuclear power plants – safety during opercorporate goals, measures and projects 69 Giving back to society: commitment in the nn Co ing ation, post-operation and decommissioning 56 Compliance in the EnBW Group: adhering fields of education, the arts and social nd 42 Renewables – a cornerstone of our growth to the rules – taking responsibility affairs strategy 44 Transport and distribution – supply reliability takes priority 46 Decentral solutions and energy services – implementing projects together Facts and figures 72 Corporate environmental protection goals for the period from 2011 to 2015 73 Environmental protection expenditure in 2011 74 Environmental indicators – Input / Output 76 Personnel indicators 77 Core Indicators in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the UN Global Compact (UNGC)) 79 Declaration of conformity with the German Sustainability Code (DNK) 03 Foreword Dear Reader, The principle of responsibility is at the heart of our economic, ecological and social activities. 2011 was not an easy year for EnBW. The energy Sustainability in the era of the energy transition policy framework in which we operate has shifted calls for a high level of social responsibility on the dramatically in recent months. The energy part of all relevant actors – as only responsible transition strategy adopted by the German actions and strategies that are geared toward the government has a major impact on EnBW as an long term can pave the way for the successful energy company. Against this backdrop, we are business operations of EnBW and lay the foundacontinuing to do everything we can to ensure the tion for the necessary social acceptance for these Hans-Peter Villis, Chief Executive Officer of EnBW affordable, reliable, safe, environmentally sound operations. This is why we are stepping up innoand sustainable supply of energy. We are playing vation and cooperation – and involving our stakean active role in shaping the energy transition by holders in this process. This approach is reflected, stepping up the large-scale expansion of renewafor example, in projects like the wind energy in– tance of this topic for our company while at the ble forms of energy. stallation in Schopfloch, the dialogue with the same time explicitly addressing the financial local people in Forbach and the Leutkirch – susmarkets. We are also working on the stronger What is important to me is that these challenges tainable town project. merging of Annual Report and Sustainability are always tackled on the basis of the three pillars Report with the long-term aim of publishing an of sustainability: alongside economic consideraThis Sustainability Report is divided into three integrated report. Together with our Chief Finantions, social and ecological aspects also always sections: Changing, Comprehending and Conneccial Officer, Thomas Kusterer, I am in charge of the need to be taken into account. We have decided on ting. Under Changing ; we show how our sustaincorporate project entitled Integrating Reporting . and in some cases already implemented efficienability strategy makes a key contribution to the cy-boosting measures, divestment projects and energy transition. Our corporate goals are sysUnder Comprehending , we document the intencapital measures. In other words, we are increasing tematically interlinked with the objectives of our sive process of dialogue with our stakeholders. efficiency levels within our company and selling sustainability strategy. We will continue to base Recent months have show that the traditional some of our holdings or downsizing holding our reporting practices on the specifications of threefold objective for the energy industry comshares while strengthening our equity base and the Global Reporting Initiative in future. By pubprising cost efficiency, sparing the environment our credit rating at the same time. lishing a declaration of conformity with the Gerand supply reliability needs to be extended to man Sustainability Code, we underline the imporinclude a fourth dimension in these challenging 04 times, namely social acceptance. The energy A further focal point of our efforts is the sustainWe are committed to making the energy transition will only be successful if society is able organisation of our processes, from central transition a success. We have already achieved directly involved in this far-reaching process, and purchasing and raw material procurement for many milestones on our road to becoming a this is why we are in favour of ongoing dialogue our power plants all the way through to the envisustainable energy company, and there are with our stakeholder groups on an equal footing. ronment-friendly operation of our generating fafurther milestones ahead. Even though we have As a signatory to the Global Compact of the ciliies and the efficient disposal of occurring not yet answered all the questions and solved all United Nations, we will continue to cooperate waste. Last year, we also continuously extended the problems posed by the energy transition, I am closely with state and non-state actors and to our group-wide compliance management system, nevertheless convinced that sustainable business search for and find common solutions to the which is now firmly rooted in the corporate culactivity is a cornerstone in the strategy of EnBW challenges facing society. ture of EnBW. and one of the central preconditions for the success of the energy transition. In the Connecting section, we outline the steps These are difficult times for energy supply comwe have already taken in the central fields of acpanies, and EnBW employees also feel the effects. I hope that this report makes for interesting and tion on the path to becoming a systematically The high-profile presence of energy companies in informative reading, sustainable company. For EnBW, the principle of the media – and therefore in the public arena – responsibility does not only mean doing the right and the planned structural and personnel things but also doing these things right. This apmeasures placed a major burden on the entire plies to our actions in general and our core busiEnBW workforce in 2011 and still do so today. We ness in particular; it applies to our generating actiare therefore all the more pleased to once again be vities as well as our decentral solution packages. named Top Employer , as this bears witness to the fact that we still offer good working condiIn the field of action headed innovation and tions and that we are still an attractive employer. growth , we are expanding the share of renewables in the generating mix and developing and By presenting numerous projects, above all in the introducing intelligent networks. Our sustainable field of education, we would then like to provide town concept also treads new ground and shows you with a brief overview of our activities geared Hans-Peter Villis how we implement sustainable energy solutions toward the common good. Chief Executive Officer, in partnership with many local actors. EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG 05 About this report Creating a sustainable company This Sustainability Report outlines the economic, ecological and social impacts of our corporate operations in 2011 and informs our stakeholders about progress and ongoing developments in the acceptance of social responsibility in our core business and beyond. Moreover, we document how we, as part of society, conduct our business activities cost effectively, successfully and responsibly along the entire value added chain in the interests of our stakeholders. New features in this report: our 2011 SustainaLanguages: in the case of doubt, the German Important notes bility Report can be downloaded from our version of this report is authoritative. Internet site at www.enbw.com as a PDF file and Forward-looking statements: this report can also be viewed online. In the case of some Global Reporting Initiative: this Sustainability contains forward-looking statements based on topics, we additionally refer readers to more Report has been compiled in compliance with current assumptions, plans, estimates and detailed information on the Internet or in other the G3.1 Guideline of the Global Reporting forecasts of the EnBW management. Forwardpublications that can also be found on our Initiative (GRI) and informs readers about looking statements are subject to risks and website. progress made in the implementation of the uncertainties. EnBW can therefore not guaranprinciples of the UN Global Compact. The GRI tee that these forward-looking statements will Scope of validity: the reporting period is the Index is at the end of the report. prove complete, correct or precise or that calendar year 2011. Information on sustainabiexpected and forecast results will actually occur lity activities before 2011 can be found in the German Sustainability Code: during the course in the future. 2010 Sustainability Report. The data in the of the publication of this report, we have forreport refer to the entire EnBW Group, in warded a Declaration of Conformity with the Updating: EnBW does not enter into any obliparticular our core companies. German Sustainability Code ((DNK) to the Gergation whatsoever to update the information man Council for Sustainable Development. and forward-looking statements contained in Inclusion of stakeholders and materiality This declaration can be viewed on the Internet this report or to conform them to future events analysis: the ongoing and comprehensive at www.nachhaltigkeitsrat.de. or developments. dialogue with our stakeholders has been of utmost importance and has supplied key stimuli for decisions on the content and structuring of this report. A detailed materiality This symbol means: analysis is being prepared with our core that this is where you can find more detailed stakeholders for the next reporting year; this information on the adjacent topic. analysis will identify the sustainability themes that are of central significance for society and of This symbol means: major relevance to EnBW. that this is the Internet address where you can find more detailed information. 06 C 1 Changing Our aim is to make a decisive contribution to the energy transition. 07 Connecting Onshore wind energy installation in Schopfloch The Principle ending of Responsibility Harnessing the wind eh Chan pr gin Com g The flat coastal regions in northern Germany where the wind is strong and constant have already been extensively developed for onshore wind energy. The focus is now turning to the hinterland Changing 1 with its hills and forests, and states like Baden-Wurttemberg are catching up. We are grasping The Principle these new opportunities and adapting our methods and technology to the complex terrain. of Responsibility ing Compre ect he nn Co ing nd Michael Wollny, specialist for locational analysis, at the EnBW wind energy installation in Schopfloch 08 T he man wearing a weatherproof jacket and 3,200 tons of CO2. For EnBW, Schopfloch is the Minimum impact on plant and animal life wellington boots is happy about the stiff starting point for further installations that we breeze: If the wind blows at a speed of intend to build in Baden-Württemberg. Together with independent experts, we investigate 6 metres a second at an altitude of 140 metres, the effects of noise emissions and shadow casting on then the Enercon 82 operates cost efficiently. Schopfloch – a model installation residential areas and painstakingly research plant Speeds from 12 metres a second allow us to exand animal habitats before we apply for a permit to ploit the full rated output of 2,000 kilowatts. The community of Schopfloch is in the adminis­ build a wind energy turbine. Animal and plant speciaMichael Wollny is our specialist for locational trative district of Freudenstadt, 660 metres above lists spend around a year counting the species and and yield analysis and, like his colleagues in the sea level at the heart of meadows and woods. The numbers and put up recording boxes to track down project acquisition department, is a very busy wind conditions here are totally different from bat populations. Ecological compensation measures man. Since the summer of 2011, they have spent those on the coast. Mountains and forests act as are implemented where necessary: neighbouring an increasing amount of time on the ground wind-breaks, while there are occasional gusts of areas are re-landscaped to provide new feeding and visiting locations in Baden-Württemberg. wind and turbulence in the valleys and on the nesting places or to gently attract the animals away See also page 42 et seq., ridges. It is only from a turbine height of 100 from the area. Switch-off times are stipulated for Expansion of renewables When it comes to wind energy, Baden-Württemmetres that the wind has the speed and constancy wind turbines to avoid risks to bats and birds during berg has a lot of ground to make up relative to needed to ensure cost-effective operation of a flight. The aim is always to minimise the disruption other German states. The state government wind energy facility. This is why the turbines rise potential. intends to increase the share of wind energy in high up above the landscape, and our installation overall energy generation from 1% in 2011 to 10% in Schoploch is currently the highest wind Statement in 2020 and has taken important measures to turbine in the northern Black Forest with a hub Wind power in the forest accelerate the expansion of wind power. Our job height of 138 metres. Stefan Lederer is a technical project developer now is to identify and secure high-yield locations for onshore projects. While work is in progress in that can be effectively developed so that we can Short construction phase – farsighted Berghülen near Ulm on the construction of three continue to expand our portfolio. planning installations identical to the Schopfloch facility, Lederer is already thinking ahead. Key success factor – wind forecasting Construction work in Schopfloch began in SepBuilding high wind turbines in the forest helps tember 2011, and the facility has been feeding its us as planners to reconcile cost effectiveness and Michael Wollny's opinion is taken into account electricity into the grid since January 2012. While sustainability: the rotors of turbines with a hub when we decide whether and where to build wind the estimated construction time for an onshore height of 140 metres rise more than 60 metres energy installations: The performance data of wind energy installation is less than six months, above the tree tops. Wind speeds are higher and there is less turbulence. This means we can now the turbines have steadily improved since we the preceding planning and approval procedures achieve wind yields in areas with weak wind levels began our activities in the onshore segment, and take several years. During this phase, our onshore of the kind that only used to be possible on the we can now also install turbines in regions where experts engage in intensive dialogue with municcoast. The trend towards building turbines in forwind levels are low. If my forecast is correct, our ipal councillors, the local people, public order ests has enormous advantages. We avoid conflict mega wind turbine in Schopfloch will meet the offices and nature conservationists in order to in populated areas as well as problems with anielectricity needs of around 1,200 households over ensure maximum sustainability and acceptance mal species that have been the focal point of our the year as a whole and will therefore avoid for the projects. protection measures to date. Stefan Lederer 09 Our big wheel in the northern Black Forest Wind power installation in Schopfloch 138 m Hub height of the wind turbine in operation since: January 27, 2012 The town of Schopfloch in the district of Freudenstadt is where we have started up our highest onshore wind energy facility to date. It is almost as high as Cologne Cathedral. In the Black Forest, it is often only at these heights that wind speeds are high enough to allow 39 m Length of the cost-effective operation of wind turbines rotor blades 1,200 households Computed possible power supply 135 t Weight of the nacelle 3,200 t CO2 with generator and Avoided each year 3 rotor blades 30 m Average height of an oak tree 13 m D  iameter of the 20 m tower base Diameter of the foundation 48˚ 43' N 9˚ 23' O 1,300 t Weight of the foundation 10 Onshore wind farm in Buchholz In 2009, we acquired our biggest onshore wind EnBW onshore installations farm to date, a facility with a capacity of 36 MW › in Germany located in Buchholz in Lower Saxony. The wind Wind power installations: around 100 farm is situated to the north of Hannover on (operation, acquisition and construction) the A7 motorway, and its 18 turbines generate Total capacity: approx. 170 MW around 78,000,000 kWh of electricity every year – enough to supply power to around › in Baden-Württemberg 22,000 households. Two further turbines will Wind power installations: 13 be added to the farm at the end of 2012. Total output: 17 MW Our wind power commitments (productive onshore and offshore installations) EnBW Baltic 1 offshore wind farm in operation since: 202.5 MW May 2011 under construction The EnBW wind farm Baltic 1 is the first commercial offshore wind farm in Germany and 197.5 MW has been in operation since May 2011. It is situated 16 kilometres north of the Darß/Zingst peninsula in the Baltic Sea and comprises a total of 21 wind turbines. 185.5 MW 48.3 MW Total output 185,000.000 kWh 98.5 MW Annual generating volume 67.3 MW 50,000 households Computed possible power supply 28 MW 2009 2010 2011 2012 11 Hydroelectric power Bioenergy Solar energy We have already been generating CO2-free elecWe use renewable biomass in a variety of ways: our We have built several solar parks in Baden-Württricity from water power in our home region for a heating and power plant in Ulm burns wood to gentemberg in recent years, and our biggest park is long time. The turbines of the Rheinfelden run-oferate heating for a computed 30,000 households located in Ulm-Eggingen. With a capacity rating of river hydroelectric power plant have been turning and electricity for 12,500 households. We upgrade 6.5 MW, this facility can produce electricity for a for more than a century. We have built a state-ofthe biogas from the biogas plants to produce bio computed 2,000 households. We also use roof the-art run-of-river plant at this location over the natural gas and then feed it into the natural gas areas to generate electricity from the power of the past few years, and the new facility has four times network. sun by installing solar panels on the roofs of comthe capacity of the old plant. The new plant has pany buildings or by supporting local people and been supplying a computed 170,000 households municipalities within the framework of people's with electricity since 2011. energy cooperatives . 12 Renewables Overview of important EnBW Baltic 1 Alt-Zeschdorf EnBW Baltic 2 Alt-Zeschdorf EnBW projects EnBW Hohe See Alt-Zeschdorf EnBW He Dreiht Alt-Zeschdorf Wismar Neuenwalde Oldendorf Tessin Contribution of renewables to EnBW electricity generation in 2011 Wulsbüttel Buchholz Neu-Gülze Görike Schwienau Leddin 2 Alt-Zeschdorf Alt-Zeschdorf Düsedau Berlin Hydropower Wind energy Solar energy Biomass Baruth 5.8 billion kWh 160 /185 million kWh 12.6 million kWh 40 million kWh Schulenburg Christinendorf/ (onshore/offshore) (240 MW therm. output) Elze Magdeburg Brandenburg Kemberg Düsseldorf Leipzig Erfurt Dresden Marienhausen Treuen Savings resulting from renewables at EnBW Eppenrod Friedberg 592.300 t CO 2 in 2011 Eisennach Frankfurt/Main Kocher Blaufelden Haupersweiler Krautheim Saarbrücken Mannheim Neckar power plants Oberrot Schopfloch Generating capacity of EnBW in Turkey Stuttgart Iffezheim Leonberg Schnittlingen from renewables Gambsheim Baden-Baden Forbach Böhmenkirch Gambsheim/F Kehl Gussenstadt 700 MW Freiburg Aistaig Westerheim Glems Berghülen Heroldstatt Upper Current project portfolio UlmDanube power plants Eggingen Ulm Breisach Laupheim 110 MW Laufenburg/CH March Leibertingen Riedlingen Iller power plants Generating capacity of the Bandirma wind power Vorarlberg/A Leutkirch Schluchsee power plants plant and the Yedigol Aksu hydropower plant Müllheim Isny High Rhine power plants including Rheinfelden 2.000 MW Germany/Switzerland Planned generation up to 2020, chiefly wind energy and hydropower Wind farm at planning stage Hydroelectric power plant with EnBW holding, or under construction procurement and delivery agreements 13 EnBW and the energy transition The reporting year 2011 was not an easy year for the energy industry overall and therefore also not for EnBW. The events in March 2011 in Japan – the earthquake, the tsunami and the serious incidents in Fukushima that followed – have resulted in a sea-change in the social and political framework for the entire energy industry. In the wake of Fukushima, the energy transition that had already been set in motion was accelerated, creating special challenges for a company with an energy mix like that of EnBW. Nevertheless, EnBW believes it is well positioned to achieve its threefold sustainability goal of supply reliability, environmental protection and cost efficiency – as is expected of us by our stakeholders from the customer to the investor, from environmental organisations and individual employees and from our shareholders to our many cooperation partners at municipal utilities, suppliers and research institutes. Doing the right things EnBW's sustainability and corporate strategy central processes, development of new sales fields with sustainIn the pursuit of this threefold goal, we take full account of the ability-focused business models and the positioning of EnBW as a interests of our stakeholders and are working tirelessly to desustainable company. velop socially acceptable solutions. Introduction of the sustainability strategy: the sustainability If we are strong economically, then this enables us to step up programme of EnBW our social commitments above and beyond the legal requireAs a sustainable company, we see the main challenges in three ments and to take on broader social responsibility. This does not areas, and our activities and business models in each of these automatically mean, however, that economic profitability takes areas are geared towards the achievement of our core objectives. sole priority but that long-term business success is also geared towards achieving social and ecological goals. We are therefore › Innovation and growth: by expanding renewables and innovative interlinking our sustainability strategy with our corporate stratdecentral services and energy solutions as well as new partneregy step by step. ship-based forms of involvement, we are moving into new business areas and strengthening our position in the capital market. We are addressing the key challenges for our current and future › Processes: our internal processes are being made more efficient business activities and have identified three fields of action where and geared towards social and ecological objectives. The focus we are pushing ahead with the process of change in the EnBW is on in-house environmental protection and the compliance of Group and pursuing three core objectives: sustainability in the the actions of all employees with laws and regulations. The 14 Corporate strategy Sustainability strategy Areas of action Doing the right things Innovation and growth Processes Employees Fields of action and social commitment Areas of action Growing renewable Decentral solutions and Development of a Sustainable procureSustainable day-to-day Becoming a more Creating education forms of energy energy services sustainable town ment / supply chain working routines attractive employer partnerships business model Compliance In-house environmental protection day-to-day working environment at EnBW is becoming more Investment in the energy transition sustainable. Despite the difficult conditions, EnBW did a great deal to pave the › Employees and social commitment: we are strengthening the way for further forward-looking investments in 2011. With the help role of EnBW as an attractive employer, motivating our workof a wide-ranging consolidation programme, we intend to invest force and supporting projects that contribute to the common around 8 to 10 billion euros in the energy transition in the period good. up to 2020. By the same year, we want to increase our installed capacity in the field of renewables in Germany by around 3,000 Special mention should be made of the following activities in the MW, taking it to more than double the current figure. Our investyear under review in the development of EnBW into a sustainament programme underlines our commitment to the energy tranble group of companies: sition and our intention to play an active part in shaping the energy future. We are currently pursuing two core strategies in this area: we intend to underscore our position as a low-CO2 15 power generator by further expanding our renewables activities, Corporate environmental protection goals from 2011 to 2015 optimising our conventional power plants to make them more By defining the corporate environmental protection targets for the energy-efficient, expanding our electricity network and investperiod from 2011 to 2015, the Management Board has approved the ing in energy storage concepts and smart grids. The second core strategic areas and objectives in the field of environmental strategy is geared towards establishing EnBW as a provider of protection and has laid out individual targets and indicators, paving decentral energy solutions and raising our profile even further the way for de facto measurement. These targets represent the as an energy partner for municipalities and municipal utilities as systematic continuation of our environmental protection strategy well as industrial and household customers. and our ongoing endeavour to achieve our corporate objectives. They underline the ongoing development of sustainable corporate Development of joint solutions in dialogue with customers and management strategies at EnBW and demonstrate that EnBW stakeholders identifies with environmental policy goals and is playing its part to Customers and other stakeholders expect EnBW to expand the ensure that these goals are achieved. system of decentral energy generation, above all in the area of renewables. Our response to this is to develop new, holistic See also page 52 et seq., Targeted environmental protection solutions like the sustainable town model and new decentral See also www.enbw.com/umweltmanagement energy solutions such as our Germany-wide portfolio of services in the areas of photovoltaics, e-mobility and smart homes. We Integrated reporting implement large-scale projects in the field of wind energy and In order to meet the expectations of our investors and other stakehydropower and expand our electricity networks in transparent holders in terms of transparent, comprehensible and relevant reprocesses and with the greatest possible involvement of the porting, we will introduce a system of integrated reporting step by affected stakeholders. We provide full and frank information on step which ensures a higher level of integration of financial and nonthe positive impacts but also on any restrictions and limitations financial indicators. To achieve this goal, we are participating in the resulting from the projects. We develop socially acceptable solupilot programme of the International Integrated Reporting Council tions for the energy transition in permanent dialogue with the (IIRC) and working together with 70 companies worldwide on the local population, the environmental associations and regional ongoing development of business reporting practices. During industry. the course of this process, we will systematically document our sustainability indicators, which will then be incorporated in future integrated reports. 16 Safeguarding the future and sustainability Q&A with Chief Financial Officer Thomas Kusterer The Chief Financial Officer of EnBW is not only concerned with the company's financial indicators but also keeps tabs on our sustainability objectives. He advocates the merging of the economic and ecological company indicators in an integrated report. What do you understand by sustainabiAs CFO, you probably keep a close eye on lity and how important is this issue for the economic dimension of sustainability. you as the CFO of EnBW? Is EnBW well positioned in terms of susThe term sustainability is used with increasing tainability? frequency nowadays and in so many different In the era of the energy transition, we need a contexts that we have to take care that the word solid financial base to secure the future comitself does not become an empty shell and therepetitiveness of EnBW, and this is why we have fore meaningless. In my opinion, a comadapted our strategy and our business model to pany acts sustainably and responsibly if suit the new circumstances. Efficiency, divestOnly companies that it acts in the interests of its shareholders ment and capital measures are cornerstones of adopt holistic, sustainable and employees, the environment and the EnBW concept. It is generally the case that Thomas Kusterer, Chief Financial Officer of business models will be society. A society can only develop in a only companies with a business model that is EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG sustainable direction if all actors play holistically geared towards sustainability will be successful in the market. their part, and this includes the successful in the market in the long term. This companies. For EnBW, sustainability is means that we must develop products and not an end in itself; it applies to a wide services for the markets of the future, with reYou refer to the increasing interest of the range of issues along the value added chain – such gard to both low-CO2 forms of energy generacapital market in sustainability. How imporas the conscious and responsible use of resources, tion and the development of decentral solutions tant are sustainability ratings for EnBW? environmental management systems rooted in in the field of energy management. I believe Enjoying the confidence of the capital market is the day-to-day activities of the group, dependable there is a direct relationship between a positive key for EnBW, particularly in times of economic relationships with suppliers and respectful intercompany reputation, sustainable business prodifficulty. Our top priority is to secure our A action with our employees. cesses and improved ratings in the financial rating. Among other things, this opens up opmarkets. If all the cogs and wheels interlock as tions for the long-term financing of the necesthey should, then this benefits EnBW, its stakesary investment in our generating portfolio and holders and society as a whole. underpins our ability to act as a strong player in the field of energy trading. Our commitment to sustainability reflects the long-term value of our company and plays an increasingly important role for sustainability ratings. At the same time, 17 two separate reports. The main content of the about the possibility of a 30 to 40-page report. All sustainability and annual reports should be today's companies are still a long way from this, published in a single report. I am therefore a but EnBW has set itself the medium-term goal of big advocate of integrated reporting. EnBW is presenting high-quality, easy-to-understand and involved in the pilot project of the International meaningful information in an integrated report Integrated Reporting Council and is playing a on far fewer pages than is currently the case. pioneering role in this area together with other companies. When will EnBW publish its first integrated report? You yourself are a member of the highest I'd like to give you a concrete date, but all I can say body of the IIRC. What were your first is that we have embarked on a long journey that experiences with integrated reporting? we hope will culminate in an integrated report. My involvement in the IIRC has made me even We intend to initially publish a combined report more aware of the value of an integrated apfor 2012 – in other words, a summary of the curproach for future corporate communication rent annual and sustainability reports. It's imporThomas Kusterer in conversation with the two Integrated Reportthe mainstream players in the capital market and management. The 200-page plus annual tant that the central actors in the company and ing project managers: Christoph – the conventional investors – are also increasinreports that are currently published do not the addressees for reporting are on board with Dolderer (Head of Accounting, gly interested in our sustainability performance. cater to the interests of readers. Satisfaction this process. The introduction of central data releft) and Dr. Lothar Rieth (Sustainability, right) When we meet with investors, they ask about levels are falling, particularly among investors, cording processes will certainly entail a major our CO2 footprint more and more often; susand the annual report is becoming less signifiorganisational workload, and what we also need tainability ratings are therefore becoming a cant. Moreover, the legal regulations mean that within the company is a shift in culture towards relevant source of information. Consequently, reporting is increasingly complex. The aim, thereholistic mindsets and actions. We therefore intend we see it as our obligation to participate in the fore, is to increase transparency and focus on to engage in an ongoing dialogue with the adCarbon Disclosure Project on a regular basis and the essentials by adopting a holistic approach. dressees of our annual reports to identify their to base our sustainability reporting on the specspecific interests and expectations. The primary ifications of the Global Reporting Initiative. What are the main objectives of integrated addressees are and will remain the investors, but reporting? we also want to produce a report that is viewed as What role does the issue of sustainability The goal of the IIRC is to integrate conventional informative by both environmental associations play in the Annual Report? financial reporting with reports on non-financial and rating agencies. We have steadily expanded the number of susaspects. The idea is to make the interplay and tainability-related sections in the Annual Reinterrelationships between the value drivers of a Thank you for talking to us. port. Our last Report provided detailed inforcompany more transparent. We want to develop mation on the new sustainability strategy and a report that will once again be used by the adfeatured a wide range of indicators on environdressees as the central source of information on mental protection and our employees. I am a the company. In addition, the IIRC also hopes to strong supporter of the idea of discontinuing significantly reduce the length of annual reports the concept of corporate reporting based on in the long term. The Chairperson of the IIRC talks 18 C 2 Comprehending Our endeavour is to engage in open and intensive dialogue with all our stakeholders. 19 Forbach pumped-storage power plant Thinking ahead, contributing ideas, shaping the future 2 Since the summer of 2010 EnBW has been planning a multi-million euro project in the Black Forest – with the aim of transforming our tradition-rich Rudolf Fettweis plant in Forbach into a Co mprehending modern, high-performance pumped-storage power plant. Our project is steadily progressing in The Principle close cooperation with the local council, the local population and the relevant interest groups. of Responsibility ing Conn ng ec ha t g C in Connecting The Principle ending of Responsibility eh Chan pr gin Com g Changing Information event for the local people; on the left Dr. Werner Götz, Technical Director (conventional), EnBW Kraftwerke AG The Principle of Responsibility ing Compre ect he nn Co ing nd The Rudolf Fettweis plant in Forbach 20 F orbach is an idyllic climatic spa. Close by, at Pumped-storage system accepted by the Achieving a balance with nature and industry an altitude of almost 700 metres, is a populocal people lar destination for day trips – the SchwarzenWe are in constant dialogue with specialist authoribachtal barrage that dams up the water from the In addition to refurbishing existing systems, our ties as well as environmental and industry associaSchwarzenbach und Seebach lakes. This water and plans are mainly geared towards expanding the tions with the aim of ensuring maximum acceptabithat from the Murg river have been used to gencurrent lower stage and building a new upper lity of impacts on humankind and nature and on the erate electricity in the lower-lying Murgtal valley reservoir on the top of the mountain above the related economic sectors such as forestry and tourfor nearly one hundred years. To take advantage Schwarzenbachtal barrier. In this way, the plant ism. This enables us to identify interactions and poof this abundant supply of water and the major will be transformed into a pumped-storage system tential issues of conflict at the earliest possible stage height differentials, an entire complex comprising with an added capacity of around 230 MW. Howand to work together with the interest groups to derun-of-river, storage and pumped-storage power ever, this capacity increase entails major encroachvelop solutions. During this process, we also draw on plants, reservoirs, head race tunnels and pipelines ments on landscape and natural surroundings and the expertise of external experts when it comes to were built, and together they make up the Rudolf also impacts the neighbouring population. An highly technical issues. The dialogue with our stakeFettweis plant. infrastructure project of this magnitude can only holders underpins acceptance and helps us to make be accepted if all the interest groups concerned are effective preparations for the forthcoming adminisPumped-storage power plants – key involved in the process. trative proceedings. players in the expansion of renewables www.enbw.com/Forbach Dialogue on all levels Statement This complex system has an upper reservoir, the www.enbw.com/magazin: Schwarzenbachtal barrier, and a lower reservoir, The involvement of the local people began on July Acceptance through dialogue The Energiewissen The press described the absence of protests as (Energy Knowledge) section the so-called equalising reservoir, which secures 9, 2010 with a public information event and disccontains animations that the miracle of Forbach . But it's no miracle, it's the natural water course of the Murg. Our plant in ussion session in the Rudolf Fettweis plant. We had illustrate how pumpedthe result of our ongoing communication, a prostorage power plants work. Forbach currently supplies a computed 65,000 already entered into dialogue on all levels in the cess that we began in the early stages with all people with electricity. It is meanwhile a little run-up to the event. Over 100 meetings have taken parties concerned and with the competent official outdated yet it can still play an important role in place since – with the Forbach local council on a rebodies. For the last two years, we have put all the the energy system of the future: from a technical gular basis as well as with all neighbouring comfacts on the table, complete with every new insight point of view, its capacity can be quadrupled by munities, political parties and authorities, the Disand development. When problems arise, we look adding new systems and converting existing systrict Commissioner and Karlsruhe Regional Council, for common solutions together with the interest tems. It is also ideal for an expansion project to who set up a supervisory working group in which groups. The Black Forest Association represents create an efficient pumped-storage power plant. EnBW is also represented. A dedicated website pronature lovers and is understandably concerned that the region is not downgraded in any way. We If we want to step up generation from renewables, vides updated information on the status of the are currently talking to the association to work out then this is an essential measure, as pumpedproject, and interested persons can ask questions how the popular Westweg hiking route can be storage power plants can buffer the natural flucon a special hotline. A further public information relocated. We are also drawing up a concept with tuations in energy generated from the renewable event was held in October 2011 to mark the subthe regional forestry research institute and the sources of wind energy and photovoltaics and help mission of the regional planning documents and nature conservation associations to protect the to maintain stability in the electricity grid. provided a further forum for the in-depth discushabitats of the wood grouse. sion of all relevant issues. Oliver Haupt, Project Manager Forbach 21 The visitor centre 1.375 m2 9.553 in Altbach Exhibition and presentation area Total number of visitors in 2011 Information and dialogue on the ground In dialogue since: 1995 In addition to providing information on the locationspecific core topic of conventional generation, the visitor centre on the site of the Altbach/Deizisau heating and power plant offers a comprehensive overview of the central activities of EnBW. Due to the broad spectrum of information on offer covering all stages of the value added chain, the newly designed info centre also has a reference character for the entire EnBW Group. 48˚ 27' N 8˚ 33' O 22 Visitor centres at the power plant locations of EnBW Knowledge sharing and direct contact with people Visitor centres in the region is essential for operators of largescale technical installations that have significant impacts on the environment. Philippsburg Obrigheim Nuclear power plant Nuclear power plant At many of its locations, EnBW offers people the 39,000 Karlsruhe Neckarwestheim Visitors Steam power plant Nuclear power plant opportunity to find out about power plant operain 2011 tion and to obtain information on site about energy Iffezheim Stuttgart-Münster Hydroelectric power plant Residual waste heating themes and the plants themselves. The visitors 1,000 and power plant include decision-makers, environmental groups, Visitor groups Forbach in 2011 Pumped-storage power plant Altbach/Deizisau political and cultural associations, scientific Heating and power plant delegations, universities, groups of specialists, schools, youth groups and private individuals. 23 The Altbach/Deizisau heating and power plant 2 heating and power plant units use coal to produce electricity and district heat 280 megawatts is the secured district heat capacity of each of the two power plant units Understanding interrelationships Gas turbines provide the so-called cold Electricity Cold air Combustion Hot waste gases reserve, which serves to compensate for fluctuations in the availability of renewables. This is why conventional Generator power plants play such an important role in the expansion of renewable forms of energy. Gas 24 Stakeholder activities in 2011 EnBW in dialogue with its stakeholders Customers Society Industrial customers People's energy cooperatives › 4 3 meetings of the Energy Efficiency Network › 4 6 cooperatives since 2008 (including 7 new › 8 00 participants from 183 companies cooperatives in 2011) › O ver 6,300 members Private and commercial customers Network meetings Energy cooperatives › 2 customer parliaments each made up of The members of the Energy School students/Schools EnBW supports the coopEfficiency Networks meet erative members in the 8 commercial and 8 private customers › S chool competition Energy Reporter On up regularly to exchange planning, financing and experiences at sessions The Go in the school year 2010/2011 with building of renewable Municipal utilities chaired by EnBW. nearly 140 participating schools energy installations. › Regular dialogue between the municipal utilities in Baden-Württemberg, regional energy suppliers and Social media representatives of EnBW in the Energy Team › Active provision of information and services in Baden-Württemberg with 126 participants from new media like Facebook, Twitter, YouTube over 50 companies › Constantly growing user/follower numbers Investor relations Employees A  nalysts and investors Work safety ›4  telephone conferences on the publication of the › Reduction in the number of reportable work acfin. reports (approx. 35 participants at each conf.) cidents to six reportable accidents per 1,000 em›3  -day roadshow prior to issue of the hybrid bond ployees through training seminars and courses with a volume of 750 million € Banking conference with the accident prevention and insurance assoManagement meeting ›P  articipation in two major international investor Our annual banking conferciation Events for management ence provides bank reprepersonnel are held every conferences sentatives with in-depth year in an open dialogue › Regular personal dialogue insights into our company Employee involvement format; topics include and our activities. › Implementation of improvement measures as strategy, compliance and Banks the outcome of the second group-wide employee leadership. › Annual banking conference with around 90 participants survey › More than 3,500 submitted suggestions for the Private shareholders optimisation of work processes › Annual general meeting 25 In dialogue with our stakeholders We engage in intensive dialogue with our stakeholders to help us meet the challenges of the energy transition. Only by interacting directly with these stakeholders can we be sure to gear our activities towards sustainable objectives. The outcomes of this dialogue are incorporated in our strategy for the organisation of our corporate processes. Doing things right We compare expectations and standpoints in a process of experts from numerous non-governmental organisations open and ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders. Be it discussed topical energy issues. The findings of the nationinvestor conferences or workshops, school competitions or wide dialogue were submitted to the Ministry in the form of interaction via the social media, we make wide-ranging use of a People's Report complete with concrete recommendations different forms of dialogue. We support the regular exchange for the restructuring of the energy supply system. of ideas and experience through our membership in various www.buergerdialog-bmbf.de/energietechnologien-fuer-die-zukunft initiatives. www.buergerdialog-bmbf.de/media/content/Buergerreport_EtfdZ.pdf Public dialogue on energy technologies for the future A process of dialogue that encompasses the whole of society is needed to ensure that the future energy system is supported by a broad consensus of opinion. This is why we are participating in the nationwide project launched by the German Ministry of Education and Research entitled Pubic dialogue on energy technologies for the future . In the second half of 2011, we staged a public workshop together with regional actors from the world of science and environmental affairs. The UN Global Compact is the world's largest multi-stakeholThe workshop took place at our power plant location in Altder network for entrepreneurial and corporate social responbach/Deizisau and in Biberach, where interested people and sibility (CSR). As a member of the UNGC, we take part in the 26 regular meetings of the German network, where we contribute new ideas and exchange experiences with other companies, civil society actors and representatives of the ministries of science. The insights gained during these contacts are directly incorporated in the organisation and implementation of our sustainability-focused activities. We are a longstanding member of econsense – forum for the www.unglobalcompact.org sustainable development of Germany industry . From the point of view of EnBW, ecosense is important in the way it supplements our multi-stakeholder initiatives. We are strong advocates of the further development of sustainability and annual reporting and staged a conference on this topic in October 2011. www.econsense.de The Foundation 2 Degrees – German Entrepreneurs for CliThe EnBW Energy and Business Club mate Protection is an initiative of CEOs, Managing Directors We attach major importance to ongoing dialogue with represenand family-run companies. Its mission is to support the political tatives of industry, political parties and the world of science – at decision-makers in their endeavour to incorporate climate prolocal level in the municipalities, in the state capital of Stuttgart, tection in market economy structures. A further aim is to help in Berlin and in Brussels. In addition to holding many bilateral the companies find climate protection solutions that suit their talks, we organise regular events of our Energy and Business own needs. The emphasis is on the direct exchange of ideas Club in Stuttgart and Berlin which serve as forums for the diswith the German government. In line with the motto Delivecussion of topical energy policy issues. The primary aim of the ring climate protection , the discussions in 2011 focused on discussion sessions is to facilitate a frank and open exchange of climate protection in global flows of goods and supply chains. experience and information between representatives of parliawww.stiftung2grad.de ments, ministries, science and the energy industry. 27 In 2011, for example, the discussion topics in the Energy and Business Club included the findings of the climate conference in Cancún and the implications for the climate policy of the German government and the EU. At the end of 2007, EnBW founded the nonprofit BadenThinkers of our times Württemberg Energy & Climate Protection Foundation as sponsor. The mission of the foundation is to help to create a better understanding of the relationships between the energy industry and climate protection and to secure the status of Baden-Württemberg as a leading research region. In dialogue with international experts, the foundation discusses, analyses and evaluates effective climate protection measures. In 2011, the expert sessions and debate evenings looked at topics such The EnBW series of events called Thinkers of our times as intelligent networks and the final storage of nuclear waste provides outstanding individuals of our era from the fields of as well as large-scale projects like Renewables – Wind & science and culture in Baden-Württemberg with a platform Desert . The foundation also systematically involves young to voice critical ideas. The themes on the agenda included scientists in this process. new phenomena like the risk potential of cyber attacks and the basis for the arts in tomorrow's world in the times of Web 2.0. One of the highlights in 2011 was a lecture by philosopher Peter Sloterdijk on the future of public finance. 28 C 3 Connecting Our goal is to work together to create a consistently sustainable energy company. 29 mprehending Co Leutkirch – sustainable town The Principle Decentral energy generation with EnBW of Responsibility ing Conn ng ec ha t g C in We have taken up and are committed to the cause of sustainability. This commitment paved the way for the launch of a unique project in April 2011 – the sustainable town . The idea is to Connecting 3 implement a decentral and sustainable energy concept in the town of Leutkirch together with The Principle the local administration; and the aim is to achieve the autonomous supply of CO2-free energy ending of Responsibility to the just under 23,000 inhabitants of Leutkirch. eh Chan pr gin Com g Changing The Principle of Responsibility ing Compre ect he nn Co ing nd The solar park near Leutkirch has an area of 101,000 square metres – bigger than 16 soccer pitches 30 T Statements he large district town of Leutkirch is situated social groups as possible in processes like these. By in the Allgäu region of Württemberg bebecoming involved in the project and participating tween the major conurbations of Memminin future-focused workshops, the people of Leutgen and Lindau and is one of the largest communikirch can play an active role in shaping their future We as a town are being given a chance to ties in Baden-Württemberg in terms of area, meaenergy supply concept. make a really active contribution to climate suring 175 square kilometres. But Leutkirch is not protection. I am delighted that it has been only big in size; it is also big on energy efficiency: Energy role model possible to implement this pilot project in within the framework of the sustainable town Leutkirch together with strong partners. We pilot project, EnBW and the Leutkirch authorities In workshops and dialogue events with 75 people have already made excellent progress in this are developing a concept for an energy-efficient, from Leutkirch, a mission statement was drawn up area with the energy alliance and a number of low-emission community with a decentral energy on the topic of energy and presented to the local other initiatives. This development is being supply. This project – implemented in cooperation council for approval. The mission statement details systematically continued with the Leutkirch with the regional trades, businesses, farmers and the CO2 and energy efficiency targets as well as the – sustainable town concept.“ www.nachhaltige-stadtbanks – is geared towards creating an ecological, targets for the future expansion of renewables, Hans-Jörg Henle, leutkirch.de economically viable and socially sustainable limits to any possible impact on the natural landLord Mayor of Leutkirch www.enbw.com/leutkirch energy supply model. By the end of the project, scape and ways in which the local people can play Leutkirch could be self-sufficient in terms of a part in the implementation process. The participation model in Leutkirch shows energy supply and CO2-free – naturally without that the expansion of renewables is a joint any adverse effects on supply reliability and local Solar park under construction challenge. We are delighted that our concept value added. has evidently won over the investors. The local council was happy to approve the developHartmut Reck, head of the Leutkirch Working together for an energy-efficient ment plan, and a former gravel pit that was unsuit– sustainable town project at EnBW future able for agricultural use is now home to a solar park. The facility built by EnBW has a capacity of around 5 By creating this new form of company, EnBW Together with the town of Leutkirch, the OberMW and supplies a computed 1,500 households with has implemented a future-oriented participaschwäbische Elektrizitätswerke (OEW) utility electricity generated with zero CO2 emissions. tion model for the local people, the town and – one of our two main shareholders – and Biberach the shareholders. The success of the energy University, who are providing the scientific superShowcase project transition depends on broad acceptance and vision for the project, we are paving the way for an the willingness of local people to invest. The energy-efficient future. Our part is to share our The Leutkirch – sustainable town project supplies sustainable town concept is a role model in expertise in the fields of energy management, important insights into the organisation, financing this field. energy efficiency, services and renewables. The and realisation of sustainable decentral energy Barbara Endriss, project was unanimously approved by the town supply concepts. Other municipalities and regions Managing Director of OEW council and has remained on course not least due will one day also be able to profit from the experienthe support and acceptance of the local people. ces gained in this highly important first project. This is why we believe it is of paramount importance to integrate as many people, companies and 31 Pioneering community in the Allgäu region of Germany The project Leutkirch – sustainable town Project start: April 18, 2011 The sustainable town is a joint project of the town of 175 km2 Leutkirch, the Oberschwäbischen Elektrizitatswerke Area of municipality (OEW) utility, the University of Biberach, EnBW, the Energy Alliance and the energy cooperative. The project partners are working together in Leutkirch to 94 % Targeted energy self-sufficiency develop a concept for an energy-efficient, emissionof households reduced and decentrally supplied municipality. This On-roof solar power systems* unique project, designed to ensure the sustainable, decentral supply of energy to the town's households, 20 % Avoidance of greenhouse gas was launched at the end of April 2011. emissions 47˚ 50' N 10˚ 1' O 32 Bioenergy* Open-space photovoltaic installation In operation since: Dezember 21, 2011 5 million kWh Annual production volume 2,800 t CO2 Avoided each year Future use of biomass and/or biogas systems to supply 1,500 households heating or in local Computed possible power supply heating networks 101,000 m2 Area of solar park Wind energy installations* 33 Mobility measures* Footpaths and cycle paths Expansion of the community's cycle path network Local public transport Expansion of public transport system E-mobility Exhaust-free town centre Energy refurbishment of old buildings* * The outlined measures are examples and are used for solely illustrative purposes. Any similarity with projects that are actually planned is purely coincidental. 34 Sustainable town A solution for many municipalities Greater energy autonomy and more public LED streetlighting participation The pilot project Leutkirch – sustainable Energy management town represents a major opportunity – for the Climate protection and controlling concept town itself as well as for EnBW: a decentral energy supply system with a high percentage of renewables has a positive impact on the environment while simultaneously creating new value and new income potential in a rural region. It is hoped that the project will supply key insights into the organisation, funding and Elements of a implementation of decentral energy supply sustainable town Onshore wind energy concepts and serve as a hands-on example of Photovoltaic installations the energy transition on the ground . Based installations on the experience gained and the solutions implemented here, it will in future be possible to create independent decentral energy concepts for other municipalities and regions together with EnBW and to help towns and cities to become more self-sufficient in terms of energy supply. All stakeholders and local people have been involved and been able to Energy refurbishment Involvement of invest in the project from the outset. local people Local heating www.enbw.com/leutkirch networks www.nachhaltige-stadt-leutkirch.de using biomass 35 Field of action Innovation and growth Innovation is the driver of growth, especially in the age of the energy transition and especially in our industry. It is innovation that secures the future of EnBW and ensures positive economic and ecological development. In accordance with our core strategies, the focus is above all on achieving low-CO2 energy generation and positioning EnBW as a decentral solution provider. Corporate strategy Sustainability strategy Areas of action Doing the right things Fields of action Innovation and growth Processes Employees and social commitment Growing renewable forms of energy Sustainable procurement / supply chain Becoming a more attractive employer Areas of action Decentral solutions and energy services Sustainable day-to-day working routines Creating education partnerships Development of a sustainable town In-house environmental protection business model Compliance Report on direct marketing: Report: Interview: faster path to market maturity [ page 37 ] sustainable supply chain [ page 49 ] EnBW is an attractive employer [ page 59 ] Interview: Interview: Supporting and challenging employees [ page 62 ] natural electricity: developing market skills [ page 39 ] Q&A with coal buyer Jochen Oesterlink [ page 51 ] Report on education partnerships: Activities Conventional power plants [ page 40 ] Targeted environmental protection [ page 52 ] industry meets school [ page 66 ] Nuclear power plants [ page 41 ] Compliance in the EnBW Group [ page 56 ] Giving back to society [ page 69 ] Renewables [ page 42 ] Transport and distribution [ page 44 ] Decentral solutions and energy services [ page 46 ] 36 Direct marketing of renewables Becoming competitive faster Thanks to the fixed feed-in remuneration guaranteed by Germany's EEG legislation on renewables since the year 2000, it has been possible to gradually increase the share of electricity generated from renewable sources in Germany. The time has now come for renewables to face the competition, and we are well equipped to meet this challenge. W e have been trading the wind energy under the EEG laws or to market it on their own we generate at our offshore wind farm initiative with the help of the market premium EnBW Baltic 1 and at most of our onmodel. This market premium acts as an incentshore wind energy installations on the Leipzig ive and represents the difference between inElectricity Exchange since the beginning of 2012. stallation-specific EEG remuneration and reThis ensures the direct marketing of this power muneration based on the average monthly exas provided for under the new German EEG legchange price. This compensatory mechanism islation on renewables. By pooling the expertise is designed to create competitiveness between of our plant operators and electricity traders in solar power, wind energy, coal and gas. this way, we are becoming increasingly efficient in adapting the fluctuating weather-dependent In order to participate in the direct marketing generating volumes to the mechanisms of supprocess, the producer must follow the rules of See also page 42 et seq., ply and demand. the electricity market, rules from which he was Expansion of renewables exempted under the EEG legislation on renewaStart-up boost: the market premium bles: he needs access to the trading system and he has to register and maintain a balancing The gradual integration of renewable forms of group – a virtual energy management account energy in the electricity market is also the idea – with the network operator. The electricity behind the market premium introduced by the flows for this balancing group have to be balGerman government with the new EEG 2012 anced hourly and reported one day in advance. legislation on renewables. Up to now, most genIf the producer is off-target with his forecast, he erators of electricity from solar power and wind has to pay the network operator for the incurred energy have been one step removed from the balancing energy. The direct marketer is addimarket. Now they can decide whether they want tionally granted a flat-rate management premito feed their electricity into the grid in return um to offset the added expense and risk. → The efficient interplay of plant management and trading is essential for effective direct marketing for the fixed installation-specific remuneration 37 Pooling core expertise The EnBW method: first test, then act The key to successful direct marketing is to foreIn order to ensure that we were well prepared cast fluctuating energy generation from wind for this new challenge, we simulated the direct and sun as accurately as possible and to promarketing of wind energy in a trial run over a actively manage the energy-generating facilities. period of several months in 2011 under realworld conditions. Our largest onshore wind Our strategy pools and combines the core experfarm in Buchholz to the north of Hannover tise from various stages along our value added was used as the test farm. We used generating, chain: trading and plant operation are coordiweather, geo and technical plant data to develnated, and this enabled us to market over 90% opment various forecasting models. The wind of our installed wind energy output via the EEG farm was equipped with realtime measuring market premium model as of January 1, 2012. devices, and the power plant deployment These successful activities are driven not only planning system was linked up to electricity The Buchholz wind farm supplied trial data during the preparations for direct marketing by experience in the operational management feed-in operations. This enabled our trading of our wind power and photovoltaic installations experts to fine-tune the forecast for the inbut also by the forecasting expertise of our traday market, where short-notice trading takes electricity traders. Parallel to this, we also offer place during the course of a trading day: online third-party plant operators without their own realtime measurement allowed them to detect trading access the opportunity to profit from off-forecast wind conditions and to then balance our expertise in this area. out the resulting fluctuations in generation for the simulated exchange trading process. This also provided new insights into the connection between wind and electricity yield. 38 Natural electricity: learning the ways of the market Q&A with the direct marketers Malte Sell and Dr. Philipp Seydel played a central role in drawing up the direct marketing concept for EnBW. As an energy economist, Malte Sell knows all about the locational and output parameters of our wind energy installations, while Dr. Philipp Seydel is an electricity exchange analyst. Why does EnBW market its electricity output of individual portfolios comprising wind from wind energy on the exchange rather energy and photovoltaic installations in a market than having it remunerated based on the context. fixed EEG rate? Sell: As an operator of facilities that generate What risks are associated with the model? energy from renewable sources, our focus is on Seydel: The main risk is that our day-ahead proven cost-efficient technologies and our goal forecast is off-target. We sell our forecast is to operate these technologies comfeed-in volume on the electricity exchange 24 mercially. This is why we welcome the hours in advance and then adjust our position to A differentiated plant direct marketing model as an alterthe latest forecasts up to the time of delivery portfolio can reduce the native to fixed feed-in remuneration. Dr. Philipp Seydel, electricity exchange analyst, and It allows us to gear up our installations Sell: Direct marketing is about making a precise Malte Sell, energy economist risk associated with for market competition: our main aim delivery pledge, but we can't influence our prodirect marketing. is to integrate market signals in our duction factors, namely wind and sun. We minioperational management practices, mise our fulfilment risk via a direct flow of crossand we do this by merging the experifunctional information which Philipp Seydel and ences gained in plant operation and electricity his electricity trading colleagues use to continutrading. ously optimise the forecasting algorithms. What opportunities does direct marketing Seydel: Accurate forecasts mean precision offer compared to the market premium? balancing. Seydel: We can draw on a broadly based portfolio made up of solar power as well as Thank you for talking to us. onshore and offshore wind energy. This makes it easier for us to submit accurate yield forecasts and to balance out deviations, thereby minimising the risks of direct marketing. It therefore gives us the potential to optimise the generating 39 Conventional power plants Clean, reliable and efficient Our coal-fired power plants are a byword for generation close to the point of consumption. They are efficient and often additionally supply environment-friendly district heat thanks to cogeneration operations. We optimise our plants on an ongoing basis, continuously increasing efficiency of operation and reducing emissions. Fit for future Capturing CO2 In 2011, we implemented wide-ranging moderWe are currently testing two techniques for the nisation measures at some of our locations to effective removal of CO2 from power plant gases ensure that we can continue to produce elecin years to come – carbonate looping, in which tricity and heating energy safely and reliably in there is a chemical reaction between CO2 and the years to come. One example is the power limestone, and the amine wash, in which the CO2 plant in Walheim, where we completely disis absorbed by a caustic soda. These techniques mantled and overhauled the steam turbine and are currently being used in trial and pilot plants. generator, optimised the control technology and inspected the flue gas cleaning systems and the Environment-friendly district heat coal boiler. This kind of work is also being performed at other locations like the steam power The simultaneous generation of electricity and plant in Rheinhafen or the heating and power heat in cogeneration mode is standard practice plant in Altbach-Deizisau. in our large conventional power plants. This enables us to fully exploit the input fuel and to A clean machine use the waste heat from our power plants to heat buildings or as process heat in industry. Maintenance and optimisation work of the type shown here at the RheinOptimising generating activities All EnBW plants are equipped with flue gas filters Since 2011, we have also been active in the field hafen steam power plant in Karlsand denitrification systems. Catalytic denitrificaof district heat in Switzerland, where we joined ruhe is performed on a regular We improve the efficiency of our plants by option is one of the techniques for the cleaning of forces with ERZ Entsorgung und Recycling Zübasis timising the technology and processes. Higher flue gases from the combustion process that has rich to set up Fernwärme Zürich AG. This comefficiency automatically means lower fuel conproven its worth in recent decades – a process pany operates a waste incinerating power plant sumption and therefore reduced costs and that uses ammonia and catalysts to create a on site which incinerates around 110,000 tons lower CO2 emissions. The use of new low-emischemical reaction that converts nitrogen oxides of waste a year. www.enbw.com/ sion coal dust burners or optimally designed into harmless nitrogen and water. konventionelle_kraftwerke steam turbine blades helps us to produce a greater amount of energy from the same volume of coal, for example. 40 Nuclear power plants Safety during operation, post-operation and decommissioning Safety takes top priority – during operation and post-operation as well as during the dismantling of our nuclear power plants. Two plant units operated by EnBW Kernkraft GmbH continue to produce electricity reliably, cost-efficiently and in an environment-friendly manner. Two plants have been shut down and are in the post-operational phase, while one plant is currently being dismantled. www.enbw.com/kernkraft Plant safety is top of the agenda at EnBW, all the unit in Neckarwestheim and another in Phillution. We are currently drawing up the specifics of www.enbw.com/magazin, way through to the last produced kilowatt-hour ippsburg still produce electricity, and they conthe shutdown and dismantling strategy based on a Energiewissen (Energy and during the decommissioning and dismantinue to make a key contribution to power supsuperordinate dismantling concept. During this Knowledge) section, tling phases. The guiding principle is safety takes plies and climate protection in Baden-Württemprocess, we can draw on valuable experience dismantling of the Obrigheim nuclear power plant priority over cost efficiency . We systematically berg. Overall, we have generated a total 25 billion gained in the ongoing dismantling operations in pursue a holistic strategy that takes full account of kWh (gross) of electricity, avoiding almost 25 milObrigheim. EnBW discontinued output operation the factors of humankind, technology and lion t of CO2 to the good of the environment. of the nuclear power plant in May 2005 in line organisation and of the interplay between these with the German nuclear energy agreement after factors. We see ourselves as a learning organisaResponsible decommissioning 37 years. Seven years after the plant went off tion, and we continuously monitor and inspect stream, the shutdown and dismantling of the safety at our plants so that we can continue to We discontinued generating operations at the facility are the everyday reality of the employees optimise the safe operation of our facilities. Neckarwestheim I and Philippsburg 1 nuclear at the location, creating am exciting working power units following the events in Japan in environment and a daily challenge. And it must be Responsible operation March 2011. These units are therefore now in the said that the location has achieved a great deal to so-called post-operational phase, which lasts date. The high standards of EnBW Kernkraft GmbH Our nuclear power plants that are still in operaseveral years and during which the preparations in terms of nuclear and work safety have always tion are a byword for reliable, climate-sparing and are made for the decommissioning of the plants. been fully met, and there have been no reportable cost-effective electricity generation. They are The shutdown and dismantling processes themincidents or serious work accidents. characterised by high availability and rapid selves will take several decades and require control capability. They ensure stability in the approvals from the nuclear power regulatory auAn environmental impact assessment showed that power grid and maximum reliability of energy thority, the Baden-Württemberg Ministry for the the decommissioning process has no relevant supply – and today serve as a flanking supply Environment, Climate and the Energy Industry. effects on humans, animals and plants in the system alongside the expansion of renewable surrounding region. When the first shutdown and forms of energy. In recent months, we have gradually created the dismantling permit was issued in the autumn of technical, personnel and organisational precon2008, the de facto decommissioning of the power In 2011, the energy transition led to changes in the ditions for parallel operation, post-operation, plant began following comprehensive planning electricity generation and supply activities of the shutdown and dismantling at our Philippsburg and preparations in the post-operational phase. The plants of EnBW Kernkraft GmbH 2011 comand Neckarwestheim locations. This also constiregulatory authority issued the second shutdown pared to previous years. One nuclear power plant tutes a major contribution to the energy revoand dismantling permit in the autumn of 2011. 41 Renewables Cornerstones of our growth strategy Today, energy generation from renewables already accounts for 11 percent of our energy mix – and is sufficient to supply around 2 million households with electricity. By the year 2020, we intend to increase the installed capacity for renewable generation by around 3,000 megawatts in Germany alone. The target for 2030 is to produce 50 percent of our energy from renewable sources. as sources of emission-free energy for decades. When implementing construction measures, Today, we operate around 70 run-of-river and we always take care to ensure that fish passes pumped-storage power plants, and we are also and recultivated sections of the river banks involved in power plants and expansion projects provide suitable conditions and habitats for outside Germany. 10% of our electricity comes fish and microorganisms. from hydroelectric power, which has become an indispensable part of our energy mix due to its Pumped-storage power plants dependable availability and controllability. Pumped-storage power plants perform an imporIncreasing capacity, tant buffering function in the energy system by sparing the environment balancing out fluctuations in generating output. They are a necessary flanking measure for the There are meanwhile few or no remaining loexpansion of renewable forms of energy. We cations for new large-scale hydroelectric power therefore intend to extend our pumped-storage plants. In order to nevertheless increase producpower plant in Forbach to increase its capacity tion output, however, we are replacing, extendand to build new storage systems in Atdorf and ing and modernising our existing plants: in 2011, Vorarlberg together with our partners. for example, the old facility in Rheinfelden was replaced by a new power plant with four times The future potential of wind energy Hydroelectric power is permanently on tap, does not need any primary energy source and does not therefore produce the generating capacity. And in 2012 the Iffezany carbon dioxide heim power plant on the Rhine will be fitted with The expansion of wind energy is one of the a fifth turbine, making it the biggest run-of-river driving forces behind the energy transition, power plant in Germany. We also investigate the and more and more EnBW wind turbines are A constant with a long tradition: potential of smaller rivers on an ongoing basis meanwhile also turning away on land and at sea. www.enbw.com/erneuerbare hydroelectric power and build new plants where feasible. In July 2011, May 2011 saw the start-up of EnBW Baltic 1, the the last extendable barrage on the Neckar river first commercial wind farm in the German www.enbw.com/baltic1 Baden-Württemberg is rich in rivers, and we have was given its own small run-of-river power plant. Baltic Sea, and we have been doing everything www.enbw.com/baltic2 been using the Rhine and Neckar as well as many we can to push ahead with our next ambitious smaller rivers like the Elz, the Murg or the Iller offshore projects ever since. The EnBW Baltic 2 42 The biomass heating and power plant operated by EnBW Klenk Holzenergie GmbH spares the environment by avoiding around 71,000 tons of C0 2 emissions a year wind farm is currently being built far off the coast near the island of Rügen and is scheduled to feed electricity into the grid from 2014 onwards. We also have big plans for the North Sea, where we want to build two more offshore wind farms of an even bigger size. When planning our offshore projects, we always ensure that municipal utilities and other partners are also on board, and their involvement helps them to profit from our experience and our commitment in the upand-coming offshore market. We meanwhile generate electricity on land at 20 locations in Germany with around 100 wind www.enbw.com/ turbines. This is also a segment in which we are Sun in the power grid Bioenergy – energy in many forms biogasveredelung still growing, and we are continuously developing new projects at high-yield locations – often Photovoltaics is booming – above all in our home The use of biomass to produce energy takes together with municipalities, towns and investors. region of southern Germany. We ourselves bemany forms and is extremely climate-friendly. came involved in electricity generation from the Biomass serves as a source of heating or elecpower of the sun on a large scale in 2009. We trical energy or can be converted into fuel. Our build large roof installations and solar parks in biomass heating and power plants mainly use You can find more inforopen spaces as in Ulm-Eggingen, Leibertingen or wood to generate heat and electricity. We also mation on this topic in the brochure Erneuerbare Leutkirch, the sustainable town . If homeowners employ an innovative process to feed biogas Energien (Renewables) and municipalities want to set up solar power from our own biogas plants or from farms in the download centre at systems on their own initiative, we support directly into the natural gas network. Our www.enbw.com them through people's energy cooperatives . researchers are working at high speed on new methods to obtain biofuel from biomass. 43 Transport and distribution Supply reliability takes priority Through its two grid companies – transmission network operator TransnetBW and distribution network operator EnBW Regional AG – EnBW ensures the efficient transport and distribution of electricity in many parts of Baden-Wurttemberg. Our networks have an overall length of 153,000 kilometres. The increasing expansion of renewables places ever higher demands on the network infrastructure, and we therefore extend and optimise our networks on an ongoing basis. In this way, we make an important contribution to ensuring reliable energy supplies and play an active role in shaping the energy transition. The transmission network conservation needs, such as the breeding behaviour of bird species and the protection of EnBW's independent transport network operator, local vegetation, are fully taken into account. TransnetBW (formerly EnBW Transportnetze AG), This work will be completed in 2013. operates the transmission grid in Baden-Württemberg. The 380 and 220-kV very high voltage The North-South routes will be the focal point lines have a total length of over 3,000 kiloof expansion work on the transmission networks metres. The transmission network is integrated during the next few years. The networks in quesin the national and European interconnection tion are the 380-kV threephase network and the grid via 36 coupling points, and 81 transformers high voltage DC connections. connect it up to the regional 110-kV distribution networks. High voltage DC transmission is increasingly being seen as a cost-effective alternative to We are refitting our 220-kV lines for operation conventional threephase technology for transwith 380 kV step by step in order to increase both mission distances upwards of 400 kilometres. network capacity and the performance capability Thanks to the converter stations at the end of in the transmission network. In addition, a contithe transmission routes, the DC technology also nuous planning process ensures that the network helps to stabilise the entire electrical system. The EnBW's network control centres ensure that the voltage and freis equipped to perform new transport tasks and capacity transported via a line of this type can be quency in our networks remain that we are able to regularly review, adapt and flexibly controlled and regulated and can therestable meet the goals laid out by the legislative in terms fore be fine-tuned to meet the operating requireof capability, technical safety, supply reliability, ments of the downstream threephase network. minimum environmental impact and cost efficiency. The modernisation of the 200 kV overThe distribution network head lines in the Rheintal valley over a length of 170 kilometres that was begun in May 2011 is Our ongoing investment in grid operation undera good example of this. We plan our working pins the high quality of the distribution network schedules in close cooperation with the compeand hence the reliability of power supplies. This tent authorities to ensure that specific nature includes the systematic replacement of overhead 44 www.transnetbw.de lines by buried cables in the medium and low infrastructures on the level of the distribution during the project to develop new products voltage networks. Buried cables have several adnetworks. and services. www.enbw.com/reg: for more information on vantages: they boost the performance capability our distribution networks of the energy infrastructure, they are less suscepMaking the distribution network intelligent: In Freiamt in the southern Black Forest, over tible to disruption in adverse weather conditions mould-breaking EnBW projects 200 photovoltaic, 4 wind power and 2 biogas and they are invisible . In 2011, almost 300 kiloinstallations produce far more electricity over metres of medium voltage cable were renewed or Together with project partners, EnBW has been the year as a whole than the town with its laid as a replacement for overhead power lines. In investigating the intelligent integration of around 4,200 inhabitants actually needs. 2011, we invested over 250 million € in our distrienergy infrastructure and information/commuIn the Freiamt network lab , we analyse and bution network to hook new residential areas up nication technology in the so-called Minimum monitor energy statuses in the network using to the supply network and to modernise existing Emission Region (MeRegio) since 2009. realtime data to determine when and where networks. the local network is stretched to the limit. In the fourth and last project phase that began This paves the way for the targeted and costIn the year under review, more than 120,000 inin 2011, just under 1,000 households, compaefficient expansion of the sub-networks in www.enbw.com/meregio stallations for the generation of energy from renies and energy producers were equipped with question. By equipping the local network www.enbw.com/magazin: newables were already connected to our networks. the corresponding technology and connected stations with online measuring systems, we the Energiewissen (Energy We research, test and use intelligent network techup to the system. All manner of appliances are can compare the weather data and the netKnowledge) section contains nologies to improve network controllability at integrated in the system, including freezers, work data to pinpoint where we need to build animations on the topics of Grid expansion and Intelboth the consumer and producer ends, to ensure dishwashers, stationary battery systems and new transformers or supply lines. This techligent networks optimum integration in the network of renew– within the framework of the sister project nology also makes it easier to localise malable and decentral sources of energy generation MeRegioMobil – electric vehicles as well as functions in the network. And if the generation and to render this energy usable on the ground . electric storage heaters, heat pumps and plants or consumption situation in Freiamt changes, of industrial and commercial customers. Every the technicians at the network control centre The participation models in the network region electricity customer is his or her own energy in Esslingen simply reroute the local energy of EnBW Regional AG are a further example of manager . They receive regular price signals via flows. the partnership-based and decentral corporate a smart meter and a central system platform, strategy of EnBW. We allow municipal utilities enabling them to adapt power consumption and municipalities to profit from our expertise and power feed-in to varying supply and in the management and development of network demand. We intend to use the data collected 45 Decentral solutions and energy services Implementing projects together The reorganisation of the energy supply system goes hand in hand with the development of new technologies, and this means we are increasingly in a position to offer our customers not just the supply of energy but also a range of innovative energy solutions and concepts. of renewables, and holistic concepts. The project Our new research projects are focusing on the Leutkirch – sustainable town is a symbol of this development of business models in the field of new approach. This is a further area in which we e-mobility. The CROME project, for example, is are developing new partnership-based models for conducting research into cross-border transport via municipalities and municipal utilities. electric vehicles and looking at how safe, reliable and user-friendly e-mobility between France and E-mobility: exploring potential and Germany works. The iZeus project is concerned developing products with the development of a system for emission-free urban regions that we are implementing together Baden-Württemberg is one of Germany's pioneerwith municipalities and municipal utilities in ing regions in the field of e-mobility, a concept that Baden-Württemberg. is becoming increasingly important as a business and locational factor. Such things as new drive Baden-Württemberg experienced success in the concepts, a charging infrastructure and efficient nationwide research project Showcase Electromobattery technologies need to be developed and bility with its concept of a LivingLab BW eMobil . made ready-for-market. These are areas in which Within the context of LivingLab, EnBW is chiefly EnBW has been actively involved through various involved in the car2go Stuttgart electric project. In EnBW has set up a total of As part of the strategic realignment of our actiprojects for a number of years now. cooperation with specialist partners in the region, 150 charging stations in the Karlsruhe/Stuttgart region vities, we are increasingly focusing on decentral we are researching and implementing the creation energy solutions, with particular emphasis on Our fleet test from July 2010 to July 2011 using and operation of the world's largest electromobile photovoltaics, e-mobility and the smart home 500 e-bikes provided key information and insights fleet for short-term hire and the installation of the www.enbw.com/ concept as well as energy services for private, into utilisation and charging habits that will help required charging infrastructure. As a result of this emobilitaet commercial and industrial customers, municipal us to develop products and services to promote project, Stuttgart will boast a simple, environmentutilities and the municipalities themselves. We e-mobility in tomorrow's world. EnBW has also friendly and almost totally silent car-sharing syswant to involve customers and partners at local been offering the e-bike for sale since June 2010. tem for everyone from 2012 which will serve as a See also page 30 et seq., Leutkirch – sustainable level and implement our projects in dialogue with Private individuals, municipalities, municipal living showcase for the sustainable mobility of the town the relevant groups in society. The central eleutilities and companies can purchase e-bikes and future. ment of our strategy is the expansion of decentral power charging stations and thereby further the energy generating facilities, above all in the area idea of emission-free mobility. 46 Exploiting the power of the sun our partners in the trades, we have built up a however, and we have therefore developed an comprehensive portfolio in recent years that innovative concept that enables all homeowners EnBW and its Yello subsidiary offer their customers helps people to make the right decisions on the to install an efficient heating system. We are attractive front-to-end solutions in the field of best type of heating technology, for example, currently offering owners of single and twophotovoltaics. Customers not only receive a highthe right insulation and the most suitable family dwellings in the Stuttgart region our quality installation from a reputable manufacturer energy-efficient windows. all-round carefree package for heating systems but also two intelligent electricity meters that forfor a period of ten years. ward all the key information direct to their home The EnBW GebäudeCheck (buildings) and EnBW PC. The package also includes an attractive elecThermografieCheck (thermographs) provide Networks for improved energy efficiency tricity tariff for evening and night-time periods house owners with fast and easy-to-understand when the sun is not shining. information on the exact points at which their Energy efficiency and saving energy are also of home is wasting valuable energy. EnBW energy ever increasing importance in industry. EnBW Since 2008, we have been supporting the creation consultants visit the house, inspect the roof, possesses wide-ranging consulting expertise in of local and regional people's energy cooperatives windows, facade and heating system and, on this field and offers companies an energy-saving and therefore also the local, decentral generation of request, then use the EnBW GebäudeAnalyse platform within the framework of the EnBW energy. Together with local people, municipalities, product to supply non-binding and objective Energy Efficiency Networks . A total of 20 netcompanies and institutions on the ground , this advice on decisions as to which modernisation works have already been set up throughout enables us to play a role in ensuring the sustainable measures are worthwhile. Alongside the services Germany comprising over 200 companies. supply of energy. Up to the present, we have supcontained in the building analysis product, we Following the three-year duration of the assoported the creation of 46 people's energy coopalso offer concrete planning support in the form ciated projects, the companies involved record eratives in Baden-Württemberg – mainly for the of the EnBW ModernisierungsPaket for indiaverage energy savings in the order of 8%. The installation of photovoltaic systems. vidual measures to save energy and implement companies evaluated to date have succeeded in alternative energy concepts. implementing almost 900 individual energy www.enbw.com/magazin: Making buildings more efficient efficiency measures, achieving an annual energy Energiewissen (Energy New heating systems use less energy, are extremeefficiency improvement of around 136 million Knowledge) section, energy refurbishment of buildings EnBW is on hand as an expert partner to support ly flexible and achieve optimum performance kWh and reducing their annual CO2 emissions homeowners and the public sector and provides scores in terms of environmental protection and by 47,000 tons. advice on all questions relating to energy-efficient energy efficiency. Many consumers are wary of construction and modernisation. Together with making the major investment this requires, 47 Field of action Optimising our processes We don't only want to do the right things; we also want to do things right. Because responsibility and efficiency are the principles that guide our actions. And transparent and efficient processes promote sustainability and are ecologically, socially and economically meaningful. This applies to purchasing and procurement as well as to all our day-to-day activities, our plants and our commitment on the customers' premises, where we provide such things as advice and support in the area of energy efficiency. Corporate strategy Sustainability strategy Areas of action Doing the right things Fields of action Innovation and growth Optimising our processes Employees and social commitment Growing renewable forms of energy Sustainable procurement / supply chain Becoming a more attractive employer Areas of action Decentral solutions and energy services Sustainable day-to-day working routines Creating education partnerships Development of a sustainable town In-house environmental protection business model Compliance Report on direct marketing: Report: Interview: faster path to market maturity [ page 37 ] sustainable supply chain [ page 49 ] EnBW is an attractive employer [ page 59 ] IInterview: Interview: Supporting and challenging employees [ page 62 ] natural electricity: developing market skills [ page 39 ] Q&A with coal buyer Jochen Oesterlink [ page 51 ] Report on education partnerships: Activities Conventional power plants [ page 40 ] Targeted environmental protection [ page 52 ] industry meets school [ page 66 ] Nuclear power plants [ page 41 ] Compliance in the EnBW Group [ page 56 ] Giving back to society [ page 69 ] Renewables [ page 42 ] Transport and distribution [ page 44 ] Decentral solutions and energy services [ page 46 ] 48 Sustainable supply chain Responsible procurement On our road to becoming a sustainable group of companies, we need to look at more than just our own business areas. As a large group, we are also dependent on numerous service providers and suppliers, who also have to meet our criteria for sustainable action. A t EnBW, it is our declared aim to conduct procurement processes promptly, efficiently and cost effectively, while at the same time paying due consideration to qualitative, legal and sustainability aspects. By ensuring that we realise these goals and do business in a responsible manner, our purchasing department makes a positive contribution to our corporate results. Sustainability in demand One of the main jobs of the purchasing department is to procure all materials, capital goods and services for the EnBW core companies in areas such as network construction, conventioBefore purchasing plant components, our buyers nal power plants, photovoltaic and wind energy visit the premises of potential suppliers installations and civil engineering as well as operating and business equipment. Prequalification when cost volumes exceed a certain threshold, Our many suppliers come from a wide range of providers undergo a compulsory Integrity Check sectors, but there is one thing they have in All potential suppliers bidding for a contract have focusing on, among other things, compliance common: they have to meet our sustainability to complete a questionnaire outlining the susand sustainability. standards – along the entire value added chain. tainable measures they practice in the fields of We select our suppliers and business partners in data protection, quality management, environContracts are awarded with the help of an assessa multi-stage process that is in place throughout mental management, safety at the workplace and ment matrix that also includes aspects like envithe group, and in May 2011 we introduced the occupational safety. For critical product categoronmental protection and social criteria in the Integrity Check . ries, such as the contracting of consultants outoverall evaluation process. In 2011, we launched side Germany and construction services, and a project aimed at standardising and optimising 49 www.enbw.com/compliance the group-wide prequalification processes in the Eight escalation levels Sustainable day-to-day work environment central corporate purchasing department. This system enables us to assess and select suppliers These sustainability requirements are verified in Our employees undergo regular training by exin line with a uniform standard. Group-wide regular and transparent supplier audits. We have perienced experts on the issue of compliance. minimum suitability criteria are also defined in introduced a group-wide supplier assessment We are also gradually including sustainability the area of sustainability. Compliance with these system with an eight-level escalation process. themes in the training catalogue. Our testing sustainability requirements is therefore now part This process culminates in termination of the and examination programme also makes inand parcel of the selection process for suppliers business relationship if a supplier deviates from creasing use of new media such as e-learning and service providers at EnBW. the desired conduct in a way that is no longer concepts with examination certificates. acceptable. A distinction is made between deThrough our holdings outside Germany, we also fects with external impact and hazard potential, In order to align and optimise our processes, help to ensure that our sustainability criteria are defects with external effects with regard to cuswe have been involved in reputed associations firmly rooted in our operations on international tomers and defects which impact the internal for many years now, such as the German Assolevel, and these criteria are incorporated in the relationship between purchasing department ciation Materials Management, Purchasing and prequaliification process as well as in our purand supplier. Logistics (BME) or the German Association of chasing terms and conditions. We provide supEnergy and Water Industries (BDEW). These port in the form of training courses, dialogue Low-wage and developing countries associations draw up and develop sector-wide events and communication measures and moguidelines and indicators, increasingly also nitor compliance through on-site audits. In the product groups IT consulting and facility for the issue of sustainability in purchasing management, prequalification and supplier operations. Training courses and plant audits audits are reviewed by an independent service provider in a transparent process. We attach The EnBW purchasing department was one Contractors who already work for EnBW agree to particular importance to compliance with laws of the driving forces behind the creation of a undergo regular training in areas like occupational and regulations in developing and low-wage working group made up of representatives of safety, hazardous substances and health protection. countries. The focus in these countries is on well-known international energy supply comThey also enter into a commitment to comply working conditions based on the principles of panies who work together to define generally with standardised international environmental the internationally recognised social or ethical valid suitability criteria for supplier prequalifimanagement standards like ISO 14001, and this standards (ILO core working standards), such as cation and who can therefore also make high ensures that they are committed to the constant the inadmissibility of child and forced labour. demands in the marketplace when it comes to improvement of their environmental performance. sustainability. 50 Is there such a thing as sustainable coal ? Q&A with coal buyer Jochen Oesterlink We rely on imports from abroad to operate our coal-fired power plants – and this coal often comes from countries where the situation in terms of working conditions and environmental standards in the mining industry is problematic. We attempt to achieve improvements by visiting supplier sites, meeting with nongovernmental organisations and participating in projects geared towards sustainable coal procurement. Will coal continue to be an important raw I worked in mining above and below ground for material for EnBW in years to come? many years and I'm familiar with the conditions Oesterlink: The expansion of renewables is not in the main mining regions in Germany and possible if we do not simultaneously secure abroad. That's why the conditions under which around-the-clock energy supplies using concoal is mined for our power plants is a topic ventional power plants. Coal remains a cheap close to my heart. My colleagues and I regularly and reliable source of energy and will help elecvisit mines of our business partners worldwide, tricity prices to remain internationally compein South Africa, Russia and Colombia, so that we titive for German industry in the coming years can form an impression of working, environwhile ensuring socially acceptable energy prices mental and social conditions on site. for private households. Coal buyer Jochen Oesterlink has himself worked both Have conditions deteriorated in recent above and below ground Do you think there is such a thing as years? sustainable coal? Oesterlink: I believe that conditions on the sustainability factors when procuring Oesterlink: The mining of coal is always whole have improved worldwide. Above all big coal? associated with large-scale impacts on the mining companies – and these are the only ones Oesterlink: As a power plant operator, we are at natural environment, but these impacts can be we use as suppliers for our coal – attach ever the end of an international supply chain that minimised by using state-of-the-art technology greater importance to good working conditions has not always been known for attaching imand taking systematic recultivation measures. and compliance with environmental and social portance to sustainability. When buying coal We use the latest technology to make our power standards. Conditions on site also depend through a middle man, it's almost impossible plants more climate-friendly and we are largely on the willingness of state actors to to influence the procurement situation in the involved in climate protection projects all over systematically tackle these issues, however. extraction countries. That's simply not good the world. Ultimately, therefore, only joint solution models enough. And that's why we are in regular contact that inwith the local producers, why we are always What about the complaints regarding volve all the interest groups can bring success open to dialogue with groups in society and violations of work safety, environmental in this area. why we look for joint solutions to improve susstandards and human rights in the mining tainability along the entire value added chain. sector? What concrete options does EnBW as a Oesterlink: We are well aware of the accusations. coal consumer have to take account of Thank you for talking to us. 51 Targeted environmental protection Corporate goals, measures and projects The protection of the environment is firmly rooted in the corporate goals of EnBW. This means that environmental protection is a central objective on group level and in all companies – and a binding obligation for all employees in their day-to-day work. Our goals for the period up to 2015 Specific CO2 emissions: the goal is to secure our outstanding status as a low-CO2 power generator Based on defined indicators, we have laid down and to keep the emissions from our electricity quantitative corporate goals for renewables, production operations below the German direct and indirect CO2 emissions, air pollutants average. Compared to the previous year, 2011 and biodiversity for the period from 2011 to emissions were up by around 15% to 346 g/kWh. 2015. The reference year for these goals is 2010. This is due to the lower share of nuclear energy following the shutdown of the Neckarwestheim At the end of the first year, the status report I and Philippsburg 1 units, while the volume of www.enbw.com/ Specific CO2 emissions shows that we have already fully or partly conventional power generation remained more umweltschutz (electricity generation1 of the EnBW Group) achieved some of these goals. Using selected or less unchanged. Nevertheless, emissions are in g/kWh corporate environmental protection goals as a still well below the overall average for Germany 600 starting point, the following section outlines of 494 g/kWh in 2010. (The figures for 2011 were German average in previous year2 EnBW Group the status for 2011. not available at the time of going to press.) 500 508 494 Renewables: the share of renewables in total Energy efficiency projects: we intend to reduce 400 own generation is slightly up on 2010, and we CO2 emissions by a further 28% by implemenintend to significantly increase this share in the ting energy efficiency projects at the locations 300 346 coming years: in the period up to 2020, we will of our customers. In 2010, we were able to 299 be investing 8 to 10 billion € in the energy implement numerous projects with energy200 transition and therefore also in renewable forms saving guarantees , thereby avoiding an 100 of energy. In particular, our investment to date above-average volume of CO2 emissions. We in the expansion of renewables as well as the were regrettably unable to maintain this high 0 start-up of the Rheinfelden run-of-river power level of avoided CO2 emissions in 2011, but we 2010 2011 plant and the EnBW Baltic 1 offshore wind farm did succeed in increasing energy savings by just 1 Own generation also includes long-term procurement agreements. 2 The German average for the reporting year in question is not in 2011 underline the consistency and determiunder 4% – from 143,995,000 kWh in 2009 to published until the autumn of the following year. Comparison nation with which we are pursuing the defined 149,515,000 kWh in 2011. is therefore with the German average for the previous year. objectives. 52 CO2-footprint in 2011 CO2footprint 2011 caused CO2 emissions of 582 tons, the CO2-emissions in million t recovery of energy from the hydraulic potential 30 29 2010 was the first year that EnBW calculated its enabled us to avoid CO2 emissions in the order of group-wide CO2 footprint based on Scope 1 and 1,316 tons at the same time. The bottom line, 25 Scope 2 of the international Greenhouse Gas therefore, is that we succeeded in avoiding an 22 Protocol standard. Scopes 1 and 2 were incorpoannual 734 tons of CO2 through our water supply 20 rated in the CO2 audit. We have optimised our operations. By continuously optimising this 15 group-wide CO2 footprint for 2011 and now process, EnBW Regional AG intends to increase additionally report our Scope 3 emissions, the the reclaimed electricity volume by 8% to 10 calculation of which is optional under the GHG around 4 million kWh a year by 2020 while Protocol. reducing the amount of energy needed by 10% 5 to 2.5 million kWh a year. 1 Avoided CO2 emissions: numerous business ac0 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 tivities of EnBW result in the avoidance of CO2 IBEC project: the goal of EnBW's 20/20/20 emissions. They include electricity generation energy efficiency programme is to reduce CO2 from nuclear and renewable sources, energy emissions by at least 20% and cut costs by at Avoided CO2-emissions in 2011 efficiency projects at customer and partner loleast 20% in its property portfolio by the year CO2-emissions in thousand t cations, international climate protection pro2020 based on 2010 reference values. We are 30.000 jects (CDM and JI projects) within the context currently analysing around 500 buildings with of the Kyoto Protocol and the generation of a total gross floor area of roughly one million 25.000 26.000 electricity and heating energy from biogas. square metres. 20.000 Energy efficiency at EnBW EnBW Real Estate GmbH has launched the project Improving Building Energy Costs (IBEC) in 15.000 Drinking water supply: the drinking water order to achieve this goal. IBEC will develop the 10.000 supply system operated by EnBW in Stuttgart necessary structures, processes and methods to produces more energy than it uses. The reason ensure holistic and sustainable energy manage5.000 for this is that, instead of destroying the ment for the property portfolio of EnBW. The 6.000 hydraulic poproject is geared towards the requirements of 66 0 tential via pressure-reducing valves, we use this the ISO 50001 standard entitled Energy ManageNuclear energy Generation from Other renewables energy to produce electricity prior to feed-in ment Systems . into the municipal network. Since EnBW took on responsibility for water supply in 2002, we have The project focuses not only on technical and been able to reclaim over 33 million kWh of operational optimisation but also on usage electricity from the power of the water and feed habits. Purpose-designed training courses and this energy into the electricity grid. Although information campaigns are in place to increase the electricity withdrawn from the network in awareness levels among our employees for 53 energy efficiency potential in their working Conservation (LUBW). Through the EnBW measures at numerous locations in 2011. Our environment and to motivate them to change amphibian protection programme, EnBW is for fitters mounted further nesting boxes on overtheir energy utilisation habits. the first time supporting projects throughout the head line pylons for peregrine falcons, kestrels, whole of Baden-Württemberg that are not linked little owls and other birds and also ringed young Green IT: we also keep a particular eye on to specific locations with the aim of protecting storks in cooperation with nature conservation energy consumption in our computing centres. amphibian species in its home state, thereby societies and associations. These activities show The efficiency with which the energy is used can making an important contribution to the just how well modern energy supply operations be determined with the help of the internatioBiodiversity action plan called into being by the and sustainable species protection can complenally recognised power usage effectiveness Baden-Württemberg state government. ment each other. (PUE) factor. The PUE calculates the ratio between the power used and power delivered to EnBW not only provides the necessary funding TransnetBW, EnBW's independent transport netthe IT components. A good PUE is below 2.0, and for the various measures but also deploys emwork operator, commissioned an ecological inthe figure for the EnBW computing centres is ployees together with the LUBW for the specialist stitute to prepare a study on bird protection for 1.75. In 2011, we were able to reduce the PUE by a evaluation of projects and PR activities. the period from 2008 to 2011 together with exfurther 0.12 points through measures such as perienced ornithologists and biologists. The obthe retrofitting of an external air cooling In 2011, a total of 46 support applications were jective was to determine the potential collision system. received for funding under the Stimuli for hazard for birds due to the earthing ropes on the Diversity programme from associations, local top of the pylons. In 2011, TransnetBW used the Virtualisation and consolidation are further groups of the nature conservation federations, findings of the study to identify the overhead ways to optimise energy and process efficiency cities and municipalities as well as private inline sections where measures needed to be taken in computing centres and make better use of IT dividuals. 16 of these applications were approved to protect the birds from possible collisions. resources. It was to this end that we launched by a specialist committee made up of representaThese findings will also be incorporated in the our project Increasing the server virtualisation tives of the state government, species experts future planning of new overhead power lines. level to 90% at the end of February 2011. We had and EnBW employees and were implemented in already achieved 85% virtualisation by the end 2011. The supported measures not only create Reducing noise levels during the construction of 2011. By the time the project is completed in new habitats and spawning waters but also imof offshore wind farms: it gets loud underwater mid-2012, we will have reduced the number of prove existing habitats for amphibious animals. when offshore wind energy installations are physical servers by around 300. being built. The monopiles, jackets or tripods that Due to the great success of the EnBW amphibian anchor the wind turbines to the sea bed are www.enbw.com/biodiversitaet Biodiversity, nature conservation and protection programme Stimuli for Diversity , driven into the floor using piling hammers. species protection the support scheme will remain in place in 2012 Efforts are underway to reduce the resulting and tenders will once again be invited for projects. noise emissions in order to protect marine Amphibian Protection Programme: in 2011, we mammals, in particular the threatened harbour initiated the EnBW amphibian protection Bird protection in the network area: bird porpoise. Together with the Hochtief company, programme Stimuli for Diversity together with protection in the overhead line network has long EnBW therefore tested the bubble curtain column the Baden-Württemberg State Institute for the been a matter of high priority for EnBW, and we developed by Hochtief and designed to signifiEnvironment, Measurements and Nature once again implemented active bird protection cantly reduce ramming noise before the start of 54 serious construction work on the second Baltic wind farm, EnBW Baltic 2. After this trial phase, we became involved in the ESRA research programme to evaluate systems for ramming noise mitigation together with seven other builders and operators of offshore wind farms. All systems have resulted in noise reduction in certain frequency ranges from 15 to 20 dB but did not reduce noise levels across the full relevant frequency range. Nevertheless, this unique series of trials has provided key insights for the development of tested and new noise reduction systems, and the findings of the 3.9 million € project are available to the entire German offshore industry. The aim is to reliably achieve a level of below 160 dB in the foreseeable future and then to further reduce noise levels in the long term. A new habitat is also being created for the European Environmentally based supplier assessment green toad In 2011, we once again regularly assessed the performance of the group's strategically most important suppliers and those with the highest At www.enbw.com/umweltschutz, turnover on site using the Feliks Web-based you can find information on supplier assessment system. Environmentally further environmental protection activities of EnBW such as: relevant aspects such as the handling of waste, › Environment management resources and substances that pose a threat to system in line with ISO 14001 water or the correct transport of dangerous › Immission protection › Climate protection projects goods account for 12% of the overall assessment › Water conservation and soil score. With a fulfilment level of 68%, the enviprotection ronment-related requirements and expectations › Waste management of EnBW were once again met by our suppliers in the year under review. 55 Compliance in the EnBW Group Observing rules – taking responsibility As the third largest energy supplier in Germany, we are fully aware of the paramount importance of compliance, in other words adherence to legal regulations and internal guidelines, and we have therefore defined compliance with the rules as one of the fundamental elements of our business practices. One of the key elements of our compliance is geared towards the requirements of the IDW management system is the code of conduct of the auditing standard 980. The next step in this EnBW Group. It helps employees to find their process will be the introduction of an external bearings in their day-to-day work and sets out efficacy review. binding guidelines for dealings with customers, competitors, officials and public institutions. A The annual compliance programme approved risk-oriented and preventive compliance strategy by the Management Board and forwarded to the protects our company sustainably and over the Supervisory Board and Audit Committee is long term from damage to our reputation or based on a risk assessment that is performed liability risks. Such a strategy requires a perfectly every autumn and that covers all group compaaligned compliance management system (CMS) nies. Relevant functions are reviewed to identify that meets the defined standards in interplay inherent and new compliance risks; the findings with an appropriate compliance programme of these process form the basis for the fields of including specific measures. Our CMS is tailored action defined for future measures. The impleto the circumstances within our group and forms mentation and monitoring of these preventive the basis for compliance with legal regulations measures with regard to the compliance issues and internal rules. of corruption, fraud and anti-trust violations are the primary tasks of the employees in the CorCompliance was also one of the key Our efforts are geared towards establishing inteCompliance Management System and porate Compliance unit. topics at last year's management meeting grity of action as something that is second nature annual compliance programme throughout the entire group and instructing all Compliance training courses employees to act in line with this principle, as The CMS at EnBW integrates three key aspects: integrity – in other words compliance with laws prevention (risk management, code of conduct, Compliance with the rules begins with underwww.enbw.com/compliance and regulations, honesty, dependability and guidelines, training courses etc.), identification standing and insight. This is why EnBW attaches fairness – is an essential precondition for the (business partner review, monitoring, internal major importance to the training of employees sustainable success of our business operations. control system etc.) and reaction (reaction to and management personnel in this area. Faceviolations, follow-up, ongoing development of to-face seminars for management personnel methods and processes). In the latter area, the and employees in sensitive areas as well as continuous development of compliance processes e-learning modules that can be accessed 56 throughout the group create a better understanrisks. The overriding aim of these rules is to avoid ding of the relevant issues. Since 2009, over 150 Sustainability based on clear rules: the financial damage and risks to the reputation of face-to-face training courses have been held Guideline Management System of EnBW EnBW in its activities outside Germany. within the group and have been attended by practically all management personnel as well as The precondition for sustainable action based on This process comprises an integrity check to around 2,400 employees, over 10% of the EnBW compliance with rules is that the rules are imclassify the compliance risk by the competent workforce. portant, complete, understandable and up-tospecialist department as well as a case-based date. This is ensured on group level by the guidefollow-up review by the Corporate Compliance Advisory services and communication line management system introduced at EnBW in unit. The system is designed to ensure that future measures 2010. A clearly defined process is now in place partnerships entered into by EnBW not only gencovering all aspects from the compilation to the erate business success but also make a positive The internal advisory hotline is open to all suspension of a set of rules, and this not only contribution to underscoring our image and reemployees and management personnel and ensures greater transparency but also underpins putation as a responsible company. received around 770 inquiries in 2011; the calls the binding nature of compliance. By the end of mainly concerned the acceptance/giving of 2011, all the group-wide regulations on the key In addition to engaging in the regular exchange of presents, the approval of sponsoring commitcross-functional activities such as procurement, information and ideas in various national forums ments, business partner reviews and questions accounting and risk management had been reon promising approaches to the prevention of on competition and anti-trust law. EnBW reviewed, revised and centrally published. corruption, EnBW is also involved in international porting on the key compliance themes is fully initiatives. This means that we are also commitwww.weforum.org/issues/ transparent and takes the form of such things as Integrity in business dealings ted to fighting corruption and promoting human partnering-against-corruption-initiative regular newsletters for employees and articles in rights outside our company. We are, for example, the employee newspaper. Alongside the CorpoBut compliance is not only about adherence to a member of the UN Global Compact and – since rate Compliance unit, other departments and rules by EnBW employees. What is equally im2010 – the Partnering Against Corruption Initiaemployees at EnBW are also tasked with enportant is the painstaking choice and review of tive of the World Economic Forum. suring compliance with the relevant laws and EnBW's business partners to ensure that probinternal guidelines in the group, such as those lems like corruption or violations of social and Reporting covering work safety, data protection, informaenvironmental standards do not reflect badly tion and communication security, environmenon our company. Equally business partners Every year, reports are submitted to the Managetal protection and unbundling compliance. To should feel committed to a compliance standard ment Board, the Supervisory Board and the Audit promote the exchange of information between comparable to that defined by EnBW in its code Committee on topical compliance issues and the all the units and departments, a Compliance of conduct. ongoing development of the compliance manageDay is staged every year where internal and ment system. Moreover, the Director of Personnel, external speakers raise awareness levels for inThe business partner review process at EnBW is Legal and IT – the Board member responsible for tegrity of action and practical conduct in the governed by clear-cut rules that provide for the compliance – receives regular status reports. As day-to-day working environment. careful selection and monitoring of business and when necessary, the management teams at partners with regard to the aforementioned the group companies are also informed about relevant compliance issues or incidents. 57 Field of action Employees and commitment It is always the employees at EnBW who are responsible for the success of our business operations. This is why we support and challenge our employees in a variety of ways. But it is not just what happens inside the company that draws our attention. We also and always focus on the outside world – as shown by our wide-ranging social and societal commitments ranging from popular sports complete with youth promotion schemes to cultural institutions and the education of future generations. Corporate strategy Sustainability strategy Areas of action Doing the right things Fields of action Innovation and growth Optimising our processes Employees and social commitment Growing renewable forms of energy Sustainable procurement / supply chain Becoming a more attractive employer Areas of action Decentral solutions and energy services Sustainable day-to-day working routines Creating education partnerships Development of a sustainable town In-house environmental protection business model Compliance Report on direct marketing: Report: Interview: faster path to market maturity [ page 37 ] sustainable supply chain [ page 49 ] EnBW is an attractive employer [ page 59 ] Interview: Interview: Supporting and challenging employees [ page 62 ] natural electricity: developing market skills [ page 39 ] Q&A with coal buyer Jochen Oesterlink [ page 51 ] Report on education partnerships: Activities Conventional power plants [ page 40 ] Targeted environmental protection [ page 52 ] industry meets school [ page 66 ] Nuclear power plants [ page 41 ] Compliance in the EnBW Group [ page 56 ] Giving back to society [ page 69 ] Renewables [ page 42 ] Transport and distribution [ page 44 ] Decentral solutions and energy services [ page 46 ] 58 EnBW is an attractive employer Work in the era of the energy transition For Juliane Pilster, Michael Gruber and Martin Kuhn the energy transition is more than just a buzzword: it is part and parcel of their daily working reality at EnBW and determines the tasks they perform. A wide range of exciting challenges provides them with the opportunity to play a part in shaping the future of the energy industry while acquiring valuable qualifications. Juliane Pilster (27) has been with EnBW since 2009 Isn't it generally the case that it's tough for and was appointed Head of the Coordination and women in technical professions? Technology department at EnBW Regional AG in I haven't encountered any problems at EnBW to September 2011. date just because I'm a woman. Some colleagues might perhaps still be slightly surprised that a What is your academic background? women is planning, say, the measuring techI studied Business and Electrical Engineering at nology for a project. When all's said and done, it's Chemnitz University of Technology specialising in results that matter. Regardless of whether you're a electric power engineering, and my main fields of man or a woman, what counts most of all is interest were energy supply and renewable forms of expertise and personality! Head of department after only three years – Juliane Pilster energy. is involved in the field of action entitled Employees and commitment and is shaping the energy future of the Everyone's talking about the energy electricity networks You're head of department at just 27. transition. How does it affect you? How did you achieve that? It more or less determines the nature of my job. After graduating I applied for a job at EnBW and The Low-Voltage Network Lab was also directly started working in the Coordination and Techconcerned with the energy transition. It was nology department of EnBW Regional AG in about planning the regional electricity grid of the December 2009, where I was involved in and future, which has to be equipped to cope with headed many different projects. In December 2010 increasing volumes of power from renewables. I was put in charge of the Low-Voltage Network The work of the Coordination and Technology Lab project in Sonderbuch. When the head of department focuses on technical innovations in Coordination and Technology department took on the power networks. And it is precisely now, when new tasks, I was presented with a great opportunity the energy sector is undergoing far-reaching and was able to apply for the vacant position. change, that we need to optimise the technologies that ensure that the company is successful and 59 What other advantages does working for EnBW Baltic 1. The new wind turbines are around EnBW have? one third as large again at just under 140 metres. I like the flexible working hours. I can use time in The success of the project is extremely important lieu for my private activities – writing my disserfor the group in the context of the energy tation, for example. I don't need to worry about transition. planning family life when the day comes, as EnBW provides valuable support in this area, like the That sounds like a lot of responsibility! Tell childcare centre at the Stuttgart location. And I'm us a bit about your career background? already being given excellent opportunities for After studying Mechanical Engineering at the further training through the part-time proEsslingen University of Applied Sciences, I joined gramme leading to the qualification of certified EnBW in 2010 as a group trainee and got to know project manager in line with the international different companies within the group, including standard. EEE. I found the topics they were dealing with – new technologies and the planning and conEnsuring the success of the EnBW Baltic 2 wind farm: Michael Gruber always up to date in years to come. We are Michael Gruber (29) has been with EnBW since struction of large-scale projects – particularly from EnBW Erneuerbare Energien cooperating closely with ten universities in 2010 and was appointed Quality Assurance exciting. After completing the trainee proGmbH Germany within the framework of a research Officer at EnBW Erneuerbare Energien GmbH gramme,that's why I applied for the job in wind programme. Our research focuses on issues like (EEE) in 2011. offshore quality management in Hamburg. the integration of renewables or smart grids, which have gained considerably in imporYou've just returned from Denmark. Have you ever regretted this decision? tance as a result of the energy transition . What were you doing there? Never, the offshore field is currently one of the I was at the production facilities of Siemens Wind most exciting fields to be involved in. The exWhat do you particularly like about your Power A/S in Brande, Ølgod and Aalborg, where pansion targets set out in the energy transition current job? the turbines for our second offshore wind farm in cannot be achieved on the required scale withI have been involved in the very latest topics from the Baltic, EnBW Baltic 2, are being made. I was layout offshore wind farms. Offshore is a key elethe outset, and that can only be of advantage in ing the groundwork for the monitoring of ment in the energy transition. As we regularly my future career. In addition to its involvement in production by EnBW and the certifier. enter uncharted territory, there are very few numerous internal and external projects, the established standards and a great many chal­ department also supports the Young Guns What does your job entail exactly? lenges. working group which gives young employees a I work from the offshore office of EEE in Hamburg chance to work on innovative ideas and review and I'm generally responsible for quality manageWhat do you particularly like about your their feasibility. We also cooperate closely with ment. Together with our suppliers I draw up job? various units and group companies, and our remit quality concepts – as I've just been doing in DenMy daily work plays a role in determining is rounded off by the performance of coordinating mark – and coordinate quality monitoring of the whether the wind farm will be a success and functions for the Technical Director on the Board. construction work. My main job at the moment whether it will be a profitable venture for EnBW in My job is extremely varied. concerns the wind turbine for Baltic 2. This wind years to come. This entails a great deal of farm will be four times bigger than the first one, responsibility. It calls for independent initiative 60 and the courage to make decisions. But it is What are the issues that preoccupy you precisely this opportunity to actively shape most? processes and projects on my own initiative that After Fukushima everyone, myself included, I enjoy and that makes my job so exciting. experienced a rollercoaster of emotions. We were naturally extremely moved by events in Japan, Martin Kühn (51) joined EnBW in 1986. He has and the political impacts it all had in Germany been working in the Nuclear Power unit since have affected us directly. Adapting to the new 1999 and was appointed Head of Operations situation from one day to the next was a real for Unit 1 of Philippsburg nuclear power plant challenge. The job now is to prepare the team for (KKP 1) in January 2012 the new tasks to be performed during decommissioning. This is a highly complex process and To what extent have the events in represents a major challenge in terms of both the Fukushima changed your work? technical aspects involved and the necessary Martin Kühn and his colleagues master the challenges The events in Fukushima and the ensuing deciproject management. But it's a challenge we will presented by the decommissioning of the nuclear power sion to launch the energy transition have tomaster with our highly skilled employees. plant in Philippsburg tally changed not only my day-to-day work and my career prospects but also those of all my How is EnBW supporting you in this difficult can give their feedback to the managecolleagues. It was because of what happened in situation? ment anonymously. Fukushima that the number one units in Many employees are now performing new jobs Philippsburg and Neckarwestheim were permarelated to the decommissioning process. The What effect do these measures have on nently shut down. This is a major turnaround for company provides active support to help them employees? someone who has been with EnBW since 1986 and adapt. The change management concept for They show that they have the backing of EnBW in various jobs at the KKP 1 nuclear power plant shutdown and demolition planning drawn up by even under the current difficult circumstances. since 1999. EnKK (EnBW Kernkraft GmbH) also includes The workshops are tailored to our situation and targeted further training courses. These meaalso give employees the feeling that the manageHow has it impacted your working sures will be continued in the coming years and ment is doing everything it possibly can to deenvironment in concrete terms? adapted to cater to the changes that arise. The velop future-oriented solutions. The further Up to December 2011, I was head of the shift team EnKK training department stages other further training measures open up new career perspectifor the unit, which means I was responsible for training courses that are tailored to our specific ves. We know that we will still have a job to do in coordinating employees and work tasks to ensituation. At the same time, the company is the company after our nuclear power plants are sure the flawless functioning of the installation in trying to respond to the increased demand for shut down.. terms of both technical efficiency and safety. I communication and orientation. We have been was named head of overall operations for KKP 1 in and still are being informed on an ongoing basis January 2012. In view of the energy transition and about the situation in Fukushima and the rethe resulting uncertainty for employees, I will sulting impacts on the company. As early as last continue to face major challenges in terms of autumn, the management launched the 5 Quesemployee leadership. tions of the Week scheme, via which employees 61 Supporting and challenging employees Change as an opportunity The restructuring of our company as a result of the energy transition calls for the commitment and know-how of all employees and requires a willingness to accept change. central management will be strengthened and High-profile training the complexity within the group reduced. All employees are called upon to show a willingness As a company that trains apprentices, EnBW – and the will – to change during this process. competes with other companies for the interest Despite or perhaps because of these developof young people. This is why a clear-cut training ments, it is in our interest to maintain our status profile is so important. as an attractive employer, who not only challenges but also supports its employees. As a major employer in the state of Baden-Württemberg, it is important to us to be able to offer Attractive employer young people in the region an opportunity to undergo high-quality training. And we naIn 2012, the international research company CRF turally also need well-trained and committed once again conferred the title of Top Employer young employees for our business activities. in Germany on EnBW. We were ranked third This is why we do everything we can to ensure overall out of a total of 118 participating compathat apprentices and students enjoy comprehennies; EnBW recorded particularly high scores in sive and thorough training at EnBW. We support the categories Secondary Benefits & Work-Life them in their day-to-day work right from the School-leavers receive quality vocational training at EnBW Balance and Corporate Culture . The fact that outset so that they can put the theoretical knowIn response to the increasingly difficulty context we have been awarded this title for the eighth ledge they have acquired into practice as quickly in which our business activities take place, we time in succession confirms that we are conas possible. The training programmes comprise decided in summer 2011 to raise the volume of stantly viewed as an attractive employer even not only courses on specialised topics but also the group-wide improvement target set out in in this dynamically changing business environseminars on methodological and social skills. In our Focus efficiency project to 750 million € a ment. On the whole, we are highly rated as a addition to offering conventional technical or year from the end of 2014. This includes a sustainquality employer relative to other companies. commercial apprenticeship training, we also able personnel contribution of 250 million € a And this is extremely important, as this is the organise cooperative study courses. And our year. The first immediate measure taken in July only way to ensure that we can recruit new Girls' Day “ and Girls' Technology Camp for2011 was a temporary recruitment freeze. One of employees with the necessary skills and retain mats are designed to interest higher numbers of the main elements of Focus is the restructurthe in-house expertise that is critical to the young women in technical occupations. ing of the group. In the new EnBW structure success of our company. 62 www.enbw.com/karriere Starting a career Securing and developing skills and expertise Knowledge management www.enbw.com/ traineeprogramm In 2011, we once again offered many students In addition to recruiting qualified employees in the Our Knowledge Transfer programme systemathe opportunity to gather hands-on experience relevant target groups, a further core objective of tically secures the retention of knowledge in the as working students during internships or while our personnel management strategy is to develcompany. It ensures that key expertise and excompleting their degree theses. We are also inop the skills and abilities of employees and manperience are passed on when the personnel makevolved in advancing the prospects of students agement personnel in the company and to ensure up changes. Knowledge management coordinathrough schemes like the Energy Career Prothat the group retains the expertise that is crititors and business partners take goal-focused gram , Network² , Competence Compass or as cal to our business success. The EnBW competence measures to pool the broadly based knowledge a partner company of Femtec, a university camanagement scheme systematically prepares within the company and make this knowledge reer centre which aims to advance the careers of employees for future challenges with the aim of readily accessible. They define, establish and women in the fields of natural science and techincreasing the competitiveness of the company. pass on proven methods and processes. nology. Our activities in the field of university Standardised target profiles for employees, clearly recruiting also pay dividends: around one in defined evaluation criteria and structured emSince 2005, EnBW is the only major company in three graduate career starters who joined us last ployee reviews enable us to indentify developGermany that has regularly reviewed its intelyear worked in some capacity at EnBW while mental needs more easily and to respond to these lectual capital using the Intellectual Capital they were still studying. needs more effectively. All employees in the EnBW Report – Made in Germany . In this process, the Group can take advantage of the targeted further factors that influence intellectual capital in the Our 15-month group trainee programme serves training measures organised by the EnBW Acacentral companies of the group are evaluated in You can find more information as an attractive stepping-stone into the energy demy. Our annual ME EnBW management a targeted self-assessment performed by emon our personnel strategy on industry for university graduates and helps us development process is designed to strengthen ployee groups whose members represent the page 84 of our latest Annual Report. to find suitable new personnel with academic management skills within the company. It forms various specialities and hierarchical levels at backgrounds. In several practice phases at difthe basis for systematic and effective developEnBW. The findings of the intellectual capital ferent companies, during stays abroad and by ment and succession planning on all managereport pave the way for assessment of the deinteracting with specialists and management ment levels. The securing and development of velopment of intellectual capital in the group executives, the trainees become familiar with skills is one of four central focal areas that EnBW and the identification of optimisation potential, the core business activities of EnBW and are well defined for its personnel strategy in 2011 with the based on which specific measures are then imprepared to head up teams or projects by the aim of ensuring that the company workforce plemented. end of the programme. continues to be fit for future. 63 part-time working arrangements, part-time reWomen's network and mentoring tirement and support in looking after children or family members in need of care. The women's network at EnBW serves as a platform for the internal and external exchange of Around 80 childcare places are reserved for the information and experience; it encourages fechildren of EnBW employees in public nurseries male employees to engage in the constructive near EnBW City in Stuttgart, close to the corporate discussion of a wide range of topics and inheadquarters in Karlsruhe and in Biberach. In creases the visibility of female high potentials . emergencies, employees can also bring their In 2011, a mentoring scheme was created that children with them and work in one of the child allowed members of this network to enter into offices . These measures are also designed to dialogue with a female management executive increase the percentage of female management of their choice so that could learn and benefit personnel at EnBW. from the latter's experiences – for example in the planning of their own careers. The women's If family members are in need of care. we supnetwork also staged several events during the port our employees within the framework of the year under review focusing on topics like proGerman Nursing Leave Act and provide expert moting the prospects of women and increasing During a meeting of the women's network, the participants were able and comprehensive advice on all matters related the share of women at EnBW management level. to gain some insights into the to caregiving together with the pme Familienserday-to-day working routines of their Flexible and family-friendly vice provider. A project launched in 2001 called Sought-after employees female colleagues in unit 8 of the Rheinhafen steam power plant. Mobile Working will in future allow more flexAs a family-friendly company – as confirmed ible working routines that cater to the specific The findings of the most recent and second emby the berufundfamilie certificate from the needs of individual employees. To this end, we ployee survey in 2010 underlined the close bond Hertie Foundation – we make it possible for our have signed a pilot agreement with employee between the workforce and the company. In 2011, You can find details of the findings for 2011 in our employees to reconcile the demands of work and representatives to create a transparent and rewe began to develop and implement measures updated Annual Report on private life. The measures in place include such liable framework for day-based work from home. based on the survey findings. In this way, the pages 74 et seq. and 86 things as flexible working hours, health promo150 employees from four companies are currently employee survey makes an important contribution, company-level integration management, testing the new work model over a period of nine tion towards making our company better. Our months. improvement schemes !mpuls , WIN and 64 KVP (continuous improvement process) are protective equipment, fire simulation, fire Stem cell donation: the cross-location typing also geared towards the ongoing optimisation alarms and the right way to use a fire extinguisprogramme organised by the occupational of EnBW together with our employees. A total her. medicine department of EnBW lasted four weeks. of 3,561 suggestions for improvements were Around 1,000 employees agreed to be entered in submitted by our workforce in 2011 with the aim Certification: the occupational safety managethe German Bone Marrow Donor Database in line of optimising work routines; 2,114 of these ideas ment system was successfully certified in the with the motto Working together to combat concerned increased efficiency in the working first EnBW companies in 2011 in line with the leukaemia . This impressive response was cersphere of the person submitting the idea, while Occupational Health and Safety Assessment tainly also driven by EnBW's offer to pay the cost the remainder related to superordinate routines Series (OHSAS) 18001. The groundwork for cerof typing – 50 € per examination. Six employees and processes within the group. tification had been laid in 2010, and the process have already been identified as potential stem cell will continue in 2012. This certification promodonors, and one of them donated stem cells in Work safety and occupational health tes the work safety, health protection and safety October 2011. awareness of our employees and therefore helps Seminars, workshops, roadshows: in 2011, a to reduce the number of work-related accidents. total of 570 EnBW employees attended work Certification also creates a higher level of legal safety courses staged by the German accident certainty. prevention and insurance associations, and bookings were 42% percent up on 2011. AlongDeclining accident figures: the rate of reportaside special courses in the field of chemicals, ble accidents (accidents resulting in four or more transport management or chainsaw operation, lost working days) at work has been steadily the programme of seminars has also included falling and reached a new low in 2011 at 6.1‰, numerous in-house courses in recent years. In in other words around 6 reportable accidents at May 2011, EnBW employees had the chance to work per 1,000 employees. There were no fatal obtain information and take part in hands-on accidents at work in 2011. The number of days exercises during the Take Out the Risk! and lost due to accidents also fell – from 1,779 in Preventive Fire Protection roadshows. The 2010 to 1,561. Accident levels at EnBW are also topics covered included traffic safety, load extremely low compared to the rest of the securement, safety on two wheels, personal industry. 65 Education partnerships Industry meets school Education partnerships are meanwhile just as much a part of school life as the morning break. Cooperation between companies and schools paves the way for learning activities that add a vibrant element to the standard lessons; they also make it easier to further the education of individual pupils. EnBW pursues both strategies: we support gifted children by providing scholarships and we enrich school projects by providing hands-on teaching content. EnBW employee Christina Schäfer with her mentee Jothini Sritharan 66 J othini loves ice cream, and that's why she Unpaid mentoring In addition to imparting knowledge that picks meets mentor Christina Schäfer in one of up on conventional school subjects, the promoStuttgart's ice cream parlours. They meet in Christina Schäfer met her mentee in person for tion scheme also includes measures in the area the late afternoon, as Jothini has a lot to do. The the first time in the summer of 2011: I was a of personality development and value orienta15-year old grammar school student from Kornmember of the jury tasked with deciding on tion. Allowing the children to develop their creawestheim also has lessons in the afternoon; not scholarship allocation. We interviewed 70 young tivity plays a central role. One of the modules only that: she also spends much of her free time people between the ages of 8 and 15. It was a real focuses on the joint organisation of a theatre with internships, tours, seminars and workshops. application slalom for the kids, who had to play on a big stage. Despite school and her actiintroduce themselves and take part in a Q&A vities under the scholarship programme, Jothini Scholarship for school students through session. Jothini performed so convincingly that still has enough energy to pursue her hobbies: the Roland Berger Foundation it was only natural that she was chosen for the she loves to paint and take photographs in her scholarship. free time. Jothini Sritharan was awarded a pupil scholarship by the Roland Berger Foundation at the beginEver since, Jothini has been benefitting from the ning of 2011. The Foundation has been supportsupport measures of the Roland Berger Foundaing gifted children and youths through its protion tailored to her talents and interests as well Statement motion programmes since 2010. The scholarships as from the advice of her mentor. The subjects are funded by well-known German companies, I'm most interested in are maths and natural Learning from each other while the programme content is developed by sciences. Unfortunately, I can't get enough of Several employees at EnBW are involved in the Roland Berger Foundation and scientifically them at school. I'd like to learn more, for exthese education promotion activities. Christina supervised by Berlin University. In 2011, EnBW ample, about how they are used in IT. And so my Schäfer is responsible for the development and took on the funding of two scholarships for support programme enabled me to do a oneorganisation of school projects and education schoolchildren from Baden-Württemberg, and week internship in the IT department of a big partnerships. Jothini is one of them. engineering company. I'm now applying for a When two partners come together from difnatural science internship at Stuttgart Univerferent spheres of life, something new is autoOur commitment extends beyond the funding sity, and the application training I did at the matically created. This has positive effects for of the scholarships – in the form of Christina Foundation is coming in extremely useful. both parties. The schoolchildren profit from Schäfer. She was a teacher before she became Christine Schäfer adds: One element in the the education partnerships as it ensures responsible for maintaining school contacts and scholarship concept is that the partner compalearning content which is more hands-on and developing education projects as well as coordinies create hands-on learning opportunities for more real-world , while the scheme allows nating these projects with the regional education the children based on their business areas. For us EnBW to share above all technical and ecoministry. Besides performing her daily working at EnBW, this means we can not only provide the nomic knowledge with the school. This undertasks, Christina Schäfer provides support for Jochildren with information on the key technical pins our contact with the young generation and thini as a volunteer mentor for the Roland Berger and energy themes in an energy company through promotes a better mutual understanding. It is Foundation. such things as plant tours, seminars and worka kind of connection to the future for a comshops but can also give them concrete insights pany with a sustainable corporate strategy. into potential future careers. Christina Schäfer 67 Business@school tions like these, the students were able to get to grips with the parameters and conditions in a How can schools learn business? EnBW responds major corporation. In phase 2, the spotlight was to the call for more business education in turned on a smaller regional company, and – as schools by going into the schools to promote the highlight of the project – the students had hands-on projects under the Business@school to develop their own business idea complete programme. with a business plan. Each phase ended with a presentation in front of an audience and an Business@school is a Europe-wide initiative of expert jury. The winning team has a chance to the Boston Consulting Group, in which pupils in progress through further rounds all the way to The winning team from Riedlingen Grammar School following the the last two years of grammar school have the the European knockout stage. presentation of their business idea chance to learn how companies and business work and to try out what they have learned for The EnBW employees who provided intensive themselves. The schools cooperate closely with support for the students from Riedlingen, above big and small companies to ensure that the proall during phase 1, were not only on hand to jects have a real-world feel. Experts from EnBW answer EnBW-specific questions. They also were on hand to act as contacts for the team shared their knowledge in the field of business from Riedlingen District Grammar School and management and, for example, helped the to provide the youths with advice and support. students to establish contact with managing directors in the Riedlingen region and win them The 20 or students had to master a three-phase over to the project. The students made extenchallenge: in the first phase they analysed the sive use of our coaching services: they simply key indicators of a publicly listed company tosent us their questions via e-mail , says Carolin gether with their three EnBW mentors using the Mink, a member of the EnBW support team. EnBW Annual Report as a model and addressed questions like: What conclusions can be drawn from the EBIT margin? What is the relationship between investments and equity? What are the advantages of depreciation? By answering ques68 Giving back to society Commitment in the fields of education, the arts and social affairs Education, social interaction, arts and culture shape the character of a society. We are committed to promoting this system of values – both in our home region of Baden-Württemberg and beyond. Paving the way teachers and trainee teachers, student teachers We naturally also promote young creative talents and childcare centre staff and around 2,600 of from Baden-Württemberg directly by giving Creating a consciousness for the environment, them attend these events every year. them a platform at our events or by staging our climate and natural resources and awakening exhibitions at EnBW locations like the Ateliereinan interest in technical and natural science We are also active at universities and research insblicke ( Studio Insights ) event as well as through themes at an early stage – this is the goal of titutions – firstly to promote knowledge in the our longstanding cooperation with the Stuttgart projects like the EnBW Energy Box for childcare field of energy technology and the energy State Academy of Art and Design. Every year in centres and the mobile Energy Parcour for industry and secondly to attract promising the run-up to Christmas, we also provide a forum slightly older children. We also support institugraduates to our company. The efforts of for Release Stuttgart . The proceeds from the sale tions like the experimenta science centre in forward-looking entrepreneurs whose innovative of the works of art created by both well-known Heilbronn which allow children and young drive changes the business world and the markets and unknown artists are divided between the people to experience the natural sciences and are recognised with the German Innovation artists themselves and the contact point provitechnology in a hands-on setting. Award , in which we sponsor the awards for the ding advice and assistance for people with drug winners in the SME entrepreneur category. problems. The annual school competitions we organise together with the Foundation for Cultural Youth Generating cultural stimuli Motivating young people Work are also designed to raise awareness among www.enbw.com/kunst young people. The Energy Reporters were in We have been supporting art and culture in the We have been supporting the Swabian and Baden action once again in 2011: around 2,500 young region for many years. The organisations that Gymnastics Federations for many years now. The people engaged the complex subject of energy – benefit from these activities include the ZKM highlights of this commitment are the state and and naturally acted as multipliers among friends Centre for Art and Media in Karlsruhe, Stuttgart children's gymnastics festivals, the international and family. Art Museum, the Baden-Baden Festspielhaus youth camp, the EnBW Gymnastics World Cup opera house, the Stuttgart Ballet Company and and the sports and entertainment programme at Every year for more than 30 years now, around the Bach Academy, the initiator of the Stuttgart the Gymnastics Gala. In 2011, we acted as 200 primary school children in Stuttgart have Music Festival. We are also an official sponsor of co-organiser for Tour de Ländle leisure cycling been learning in hands-on lessons at the Münster the Baden-Württemberg Art Foundation, which event for the tenth time, when thousands of Waterworks about topics like the path taken by has been promoting young talents for over 30 cyclists once again took to the roads. Over a drinking water en route to the city. We stage years and supporting them with scholarships, period of seven days, this event not only provides workshops and outings to provide information to concerts, readings or exhibitions. a good reason for people to enjoy some exercise 69 We support the EU-wide School Fruit scheme in regional and sustainable projects instead: two the Ravensburg and Lake Constance districts, social institutions and two nature conservation supplying fruit to virtually all schools and projects each received 15,000 €. daycare centres in the region. In the school year 2010/2011, a total of 368 institutions with around Active beyond national borders 56,000 children benefitted from the regular deliveries of tropical and regional fruit and We successfully completed our Wells for Uganda vegetables. project in 2011, and 30 new village wells meanwhile supply a total of around 30,000 people with EnBW has been cooperating with the integration clean drinking water. Participants at an EnBW camp as part of the soccer school of the VfB but also serves to support social projects in the company AfB, which promotes employment for Stuttgart soccer club region: the EnBW money per mile campaign people with disabilities, since 2006. The nonSince 1990, EnBW employees have been helping to raised over 67,000 € in 2011. profit company has around 150 employees, half of promote development in Transylvania through whom have mental or physical handicaps. AfB the support group for the Zsobok Children's We have also been supporting talented young specialises in repairing IT hardware discarded by Home . Each year, just before Christmas, they soccer players in Baden-Württemberg through big companies and pubic institutions and then drive a convoy of EnBW transporters and private our EnBW First Division Juniors since 2007/2008, selling it on. In 2011, the company ensured that, cars to Romania. The vehicles are packed to the and around 1,000 football-mad boys and girls for EnBW alone, around 28 tons of IT terminals roofs with donations from employees: toys, between the ages of 13 and 18 have taken to the and electrical material were properly overhauled clothes and sweets. In 2011, they were able to hand pitch to date. and made ready for reuse. out around 900 packages to the 78 children in the home as well as to children and families in eight www.enbw.com/sport Demonstrating social commitment Our congratulation cards have been adorned by neighbouring towns. We also help communities to pictures painted by children for seven years now. help themselves by making heavy-duty donations In 2011, we sponsored the Echt gut! Ehrenamt in In return, we donate money to a different social like tractors, ploughs and tracked vehicles or by Baden-Württemberg!” scheme (Thumbs Up for organisation in Baden-Württemberg every year. supplying equipment for workshops or bakeries. Voluntary Work in Baden-Wurttemberg) for the In 2011, it was the Support Group for Children eighth time. The awards in this state-wide Suffering from Cancer. And at Christmas 2011, we competition are presented to volunteer projects didn't send gifts to our business partners as we that set new standards. usually do – but spent the money on four 70 Facts and Figures We document our sustainable actions comprehensively and transparently. 71 Corporate environmental goals for the period from 2011 to 2015 Corporate environmental goals for the period from 2011 to 2015 Direct CO2 emissions Goal Unit Reference value 2011 2010 Specific CO2 emission (own generation by Group) Below German average g/kWh 4941 346 299 Goal Unit Target value 2015 2011 2010 Emissions from operation of gas pipelines Reduction of CO2eq emissions per km by 5% t CO2eq/km 5.82 6.05 6,13 Emissions from fossil-based building heating Reduction of CO2 emissions per m² by 15% kg CO2/m2 8.8 10.5 10.4 Emissions from own vehicles Reduction of CO2 emissions per km by 10% kg CO2/km 217 228 241 Indirect CO2 emissions Goal Unit Target value 2015 2011 2010 Electricity consumption in buildings Reduction of CO2 emissions per m² by10% kg CO2/m2 25 29.4 27.8 District heating consumption in buildings Reduction of CO2 emissions per m² by 10% kg CO2/m2 10.2 10.8 11.4 Electricity consumption of computing centres Improvement of average PUE value2 by 10% 1.68 1.75 1.87 Avoided CO2 emissions Goal Unit Target value 2015 2011 2010 Energy efficiency projects at customer locations Increase in CO2 avoidance by 28% t avoided CO2 102,336 53,424 79,950 CDM/JI projects Increase in CO2 avoidance to 2,200,000 tons t avoided CO2eq 2,200,000 03 0 Bio natural gas Fivefold increase in CO2 avoidance t avoided CO2 28,970 11,940 5,794 Renewables Goal Unit Target value 2020 2011 2010 Share of renewables in generating capacity4 Increase by 3,000 MW in Germany MW under review 2,538 2,478 Air pollutants from group electricity generation5 Goal Unit Reference value 2011 2010 Specific NOX emission Below German average mg/kWh 4001 231 204 Specific SO2 emission Below German average mg/kWh 2061 206 192 Air pollutants from coal-fired generation 6 Goal Unit Target value 2011 2010 Specific NOX emission Reduction of spec. NOX emissions of EnBW's own power plants mg/kWh not quantified 551 580 Specific SO2 emission Reduction of spec. SO2 emissions of EnBW's own power plants mg/kWh not quantified 459 450 Biodiversity Goal Unit Target value 2015 2011 2010 Biodiversity index7 of EnBW Group Increase to 0.9 0.9 0.54 0.52 Environmental management Goal Unit Target value 2015 2011 2010 Percentage of measures from audits completed on time Increase to 100% % 100 80 75 1 Source: German Association of Energy and Water Industries (BDEW), specific emissions from public electricity generation in Germany in 2010; the figure for 2011 was not known at the time of going to press 2 PUE = Power Usage Effectiveness (optimum = 1.0) 3 Greenhouse gas emissions were already successfully avoided in 2011 through CDM/JI projects; verification of emission reduction is not yet complete, however, and the corresponding CO2 credits have not yet been allocated. Allocation is only performed for CDM projects following verification of actually achieved emission reductions. 4 Run-of-river power plants, storage power plants with natural inflow and other capacities in the area of renewables 5 Own generation including contracted power plants and long-term procurement agreements; not included: short-term procurement where the primary sources of energy are unknown 6 Basis: power plants of EnBW Kraftwerke AG 7 Biodiversity index = indicator for the importance of the issue of biodiversity in the field of environmental management: min. = 0.2, max. = 1.0 72 Expenditure on environmental protection in 2011 Environmental protection spending in 2011 in 1,000 €1, 2 Investments Ongoing expenditure Waste disposal 12,812 18,724 Water conservation 8,614 33,559 Noise abatement 96 2,787 Clean air 21,878 27,692 Nature conservation and landscaping 6,689 4,473 Soil decontamination 448 2,774 Climate protection 194,759 97,335 Research and development 690 37,242 Measures and initiatives to improve customer energy efficiency 6,479 1,966 Other environmental protection activities 53 3,491 Total 252,518 230,043 1 Breakdown by environmental medium based on the reporting requirements of the German Federal Statistical Office 2 Figures cover companies with environmentally relevant installations and activities (EDH, EEE, EnKK, EOG, ESG, ESW, ETG, EVG, GAS, GVS, HOL, KWG, ODR, REG, SIS, SWD, TNG, TPLUS and ZEAG), see www.enbw.com (Group/EnBW companies) 73 Environment ratios – Input1 Input2 Unit 2011 2010 Fuels 3 Coal (1 t coal eq. = 8.14 MWh = 29.304 GJ) GJ 203,424,996 190,305,735 Heating oil (1 t coal eq. = 8.14 MWh = 29.304 GJ) GJ 1,673,676 1,294,967 Natural gas (1 t coal eq. = 8.14 MWh = 29.304 GJ) GJ 23,847,593 25,266,415 Waste GJ 8,855,220 9,297,054 Sewage sludge GJ 240,355 287,431 Biomass GJ 2,836,802 1,752,844 Liquid fuels (petrol, diesel) l 5,619,5944 6,462,768 Input of nuclear fuels 5 t 6 38 84 Other input materials3 Lime products (CaCO3, CaO, Ca(OH)2) t 291,878 315,459 Ammonia t 14,762 17,203 Ammonium hydroxide t 6,214 5,607 Soda lye t 8,174 8,377 Hydrochloric acid t 6,057 6,495 Odorant (THT) t 36 45 Water conservation3 Surface/River water extraction Mio. m3 2,762 3,027 Well water/Groundwater extraction Mio. m3 7.76 8.00 Drinking water extraction Mio. m3 41.2 46.0 Avoided extraction due to reutilisation (not including cooling water) Mio. m3 1.29 1.00 Environment ratios – Output1 Output2 Unit 2011 2010 Products Electricity TWh 155.7 146.9 District heat, process heat GWh 7,565* 6,755 Gas TWh 57.4 53.6 Drinking water million m3 91.3 85.3 * Preliminary value 74 Output2 Unit 2011 2010 By-products 3 Coarse ash (boiler sand) t 137,406 125,660 Fly ash t 486,116 433,950 Gypsum t 545,941 617,900 Slag from waste incineration t Other t 10,823 13,290 Odorant (THT) t 36 45 Waste disposal 3 Total waste t 558,470 774,515 Hazardous waste for reutilisation t 48,570 53,967 Non-hazardous waste for reutilisation t 398,405 687,672 Hazardous waste for disposal t 75,221 3,922 Non-hazardous waste for disposal t 36,274 28,954 Recycling rate % 80.0 95.8 Water conservation3 Evaporation million m3 48 53 Cooling water discharge (direct discharge) million m3 2,751 2,965 Direct discharge of waste water million m3 4.13 3.00 Waste water (indirect discharge, sewage system) million m3 1.72 2.00 Radioactive waste water volume m3 46,498 53,124 Activity without tritium Bq 1.2E+08 6.2E+08 Tritium Bq 49.2E+12 38.3E+12 Greenhouse gas emissions8 Carbon dioxide (CO2) million t 21.9 20.9 Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6)6,7 t <1 <1 Classic air pollutants8 Sulphur dioxide (SO2) t 12,641 13,149 Nitrogen oxides, listed as NO2 t 16,894 15,055 Carbon monoxide (CO) t 1,267 1,245 Dust t 413 275 Activity emission to the atmosphere5 Waste air volume million m3 7,903 21,108 Inert gas Bq 1.61E+12 3.09E+12 Iodine Bq 18.3E+06 35.4E+06 Aerosols Bq 3.45E+06 10.5E+06 1 Included companies: EDH, EEE, EnKK, EOG, ESG, ESW, GAS, GVS, HOL, KWG, ODR, REG, SIS, SWD, TNG, TPLUS, ZEAG, see www. 5 Own generation enbw.com (Group/EnBW companies) 6 Total heavy metal load 2 Absolute environmental ratios provide concrete information on material flows 7 Monitoring in line with the voluntary commitment on SF6 3 Own generation including contracted power plants; not included: long-term procurement agreements and short-term procurement 8 Own generation including contracted power plants and long-term procurement agreements; not included: short-term procurement where the primary sources of energy are unknown where the primary sources of energy are unknown 4 The balancing group was corrected for 2011 compared to the previous years. The values from previous years were not adjusted. 75 Personnel indicators 2011 2010 Change in % 2011 2010 Change in % Employees by business area Employee groups Electricity/Generation and trading 4,940 4,850 1.9 No. of severely handicapped employees 977 944 3.5 Electricity/Grid and sales 6,173 5,535 11.5 Share of non-German employees % 10.6 10.3 2.9 Gas 702 704 -0.3 Part-time employees % 12.4 11.3 9.7 Energy and environmental services 7,990 9,378 -14.8 of which, women % 59.9 59.5 0.7 Holding 491 485 1.2 No. of new apprentices over 300 around 330 around -9.1 Employees by region Total apprentices over 1,200 around 1,300 around -7.7 Baden-Württemberg % 72.6 73.2 -0.8 EnBW accident statistics Other German states % 19.4 19.3 0.5 Reportable accidents at work 97 111 -12.6 Outside Germany % 8.0 7.5 6.7 Reportable commuting and sport accidents 54 71 -23.9 Employees by qualification Lost days due to reportable accidents at work 1561 1779 -12.3 Degree from uni or uni of applied sciences % 25.4 23.8 6.7 Lost days per reportable accident at work 16.1 16 0.6 Technical college or apprenticeship % 68.7 69.9 -1.7 Employees 15,989 15,430 3.6 School diploma with no documented % 5.9 6.3 -6.3 Reportable accidents at work 6.1 7.2 -15.3 vocational training per 1,000 employees Reportable accidents at work 16.9 17.3 -2.3 Employees by age group per 1,000 employees with the BG ETEM1 < 25 % 5.9 5.8 1.7 Accidents at work from 1 lost day 144 173 -16.8 26 – 35 % 17.4 17.9 -2.8 Commuting and sport accidents 82 99 -17.2 36 – 45 % 27.1 29.0 -6.6 from 1 lost day 46 – 55 % 36.0 35.5 1.4 Lost days due to accidents at work 1,645 1,907 -13.7 > 55 % 13.6 11.8 15.3 from 1 working day Management personnel by age group Lost days per accident at work 11.4 11 3.6 < 35 % 4.5 5.1 -11.8 from 1 working day 36 – 45 % 38.0 39.4 -3.6 Employees 15,989 15,430 3.6 46 – 55 % 40.9 39.7 3.0 Accidents at work from 1 working day 9 11.2 -19.6 per 1,000 employees > 55 % 16.6 15.8 5.1 LTIF2 (accidents per 1 million working hours) 5.3 6.6 -19.7 1 German Accident Prevention and Insurance Association for Energy, Textile, Electrical and Media Products 2 Lost Time Injury Frequency (number of accidents per million hours worked, without employees of external contractors) 76 Core indicators based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the UN Global Compact (UNGC) The application level of reporting by EnBW for the business year 2011 has been reviewed by the GRI and is classed as A GRI checked . The GRI statement is available on the company website at www.enbw.com (SR = Sustainability Report; AR = Annual Report). UNGC GRI G3 Report element Scope Page Vision und Strategie 1.1 Statement from the CEO about the relevance of sustainability Full reporting SR 2011 p. 4-5 1.2 Description of key risks and opportunities Full reporting AR 2011 p. 93-101 Organisational profile 2.1 – 2.10 Organisational structure, markets, facts and figures SR 2011 p. 2, 28, 69; AR 2011 p. 24, 28, 39-47 EU1 Installed capacity Full reporting AR 2011 p. 1, 40 EU2 Electricity generation by primary energy source Full reporting AR 2011 p. 58 EU3 Residential, industrial and commercial customer accounts Full reporting AR 2011 p. 58 EU4 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines Full reporting AR 2011 p. 41 EU5 Allocation of CO2 emissions permits Full reporting see Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) questionnaire Report overview 3.1 – 3.4 Report parameters Full reporting SR 2011 p. 6 3.5 – 3.12 Report content, reporting limits Full reporting SR 2011 p. 6 Governance, commitments and engagement 1-10 4.1 -4.7 Corporate governance Full reporting AR 2011 p. 21, 44, 103, 208-210; SR 2011 p. 56 1-10 4.8 – 4.13 Commitments and engagement Full reporting AR 2011 p. 208-216; SR 2011 p. 5-6, 27, 52, 56, 65 1-10 4.14 -4.17 Stakeholders Full reporting SR 2011 p. 6, 14, 16, 26-27; AR 2011 p. 30-31 1, 6, 7 Economic performance indicators SR 2011 flap, p. 14-16, 41 Management approach AR 2011 p. 22-26, 44-45, 87-90 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Full reporting SR 2011 cover page; AR 2011 cover page 7 EC2 Impacts of climate change Full reporting AR 2011 p. 107-114 EC3 Company pension plan obligations Full reporting AR 2011 p. 142 EC4 Financial assistance received from government In progress EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers In progress 6 EC7 Personnel selection Full reporting AR 2011 p. 83 EC8 Investment for public benefit Full reporting SR 2011 p. 66-70 EU10 Planned long-term capacity vs. calculated demand Full reporting AR 2011 p. 19 EU11 Average efficiency of generating processes In progress EU12 Efficiency of line system, transmission and distribution losses Full reporting AR 2011 p. 80 77 UNGC GRI G3 Report element Scope Page Ecological performance indicators www.enbw.com/umweltmanagement Management approach 8 EN1 Materials used by type, except water (installations containing PCBs) Full reporting SR 2011 p. 74 8, 9 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled In progress SR 2011 p. 74-75 8 EN3 Direct energy consumption broken down by primary energy source Full reporting SR 2011 p. 74 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption broken down by primary energy source In progress 7 EN5 Energy conservation through increased efficiency Full reporting SR 2011 p. 52-54, 72 8, 9 EN6 Energy efficiency initiatives Full reporting SR 2011 p. 46-47 8, 9 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Full reporting SR 2011 p. 52-54, 72 8 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Full reporting SR 2011 p. 74 8, 9 EN10 Re-use of water Full reporting SR 2011 p. 74 8 EN11 Location and size of land in protected areas In progress 8 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities on biodiversity Full reporting SR 2011 p. 54-55 8 EU13 Biodiversity of offset habitats Full reporting www.enbw.com/biodiversitaet 8 EN13 Initiatives to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases Full reporting SR 2011 p. 54-55 8 EN14 Strategies for managing impacts on biodiversity Full reporting SR 2011 p. 72 7, 8, 9 EN16-20 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Full reporting/ In SR 2011 p. 53, 72 progress (EN 19) 8 EN21 Waste water Full reporting SR 2011 p. 76 8 EN22 Waste Full reporting SR 2011 p. 75 8 EN23 Pollutant spills/release Full reporting SR 2011 p. 75-76 7-9 EN26 Reduction of environmental impacts Full reporting SR 2011 p. 72, 75-76 8 EN28 Fines/Sanctions for non-compliance with applicable environmental regulations Full reporting www.enbw.com 7-9 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures by type Full reporting SR 2011 p. 73 Social performance indicators: working environment and conditions SR 2011 flap, p. 58-65 Management approach AR 2011 p. 81-86 6 LA1 – LA2 Workforce Full reporting SR 2011 cover page; AR 2011 p. 83-86 EU17 Subcontractors In progress EU18 Health and safety training for contractors Full reporting SR 2011, p.50 1, 3 LA4 – LA 5 Employee representation/Collective agreements Full reporting AR 2011 p. 83 1 LA7 – LA 8 Workplace safety Full reporting SR 2011 p. 64-65 LA10 Training hours In progress LA11 Knowledge management Full reporting SR 2011 p. 63, AR 2011, 74-75, 86 1, 6 LA13 Employee structure/ Diversity of top management Full reporting SR 2011 p. 83-86 1, 6 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women Full reporting AR 2011 p. 83-86 78 EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG Durlacher Allee 93 76131 Karlsruhe www.enbw.com/nachhaltigkeit nachhaltigkeit@enbw.com
