CHEMANEX PLC Period covered by your communication on Progress (COP) From 1st April 2010 To 31st March 2011 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Chemanex PLC is fully committed towards driving corporate social responsibility and has invested in many social and environmental projects in the spirit of the UN’s Global Compact and Millenium Goals. M P Jayawardena Managing Director / Chief Executive Officer Human Rights Principles Principle 1 : Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 : make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, policy and Goals The company adheres to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other applicable international standards as a policy. Further, in our code of conduct, the company policy on human rights is clearly mentioned. Implementation Policies and procedures supporting Human Rights are in place within the Group. We maintain an open door policy for employees at all levels. Measurement of outcomes Senior management periodically reviews the progress made in the area of the Human Rights. There were no legal cases against the company or fines paid by the company during the reporting period. Labour Principles Principle 3 : Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals The Company has written policies to uphold the freedom of association, collective bargaining, elimination of forced labour, child labour and employment discrimination. The Company policies on employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits schemes are adequately communicated to employees at all levels. Implementation All compensation packages offered to the employees are well above the wage levels recommended by the statute. For all employee categories the ratio of basic salary of men to women is 1 : 1. The company has a written labour policy. Systematic occupational health and safety programmes are available covering the entire staff. Measurement of outcomes The company closely monitor the rate of injury, occupational diseases, absenteeism etc which has recorded as “zero” during the period under consideration. Environmental Principles Principal 7 : Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principal 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental; and Principal 9 : encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Technologies. Assessment Policy and Goals The company has a written environmental policy and intends to assess the environmental footprint and impact from it in the coming year. Implementation Company conducts awareness raising and training for employees on environmental protection. The company also has taken initiatives and programmes are in place to reduce waste materials and consumption of resources. Measurement of outcomes All our production sites have been approved by Central Environmental Authority, which are renewed annually. Standard production losses are closely monitored in order to reduce waste. Further, production formulas are reviewed and changed whereever possible to minimize the consumption of resources. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10 : Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment Policy and Goals Company policy on anti-corruption is well communicated to the staff at all levels at the time of recruitment. Implementation The company takes continual action to increase the awareness among the employees about Company’s policies on anti-corruption and extortion. Measurement of outcomes There were no pending legal cases, or fines paid during the period under consideration, related to corruption and bribery.
