Sustainability Sustainability Report Report 2012 2012 Mission, Corporate Social Responsibility Policy and Code of Conduct Mission The mission of the INPEX Group is to provide a stable and efficient supply of energy to the customers by exploring and developing oil and natural gas resources throughout the world. Through its business, we aim to become an integrated energy company, which contributes to our community and makes it more livable and prosperous. Corporate Social Responsibility Policy The INPEX Group conducts our business efficiently and proactively with a long-term perspective. Guided by the leadership of top management, we are committed to fulfilling our corporate social responsibilities by taking into consideration our stakeholders’ interests. Our key principles include: 1. Deliver energy in a stable and efficient manner. 2. As a company responsible for energy supply, strictly maintain safety in operation and control in all areas of our business activities. 3. Comply with laws, rules and regulations and adhere to ethical business conduct in accordance with social norms including human rights at our international or operating locations. 4. Communicate timely and openly with shareholders, employees, customers, business partners and other stakeholders while protecting and properly managing information. 5. Value the individuality of our employees, secure a safe, healthy and worker-friendly environment, and provide opportunities for career development. 6. Recognize our responsibility to help preserve the environment and proactively contribute to sustainable development. 7. Contribute to the economic development of host countries and communities, by taking cultural diversity into consideration. Revised on April 23, 2012 Code of Conduct Every officer and employee of the Group fully understands and strictly enforces the articles of this code of conduct to achieve appropriate management and fulfill their responsibilities as decent members of society. 1. Compliance with Laws and Ordinances 5. Respect for Employees 2. Respect for Human Rights 6. Approach to the Environment, Safety and Health 3. Contributions to Society 7. Securing the Soundness of Company Assets and 4. Respect for Business Ethics Finances Established on October 1, 2008 Only main items are listed For details, please refer to our website: http://www.inpex.co.jp/ english/csr/ 02 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Company Overview Company Name: Established: INPEX CORPORATION April 3, 2006 CONTENTS Capital: 290,809,835,000 yen Headquarters: Akasaka Biz Tower 31st to 34th, 38th floors, 4 Top Management Commitment 5-3-1 Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo, JAPAN 107-6332 Phone: +81-3-5572-0200 8 Mediumto Long-Term Vision of INPEX Fiscal Year End: March 31 10 CSR of the INPEX Group Number of Employees: 2,146 (Consolidated) as of March 31, 2012 12 Relationships with Major Stakeholders Main Businesses: Research, exploration, development, production and 14 Business Activities sales of oil, natural gas and other mineral resources; other related businesses; and investment and lending to 16 Special Feature 1 companies engaged in these activities Stable Supply of Energy to Japan 18 Special Feature 2 Ichthys LNG Project and CSR Financial Information (Consolidated) 20 Special Feature 3 Dialogue with Stakeholders Net Sales Net Income What is Expected of a Global Energy Company (million yen) (million yen) 194,000 1,200,000 1,186,731 22 Management 150,000 943,080 128,699 23 Corporate Governance 800,000 840,427 107,210 24 Compliance 100,000 25 Risk Management 400,000 26 HSE Management System 50,000 30 Environment 0 0 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 31 Environmental Impact of Our Business Activities 32 Global Warming Mitigation Net Production by Region 33 Biodiversity Conservation 34 Reducing Our Environmental Impact Japan 7% 36 Fighting Climate Change Total Asia and Oceania 47% 426 Eurasia 6% 38 Society thousand 39 Safety Management BOEPD1 Middle East and Africa 36% 42 Building Trust with and Contributing Americas 4% to Local Communities 43 Initiatives to Contribute to Local Communities Proved Reserves by Region2 46 Fair Trade with Business Partners 47 Product Quality Control Japan 6% 48 Human Resource Development and Utilization Total Asia and Oceania 64% 51 Health Management 2,432 Eurasia 8% 52 Appropriate Information Disclosure MMBOE Middle East and Africa 21% 53 Third Party Comments on Sustainability Americas 1% Report 2012 54 Communication Tools 1 Barrels of oil equivalent per day 55 CSR Online 2012: Table of Contents 2 Proved reserves are evaluated in accordance with SEC regulations and include proved reserves owned by equity method affiliates Editorial Policy Scope of Reporting and Data Compilation The INPEX Group publishes its CSR Report annually to keep its stakeholders informed of its  INPEX CORPORATION and its 59 consolidated subsidiaries CSR initiatives and activities. For the 2012 edition of this report, renamed the Sustainability Report, we formulated the editorial policy below in light of our continued effort to incorporate the following ideas from Forward-Looking Statements the 2011 edition: to enhance the disclosure of information on the issues and initiatives we This report includes forward-looking information that reflects the plans and estimates of face as a global company, to enhance the disclosure of information on our worldwide INPEX CORPORATION and its affiliates (hereinafter called the INPEX Group). Such projects, and to use our website more effectively to complement the printed report. forward-looking information is based on assumptions and beliefs of the INPEX Group in light of information currently available, and involves known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and 1. We will express our role as an energy corporation. 2. We will report on the steps we are taking to enhance CSR-based management through our other factors. Such risks, uncertainties, and other factors may cause the INPEX Group’s actual CSR promotion system. results, performance, achievements, or financial position to be materially different from any 3. We will report on two-way communication with stakeholders on our key CSR issues. future results, performance, achievements, or financial position expressed or implied by such 4. We will further improve the content of the report to fulfill our accountability. forward-looking information. Please be advised that the INPEX Group shall assume no responsibility for such risks. Reference Guideline Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 Regarding the Cover Page Reporting Period The INPEX Group pays proper consideration to the society and the environment as an energy corporation while providing an efficient and stable supply of energy to contribute to a brighter April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012 (Including references to activities we undertook during or future. The mangrove tree image used in the background is native to Darwin Harbour, the main after April 2012) site where the Ichthys LNG (liquid natural gas) Project is being implemented, in the Northern Territory in Australia. It represents the Group's efforts in paying consideration to the natural environment in our activities. INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 03 Top Management Commitment Toshiaki Kitamura Representative Director, President & CEO INPEX CORPORATION The INPEX Group is committed to contributing to a sustainable society through its energy business, aiming to become an operator that is trusted around the world 04 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Our Vision We position ourselves to become a top class international oil and gas exploration and production company through sustainable growth in the oil and gas development business. With natural gas as the core of our business, we will grow into an integrated energy company by making contributions to a stable energy supply to broader communities. We will continue to play a significant role in boosting the capability of supplying energy to Japan while contributing to the global economic growth and social development. Through these efforts, we intend to further advance our reputation among our shareholders and more broadly our stakeholders as a company serving an essential role in the global community. In 2012, the INPEX Group takes the helm in strengthening our CSR-based management. Through the interview with our President & CEO, we convey our stance in contributing to societal and economic development through our business activities. and established a company-wide CSR promotion system, and In recent times, energy-related issues have positioned CSR as a foundation of management in our mediumto gained global-wide public attention, particulong-term vision released in May 2012. larly in Japan, where future energy policy I believe that CSR not only means to fulfill a responsibility to has become a key issue following the Great East society as a corporate citizen, but also to create positive value. Using Japan Earthquake. Additionally, global companies international guidance materials such as ISO 26000 as a reference, are increasingly expected to address societal issues we strive to contribute to society through our business and develop though CSR-based management. As a company into a company that is regarded as an indispensable presence to operating globally, what type of CSR initiatives are society. And I expect each of our employees to constantly consider you implementing? ways in which he/she can contribute to society through his/her duties on an individual level. As a company whose main business is the development of Speaking of our employee base, it will become more diverse in oil and natural gas, the first and foremost mission of the the future, with a greater ratio of non-Japanese workers as our INPEX Group is to ensure a stable and efficient supply of energy. business activities become increasingly global. Given this In December 2011, INPEX signed the United Nations Global circumstance, I believe that reflecting the diverse views and Compact and pledged to make a company-wide effort to address potential of the employees in our management is also an important CSR issues in order to become a globally trusted corporate citizen. part of our CSR, and one which will ultimately lead to our growth as Using this occasion, in April 2012, we founded the CSR Committee a global company. INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 05 operation and how the company could coexist with the local In January 2012, INPEX made its final community throughout the life of the project. investment in the Ichthys LNG (liquid natural For example, after continued discussions with local residents on gas) Project in Australia. With this, INPEX has become environmental issues surrounding the dredging work required to the first Japanese company to serve as the operator secure tanker routes in the area, we elected to employ an advanced (responsible for leading exploration and developmethod that does not use explosives in order to minimize the ment) in a global LNG development project. As the impact on the marine environment. From a societal perspective, we operator, what CSR initiatives are you taking in the provided funding to a local vocational training school as the project? unemployment rate of the indigenous people in the region in which our LNG plant construction site is located is particularly high The Ichthys LNG Project is a project in which we entrusted compared with that of other areas in Australia. The initiative has the company’s fate, and one which took several years to shown results, with more than 10 graduates of the school already reach the final investment decision. During this time we have held a finding employment with local civil engineering companies comprehensive series of discussions with a range of stakeholders working as contractors on the Ichthys LNG Project. regarding how to protect the natural environment in the areas of We have also begun providing funding for training programs at 06 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Top Management Commitment Charles Darwin University that aim to develop more highly skilled the country’s economy grows rapidly the Indonesian government is engineers. In addition to the project itself creating significant employpromoting utilization of geothermal energy. INPEX has already ment opportunities in the region, through these environmental received a government request for cooperation and aims to provide and societal initiatives we also believe we can play a positive role in proactive support going forward. creating a virtuous cycle in the local economy. This is not the first time we have taken such an approach. For an Please tell us your thoughts on sustainability, oil and gas development company such as INPEX, environmental which you have set as a CSR goal. protection and coexistence with local communities is always an issue that is deeply related to our business activities. Our many years of experience facing these issues during our operations in Japan An energy development company such as INPEX must look have formed the foundation of our corporate stance, and I believe ahead to 30 to 50 years from now when planning business such experience will prove valuable throughout the current project. activities. From a mediumto long-term perspective, in addition to And of course it goes without saying that as an operator our geothermal energy we have also begun development of hydrogen responsibility is now larger than ever. In addition to stepping up our power technology, and plan to place a further emphasis on own initiatives we will also guide partner companies and contracinnovation in the future. tors. We aim to develop a range of innovative solutions to tackle Relying on a single source of energy is not ideal, no matter how society’s issues, and to be recognized worldwide as a trustworthy efficient and beneficial that energy source may be, and this is also operator. By extension, I believe these efforts will help to significantly true from a sustainability viewpoint. improve our corporate competitiveness. It is in fact preferable to simultaneously utilize a diverse range of energy sources, to abandon those that are too risky, and to adopt those with future potential. Establishing a system to achieve this Debate on energy policy has been more “best energy mix” and sharing this knowledge with developing active since the accident at Fukushima Daiichi countries is a key responsibility for developed countries. nuclear plant, and anticipation for increased use of While the circumstances surrounding global energy will likely alternative energy sources is growing. What is your change significantly, energy will always be the foundation of our view on renewable energy? business. We will strive to fulfill our mission to deliver stable, efficient energy supply while holding ongoing dialogue with a variety of From the perspective of contribution to the restoration stakeholders and constantly questioning the role that society effort after the Great East Japan Earthquake, we are not only expects of us. Through these efforts, we will continue to contribute supplying natural gas, which emits less carbon dioxide compared to to the development of a sustainable society. other fossil fuels, but also working proactively to develop renewable energy. One area on which we are putting particular focus is geothermal energy. In addition to the ability to secure a stable supply of energy compared to other renewables and Japan’s significant potential geothermal resources, I believe it is a field in which we can utilize our exploration and excavation technologies that we have honed over many years in the oil and natural gas development business and one which offers potential synergy with our existing businesses. Naturally, our wealth of experience would also be valuable in minimizing the impact on the environment and in establishing trust with local communities during project development. Indonesia, one of the countries with which we have a long-standing relationship, also has major geothermal potential. As INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 07 Mediumto Long-Term Vision of INPEX Ichthys and our growth beyond We are now setting targets to achieve sustainable growth over the mediumto long-term and are clarifying key initiatives for the next five years leading up to the Ichthys start-up, summarized in the “INPEX Mediumto Long-Term Vision—Ichthys and the Next 10 Years.” Three Growth Targets Becoming a top class international 1. Continuous Enhancement of Our E&P Activities oil and gas E&P company Target for the 2020s Achieve a net production volume of 1 million BOEPD by the early 2020s  Ensure a successful start-up of Ichthys and Abadi, and expand our business synergies  Double our exploration expenditures from the current level, for a total of around 300 billion yen Key initiatives for over five years (expanding to more than 1 trillion yen over 10 years after the Ichthys start-up) the first five years  Substantially boost exploration and development activities in core regions (Southeast Asia and Oceania) and promising areas, and develop unconventional resources  Aggressively acquire new assets, and pursue corporate M&A opportunities 2. Strengthening Our Gas Supply Chain Globalizing our gas business Achieve a domestic gas supply volume of 2.5 billion m3/year in the early 2020s, with an aim to increase Target for the 2020s it to 3.0 billion m3/year in the long-term  Complete Naoetsu LNG Receiving Terminal and Natural Gas Trunk Pipeline (Toyama Line)  Increase our ability to cope with fluctuating supply/demand balance by our enhanced marketing Key initiatives for function and by having our own fleet of tankers the first five years  Enhance gas supply security, cooperating with gas and electric power companies  Consider the possibility of our involvement in LNG-fired power generation, from the energy policy perspective Becoming an integrated energy company 3. Reinforcement of Our Renewable Energy Initiatives that contributes to global community Promote efforts to commercialize renewable energies and reinforce R&D activities for the next Target for the 2020s generation Key initiatives for  Promote commercialization of geothermal power generation the first five years  Promote R&D initiatives such as CO2 recycling technology Projects as of June 30, 2012 (74 projects in 27 countries) Minami Nagaoka Gas Field Abadi Gas Field Offshore Mahakam Block Kashagan Oil Field ACG Oil Fields Ichthys Gas and Condensate Field ADMA Block 08 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 We are aiming to bolster our corporate value by maintaining sustainable growth amid the changes that are taking place in the energy sector. In order to achieve this, we have set “Three Growth Targets” to overcome and “Three Management Policies” that need to be pursued in the mediumto long-term of our business development. Defining our targets to be achieved by the 2020s, we will reaffirm the direction we must take and embark on the specific paths to reach our goals. Three Management Policies 1. Securing/Developing Human Resources and Building an Efficient Organizational Structure  Establish a department for new project development and reinforce coordination among the head office, the regional project divisions and overseas offices  Utilize overseas offices proactively to collect new project information, to promote discussions on new projects and marketing activities  Recruit and utilize personnel in and outside of Japan to develop global professionals  Establish an efficient business execution system to facilitate decision-making 2. Investment for Growth and Return for Shareholders  Secure funds (3.5 trillion yen over five years, more than 6 trillion yen over 10 years after the Ichthys start-up, including exploration expenditures) for mediumto long-term investment from our project cash flows and loans  Maintain financial strengths, targeting “an equity ratio of 50% or more” and “a net debt to net total capital employed ratio of 20% or less”  Realize return for shareholders and management efficiency befitting top class international oil and gas E&P companies 3. Responsible Management as a Global Company  Reinforce CSR-based management continuously by establishing a company-wide CSR promoting system including the CSR Committee  Implement specific measures starting from 2012 to continuously reinforce corporate governance from a global perspective  Promote continuous improvements in corporate compliance and HSE initiatives  Build trust-based working relationships with stakeholders through interactive communications Pipeline Network Niigata Minami-Aga Oil Field Naoetsu LNG City Minami-Kuwayama Oil Field Receiving Terminal Sekihara Gas Field (under construction) (underground storage) Kashiwazaki Higashi-Kashiwazaki City Gas Field Nagaoka City Horn River Block etc. Joetsu Minami Nagaoka Gas Field Shin Oumi Line City Niigata Itoigawa City Prefecture Domestic Natural Gas Toyama Line (under construction) Gunma Tochigi Prefecture Prefecture Toyama City Nagano City Toyama Prefecture Tomi BS Fujioka BS Tokyo Line Shin Tokyo Line Ryomo Line Copa Macoya Block Sano City Matsumoto City Karuizawa Town Tomioka City Honjo City Konosu City Matsumoto Line Chino City Saitama Prefecture Iruma Line Adachi-ku Nagano Prefecture Ome City Chiba City Naruto Kofu Line Kofu City Metropolitan Gas Field Showa Town Yamanashi Tokyo Prefecture Sanmu Second Suruga Shizuoka Line City Trunk Pipeline LNG Gotemba City Chiba Exploration, development, and production Sodeshi LNG Fuji City Prefecture projects undertaken by the INPEX Group’s Terminal consolidated subsidiaries, invested (Shizuoka Gas) Shizuoka City Minamifuji Pipeline Shizuoka (INPEX, Shizuoka Gas and Tokyo Gas) companies and equity method affiliated Prefecture companies Oil and gas fields Natural gas pipeline network * BS: Booster Station INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 09 CSR of the INPEX Group Promotion of CSR-based Management The INPEX Group positions CSR at the foundation of its management, and through its business activities strives to contribute to economic growth and societal development, aiming to be recognized as an indispensable presence in society. In December 2011 the company signed the United Nations Global Compact, and declared that we would make every effort to operate as a globally trusted corporate citizen. Moreover, in order to advance our practical initiatives, in April 2012 we established a CSR committee and, taking ISO 26000 into consideration, selected CSR initiatives as one of our key issues.* In the future, as a responsible global company we will continue to implement CSR-based management through constant dialogue with our stakeholders. * International Standard for guidance on social responsibility for organizations ■ Mission Pyramid Our Mission and CSR The INPEX Group has formulated a Mission, Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, Key CSR Mission Issues and Code of Conduct. Our Mission reflects our objective of playing an active role in social Corporate Social Responsibility Policy development. Our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy directs our CSR initiatives and reaffirms our Key CSR Issues commitment to promoting them. Our Key CSR Issues Build Trust with Practice Safety and Comply with Laws outline the issues that have a significant impact on Environmental Protection and Contribute and Societal Norms in Operations to Local Communities both the INPEX Group and its stakeholders and which Develop and Utilize we believe currently require strengthening. And our Address Climate Change Human Resources Code of Conduct describes how we as individuals of as a Global Company the Group should perform ethically on a daily basis. Code of Conduct Establishment of CSR Promotion System In April 2012 we announced our top management’s stance towards CSR, and established a CSR committee chaired by the President & CEO to display a company-wide commitment to CSR and to improve the organizational structure for practical implementation purposes. In addition to the President & CEO, the head of the General Affairs Division and the head of the Corporate Planning Division (vice-chair), the chairs of the existing Compliance and Corporate HSE committees also joined as committee members to facilitate collaboration between the respective committees. The CSR Committee meets to discuss basic policies related to various CSR initiatives. We have also established the CSR Promotion Council, a subordinate organization comprised of members from various divisions involved in CSR at the working level. By creating this link between top management and the workplace, we aim to promote a greater mutual awareness of CSR initiatives. ■ Organizational Diagram Shareholders’ Meeting Board of Directors Board of Statutory Auditors CSR Committee CSR Promotion Council Representative Director, Compliance Committee Management Committee President & CEO Corporate HSE Committee Information Security Committee 10 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Key CSR Issues To select the key CSR issues the Group should prioritize in the future, we referenced the seven core themes* of ISO 26000 and collected, organized and classified the range of opinions from within the company. Of these, we decided to select the issues that have a significant impact on both the INPEX Group and its stakeholders and which we believe currently require strengthening. * We have identified the issues related to the seven core themes of ISO 26000 (Organizational Governance, Human Rights, Labour Practices, The Environment, Fair Operating Practices, Consumer Issues, and Community Involvement and Development) in order to realize our corporate social responsibility  Starting Point: When conducting business, observe international norms such as laws, regulations, Compliance and other rules, including those related to human rights, and social norms of where Comply with laws and we operate.  Vision: Go beyond simply complying with laws and regulations to being properly attentive societal norms to various social norms including those of where we operate. Executives and (including consideration employees will initiate actions that reflect high ethical standards. As a result, we will for human rights) be highly regarded globally.  Starting Point: Reduce environmental impact in daily operations, conduct and manage activities HSE Initiatives that address environmental risks, and conduct activities to conserve biodiversity and Practice safety and ensure safety when conducting business.  Vision: Ensures safety for all employees in all projects (including those of contractors), and environmental protection conduct operations without allowing major accidents. Exceed legal and regulatory in operations requirements to minimize environmental impact, and conduct operations while being attentive to biodiversity and environmental risks such as those posed by leakages. As a result, we will exhibit superior safety and environmental performance. Community Contribution  Starting Point: Strive to communicate with governments, local residents, NGOs and other public stakeholders in the countries and areas where we operate, determine their needs, Build trust with and approach them based on our business relationship and take measures as necessary. This includes providing education for local residents. contribute to local  Vision: Communicate adequately with stakeholders of where we operate, and conduct communities business in a form that contributes to the societal growth of such places while giving (including education) respect to local cultures, customs, etc. Greenhouse Gas  Starting Point: Promote a range of activities related to research, development, and practical application of technologies for renewable energy and fossil fuels (CCS, methane Countermeasures generation, etc.), and programs to offset CO2 emissions through initiatives such as Address climate change forest protection and tree planting. This also includes shifting from oil to natural gas.  Vision: Conduct operations with consideration for the various impacts to the climate of fossil fuel extraction. Develop and supply a diverse range of energies to combat climate change as we undertake technological development.  Starting Point: Employ talented people, treat them, and assign them to the positions to which they Employee Development are suited without discrimination on the basis of culture, national origin, creed, race, Develop and utilize gender, or age.  Vision: Actively develop and utilize human resources appropriate for conducting operations human resources as globally. As a result, we will achieve a proper balance between business growth and a global company employee satisfaction. Participation in the UN Global Compact INPEX CORPORATION has been a participant in the United Nations Global Compact since December, 2011. The United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary corporate responsibility initiative proposed by Kofi Annan (former Secretary-General, The United Nations) in 1999 and was officially established in The United Nations Headquarters in 2000. Participants in the Global Compact, who endorse ten principles of four fields of human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption, voluntarily implement their role as a good corporate citizen, and aim to contribute to a sustainable growth of international society. ■ 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Human Rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and approach to environmental challenges; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Environment environmental responsibility; and Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Labour Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Anti-Corruption all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 11 Relationships with Major Stakeholders Relationships with Stakeholders We are committed to providing society with a stable and efficient supply of energy while considering the environment and society. To fulfill this commitment, we find it imperative to work closely with stakeholders directly or indirectly associated with our business. The chart below outlines the main stakeholders of the INPEX Group and channels for two-way communication. Suppliers and Business Partners Customers Shareholders and Investors We aim to develop trust relationWe contribute to the growth We strive to increase our corships with our business partners and development of our customporate value by engaging in by engaging in fair and impartial ers by providing a stable and highly transparent information trading with a focus on compliefficient energy supply, deliverdisclosure while securing stable ance, aiming to create a sustaining safety, peace of mind, and supplies of energy to respond able society. efficiency. to the expectations of our shareholders and investors. ■ Main communication channels ■ Main communication channels ■ Main communication channels We strive to procure goods from Our sales representatives are the We disclose corporate information suppliers in a fair, transparent and main channel for communication in a timely, appropriate, and fair impartial manner. with our corporate customers. manner through investor relations, In addition, we always provide We also use the feedback gained the company website, and public companies wishing to become from regular questionnaires of indirelations outreach. suppliers and who meet our internal vidual customers at service stations We also hold two-way commustandards with fair and impartial to improve our operations. nication with shareholders and opportunity to establish business investors through events including with INPEX. the Shareholder’s Meeting, results Furthermore, we communicate with briefings, IR meetings, and business our contractors through day-to-day briefings. meetings and our Construction Management Committee. Local Communities, NGOs and NPOs Employees Oil and Gas Producing Countries To coexist with local communities, We provide our employees the We are working to develop longNGOs and NPOs as a good corpoopportunity to grow into acterm mutual trust relationships rate citizen, we actively engage tive players on the world stage with oil and gas producing counin various dialogues with them through experiencing a variety tries, and serve as a bridge with to contribute to the prosperity of of roles available at a global corJapan and other countries to local society. poration and a diverse range of deliver opportunities that benefit personnel exchanges. all parties involved. ■ Main communication channels ■ Main communication channels ■ Main communication channels When applying for approval for develWe hold face-to-face meetings beIn countries and regions where we opments, we allow a sufficient duratween managers and junior staff duconduct operations, we strive to tion to gather opinions from the local ring employee evaluations, and offer maintain strong communication with community, and reflect this feedback in the opportunity for employees to local governments, to respect the our project plans. state their requests and wishes relocal culture and customs, and to We also hold regular opportunities for lated to their job. contribute to development. communication after commencing Employees can also submit requests We maintain close communication operation in line with relevant laws. for transfers and new assignments with stakeholders during each stage In addition, we aim to achieve coonce a year. of the process, from acquisition of existence and mutual benefit with In addition, regular communication mining land, to applications and local communities by providing supis held between the company’s mancontracts related to development port for local economic development. agement and the labor union. approval and related assessments. Following commencement of operations, we hold regular communication with the governments of oil and gas producing countries based on national laws and international regulations. Global Environment 12 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 For details, please refer to our website: Stakeholders’ Comments and INPEX’s Response http://www.inpex.co.jp/ english/csr/ The following section outlines the results of the CSR Report 2011 questionnaire and other main opinions received from stakeholders as well as the responses we have taken through to fiscal 2012. Opinions received Response as of FY2012 ■ As a resource exploration and development company, the INPEX Group must clearly define in its philosophy and policies its stance on indigenous people, the environment, cultures, and societies in countries where the Group operates and include this in its objectives and plans. We revised our Corporate Social (CSR Report 2010, Messages from experts) Responsibility Policy as well as p. 2 ■ I believe the key to global peace and security, the basis for the continuity of formulated a basic policy on business, is to preserve and enhance cultural diversity. The Group is “building trust with and contribup. 42 engaged in a wide array of activities, but is there a fundamental policy on ting to local communities.” which these are based? I would like the Group to make this policy visible together with a policy for benefits sharing with the regions where resources are extracted. (CSR Report 2010, Third Party Comments) ■ You have not displayed many specific proposals for renewable energies. Does this mean that you are merely stating an ideal with no action? (CSR Report 2011 questionnaire; male, 20s) We are working to establish geothermal energy as a business as ■ The Group also has enough technical capabilities for geothermal. Even if pp. 16–17 one of our measures to enhance natural gas is INPEX’s primary focus, I hope the Group would at least start renewable energy initiatives. examining and taking small steps to deploy renewable energy simultaneously. (CSR Report 2011, Third Party Comments) ■ I wanted to see more detailed information on the Ichthys LNG Project and We have included a special feature the Abadi LNG Project. (CSR Report 2011 questionnaire; male, 60s) on the Ichthys LNG Project. pp. 18–19 We have included information on ■ I wondered whether natural gas really has a low environmental impact and the volume of natural gas deposits abundant deposits. How much do you calculate is left? and an outline of natural gas in this p. 36 (CSR Report 2011 questionnaire; female, 20s) report. We have set “practice safety and environmental protection in opera■ As you are a company that impacts the environment when extracting oil tions” and “address climate change” and natural gas, I hope you can put more emphasis on environmental pp. 10–11 as material issues, and will work to issues. (CSR Report 2011 questionnaire; female, 30s) advance these initiatives going forward. ■ As a major Japanese corporation, the company’s actions affect Japan’s repuWe have outlined the steps we tation. Please take care to prevent occurrence of bribery and corruption. are taking to prevent bribery and p. 46 (CSR Report 2011 questionnaire; male, 30 s) corruption in this report. We have added a glossary to our ■ The report contains some industry jargon, making it difficult to understand performance report explaining the the meaning. (CSR Report 2011 questionnaire; female, 40s) meanings of specialized words. We conducted a questionnaire on the content of the CSR Report 2011 and received responses from 404 readers. CSR Report 2011 66% of those who responded were male, while 34% were female. Readers in their 30s and 40s each Questionnaire (excerpts) comprised 26% of the survey population, while those in their 20s and 50s each accounted for 16%. Please rate the extent you agreed with content/ What actions do you expect from the INPEX Group? initiatives introduced in the CSR Report 2011. (multiple answers possible) (%) 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 Disagree 1% Supply stable and efficient energy Slightly disagree 2% Supply renewable energies Practice safety and environmental protection in operations Neutral Address climate change 16% Agree Consider biodiversity 33% Provide safe and reliable products; pass on related technology Contribute to local communities Address human rights issues (poverty, labor issues, etc.) Develop innovative technology Mostly agree Prevent bribery and corruption 48% Develop and utilize human resources as a global company Perform supply chain management Other INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 13 Business Activities Here we outline what the processes of the INPEX Group’s business activities are, and provide an overview for each process. Storage and offloading facility for oil produced offshore Land drilling rig Storage and processing facility for oil produced offshore Seismic survey Gas transportation pipeline Subsea production system Acquisition of License Blocks Exploration Activities Evaluation  Preliminary survey of  Terrestrial geological  Drilling of delineation wells to potential regions of surveys (seismic surveys evaluate the size of the crude operation and seabed probes) oil or natural gas field  Bidding and contract  Drilling of exploration  Evaluation of the amount of negotiation; conclusion of wells to confirm the the reserve contract concerning existence of crude oil and  Profitability investigation and interest in license blocks natural gas development plan formulation  Acquisition of working  Production test and interest discovery of crude oil and natural gas 14 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Refinery Crude oil Gas transportation pipeline Crude oil tanker LNG/LPG LNG Receiving Terminal LNG tanker Development Production and Sales  Drilling of production  Production and operation wells for crude oil and management natural gas  Marketing and sales  Construction of (crude oil, condensate, production and loading LPG, natural gas, LNG, etc.) facilities (pipelines etc.)  Commencement of production INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 15 Special Feature Stable Supply of Energy to Ensuring Japan’s Energy Security Over the long term, worldwide energy demand is expected to supply, the INPEX Group, in an enhanced effort toward ensuring increase, and in particular, there is an increasing interest in the shift Japan’s energy security, is currently making steady progress on the to natural gas and expanded use of renewable energies. Meanwhile, three strategies outlined in its mediumto long-term vision, to: (1) the international energy situation now faces major changes in light continue to expand our oil and gas upstream business by of various global issues, such as intensifying disputes over resources, proactively accessing new interests; (2) bolster the gas supply chain the debate surrounding nuclear power and environmental concerns. that effectively links our overseas LNG businesses with our natural In the wake of the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011, gas supply infrastructure, and (3) strengthen renewable energy energy security has become a major issue in Japan, along with initiatives, including geothermal and mega solar power generation reconstruction and the recalibration of the nation’s energy policy. projects. Given these shifts in the environment surrounding energy Naoetsu LNG Receiving Terminal: Kenji Sasaki Construction Group Connecting Japan to the World Naoetsu LNG Receiving Terminal Construction Office The Naoetsu LNG Receiving Terminal will be able to store up to LNG Receiving Terminal 360,000 kiloliters of LNG upon completion. When the terminal goes Construction Division online in 2014, it is scheduled to receive LNG from the Ichthys and Abadi projects, and along with the Minami Nagaoka Gas Field will bolster our capacity and our ability to provide a stable supply of natural gas. I have been involved in the LNG receiving terminal construction project since 2009 as a machinery and equipment supervisor. As of 2012, approximately 50 INPEX Group employees and 600–700 contractors are working on this project every day. Given the large number of people and companies involved, careful coordination and communication between us and our contractors is vital. This project must address many vexing problems in the tightening supply-demand situation for natural gas. A high-quality design must be guaranteed in a short period of time and this design, while putting safety first, must strike a balance between ease of operation and maintenance, and costs. We spent a good deal of time building a consensus within the INPEX Group to ensure that the specifications for things such as the height of the flare stack* were something that everyone could agree upon. In addition to the original plan to have the terminal possess earthquake resistance above and beyond what was required by law, in light of the Great East Japan Earthquake, we decided to build higher concrete walls around the buildings and raise the height of the emergency shutoff valve among other safety measures to mitigate tsunamis. When I see frequent news reports about the importance of natural gas, I feel pride in my work as well as a great sense of responsibility as a player in Japan’s energy security. * Flare stack: A combustion facility used to render excess gas generated in gas and oil refineries harmless 16 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Japan PICK-UP Striving to Develop Shale Gas The INPEX Group is currently involved in a involved in a shale gas project, but we will use shale gas development and production project the wealth of expertise in oil and natural gas in British Columbia, Canada. exploration, development and production we Canada has rich reserves of shale gas, and in have gained both in Japan and overseas to the future, there is potential to turn this gas into expand our shale gas knowledge. LNG. The INPEX Group intends on promoting What is shale gas? full-scale development as part of this project. Shale gas is a type of unconventional natural gas. The gas, One of the growth strategies of the INPEX instead of occurring in traditional gas fields like conventional Group is the sustainable expansion of our natural gas, is contained in hard layers of shale. To extract the gas, a horizontal well is drilled, and then the shale is artificially upstream oil and gas business, and we believe cracked by a process called hydraulic fracturing which releases our participation in this project will further the gas. In step with advances in extraction technology in recent years, shale gas production volumes have increased enrich our natural gas asset portfolio. This is the dramatically, especially in North America, and this type of gas first time that the INPEX Group has been is starting to garner more attention. Participating in our first shale gas project Entrusting Our Future to Renewable Energy Since 2011, I have been working in the Business Planing Unit, which is involved in developing renewable energy, supervising the commercialization of our geothermal power generation project. In Japan, which has the third most geothermal resources in the world, more and more people are paying attention to geothermal power generation as an exceptionally promising future source of energy. Although at present less than 1% of Japan’s total power comes from geothermal power generation, it holds great promise as a method for providing a stable supply of electricity. Another reason Shusaku Sako that people are looking to geothermal power generation is the Senior Coordinator New Business Planning Unit extremely low level of CO2 emissions it produces as steam is used to Corporate Strategy & rotate the turbines. Planning Division In June 2011, the INPEX Group commenced a joint survey with Idemitsu Kosan Co., Ltd. in preparation for the development of geothermal power in Hokkaido and Akita. The first phase, the terrestrial survey, has concluded and the second phase, which includes geological and physical exploration, began in fiscal 2012. I specialize in using the results of these explorations to estimate the volume of hot water and steam in the ground. It is an extremely difficult task, but this makes it all the more rewarding. Nothing beats the feeling when your predictions turn out to be accurate. In the third phase, we will drill a test well to a depth of 1,500 to 2,000 meters to survey the actual volume of hot water and steam in the ground. If our test results are favorable, we will conduct a final series of surveys including an environmental assessment of the surrounding area. It takes about 10 years from the beginning of the first survey until geothermal power generation commences, but I enjoy having the opportunity to participate in this kind of long-term project. By ensuring close communication with the local residents from the survey phase, I hope we can promote this project in cooperation with the local community. INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 17 Special Feature Ichthys LNG Project and CSR Ichthys LNG Project Ichthys LNG Project The Ichthys LNG Project is the first large-scale LNG project ever led by a Japanese company in Western Australia. The aim is to commence production by the end of 2016. Ichthys production volume LNG 8.4 million tons/year (Approx. 10% of Japanese total annual imports) LPG 1.6 million tons/year Condensate (light oil) 100 thousand BOEPD (at peak) Pledging to Avoid Negative Environmental Consideration for Biodiversity and the Impact and Attaining Environmental Fisheries Industry Approval Listening to the Opinions of the Local Community When Developing Operations Darwin, which will serve as the base for the Ichthys LNG Project, is blessed with a rich marine environment that is home to dolphins and The Ichthys LNG Project recognizes that the conservation of dugongs. It is also a place of cultural significance for the aboriginal biodiversity is an important issue, so measures are being promoted people. It is imperative that such a large-scale development project with this in mind. As dredging will take place in Darwin Harbour, does not negatively influence the natural environment and local home to rare marine animals such as dolphins and dugongs, we communities. This responsibility is constantly at the forefront of our began drafting operating policies after conducting ecological minds when implementing the project. surveys and carefully consulting Australian and international Our environmental impact assessment report was drafted based environmental standards. To minimize environmental impact, we on the guidelines created jointly by the Australian Federal Governchose to avoid underwater blasting and instead selected to bore ment and the Northern Territory Government. The report was also into the rock bed with a specialized cutter suction dredger. The based on rigorous studies conducted over four years. From July 2010 process will be constantly monitored for signs of any effect on the we conducted a public review over an eight week period—twice environment, such as sedimentation waters. the four weeks required by law. We also held briefing sessions to In addition, the surrounding waters of Darwin Harbour are also local communities in Darwin and received comments from a wide home to the barramundi cod, a species essential to the fishing demographic of residents. In April 2011 we subsequently presented industry. Our original plans to build a jetty in Darwin Harbour were a follow-up report responding to these comments to the Northern met with concern from the local community over the potential Territory Government and the Australian Federal Government. effect on access for barramundi fishing. We accordingly agreed to The Northern Territory Government approved the project in May, reduce the length of the jetty to ensure safe access to fishing areas. followed by the Australian Federal Government in June. Our decision in response to feedbacks from Darwin communities ■ Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) Report*—from Submission to Approval Convened Held three meetings Collected Acquired EIS Held public Formulated Held public of an Assessment Received Sustainability consent Committee from local baseline data hearing EIS Report review residents Committee meeting comprised of experts May 2008 June 2009 July 2010 June 2011 * EIS Report: A report required by the Government of Australia 18 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 resulted in minimizing the effect on fishing areas as well as gaining A representative example of this is the Larrakia Trade Training the support of the local community. Centre. In response to the strong desire of indigenous residents to increase youth employment through providing opportunities for Reduction of Emissions and Carbon Offsets young people to train in practical skills, we agreed to donate 200 Two Approaches to Prevent Global Warming million yen towards the construction of the center. The center was Natural gas is the most environmentally friendly energy source opened in April 2011. Students, primarily youths, are provided the among fossil fuels such as oil and coal. During the Ichthys LNG opportunity to acquire specialist skills in trades such as electrical Project, we will strive to reduce the output of greenhouse gases work, automotive maintenance, metalworking, and plumbing. (GHG) such as CO2 and adhere to the strict emission standards set by Close Communication Leads to a the Australian Government. To this end, we are working to minimize More Than 80% Support Rate GHG emissions during the LNG production process, and are considering CO2 offsets for the emissions. We will approach this As outlined in previous sections, under the Ichthys LNG Project, important environmental issue from a dual perspective. we are paying close attention to the impact on local communities As a measure to reduce emissions, we will maximize energy and implementing a range of initiatives to achieve coexistence and efficiency in the production process and use the latest technology to mutual benefit. For this to happen, close communication with the reduce the amount of flare when burning off excess gas. This community is essential. As the project progresses, we are holding measure will be more effective through the introduction of methods frequent briefing meetings as well as meetings with community repsuch as combined-cycle power generation* in the LNG plant. resentatives to ensure that the voice of the community is constantly In addition, we are undertaking initiatives to offset CO2 heard and to develop a personal, face-to-face relationship. At the emissions, such as a eucalyptus tree reforestation assessment same time, we always strive to listen to any concerns or requests and project that we have run since 2008 in Western Australia. We also do our utmost to provide the best solution possible. plan to implement the Savanna Fire Management Project in the This approach has won the understanding of community memNorthern Territory to control forest fires using traditional methods bers. Number of surveys in 2011–2012 of local residents continuously which will offset CO2 emissions and create potential employment showed that more than 80% of those who were aware of the Ichthys opportunities for indigenous communities. LNG Project were supportive. * Combined-cycle power generation: A power generation method combining gas turbines and steam turbines. This generation method is heat efficient and has low carbon emissions. Full, Fair and Reasonable Opportunities for Australian Companies We are working to ensure that as many Australian companies as possible are involved in the Ichthys LNG Project, and that benefits are shared with the local community. We provide fair opportunities nterview to local Australian companies and indigenous businesses, and give Nigel Browne priority to the company that uses the greatest ratio of Australian Chairman Larrakia Development Corporation made products and machinery through specific evaluation criteria During the construction of the Larrakia Trade Training Centre, INPEX made donations which contributed significantly to the for the selection of our contractors. sustainable development of the Northern Territory’s society and economy as well as fostered friendly relations with local residents that Mutual Respect and Cooperation will continue for generations to come. The training center is open to all Building a Positive Relationship Northern Territory residents and provides vocational training and qualifications required for a wide range of industries. It also helps with the Indigenous Community residents who have not completed basic education, such as reading, writing and mathematics, acquire vocational skills and new life skills. Many aboriginal people live in and around Darwin. A memorandum was concluded with the indigenous people pledging ongoing mutual cooperation and respect, and based on this we are working to build a network of support and cooperation. For example, we have been working with the indigenous people to identify and protect Aboriginal relics prior to construction. We also sponsor indigenous community and business development initiatives and are building an extremely positive relationship with Larrakia Development Corporation Chairman Nigel Browne (right) and INPEX the indigenous community through direct dialogs. Chairman Naoki Kuroda (left) at the Larrakia Trade Training Centre opening ceremony (April 2011) INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 19 Special Dialogue with Stakeholders Feature What is Expected of a Global As a company with a responsibility for Japan’s energy security and also as a global company, we invited external experts to talk with us regarding social issues which we must address such as the environment, human rights, and also communication with local communities in the regions in which we operate. Itaru Yasui, president of the National Institute of Technology and Evaluation and an expert on environmental issues, and Kaori Kuroda, from CSO Network Japan, an organization that helped formulate ISO 26000, gave us their expert opinions on the current state of the world and the expectations placed on our company. INPEX INPEX INPEX External Expert External Expert CORPORATION CORPORATION CORPORATION Itaru Yasui Kaori Kuroda Wataru Tanaka Masatoshi Sugioka Shuhei Miyamoto President Executive Director Director Representative Director and Managing Executive Officer National Institute of Technology CSO Network Japan Managing Executive Officer Vice Chairman and Evaluation and cost of CCS are hurdles. We need to find the best mix of energies, Searching for the Best Energy Mix without depending overly on any one type. Yasui: Japan has a tendency as a nation not to think deeply about Yasui: The electrical power problem will change Japan’s industrial energy security. Without nuclear power, our energy self-sufficiency structures. If they can distance themselves from the concept that a ratio is only 4%, but there doesn’t seem to be a strong sense of crisis. stable quality of electrical power is absolutely necessary, I think really After the Fukushima disaster, I feel there has been an increase in the big green innovations will occur. number of citizens who wish to see nuclear power gradually Valuing Human Rights: reduced. On the other hand, there is the agreement made at the An International Trend 35th G8 Summit in L’Aquila, Italy to reduce CO2 emissions by 80% by 2050. To fulfill both the desire to reduce nuclear power and the Kuroda: Respect for human rights is one principle for social summit agreement will require carbon dioxide capture and storage responsibility in ISO 26000, and is also one of its seven core subjects,2 (CCS1), energy conservation and the introduction of efficient so it is a standard that places great value on human rights. Within renewable energies, but presently there seems to be no option but this framework, all company activities are related to human rights to increase reliance on natural gas. Because of this, the role of INPEX and it is essential to give consideration to these issues in many is extremely important. departments. Placing importance on human rights is becoming an Miyamoto: INPEX is a company that develops and produces fossil international trend. It is not just about formulating a policy on energy, so we need to tackle the issue of climate change. The human rights, but also about the necessity of a system that volume of CO2 emissions from natural gas is comparatively low for a accurately grasps how to connect the policy to actual actions. fossil fuel, so this can contribute to shortand medium-term Companies should also prepare human rights due diligence3 measures for climate change. At the same time, we are also tackling systems that also consider the company’s response in the case of a CO2 offset measures, geothermal power generation and the violation. It is important to work on the premise that day-to-day development of renewable energies as long-term measures. global corporate activities may lead to human rights violations. Sugioka: Reconciling the three issues of energy security, global Miyamoto: Of the five key CSR issues our company selected, a warming and economic efficiency is an extremely difficult problem. major pillar of compliance is consideration of human rights. As we If you make economical efficiency the priority, reliance on fossil fuels conduct our business activities, in order to properly comply with would surely increase, but to curb CO2 emissions you would have to various international standards and social norms in the regions in implement a considerable program of CCS. However, the efficiency which we operate, both directors and employees need to act with a 20 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Energy Company For details, please refer to our website: http://www.inpex.co.jp/ english/csr/ high level of awareness and knowledge concerning human rights implement initiatives accordingly. Another important point is to and compliance. We are pleased to have joined the international associate with NGOs and NPOs. There are various dynamics in a local initiative UN Global Compact4 and we have just started initiatives in community and I think it’s wise to adopt constant communication line with this. with NPOs and NGOs who have a local base of activity. Kuroda: One thing to be aware of is cases in which through Sharing the Same Ideology Worldwide business activities or decision-making, you may be indirectly assisting human rights violations. Even if you yourself do not Kuroda: When it comes to “local communities,” there are many directly commit the different characteristics which depend on the country and the violation, if you have region, and they are often different from Japanese customs and knowledge that there social etiquette. In order to get along with people who have different is a possibility that customs, it is very important to have someone who acts as a coordihuman rights are nator. It’s difficult if that coordinator does not have a reasonable being breached at knowledge of international matters, in addition to an understanding one of your business of the local circumstances. partners, and you Tanaka: I was posted to Tehran for a project on the borders of Iran pretend not to know, although indirect, this is considered assisting and Iraq, and I experienced difficulties due to the differences in the commission of a human rights violation. religion and customs. Miyamoto: Regarding the issue of “assistance,” I feel that we can Sugioka: We have developed business in many different countries, improve simply by increasing our awareness, but it’s difficult to and the state of affairs in each country is certainly different. CSR is not measure what influence our business activities are having on society a one size fits all proposition. Although it’s very difficult to know how from a human rights perspective. We need to think of a concrete to proceed, I think the company needs to have a solid policy and method for doing this. should proceed while giving consideration to the circumstances in Kuroda: Measuring human rights violations is extremely difficult. It each country or region. If you operate globally, I feel strongly that doesn’t come to light even in audits. It is essential to have a proper there needs to be just one standard, whether it be for Japan or policy for human rights initiatives, so that when something does overseas. happen, you can appropriately tackle it by implementing PDCA Kuroda: I’ve heard that in cycles. Creating that system is important. Also, even if there are no two years there will be sharp issues currently, it is necessary to think about what your initial increase in the number of response would be if something were to occur. non-Japanese staff employed in your company. I wonder if Communication in Regions of Operation your CSR policy was made by Japanese nationals only. Tanaka: I have been involved in the development of oil and natural Miyamoto: As you’ve noted, our discussions occurred primarily at gas for 36 years. So far, I have been posted to overseas worksites our headquarters in Japan, but we want to make improvements in functioning as operators5 four times. It has made me think about this area as quickly as possible. In May this year, we formulated our how to aim to be a model company from the local community’s mediumto long-term vision for our business and as we are at the point of view and how best to pursue business together with the stage of promoting penetration throughout the company, we have local community and businesses. I would like to use the experience I sent an English translation to local operations in an effort to share have gained until now at two of INPEX’s core LNG operations which the same ideology. Going forward, I want to create a similar are currently under way. awareness of CSR across the entire Group. Miyamoto: It is essential for our business activities that we build Sugioka: Thank you for sharing your opinion of INPEX with us today. good relationships with everyone in the local communities of the We’ve received a lot of material to consider, including some concrete regions where we operate. ideas. Firstly, we’d like to continue our efforts so that we can deliver Kuroda: INPEX is implementing social contribution activities in the initiatives expected of us at the two large LNG projects currently various countries and regions, so I’d like to see you identify local under way. needs and the issues faced by each of those communities, and 1 CCS: Technology to separate, capture and store CO2 emitted from major sources. For details, please refer to page 37. 2 Seven core subjects: Through seven core subjects of organizational governance, human rights, labour practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues and community involvement and development, ISO 26000 defines the issues that must be addressed to fulfill social responsibility 3 Due diligence: Investigations into subject companies and businesses to grasp the existence of problems. Implemented at the time of acquisition of a company. 4 UN Global Compact: In accordance with a proposal by Secretary General of the United Nations, the UN Global Compact is a voluntary initiative joined by companies which, through displaying responsible and creative leadership, act as a good corporate citizen and create a global framework for realizing sustainable growth 5 Operator: The company which conducts actual operations and management at oil and gas operating sites INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 21 Management Main Achievements in FY2011 5officers Number of outside directors increased (4→5) Listed independent officers (1→5) Strengthening corporate governance p. 23 Corporate Governance 1year Appointment terms of directors and corporate officers shortened * Enacted in June 2012 (2 years→1 year) 96 % Middle management training Compliance training participation rate (for middle managers and non-managerial employees) 91 % Non-managerial employee training p. 24 Compliance 4 7 Regions undergoing HSE audit countries, Operational Organizations p. 27 HSE Management System 22 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Management Corporate Governance  Shortening of Terms of Directors and Basic Policy Corporate Officers At INPEX, in accordance with the Mission of the Group we In order to adapt to changes in the global business aim to strengthen the trust placed in us by our stakeholders environment and to clarify management responsibility, the and be recognized as an indispensable presence in society. terms of appointment for directors and corporate officers To this end, we have placed the enhancement of our were shortened from two years to one year. corporate governance system as one of the material issues  Additional Appointment of an Outside Director on our management agenda, and are working towards this By appointing an additional outside director and goal. As a company with auditors, the Board of Directors increasing the number from four to five (all are registered as responsible for enacting key management decisions is independent officers), we aim to strengthen the supervisory supervised and moderated. We also have a Management function of the Board of Directors. Committee and an Executive Officer System in place to  Establishment of an Advisory Body to the Board of achieve swift decision-making and clarify the system for Directors execution of duties. We believe that a diverse range of objective advice As we continue managing our operations responsibly as on material issues in management from experts in Japan a global company we will also build systems that allow us and overseas will help us increase our corporate value. to respond more effectively to the expectations of our Accordingly, by the end of 2012 we plan to establish an stakeholders, and will continue working to increase our advisory body to the Board of Directors, provisionally named corporate value. the Management Advisory Committee.  Establishment of a Guideline for the Purchase of Overview of Our Corporate Shares of INPEX Governance In order to proactively enhance the corporate value from INPEX operates a statutory auditor system where a mediumto long-term perspective, we have established a statutory auditors attend meetings of the Board of Directors guideline for the purchase of shares of INPEX. as well as the Management Committee, and audit the directors’ execution of their duties through measures such as Internal Control System interviews with relevant divisions. They also receive reports In accordance with the internal control reporting system from the independent auditors on a regular and irregular mandated by the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act basis and, as needed, reports from the Internal Audit Unit on enacted in September 2007, the assessment team of the the state of internal audits. Internal Audit Unit assesses the establishment and operation We have an Internal Audit Unit that is independent of our of internal control systems for financial reporting in the business divisions and that reports directly to the CEO to INPEX Group. As a result of this assessment concluded at the ensure the appropriateness and efficiency of business end of March 2012, we determined that the internal control activities. The unit reviews and evaluates the status of systems for financial reporting were functioning effectively, management entities and the efficiency of business and these findings were submitted to the pertinent Details on Corporate operations, identifies problem areas, submits reports to regulatory agency in June 2012 as an internal control report. Governance is available management, and performs follow-up audits to ensure We also received an unqualified opinion from an on our website: http://www.inpex.co.jp/ continual improvements. The unit also consults with the independent auditor regarding our internal control report. english/company/ governance.html independent and statutory auditors in a timely manner to ensure sound management. ■ Corporate Governance Structure Shareholders’ Meeting Appoint/dismiss Appoint/dismiss Appoint/dismiss Coordination Audit Independent Auditors Board of Statutory Auditors Board of Directors 5 statutory auditors, including 4 outside statutory auditors 16 directors, including 5 outside directors Accounting Coordination audit Audit Coordination Accounting audit Appoint/supervise/dismiss Management Committee CSR Committee Representative Director, President & CEO Compliance Committee Report Corporate Officer Corporate HSE Committee Internal audit 9 directors and corporate officers 24 corporate officers Total: 33 Internal Audit Unit Divisions and subsidiaries Information Security Committee As of June 26, 2012 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 23 Management Compliance compliance communication by launching a Compliance Basic Policy Committee website on the intranet and by publishing a The INPEX Group has a Compliance Committee in place to monthly internal newsletter on compliance. By periodically ensure consistency in compliance throughout the Group, and providing compliance-related information, we aim to to manage the implementation of compliance practices. The stimulate greater interest in compliance and raise awareness Committee also works with the statutory auditors, Board of among our officers and employees. Statutory Auditors, independent auditors, and Internal Audit In fiscal 2012 we will continue to place focus on vitalizing Unit to (1) develop and implement compliance programs; (2) workplace communication, and in order to further enroot monitor their implementation; (3) raise employees awareness compliance activities in the workplace. Starting in July we of compliance policy and procedures; (4) receive reports on will commence operation of a system in which each and investigate cases of noncompliance; (5) issue warnings workplace, including overseas offices, has a designated and take measures to end any noncompliant conduct; and employee in charge of compliance promotion. (6) establish measures to prevent recurrence of noncompliant In addition, we have established action guidelines conduct. according to local laws and culture at our main overseas We also distribute a compliance manual and compliance offices and will work to further enhance our global FAQ literature to all Group members to foster awareness of compliance system as overseas laws related to bribery are compliance among officers and employees. strengthened. Compliance Training Help-Line System During fiscal 2011,we focused on energizing workplace In April 2006, we established the Help-Line System communication—the most important factor in strengthening for Group officers and employees in accordance with the compliance—and held rank-based compliance training. Whistleblowers Protection Act. To operate this system, we Firstly, we held e-learning programs for middle managers devised Help-Line Procedures which outline stipulations of INPEX and its subsidiaries in Japan. Over a one month on the mandatory reporting of fraud or unethical conduct, period, participants spent a total of three hours learning fact-finding procedures, protection of whistle-blowers, how to communicate compliance-related issues to junior and confidentiality. Confidential reports are submitted employees under their management. to the department in charge of compliance (the General We also held training for non-managerial employees Administration Unit) or an external expert designated by outlining the compliance issues with which they are familiar. the Compliance Committee. When the latter receives a In addition, we ensured that all employees completed this confidential report, it is shared with the former in a timely training session. Absentees from the session, employees at manner and upon establishing the factuality of the report, subsidiaries in Japan and in overseas offices have particithe designated external expert will hold discussions with pated in the training via TV or video conference. We also held the Compliance Committee on appropriate actions to be training on the company’s compliance system and the basics taken. Our officers and employees can report unethical of the compliance manual for new recruits and mid-career behavior anonymously and are rigorously protected against hires. retaliatory action for filing such reports. The Help-Line Moreover, from December 2010 we enhanced System was used three times in fiscal 2011. ■ Compliance System ■ Compliance Training Participation Rate Board of Directors Course Participation Rate Appoint Report Compliance 96 % Committee Director in charge of compliance (Committee Chairperson): Middle management Masatoshi Sugioka (Representative Director, Vice Chairman) training Compliance Committee members (Head of business divisions) Anonymize Report External consultation (Lawyer) General Administration Unit In-house consultation Department in charge of compliance Non-managerial employee training 91% (as of March 31, 2012) Report/consult Report/consult Officers and employees Scope: The INPEX Group 24 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Management Risk Management adopted a range of epidemic prevention measures. For the * Operational Basic Policy threat of new influenza strains, we have prepared a response Organization: The INPEX Group The INPEX Group is striving to accurately identify and manual for a scenario in which the spread of infection poses headquarters and organizations that assess the complicated and varied risks inherent in the a risk to our business operations. This manual is distributed to implement operator all employees. projects business environment and to create systems to prevent and minimize damage. In addition to large-scale natural disasters and pandemics, this also encompasses risks Information Security Measures related to changes in the business environment such as In order to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and For details on HSE economic, societal and legal factors, and risks at each stage availability of the data we store, we have established a Basic Management System, please refer to page 26 of the business process, spanning exploration, production, Policy for Information Security, and are preparing the related transportation and sales. Each Operational Organization* rules and management systems under the supervision also performs risk management related to occupational of the Information Security Committee, established as a health and safety and environmental protection under the company-wide oversight body. To protect information assets, Details on Basic Policy HSE management system. in addition to technical measures we also conduct systematic for Information security education to raise the awareness of employees. We Security is available on Business Continuity Plan (BCP) will continue working to improve information security by our website: http://www.inpex.co.jp/ for Emergency Situations constantly reviewing related rules, standards, systems, and english/company/ security.html  Measures Against Large-Scale Natural Disaster technical measures. Based on the experience of the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011 and the subsequent impact, in Climate Change Risk June 2011 we created a BCP for our Akasaka headquarters Risks related to climate changes that could potentially in the event of a major earthquake in Tokyo, by updating affect our operations include damage to production facilities and improving existing manuals. We held a briefing for or pipelines due to extreme weather, water shortage at headquarter employees, and conducted an earthquake operating sites, disruption of operations by rising water response drill in February 2012. levels, and regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions. This BCP is composed of (1) basic guidelines defining To counter such risks, offshore facilities were designed to fundamental BCP policy, including prioritization of human withstand a large-scale cyclone, and facilities were also life, and collaboration and cooperation with the local designed to account for possible rises in sea level under the community, (2) BCPs defining how to continue our key Ichthys LNG Project. Our offshore facilities for the Abadi LNG headquarter operations as an energy supplier, and (3) an Project also incorporate cyclone-proof design. Furthermore, earthquake response manual defining what actions are to be we promote the use of natural gas (which has a relatively low taken, from initial response when an earthquake strikes, to environmental impact), reduce greenhouse gas emissions switchover to the BCP system. during our operations and develop CCS and methane This document architecture will enable us to maintain generation technology that leads to CO2 emission reduction. our headquarter function and continue smooth operations Beyond this, we are also looking into development of in the event of an emergency. geothermal energy, fuel cells, mega solar power stations  Measures Against New Influenza Strains and lithium ion battery technology as we work towards a As a social infrastracture-related company, we have renewable energy business. ■ Overview of Emergency Response System ■ Information Security Management System and Business Continuation Response Major earthquake Corporate Crisis Management Team Management Committee Business Continuation Response Team 100% Information Security Business Head of information security Committee Normal business operation Emergency continuity Level of operation response response BCP initiation BCP termination  Evacuation, safety  Customer handling Information security managers confirmation  Carrying out of (Head of business divisions and project divisions) announcement announcement  Disaster situation continuing business assessment activities  Secondary disaster prevention Information security administrators  Rescue operations, etc. (General manager of each unit) Restoration activities / Community contribution Several weeks Users Time INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 25 Management HSE Management System Message from Director HSE Committee and HSE supporting groups, drafting of our in Charge of HSE annual HSE objectives. Our HSE objectives for fiscal 2012 were to enhance HSE The INPEX Group strives communication, raise the level of HSE competency across to become an integrated E&P the Group, ensure risk management for major accidents, company, committed to conreduce the number of accidents, and to control emissions of tributing to the development greenhouse gases and promote environmental manageof society as a good corpoment practices based on international standards. rate citizen that upholds high As our operations become even more global and the business ethics and has a projects we undertake larger and more complex, a team corporate culture that places comprised of members from the INPEX Group and its * Contractor: ensuring safety and environoverseas contractors* supports frontline operations. Creating A company or person Masatoshi Sugioka mental integrity at the top of a workplace culture where all members share a motto of contracted to per form Representative Director its agenda. When conducting construction work for the “safety first” and “prioritizing environmental protection” is company Vice Chairman in charge of HSE our business on a global basis essential. To develop this culture, we must utilize tools such to secure and provide a stable supply of energy for society as process safety management, systematically sharing we are naturally obliged to follow rules and standards preinformation on practical aspects, and develop a system for vailing in the international community and to globalize our preemptively identifying and rectifying factors that could corporate culture. lead to a serious accident at our operating facilities. In December 2007, we developed the HSE Management With differing natural environments, diverse work System Manual to carry out integrated health, safety and environments and a wide variety of stakeholders involved, environmental (HSE) activities based on internationally recogwe are engaging in our HSE activities with a firm resolve to nized standards. Our HSE Management System encompasses win the trust of society and be recognized as an essential a broad range of HSE activities such as creation of systematic presence. HSE documents, establishment of a cross-departmental Health, Safety and Environmental Policy of the INPEX Group The INPEX Group is a global, independent energy company and our vision is to provide a stable and efficient supply of energy to our customers. We recognize our responsibility for sustainable development and, in this regard, we aim to protect the health and safety of all those associated with our business activities and to minimize adverse impacts on the environment. To accomplish this, we will:  Comply with all applicable HSE laws and regulations, and  Maintain and regularly test emergency plans to ensure a apply our standards where laws and regulations do not exist quick and effective response in the event of emergencies. or are considered insufficient.  Provide resources that will enable our employees to meet HSE  Implement and maintain HSE management systems, and objectives and targets. perform regular audits of legal compliance and progress of  Provide training in HSE activities and safe driving to ensure our HSE activities to achieve continuous improvement in our all employees are aware of their responsibilities and HSE performance. accountabilities in these areas.  Identify and assess health and safety hazards and eliminate  Require contractors to manage HSE in accordance with this or, if not possible, reduce risks to as low as reasonably Policy, and to achieve agreed HSE targets. practicable to prevent incidents.  Communicate openly on HSE activities with stakeholders.  Conduct environmental assessments and promote efficient energy consumption to reduce adverse environmental June 23, 2011 impacts. Toshiaki Kitamura Representative Director, President & CEO INPEX CORPORATION 26 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 its operations, and all related HSE activities at the corporate2 HSE Management System Initiatives and Operating Organizations.  Overview and Promotion of the HSE Management We have set HSE management system development, System effectiveness of HSE objectives, and contractor management The INPEX Group has established the HSE Management as key audit parameters, and are working to improve HSE System that coordinates our health, safety and environmental operations at each site. In fiscal 2011, we added effectiveness (HSE) practices, and strives to make continual improvements assessment of emergency response as a key parameter. to our HSE performance. The HSE Management System We conducted audits of the projects in Japan, Naoetsu encompasses a document architecture that includes the LNG Receiving Terminal Construction Project, the Pipeline HSE Policy, the HSE Management System Manual, as well as Construction Project, the Suriname Project, the Ichthys LNG corporate HSE procedures and guidelines; an organizational Project, and the Abadi LNG Project. We also underwent a structure comprising the HSE Committee; and HSE objectives third party audit at the corporate level. and programs devised each fiscal year. The Access-Plan-DoMeasurement of the effects of the HSE Management Check-Act (A-PDCA) cycle is employed as a management System is performed by checking the status of system method to ensure the HSE Management System is operated operation through audits and by periodically collecting in a proper manner. and analyzing HSE data. In addition, the corporate and At our headquarters we have established the HSE Unit, Operating Organizations create annual summaries of HSE as well as the Corporate HSE Committee which works to activities for the HSE management review conducted by promote Group-wide HSE initiatives. HSE Groups are also each representative. The results of the review are sent to organized for our Operational Organizations1 to conduct headquarters and checked by the director in charge of HSE. 1 Operational Organizations: similar initiatives.  HSE Awards The INPEX Group  Establishment of Document Architecture for the HSE The INPEX Group confers HSE awards for outstanding headquarters and organizations that Management System initiatives with the purpose of improving the performance of implement operator projects HSE activities in the INPEX Group are clearly set forth companies in the Group and raising awareness of HSE. In fiscal in a series of HSE documents ranging from our HSE Policy, 2011 three organizations and individuals received awards, 2 Corporate: Corporate HSE Management System Manual, Procedures, including a contractor. At the award ceremony, recipients The INPEX Group’s HSE Management and Guidelines. We continued creation of our HSE Guidelines present a report of their activities to the President and other System contains a in fiscal 2011, and completion is planned by the end of fiscal senior management officers, helping to improve employee framework (organizational and 2012. To ensure steady implementation of HSE initiatives we motivation. functionality) for overseeing the periodically review Procedures and other documents and entire Group inform employees by posting information over the intranet FY2011 HSE Award Recipients and through other means. Tanimbar Geological Survey Team, Asia Unit  HSE Audits and Management Reviews Naoetsu LNG Receiving Terminal Construction Office, To continually improve our HSE performance we conduct Shimizu Corporation two different levels of audit of the HSE Management System, Mutsumi Higuchi, Teiseki Topping Plant Co., Ltd. ■ Framework for Implementing HSE Management System Chief Executive of HSE Toshiaki Kitamura (Representative Director, President & CEO) Corporate HSE Committee HSE Management Director (Director for HSE) Masatoshi Sugioka (Representative Director, Vice Chairman) Operational Operational Operational Operational Organization Organization Organization Organization Operational Organization Operational Organization Operational Organization Operational Organization Representative Representative Representative Representative HSE Committee HSE Committee HSE Committee HSE Committee HSE award ceremony INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 27 Management HSE Management System HSE Training and Cultivating an HSE Corporate Culture HSE Initiatives in Projects Organizations with a mature HSE culture are those Ichthys LNG Project which have created systems, take actions based on these The Ichthys LNG Project is currently in the construcsystems, and share related information. In fiscal 2011 we tion stage, and a safety first policy is the first and conducted a study into the maturity level of our HSE culture based on the evaluation method devised by the professors foremost issue during our HSE initiatives. The team at Leiden University in the Netherlands. The findings of the responsible for managing the overall project and the self-assessment revealed that although we had prepared team responsible for managing worksite performance a framework and followed rules, our operations lacked are working together to strengthen HSE management initiative. Overall, INPEX rated itself as an organization with at the work sites. an intermediate level of HSE culture maturity. We believe Based on the lessons of the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil that knowledge, skills, and communication are key factors spill and the 2009 oil leak in the Montara oil field, we have to improving the maturity level of our HSE culture, and we created environmental plans and oil leakage response have set “increasing the level of HSE capability across the plans for our onshore, coastal, and offshore facilities and Group” and “strengthening HSE communication” as material hold training in preparation for response in the event of issues for fiscal 2012. We also plan and implement annual HSE education an emergency involving an oil spill. As we work towards programs in accordance with HSE skill and training guidelines the start of production by the end of 2016, we are also in order to develop a more mature HSE culture and equip developing systems to measure emissions volumes in employees with the knowledge and skills to conduct HSE order to control emission of greenhouse gases. activities. At our headquarters in fiscal 2011 we conducted 357 hours of training, comprised of 27 items and categorized into Naoetsu LNG Receiving Terminal four course levels according to employee specialization and Construction Project experience. A total of 625 employees (52.4%) have participated At the construction site, we are conducting thorough in this training. In fiscal 2012 we plan to add training in specialist PDCA management of the fundamental HSE activities fields for young engineers in order to enhance HSE on-the-job training (OJT). of occupational health and safety and environmental protection. In addition to day-to-day site observation HSE Communication and correction of unsafe actions taken by workers and The INPEX Group is working to vitalize internal unsafe situations, work procedure risk assessment checks, communication in order to raise awareness of HSE. In addition and emergency evacuation and lifesaving drills, we also to the HSE Annual Meetings held since fiscal 2008 that gather hold a variety of regular meetings and seminars to share all managers in charge of HSE at Japanese and overseas information. All employees are involved in the HSE effort. Operational Organizations, we also periodically hold HSE We also hold HSE audits of contractors and give Managers Meetings attended by managers in charge of HSE at HSE activity reports to the Construction Management Operational Organizations. Compared to the HSE Annual Meetings in which managers report on the status of HSE Committee, thereby ensuring all parties involved in the development and issues during implementation as well as construction process have access to the same informaexchange opinions with management, HSE Managers tion when working. In the future we plan to focus on Meetings provide an opportunity for managers involved at the ISO 14001 education in preparation for operation at the practical level of HSE in the Operating Organizations to discuss facility. specific issues in greater depth. HSE Annual Meeting OJT at Nagaoka Gas Field 28 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 For details, please HSE Objectives and Plans Excerpt refer to our website: http://www.inpex.co.jp/english/csr/ 1. Strengthen HSE Communication Medium-Term Finish creating HSE documents and educating employees on their content at both the corporate and operational level. Plan Objectives Ensure that all HSE managers have a uniform understanding of such content. Further strengthen communication between the corporate and Operational Organizations, accelerate establishment of HSE Management System, and share issues and FY2011 Key Objectives awareness in the Operating Organizations in a timely manner by promoting two-way bottom-up and top-down communication. Rating Initiative Outline  Formulate corporate HSE policies Formulated and issued 13 Procedures and Guidelines, compared to target of 20 Scope of objective included the Egypt and Venezuela exploration projects. Measures were implemented for the Venezuela exploration  Support development of HSE Management System project. Egypt was not applicable as our rights were sold partway through the term.  Expand HSE inspections by management Conducted at 3 sites (no target figure set) Hold HSE Annual Meeting, HSE Managers Meeting,  HSE Liaison Meetings 7 meetings held, compared to target of 8 meetings (one HSE Liaison Meeting was skipped)  Verify results of HSE Culture Maturity Study Conducted summary report of study results. Began new measures to establish HSE culture (no quantitative evaluation).  Improve information sharing across the company Updated website. New system not yet built (no quantitative evaluation). 2. Improve Contractor HSE Management Medium-Term Make activities related to management of HSE risk, contractor HSE, health, and security, consistent across the Group. Plan Objectives Improve contractor HSE management through pre-evaluation of contractor HSE capability, evaluation of HSE risk and creation of HSE plans for the work in question, and by FY2011 Key Objectives enhancing communication with contractors. Rating Initiative Outline  Propose a Group-wide scheme to prevent oil pollution Began investigating contracts with oil pollution response companies. Contract not yet concluded (no quantitative evaluation). Promote awareness of the Corporate Procedure for  Contractors’ HSE Management and related guidelines Held briefing session in Japan (no quantitative evaluation) Ensure safety management by enhancing  communication with contractors Enforced safety management at projects in Japan through meetings with contractors, audits, etc. (no quantitative evaluation) 3. Implement Comprehensive Risk Management for Major Accidents  Ensure operational safety in the design phase. To that end, periodically implement HSE reviews for large-scale projects in the design phase, and establish processes to incorporate review results into design work. Medium-Term  Implement integrity maintenance measures for production facilities. Ensure that major accident risks have been reduced to their As Low As Reasonably Practicable (ALARP) Plan Objectives levels.  Make activities related to management of HSE risk, contractor HSE, health, and security, consistent across the Group. Reduce risk of major accidents such as oil spills, large-scale oil leaks, fires and explosions, and accidents resulting in death to ALARP level. Place particular focus on operational FY2011 Key Objectives management to prevent oil spill accidents during well drilling, by developing and standardizing internal guidelines and instructions and establishing strict operating rules. Rating Initiative Outline  Conduct HSE risk evaluation and manage risk register Received from six out of seven Operational Organizations  Develop internal manual for well drilling operations Draft completed (no quantitative evaluation)  Conduct HSE review Participated in 10 HSE reviews (no quantitative evaluation) 4. Reduce Number of Accidents Medium-Term Reduce the number of accidents. Use LTIF, * TRIR,* and other parameters as numerical targets, and strive to reach targets. Plan Objectives FY2011 Key Objectives Aim to achieve Group-wide targets of 0.68 for LTIF and 2.78 for TRIR, based on Operational Organization HSE activities aiming for zero accidents. Rating Initiative Outline  Share information on accidents across the organization Achieved targets (LTIF: 0.62 (target: 0.68); TRIR: 1.75 (target: 2.78))  Reduce number of traffic accidents 9 accidents in fiscal 2011, down from 12 in fiscal 2010 Introduce Safety Training Observation Program  (STOP) system Supported introduction at Domestic Project Division (no quantitative evaluation) 5. Promote Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reductions and Environmental Management Practices that are Compliant with International Standards Medium-Term Identify environmental management parameters and create an annual environmental management plan that includes management policies, numerical targets, and actions for Plan Objectives continual improvement. Refer to the IFC EHS Guidelines, an international standard, as a guide for setting voluntary targets when formulating the plan. Pursue best practices in environmental management based on IFC EHS Guidelines, an international standard, and performance standards, while continuing to monitor and FY2011 Key Objectives effectively reduce emission of greenhouse gases. Rating Initiative Outline  Formulate environmental management plan Supported formulation of environmental management plan for Domestic Project Division (no quantitative evaluation)  Hold environmental meeting Meeting held (meetings planned: 1, held: 1) 6. Promote HSE Activities Medium-Term  Identify the minimum level of resources needed to execute the HSE Management System, and establish those resources at corporate and Operational Organizations. Plan Objectives  Prepare 400 hours of HSE-related courses (80 five-hour courses) a year by fiscal 2012. Rating Initiative Outline  Add HSE personnel Hired 1 mid-career employee, placed 3 employees in Operational Organizations (no quantitative target)  Plan and implement HSE training programs Conducted 357 hours of training, with 652 participants in total  HSE auditing Conducted audits of seven Operational Organizations, compared to a target of five  Manage health risks Conducted medical survey in Venezuela and reviewed health risks at each location (no quantitative target) Participate in the International Association of  Oil & Gas Producers (OGP) activities Participated in prescribed activities Achievement rate:  80–100%  50–80% 0–50% * See page 39 for details INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 29 Environment Main Achievements in FY2011 Greenhouse gas emissions per 5.667 kg-CO2/GJ unit of production (Japan) p. 32 Global Warming Mitigation 91.3 % Ratio of total waste recycled (Japan, overseas) p. 35 Reducing Our Environmental Impact Forestation on 645ha of land in Australia 1.4 million eucalyptus trees (estimated to absorb 450,000 tons of CO2 over next 50 years) p. 36 Fighting Climate Change 30 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Environment Environmental Impact of Our Business Activities In fiscal 2011 the INPEX Group continued implementing a range of measures to reduce its environmental impact. Our environmental impact for fiscal 2011 is summarized in an Input/Output format below: INPUT Fuel (TJ) 3,973 Raw Purchased gas (kcf) 20,138,548 Fuel materials Purchased raw Water (kl) 1,436,922 materials (bbl) 309,719 Exploration, Development, Production and Refining, Transportation, and Construction Power Generation and Sales Includes some fuel produced by INPEX CORPORATION OUTPUT Natural gas (kcf) 72,275,150 GHGs (t-CO2) 381,918 Crude oil 1,734,375 (amount sold; bbl) PRTR substances (t) 1 26 Emissions Petroleum products (bbl) 1,467,967 578 Sales VOC (t) LPG (t) 6,566 NOx (t) 185 Electricity (1,000kWh) 202,824 SOx (t) 24 Iodine (t) 443 Water discharged into public water bodies (kl)2 789,345 Volume of total waste (t) 36,099 Industrial Volume of total 3,154 waste waste disposed (t) Recycled volume (t) 32,945 Environmental performance data for the Group’s Japanese operations published in this report are a compilation of data from the company’s headquarters, Domestic Project Division, Pipeline Construction Division, LNG Receiving Terminal Construction Division, Teiseki Pipeline Co., Ltd., and Teiseki Topping Plant Co., Ltd. Environmental performance data for the Group’s overseas operations published in this report are a compilation of data from the company’s consolidated subsidiaries: Gas Guarico, S.A., West Bakr Petroleum Co., INPEX Masela, Ltd., INPEX Ichthys Pty Ltd., Ichthys LNG Pty Ltd., INPEX Operation Australia Pty Ltd., INPEX Libya, Ltd., PT Moruy ll, S.A., and Teikoku Oil (Suriname) Co., Ltd. 1 Data on the output of PRTR substances was collected only from our operations in Japan 2 Wastewater includes water pumped from a water well at Teiseki Topping Plant INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 31 Environment Global Warming Mitigation electricity shortage led to higher emissions from our power Basic Policy plants. Fiscal 2011 emissions per unit of production also The INPEX Group is striving to fight global warming increased slightly compared to fiscal 2010. through its HSE Management System which is based on the Our management of GHGs in Japan is conducted based Group’s HSE Policy. on the Energy Conservation Law and the Global Warming In our operations in Japan we are aiming to reduce energy Law. Although energy consumption in Japan during fiscal use per unit of production by at least 1% annually, as required 2011 rose by 5%, we achieved the 1% reduction in energy by the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy (Energy use per unit of production required by the Energy ConservaConservation Law). The Law Concerning the Promotion of tion Law. Our CO2 emissions from non-energy sources and Measures to Cope with Global Warming (Global Warming methane emission volumes reported under the Global Law) also requires businesses to report to the government Warming Law declined by approximately 7,000 tons. their annual emissions of separated CO2 and other GHGs. We The main GHGs emitted by the INPEX Group are from comply with these two laws and are working to manage GHG energy use during operation of the Group’s oil and natural emissions. gas businesses, CO2 separated and removed from natural The INPEX Group participates in the Nippon Keidanren gas, CO2 released during natural gas discharge, and CO2 Voluntary Action Plan on the Environment through the generated during energy use at our power plants. Japan Petroleum Development Association (JPDA). JPDA, of Methane, the primary component of natural gas, has a which INPEX is a member, has committed to participating in global warming potential 21 times greater that that of CO2. the Nippon Keidanren’s Commitment to a Low-Carbon However, some operations in our oil and natural gas Society from 2013. business, such as routine equipment inspections and In 2011 we established a working group to plan the pipeline relocation leave us no choice but to temporarily management of GHG emissions in Japan and overseas with discharge methane into the air. We are working to prevent the Group’s overseas projects set to commence full-scale the release of methane into the atmosphere, and even in operation. We are furthering discussion to clarify the Group’s cases where release is unavoidable we are striving to reduce policies and objectives as we work towards Group-wide the volume of GHGs emitted on a CO2 calculated basis by initiatives to reduce GHG emissions and conserve energy. installing ground flare* systems at our operating sites to burn off waste natural gas. * Ground flare: Equipment that Reducing GHG Emissions Since fiscal 2006 we have calculated the quantity of incinerates excess hydrocarbon gas Total GHG emissions for the INPEX Group were 382,000 energy consumed during transportation in our operations produced by crude oil tons, a reduction from 393,000 tons during the previous fiscal and reported this data along with our energy conservation drilling facilities, gas processing facilities year. Although emissions rose in Japan, which accounts for plans. The majority of the INPEX Group’s transportation and oil refineries instead of simply 95% of the Group’s emissions, significant reductions in is of oil and condensate, and although transportation is dissipating the gas as Australia and Egypt brought the overall year-on-year total commissioned to outside companies, as the owner of the is. Shaped to combust flames within an upper down slightly. products being transported we are working to improve chimney-like furnace, thereby resulting in no In Japan, GHG emissions in fiscal 2011 increased as energy efficiency in the transportation process. Our internal night-time construction of our LNG receiving terminal reached its peak. working group collaborates with transportation contractors illumination, noise pollution or effects on In addition, total GHG emissions across our business activities to devise energy-saving initiatives. the surrounding rose as requests to increase our output in response to Japan’s environment. Website only ■ Total GHG Emissions (Japan) ■ GHG Emissions per Unit of Production (Japan) 500 (thousand t-CO2) 7 (kg CO2/GJ) Power generation Energy use Natural gas emissions Saving Energy Natural gas emissions 6 CO2 removal Power generation 0.809 1.313 1.453 400 64 at the Office CO2 removal 62 0.761 0.985 78 0 0 41 5 0 0.525 Energy use 0 0 1.166 1.450 0 24 0 0.302 22 85 93 0.625 0.280 0.335 0.227 300 0.794 1.120 0.604 0.608 4 2.664 2.411 22 15 2.214 2.603 2.555 2.515 2.533 36 1.971 2.108 1.858 1.924 1.997 210 212 201 3 200 29 45 59 26 163 163 137 29 43 2 104 76 92 1.895 1.776 100 69 82 1.897 1.634 1.667 1.731 74 1.523 1.526 1.387 1.376 1.410 1.454 1 120 112 108 83 99 91 93 70 59 73 67 73 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 32 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Environment Biodiversity Conservation When constructing a new pipeline or plant and in the Basic Policy course of oil and gas field production, the INPEX Group For the conservation of biological diversity, our priorities performs studies to evaluate the impact on the environment. are based on the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Based on the evaluation results, we strive to minimize our total Performance Standard that aims “to protect and conserve impact on the ecosystem by developing countermeasures to biodiversity” and “to promote the sustainable management preserve biodiversity. and use of natural resources.” Biodiversity Conservation Measures Taken at Projects Toyama Line Construction Project During the construction process careful attention is paid During the construction of the Toyama Line we have to minimize the effect on the ecosystem. For the dredging been taking measures to protect biodiversity through process which is necessary to secure shipping routes in selection of appropriate construction methods and timing, Darwin Harbour, ecological surveys were conducted to based on the results of a survey of the mountain area. study the impact on the dolphin and dugong populations During construction of a tunnel, which is already that reside in the harbor, and process policies were underway, we relocated rare plants found in the determined after careful study of international standards. approximately 540m2 construction area. In addition, we To minimize environmental impact during the dredging identified the inhabitation status of rare amphibians in the process, we chose to avoid underwater blasting and river into which water from the tunnel mouth converges, instead selected to excise the rock bed with a specialized and are measuring and monitoring the quality of the cutter suction dredger. water emitted during construction to avoid impacting the Abadi LNG Project ecosystem. For the Abadi LNG Project we conducted a full-scale Naoetsu LNG Receiving Terminal field study in environmental and social impact in Construction Project accordance with Indonesian laws and regulations. As we The construction of the Naoetsu LNG Receiving move towards the construction stage of the project we Terminal includes plans to develop 25% of the total area are conducting a basic survey to minimize environmental of the developed site of vegetated open space. As a rule impact, including the effects on biodiversity. we plant trees that are endemic to the local area, and Abu Dhabi Project are managing their development taking into account We received a request from the Abu Dhabi climatary requirements and positioning. Furthermore, we Environment Agency to cooperate with a study into also take into account the ecosystem when discharging the regeneration of the coral reef in the Arabian Gulf wastewater used to vaporize LNG by ensuring that the where bleaching is progressing. Over a two year period temperature of the wastewater is maintained within from March 2010, we conducted a joint investigation minus four degrees Celsius of the ocean temperature. into regeneration of the Abu Dhabi bay coral reef. We Ichthys LNG Project are currently studying the next step of the regeneration For the Ichthys LNG Project currently underway in process based on results of the survey, such as the coral Australia, we have created a development plan which spawning season, the number of settled corals, and considers the impact on the ecosystem, such as marine life. survival rates. ■ Scope of Toyama Line Environmental Impact Survey * IUCN: Birds of prey Approx. 18.6km2 International Union for Other plants Conservation of Nature Approx. 24km area and Natural Resources and wildlife ■ Results of Toyama Line Environmental Impact Survey IUCN* Not applicable Red List Bird of prey species: 4 Ministry (endangered species IB: 2, of the Environment endangered species II: 2) Red List Other bird species: 3 (all endangered species II) Toyama Line environmental impact survey Dolphins of Darwin Harbour INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 33 Environment Reducing Our Environmental Impact NOx, and volatile organic compounds (VOCs) our Operational Basic Policy Organizations in Japan and overseas emit into the atmosphere. The INPEX Group observes the environmental regulations In the domestic business our targets for SOx and NOx are based of all countries in which it operates. on the Air Pollution Control Act, while for VOCs we participate In Japan, we are working to reduce our environmental in the voluntary initiatives undertaken by the Japan Natural impact by complying with environmental regulations such as Gas Association. VOCs emitted during our domestic operations the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act, the Air Pollution include substances such as benzene, toluene and xylene (BTX) Control Act, and the Water Quality Pollution Control Act, and contained in fossil fuels such as crude oil and natural gas, as by establishing and meeting our own internal standards. In well as n-hexane. These substances are mainly emitted through our overseas operator projects we comply with the laws of the emission of natural gas, losses from crude oil storage tanks, and country of operation from the project’s early stages, such as losses when loading to tanker trucks or unloading from tankers. Front-End Engineering and Design (FEED), and also apply the In fiscal 2011 we reduced VOC emissions by approximately International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards. 21% compared to fiscal 2010 by improving facilities, such as IFC Performance Standards cover not only societal aspects reducing losses from the naptha storage tank at the Kubiki but also environmental factors, and are widely recognized as Refinery of Teiseki Topping Plant Co., Ltd. through inner loop a global standard. We have also begun investigating adopting roofing1, and introducing a VOC removal system at our Sekihara 1 Inner loop roofing: IFC standards for our operations in Japan. The INPEX Group did Plant in the Nagaoka Field Office, operated by the Niigata Modifying tanks with fixed roof into tanks not violate any environmental laws or regulations during fiscal District Office. with inner floating roof 2011, both in Japan and overseas. (floating roof on liquid surface) to suppress Management of Chemical Substances the emission of VOCs Measures to Prevent Soil In Japan and other countries, control of chemical in storage facilities Contamination substances is required by law, and each of our Operating The INPEX Group does not use any designated harmful Organizations manages and reports its emissions in accordance 2 PRTR Law: The PRTR Act requires substances stipulated in the Soil Contamination Countermeawith the laws of the country in which it operates. Pursuant to companies to report sures Act in our operations in Japan. However, the crude oil we Japan’s Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law2 we the volume of specific chemical substances produce contains benzene and the drilling fluids we use conreport the volume of specified chemical substances emitted, released into the tain trace amounts of heavy metals. Due to the major impact including the amount of benzene, toluene and xylene (BTX) environment and to improve their oil contamination can have on the soil environment, we are recontained in crude oil that is released into the air, the amount management of those quired to conduct surveys and adopt countermeasures based of n-hexane contained in fuels such as kerosene and gasoline substances. This system measures on the guidelines set by the Ministry of the Environment. To released into the air, and the amount of boron compounds the amount of this end, we perform voluntary surveys and soil contamination contained in well water3 that are released into waterways. chemicals potentially harmful to humans countermeasures in light of the principles outlined in the Soil or the environment Contamination Countermeasures Act. Use of Water Resources released into the air, water, or soil, as well as At the West Bakr Oil Field in Egypt, we upgraded our older Our Domestic Project Divisions use mostly tapwater and the amount of waste facilities, leading to a major decline in both the number and groundwater for cooling during plant operation. In addition transported from business premises. volume of oil leaks from fiscal 2010 (Rights and interests sold to water used at power plants, we use groundwater for in January 2012). circulating mud fluid during well drilling, and to melt snow 3 Well water: during winter. Water generated from the earth due to Preventing Air Pollution With preservation of water resources as one of our natural gas, etc. We are working to monitor and reduce the amount of SOx, objectives, we have continued adopting initiatives in our ■ Emissions of NOx and SOx ■ VOC Emissions (Japan) (t) (t) 1,000 SOx (Japan) 1,800 1,620 1,600 SOx (Overseas) 800 NOx (Japan) 1,400 263 NOx (Overseas) 1,234 1,200 600 48 1,000 60 866 862 800 708 400 6 13 34 600 559 29 489 190 6 400 200 18 243 163 200 146 22 0 51 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) (base year) 34 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 ongoing effort to reduce water consumption to a minimum. recycled. Waste that exceeds recycling standards is disposed Our efforts include adopting a circulatory method to reuse of in landfills by our contractors. cooling water, and installing automatic stoppage systems in Mud fluid from well drilling and other processes is cleaned 1 BOD: The amount of the machines that disperse water to melt snow. using a waste mud treatment device, and the recycled water is oxygen required by In addition, some of the water that is generated used in drilling mud and drilling fluid preparation.3 microorganisms during breakdown of water underground during natural gas production contains natural Although the waste from well drilling in Japan is on pollutants. Mainly used iodine. This iodine is collected as a valuable resource and used a declining trend, in fiscal 2011, waste from construction as a measure of river pollution. as a raw material in goods such as medical products. increased as projects to expand pipelines and construct an LNG receiving terminal reached their peak. The recycling of 2 CDD: Preventing Water Pollution these wastes accounts for 95% of all wastes recycled in Japan. The amount of oxygen consumed by oxidizing Our Operational Organizations manage wastewater in In line with revision to Japan’s Waste Management and agents during line with the environmental regulations in the country of Public Cleansing Law in April 2012, as a waste producer oxidization of water pollutants. Mainly used operation. we confirmed that our contractors disposed of waste in an as a measure of ocean Crude oil and natural gas produced can contain formation appropriate manner. We have heightened our awareness pollution. water, and although this is separated and collected at our of waste disposal responsibilities, and are striving to ensure appropriate disposal. 3 Drilling mud production facilities, substances such as the remaining oil and drilling fluid need to be treated. At our domestic production facilities, we preparation: dispose of waste water in line with Biological Oxygen Demand Proper Management and Treatment The mixing of drilling (BOD)1 and Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD)2 standards of PCB Waste fluid base ingredients with water or other With stricter regulations stipulated under the Law substances during following the appropriate treatment. For example, when the drilling mud disposing of well water we reduce the concentration of boron Concerning Special Measures Against PCB Waste,4 we gradually preparation process compounds to below regulatory requirements at our well replaced fluorescent lights, condensers, and other equipment water treatment facility before it is released into rivers. We also and materials containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) 4 Law Concerning Special Measures manage wastewater overseas to ensure compliance with the used by Operational Organizations in Japan and entirely Against PCB Waste: regulations of each country. discontinued the use of such equipment and materials by Special law governing the treatment and Seawater is used for cooling at offshore rig platforms and the end of fiscal 2005. The law requires businesses to properly disposal of PCBs during the construction of LNG receiving terminals. Although treat and dispose of all stored PCB equipment and PCB waste the wastewater is returned to the ocean, in general most of by July 2016. We have completed the registration process for the water is used for heating and cooling purposes, and the all our Operational Organizations and are strictly managing difference in temperature between the effluent and ocean as PCB storage as required under the Waste Management Law in well as the water quality is checked before release to minimize Japan. In addition, we send status reports to local governments the impact on the marine ecosystem. annually. In October 2011, we completed the outsourcing of Website only treatment and disposal of 21 high-pressure condensers stored Waste Management at our Niigata District Office. Oil pollution The majority of the overall industrial waste generated by prevention measures the INPEX Group consists of drill cuttings and waste mud fluid generated during oil and natural gas drilling and production, and construction waste generated when building plants. In our operations in Japan, treatment of industrial waste is performed by external contractors, and over 90% of waste is ■ Volume of Water Sources Used ■ Industrial Waste Material ■ Breakdown of FY2011 Recycled from Operations Industrial Waste Materials (Japan) (1,000KL) (t) 2,000 Seawater/river water, etc. Tap water 50,000 Recycled (overseas) Final disposal (overseas) 32 (overseas) (overseas) Waste requiring special management 1,800 192 Seawater/ river water, etc. (Japan) Tap water (Japan) Recycled (Japan) Final disposal (Japan) 0.2% (72t) 25 1,600 Groundwater (overseas) 40,000 Other waste Waste from drilling 1,400 406 Groundwater (Japan) 40 1.2% (391t) 3.6% (1,191t) 19 92 36 37 170 1,200 29 169 1 30,000 222 FY 2011 Recycling 12 2 50 1,000 172 1 14 Rate in Japan and Overseas: 91.3% FY2011 total 47 40,089 waste recycled 800 43 20,000 142 (Japan) 600 1,173 1,078 1,175 32,418 32,909 32,909t 937 31 400 869 10,000 2,665 19,244 Waste from construction 1,805 12,162 911 95.0% (31,255t) 200 429 1,280 61 3,294 2,535 3,556 3,093 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 35 Environment Fighting Climate Change Basic Policy Developing New Technologies that 1 CFI: Reduce Environmental Impact An Australian carbon As an energy company, the INPEX Group realizes that it offset program which aims to reduce carbon has a responsibility to tackle the issue of climate change, and Commercializing Japanese GTL3 Technology emissions while has been adopting a range of initiatives. In 2006 INPEX established the Nippon GTL Technology providing the agriculture, forestry and While focusing on development and supply of natural Research Association,4 and for the past six years we landowner industries gas, an energy source with a lower environmental impact conducted a joint experimental study with Japan Oil, Gas with new income opportunities compared to other fossil fuels, we are working to develop a and Metals National Corporation with the goal of realizing variety of energy sources, including renewable energies, and Japanese GTL technology. Research was completed in 2 Australian Carbon March 2012. This research led to successful development taking measures to combat climate change. Credit Units: Credits which can be At the same time, we are continuing our long-term of a world-first innovative technology for manufacturing traded for carbon eco-friendly petroleum products that do not contain emissions in the carbon efforts to research, develop and commercialize technology pricing system to reduce GHG emissions, and to formulate offset measures. sulfur from CO2-containing natural gas. As the process introduced under the Australian Clean Energy proved to be safe and economically feasible, we plan to Act Increasing Use of work to bring this technology into practical use in the 3 GTL: Eco-Friendly Natural Gas future. An abbreviation of Natural gas emits 75% and 60% percent less CO2 than oil Joint Research on CO2 EOR at Offshore Abu Gas-To-Liquid. GTL is a Dhabi technology that uses and coal, respectively, when burned, and is therefore the natural gas as the raw From March 2010, we conducted a two-year joint material and produces most environmentally friendly energy source among fossil petroleum products research project with the Japan Oil, Gas and Metals fuels. such as naphtha, diesel National Corporation on CO2 enhanced crude oil recovery oil and kerosene through With global natural gas reserves expected to last another chemical reactions. (CO2 EOR) in the large-scale Lower Zakum oil field off the 200 years or so, expanding the use of natural gas is essential coast of Abu Dhabi. In fiscal 2011, we conducted a variety 4 Nippon GTL to achieve both reductions in GHG emissions and a stable of tests, including a fluid-gas interaction study,5 and Technology Research supply of energy. Delivering a stable supply of natural gas to performed a simulation study6 that included selection of Association: An organization more customers and encouraging wider use through the the pilot area. Our scheduled research was completed in established by six production of natural gas in Japan as well as development private-sector April 2012, and based on the results we intend to create a companies—INPEX and production overseas forms one of the pillars of our pilot test implementation plan, with the local operating Corporation, JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation, climate change mitigation policy. Japan Petroleum Exploration Co., Ltd., Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd., Reforestation Project in Australia Nippon Steel Engineering Co., Ltd. and The INPEX Group continues to promote reforestation as a to absorb around 450,000 tons of CO2. This project Chiyoda Corporation. CO2 offset option via our forestation pilot project in Australia. qualifies for registration as a Carbon Farming Initiative Since 2008, we have planted 1.4 million eucalyptus saplings (CFI1), which generates Australian Carbon Credit Units.2 5 Fluid-gas interaction study: on 645 hectares of land located in the southwest of Western These carbon credits can be used to offset the CO2 A test that measures the Australia. Some of the larger eucalyptus are now standing emitted from the Ichthys LNG Project. effects of changing pressure and four meters tall. Over the next 50 years the trees are expected temperature on the volume, density, and viscosity of oil in a reservoir ■ Amount of CO2 Generated by Fossil Fuels When Burned (Coal = 100%) Energy Source Coal 100.0 Class-B and -C heavy oils 78.9 Class-A heavy oil 76.5 Crude oil 75.7 Light diesel oil 75.7 Kerosene 74.9 Gasoline 74.1 Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) 66.0 Natural gas (LNG not included) 56.3 LNG 54.7 0.0 20.0 40.0 60.0 80.0 100.0 * Figures in this graph are based on the Ministry of the Environment’s “List of Calculation Methods and Emissions Coefficients Used in the Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Accounting and Reporting System” (Japanese) Eucalyptus trees planted in the southwest of Australia 36 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 6 Simulation study: company taking the lead in future processes. pressurize CO2 before storing it underground, we will work to A study that uses Reducing CO2 Emissions Through promote this technology through broad partnerships computers to predict the behavior of oil, Photocatalytic Reactions involving government, industry, and academia. water, and gases and identify potential We are working to develop technologies that can directly Towards a Sustainable Carbon Cycle Using problems reduce CO2 emissions by using CO2 effectively. Currently, one Methane Production Technology of our endeavors is research and development of a Since fiscal 2008, we have been co-sponsoring a research photocatalyst with which to produce useful chemical program entitled “Sustainable Carbon-Cycle System Engisubstances from CO2 and water. Artificial synthesis is said to neering” with the Frontier Research Center for Energy and be a “dream technology,” but recent research has shown that Resources at the School of Engineering of The University of this technology not only produces methane, but also gives Tokyo, through which we have conducted research related organic by-products with high added value. If we can to the development of a methane production technology commercialize this technology in the future, it will have that uses subsurface microbes living in depleted oil and tremendous importance in the fight to reduce CO2 gas fields and underground aquifers. In this technology we emissions. We hope to advance this research in the near aim to convert CO2, which is injected underground during future. processes such as CCS and CO2 EOR, to methane by using Advancing CCS Research methane-producing bacteria, and to use this methane as The INPEX Group has been promoting research aimed at a valuable resource. In order to realize this technology, howcommercializing carbon dioxide capture and storage (CCS) ever, methane-producing bacteria must be supplied with a technologies by working with the Research Institute of constant source of hydrogen. We are focusing our research Innovative Technology for the Earth (RITE) since 2000 on the on development of a method for efficient, continuous Nagaoka CCS pilot project and by collaborating with Japan supply of hydrogen to methane-producing bacteria using CCS Co., Ltd., a joint venture established in 2008 to achieve electrochemical hydrogen reduction. This technology holds practical application of CCS. promise for building a sustainable carbon-cycle system. Although several hurdles must be cleared in order to realize CCS at a commercial scale, including a reduction in the energy and cost required to separate, capture, and nterview We have set reducing carbon emissions from our business activities as a fundamental of our environmental policy, and we have strived to reduce GHGs. In 2007 we switched our Customer’s Voice boilers to gas power, and at the end of 2011 we also switched our co-generation system Adopting Natural Gas Helped from LSA heavy oil to gas. We estimate that this will reduce our CO2 output in fiscal 2012 by Reduce Carbon and Secure 7.7%, or approximately 1,500 tons compared to the previous year. In addition, the supply of a Stable Energy Supply Website only gas remained steady during the Great East Japan Earthquake, re-emphasizing to us its Toshifumi Hayakawa reliability. In the future we will continue to support the adoption of natural gas as a key tool Engineering Department Shinshu Beverage Co., Ltd. in reducing environmental impact and energy supply risk. Fire Management in the Savanna ■ Conceptual Diagram of CCS Transport Separate and Transport Inject CO2 capture CO2 Inject CO2 CO2 CO2 Ground injection well Offshore injection well Major source of CO2 Transportation via pipeline Transportation via pipeline Impermeable layer CO2 CO2 Underground Aquifer beneath aquifer ocean floor INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 37 Society Main Achievements in FY2011 Rate of work-related accidents Lost time injury frequency (LTIF): Rate of injuries resulting in fatalities or lost time 0.62 1.75 per million hours worked Total recordable injury rate (TRIR): Rate of recordable injuries (fatalities, lost time, LTIF TRIR restricted workdays, and medical treatment) per million hours worked P. 39 Safety Management 1.24 billion Cost of community contribution activities yen P.42 Building Trust with and Contributing to Local Communities 2 people (male); 11 people (female) Number of people taking parental leave p. 50 Human Resource Development and Utilization 38 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Society Safety Management Basic Policy Aiming to Reduce Accidents The INPEX Group is implementing comprehensive The INPEX Group is promoting various safety initiatives 1 Design Safety Case: initiatives to ensure safe operations based on its HSE in order to reduce the number of accidents. Specifically, we A collection of documents which Management System. are implementing measures to reduce traffic accidents and seeks to verify Activities in line with our HSE Management System are introducing the Safety Training Observation Program (STOP) whether or not a management system carried out at Operational Organizations around the world, system. The HSE activities of each Operational Organization which effectively while complying with all legal requirements in the country are based on a target of zero disasters. However for the manages risks to workers and in of operation. The HSE Management System encompasses accident rates of the entire Group, activities were promoted particular reduces or all elements relating to HSE activities, including the efforts to achieve our lost time injury frequency (LTIF2) and total minimizes risks for a major accident has the Group and contractors are making in respect to safety recordable injury rate (TRIR3) targets of 0.68 and 2.78, been created management and initiatives to prevent accidents. respectively, which are based on the safety index calculated by the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers 2 LTIF: Major Accident Prevention (OGP). We were able to achieve our targets set at the start of Rate of injuries resulting in fatalities The INPEX Group is bolstering its efforts to prevent the fiscal year. or lost time per million hours worked serious disasters through measures such as thorough risk Furthermore, we are making efforts regarding contractor management. Specifically, we have implemented initiatives safety management and in addition to requiring all including carrying out risk assessments, beginning with contractors who are engaged in our operations to fully 3 TRIR: Rate of recordable analyzing hazards at each Operational Organization, through understand our HSE Policy, we are working together with injuries (fatalities, lost to considering measures to reduce risks and compiling this contractors to prevent accidents. time, restricted workdays, and data, revising the manual for drilling operations, implementWhen an incident, injury or near miss occurs, an incident medical treatment) per million hours ing HSE reviews to confirm HSE efforts for projects and creatreport is created in accordance with our Corporate HSE worked ing HSE plans. In fiscal 2011, HSE reviews were conducted Management System Procedure, “Incident Reporting and eight times in relation to various projects. In addition, from Investigation,” that includes a summary of the incident, an engineering safety perspective, the Group deliberated on causes, and measures to prevent recurrences. Reports measures to ensure safety at the design stage of projects. At are promptly submitted to headquarters and from there the Ichthys LNG Project in Australia, a Design Safety Case1 has reported to other Operational Organizations with the goal been created and we are striving to ensure complete safety. of preventing the same accident at other sites. Moreover, Safety Highlights, which contains information and numerical data relating to recent accidents is published every month in an effort to share information with employees. ■ Number of Work-related Accidents ■ Accident Frequency Medical Fatalities Lost time Restricted treatment LTIF TRIR injury workday injury Total hours worked (×1,000h) Total hours worked (×1,000h) injury Employees Employees Employees 0 0 1 3 Contractors Contractors 4 10,000 8 Overall 10,000 Overall FY2009 Contractors 0 9 3 13 Overall 7.42 Overall Overall 0 9 4 16 3 7,500 6 7,500 * Numerical targets Employees 0 2 0 2 2.67 * Numerical target for 2011was 2.78 for 2011: 2 5,000 4 5,000 Numerical targets for FY2010 Contractors 0 3 0 2 Employees 3.85 Employees LTIF and TRIR are * Numerical Overall 0 5 0 4 target for 2011 calculated every year, Contractors was 0.68 Contractors 1 2,500 2 2,500 taking into account Employees 0 4 1 2 1.2 0.89 0.84 2.02 1.75 the reduction rate 1.48 1.47 0.64 0.62 1.16 FY2011 Contractors 0 2 1 7 0.00 0.45 0.4 0.96 0.91 from the previous 0 0 0 0 year’s target 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) Overall 0 6 2 9 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 39 Society Safety Management to their past accident record, and we check this information Emergency Response in detail. Furthermore, once we have selected a company for During emergencies, headquarters and Operational the business contract, we thoroughly strengthen HSE-related Organizations of the INPEX Group coordinate their response. communication and confirm the content of HSE plans for In the event of a Level 3 emergency (any situation job performance by holding process meetings, operational caused by a serious event, accident or disaster, the effects procedure briefings and pre-work meetings. of which are expected to negatively impact our business Increasing the level of contractors’ HSE management is continuity and greatly hinder fulfillment of our social one of our HSE Objectives for fiscal 2011 and we check their responsibility), the INPEX Group establishes a Corporate level of achievement in this area through measures such as Crisis Management Team and responds to the emergency HSE audits. in accordance with the Corporate Emergency Response Procedure and the Corporate Emergency Response Manual. Safety Management of Pipelines The Corporate Crisis Management Team coordinates with Keeping our pipelines in good working condition is the Operational Organization’s Emergency Response Team, critical to supplying natural gas to our customers safely and which is established at the operational site in the country securely. Teiseki Pipeline Co., Ltd., an INPEX Group company experiencing the emergency. The teams work together to in Japan, conducts visual inspections of the entire length of collect external information, communicate with stakeholders its pipelines at least twice a week, along with routine physical in and outside the company, respond to events, obtain the diagnostics to look for leaks or signs of corrosion. We also run resources needed to arrange medical treatment and shelter, emergency patrols to check pipelines when rainfall greater ensure security, and take care of employees’ families. than the daily standard (140 millimeters/day) has been Furthermore, emergency response training is conducted recorded or when there is an earthquake of intensity 4 or regularly in accordance with our annual plan. higher on the Japanese seismic scale. In addition, to prevent accidents during pipeline Contractors’ Safety Management construction projects that contractors undertake, we brief all In accordance with the Corporate Procedure for Contracstaff members and other workers at construction sites on tors’ HSE Management, which is a part of our HSE Managesafety precautions and compile case studies on accidents ment System, we are promoting HSE management initiatives that have occurred at other exploration sites to learn from for companies which are contracted to conduct operations them. Each contractor arranges a dedicated HSE supervisor at all Operational Organizations in Japan and overseas. for HSE management. When selecting a company for a business contract, we first Furthermore, we apply the Manual for Contractors’ HSE assess the HSE risk of the task which will be contracted, and Management to contractors. Based on this Manual, we assess then itemize and clearly specify in the tender document the risks for all construction projects and Teiseki Pipeline Co., Ltd. requirements for responding appropriately to these risks. In conducts independent or joint HSE audits and safety patrols each company’s written proposal, we request that they show with contractors. With this system in place, we can constantly they have a system in place for HSE management in addition maintain an appropriate level of safety. Meeting to explain operational procedures Pipeline safety management patrol 40 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Project Safety Management Ichthys LNG Project the drilling operation and discuss measures to minimize HSE management system which is in line with both these risks. Each employee voluntarily submits STOP cards Corporate and Australian Government regulations is for near-miss reports* and proposals for improvements being implemented for the Ichthys LNG Project. Standards and the content of these is incorporated into operations * Near-miss reports: such as the risk management standards and accident in an attempt to prevent accidents. During drilling, risks Employees are prevention goals are set accordingly. associated with the drilling operations and measures to encouraged to record small During construction, safety assurance checks such minimize the risks were reported at weekly meetings accidents that do not involve human as internal safety audits are conducted in each project and the status of operations was thoroughly checked or material damage, office. Safety engineers are placed in each package facility, by the manager in charge. Safety measures such as but scare or startle employees at supporting safety management to ensure that safety is unannounced disaster preparedness drills were also conproject sites, and to emphasized in engineering design. ducted. The result of these measures was that in the 234 share their experiences with During detailed engineering, the Design Safety Cases days from the initial preparation stages to the completion fellow workers in are prepared as a part of safety assurance process and of drilling activities, work was successfully done without a order to prevent a small accident from risk management, especially concerning major accident single lost time injury. becoming a serious events. The company also consults with regulatory one authorities at an early stage in the design process to Projects in Japan ensure that designs meet with Australia’s strict safety In Japan, Operational Organizations conduct regular standards. emergency response training in accordance with annual Performance indicators that promote operational plans, both on their own and jointly with headquarters. safety are included as a component of agreements with In fiscal 2011, emergency response training was held contractors. In March 2012, we held a HSE forum attended 28 times. The Nagaoka Field Office conducts training by the CEOs of our contractors in order to share our HSE based on the premise of a major accident such as an goals. oil tank explosion and fire at the Koshijihara Plant. The To promote HSE training initiatives, we are working training seeks to verify whether a swift and smooth initial to establish a range of training workshops and HSE response can be deployed at the disaster site in the event orientation programs for employees working at project of a disaster in which people are injured. The training offices and facilities. includes prevention of secondary disasters at the disaster site, rapid communication with the Crisis Management Suriname Project Team of the INPEX Group and explanations to the local In fiscal 2011, an exploration well was drilled as part community. Following training, the response is assessed of the Suriname Project. Prior to the drilling, all members and ideas for improvement at the next drill are shared at of teams involved in the operation, including contractors, a meeting of all participants. met to assess and share the potential risks accompanying For details, please refer to our website: http://www.inpex.co.jp/ english/csr/ HSE Forum for the Ichthys LNG Project Major accident drill at the Nagaoka Field Office INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 41 Society Building Trust with and Contributing to Local Communities Basic Policy Coexisting with Local Communities The INPEX Group is working to win the trust of society in During our oil and natural gas development business, we its business activities. In April 2012 we defined a basic policy strive to coexist with local communities and do everything and key areas for “building trust with and contributing to possible to contribute to their development. local communities,” one of the key CSR issues we selected. By During the construction of a large scale plant facility of implementing initiatives based on this policy and these the Ichthys LNG Project, Australian content is expected to be areas, we will work to solve social issues in the countries in significant with many jobs to be created in the local which we operate, and to contribute to development of local community. More significantly, the Project will generate communities. hundreds of jobs during its 40-plus year operational life. For the Abadi LNG Project, as part of our evaluation of the Considering Human Rights project’s impact on the local environment and society we are During Operations studying the opinions of local residents in areas where When making decisions involving implementation of related facilities could potentially be located. We also For details of business plans, the INPEX Group performs checks to ensure conducted a separate study to determine the types of initiatives in the there are no human rights violations such as racial discriminainitiatives that were desired by the community as we work to Ichthys LNG Project, please refer to the tion, forced labor and child labor. In addition, we have never develop our CSR activities. As we proceed with the project, Special Feature 2 on requested that indigenous people vacate their land for the we will engage in ongoing information disclosure and page 18 Group’s operator projects. two-way communication to gain the understanding and As of the end of June 2012, we are operating 74 projects cooperation of local communities. in 27 countries around the world. In the 12 projects we are participating in as operator, we consider the impact on the Involvement in Public Policy stakeholders involved. We place special emphasis on our The INPEX Group is a member of the Japan Petroleum relationship with the local community and conduct Development Association (JPDA). While striving to secure evaluations of the impact of our operations on the local a stable supply of oil through developments in Japan environment and society. and overseas, JPDA works to support the proactive oil In Australia, the INPEX Group has developed an “Aboriginal developments of Japanese companies both domestically & Torres Strait Islander Engagement Policy” and is working and overseas, and provides advice on policies related to with Aboriginal & Torres Strait Island people and communities a wide range of issues including government resource wherever the INPEX Group is active in Australia with the aim diplomacy, energy policy, environmental policy and of building sustainable mutually beneficial relationships. regulatory reform. ■ FY2011 CSR Expenditure by Issue Basic Policy for Building Trust with and Culture and arts 0.5 % Contributing to Local Communities Environment Other 0.6 % 1.4% In order to meet the needs of society Support for disaster-affected areas and fulfill the trust placed in us as Key Issues 1.6 % a global energy supplier, the INPEX Environment Health, medicine Group will actively strive to resolve soand sports Educating Total cietal issues and aid the development 3.3% and 1.24 Support fostering billion yen for local of local communities by communicatEducating and fostering future communities future generations ing with stakeholders. Through these generations 50.3% activities, we aim to contribute to the Support for 42.3% realization of a sustainable society. local communities 42 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Society Initiatives to Contribute to Local Communities the importance of energy security, and contributing to Working to Reconstruct Areas research and educational activities in energy policy and Affected by Disaster environmental issues. The course features lectures on energy From June 2011, the INPEX Group has supported empolicy and environmental policy, research on the major ployees who participate in volunteer activities to restore issues surrounding global environmental and energy issues. damage from the Great East Japan Earthquake and other In fiscal 2011 we also held an international symposium on disasters. Employees who wish to participate in volunteer the subject of “Green Energy and Japan’s Future.” operations can utilize the Group’s volunteer leave system and are also provided with financial support such as travel Contributing to Local Communities and accommodation expenses and allowances to purchase  Forest Management Support Program necessary tools. Since autumn 2010, we have been participating in a As of May 2012, a total of 445 employees have taken leave forest management program backed by Forest Management to volunteer their services to a range of disaster relief and Support Program of Niigata Prefecture. We intend to plant recovery programs, including debris clearance, grass cutting and care for trees for a commitment period of 10 years on a and cleaning work focused in Rikuzentakata City, Iwate 0.8 hectare parcel of land near the Minami Nagaoka Gas Field. Prefecture, snow removal (mainly in Niigata Prefecture), and Through to autumn 2011, a total of 250 employees, their relief from damage caused by heavy rain. families and local residents participated in three project events. Our events in fiscal 2011 included installing braces for nterview seedlings damaged by snow, “took a whack” at hammering plug spawn into logs to grow mushrooms (in this process, Aya Hagiwara wooden plugs containing mushroom spores are pounded Rikuzentakata City Volunteer Center into holes in a log), and planted a total of 260 trees spanning Our current volunteer work is shifting from clearance of large 13 varieties. In addition to broad leaved Japanese Beech and debris to work to restore day-to-day Red Oak trees we focused on planting fruit-bearing varieties life, such as removal of smaller sized such as chestnut and persimmon trees. debris from where houses once stood to create fields for crops.  Supporting and Participating in Community Events Although more than a year has now The INPEX Group actively supports and participates in passed since the earthquake, we still require the help of many volunteers. Both our staff and the local residents are grateful for a variety of community events. Every year in Nagaoka City, the support from everyone at INPEX, who have continued to Niigata Prefecture, we sponsor the fireworks celebration of find time among the busy work schedules—even if only once a the Nagaoka Festival. In Kashiwazaki City, Niigata Prefecture, month—to pull together as a company and travel to Rikuzentakata to volunteer. we recruit employee volunteers to run or support other runners competing in the Koshiji Road Relay and sponsor the fireworks portion of the Gion Kashiwazaki Festival. Around Website only Sponsored Course at The University of 230 people affiliated with the INPEX Group danced in each Tokyo Graduate School of Public Policy of the July 2011 Gion Kashiwazaki folk dance parade and the  Recovery Work for Since 2010, we have sponsored a three-year course at The August 2011 Niigata Festival folk dance parade. By supporting Niigata and University of Tokyo Graduate School of Public Policy entitled and participating in community events like these, we aim to Fukushima Rain Damage “Energy Security and the Environment” with the aim of promote an understanding of our corporate activities among  Snow Clearing developing human resources, raising a societal awareness of local communities. Volunteer Work Volunteers supporting areas damaged Volunteers clearing snow Forest management support event in the Great East Japan Earthquake INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 43 Society Initiatives to Contribute to Local Communities D.R. Congo Azerbaijan and Georgia Muanda City Sponsoring EBRD Microfinance Initiatives Electrification Project The INPEX Group has pledged to sponsor the In 2011 companies participating in the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan (BTC) Pipeline Project by project, including the INPEX Group, providing microfinance and technological donated a total of US$250,000 to install development assistance to Azerbaijan and natural gas equipment at a facility in Georgia over a 10 year period from 2006 to 2016 Muanda City, and connected it to a through the European Bank for Reconstruction local power plant through 4 kilometers and Development (EBRD). In fiscal 2011, we of cable. provided US$160,000 in funding. Since 2007, we have supported 270,000 local small business owners, creating 14,000 jobs. Angola  Cabinda Region Contribution Initiatives Website only East Timor Dili Heliport Infrastructure Project Abu Dhabi (UAE) Through the Bayu-Undan project, INPEX Group supports an infrastructure project to construct a heliport in Dili, the capital of the Timor-Leste, in conjunction with its govInviting Students from the UAE to Japan ernment. Through this initiative, the heliport for Training infrastructure project started in 2002 has been Since 1993, we have invited students from the UAE studying oil continuously expanded and upgraded over development engineering to train in Japan. More than 120 stuthe last 10 years, contributing to the local dents have been invited to take part in the course, which spans economy by procurement of local goods and approximately three weeks and includes cultural exchange services and employment of local people. as well as hands-on, participatory technical seminars. In fiscal 2012, the 20th time the program has been held, we hosted an all-female delegation for the first time due to the wishes of our UAE partners. The training program produces talented graduates who support petroleum engiWebsite only neering fields in the UAE. Other Community Contribution Activities  Supporting Construction of Greenhouses for Crop Growing, and Agricultural Training 44 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Indonesia Venezuela Supporting the Improvement of Learning Environments Zazarida Port Dredging In fiscal 2011, we worked to improve the learning The INPEX Group has been conducting environment at three high schools in the Makaham exploration operations in Venezuela’s Project operating region by installing computers Falcon State since 2006. In recent years, and language study rooms. In addition, we also sand has accumulated in Zazarida Port performed English language training and a variety (which serves as the region’s main of skill development programs for teachers with fishing port), and boats have faced the aim of raising educational standards. Through growing limitations for moving in and these initiatives conducted in coordination with out of the port, making locals eager to the Indonesian government and NPOs, we aim to have the port dredged. We began an improve the learning environment to support deoperation to dredge the port in May velopment of the local community in the medium2010, and although we were forced to to long-term. revise our original plans as the volume of sand was greater than expected, the Organic Farming Training and Education project was successfully completed in June 2012. We have been conducting education and training on organic farming aimed at farms located in the island regions where the Abadi LNG Project is conducted. Along with introducing a environmentally friendly farming method, this initiative also promotes a more visible role for farmers. This project is carried out in cooperation with an organization affiliated with the Bandung Institute of Technology and will continuously contribute to the development of regional development well into the future. Before dredging Australia After dredging Sponsorship of Australian Football Club The INPEX Group supports the NT Thunder, a Northern Territory’s Australian Rules Football club. With 70% of team members indigenous, the INPEX Group contributes to education and development of the community’s next generation by sponsoring the leading Northern Territory football team. Photo by Matthew Kemp Supporting the Establishment of Charles Darwin University North Australian Centre for Oil and Gas The Ichthys LNG Project donated three million Australian dollars towards the establishment of the Charles Darwin University North Australian Centre for Oil and Gas. Scheduled to open at the end of December 2012, the Centre will be at the forefront of oil and gas training and education, offering school leavers, engineers and apprentices pathways into the growing energy sector in the Northern Territory. Other Community Contribution Activities Website only  Sponsorship of NT Training Awards  Sponsorship of Economic Development Forum for Indigenous People  Donation to Alzheimer’s Australia WA  Sponsorship of Australian National Maritime Museum Exhibits INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 45 Society Fair Trade with Business Partners the laws of each country, with particularly rigorous checking Basic Policy to prevent corruption. Based on these principles we evaluate We strive to procure goods from suppliers in a the business of local companies and the indigenous people, transparent, fair and responsible manner. We have and strive to procure materials in a fair and transparent established Guidelines for Fair Business Conduct with manner. Suppliers and Contractors, Detailed Regulations for While our overseas project operations are unlikely to Procurement and a Procedure for Handling Procurement, engage in child or forced labor, we will further enforce our and post these and other guidelines on the intranet to human rights policy in procurement activities in line with our communicate their content to Group employees and Corporate Social Responsibility Policy and the ten principles ensure their implementation. of the United Nations Global Compact. The Guidelines for Fair Business Conduct with Suppliers and Contractors prohibit practices that would impede fair Consideration for Local Communities and free competition, that abuse dominant bargaining During Business positions, or that inappropriately grant or receive benefits. In Taking into consideration the regions in which we operate addition, the Guidelines stipulate the protection of our business, we strive to utilize local companies as much confidentiality regarding suppliers’ personal information and as possible, both in Japan and overseas. We also encourage technologies. All departments involved in procurement suppliers to utilize local companies during procurement. processes adhere to these guidelines not only as a guiding The Ichthys LNG Project has entered into Industry policy but also as part of our code of conduct. Participation Plans with the Northern Territory and Australian When selecting suppliers, we always strive to ensure fair Governments. These commit the Project to provide “full, fair and open participation opportunities for prospective suppliand reasonable” opportunities for Australian companies to ers. We have established supplier qualification standards compete for work on the Project and the INPEX Group is and are increasing opportunities for prospective suppliers to already yielding positive results. participate in bidding. In the future, we are considering adding “human rights” to our CSR related selection criteria when procuring materials Promoting Awareness of Fair Trade during large-scale overseas projects. The INPEX Group strives to procure goods in a fair and responsible manner both in Japan and overseas projects. Basic Policy for Selecting Contractors When accepting bids and placing orders for large-scale projects in Japan, such as the Naoetsu LNG Receiving When selecting contractors, we not only consider candiTerminal and pipeline construction, in addition to applying date companies’ technical capability, quality and reliability, Guidelines for Fair Business Conduct with Suppliers and but also include health, safety and the environment and CSR Contractors we also assess HSE initiatives as part of our among our evaluation criteria. evaluations in order to ensure fair and responsible In particular, when selecting contractors for our overseas procurement. projects we monitor performance related to compliance During our overseas projects we ensure compliance with with national laws, and ensure that contractors are not involved in child labor or forced labor. ■ Guidelines for Fair Business Conduct with Suppliers and Contractors I. Scope (1) Procurement activities are activities related to contracts for purchasing (purchases, and services and construction using materials and equipment), borrowing (renting and leasing of materials), and other related activities. (2) These guidelines apply to all employees engaged in procurement activities in the logistics division. II. Basic Guidelines for Procurement Activities (1) Ensure transparency and realize fair and open procurement activities (2) Strive to create a symbiotic relationship with suppliers based on mutual trust and equal standing (3) Comply with and implement applicable laws and the INPEX Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (4) Conduct procurement activities with consideration of their effects on resource protection and environmental conservation 46 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Society Product Quality Control Basic Policy Safety Management of Natural Gas Product The INPEX Group strives to deliver products that are safe Natural gas contains components such as moisture and and stable during their supply and usage, while complying CO2 that affect pipeline transportation and devices such as 1 MSDS: with applicable laws and regulations and the INPEX stove burners. For this reason, impurities are removed at A document that Corporate Social Responsibility Policy as well as providing all processing plants. In addition, we are strengthening our contains information needed for the safe necessary information. safety management system by reducing and removing trace handling of products that contain certain We provide customers with timely information required substances such as benzene and mercury, which are chemical substances to use our products safely as well as regular quality hazardous to human health, as well as monitoring their measurement data. We also conduct regular disaster concentration. response drills and create flexible cooperative systems with For the gas that we sell, we perform analyses of 2 PRTR Law: other product suppliers to ensure continued stable supply in substances subject to the PRTR Law2 and Industrial Safety The PRTR Act requires the event of an emergency. companies to report and Health Law, and distribute MSDS providing full safety the volume of specific instructions to our customers. We are also working to raise chemical substances Management of Oil Product Safety awareness of the safe use of odorless gas among our retail released into the environment and to We sell petroleum products made from crude oil mainly customers. In addition to these efforts, we provide a variety improve their management of those produced in Japan and transported by tanker trucks or boats of information to help our customers use natural gas safely substances from refineries or nearby loading terminals to our customers and with peace of mind. and consumers. To ensure the safety of the petroleum products we ship, the INPEX Group not only complies with Management During Transportation applicable laws but has also built a safety management To ensure safety during transportation, we have created system to conduct strict checks during refining, storage, an accident prevention manual to raise awareness among loading, and transportation. This system is based on employees involved in the transportation process. This additional safety and product standards we have set manual is updated as necessary. ourselves to control the amount of trace sulfur and mercury We have also established an emergency contact and For management of safety in the pipelines as well as prevent accidents involving leakage or mixing. response system with customers for transportation of natural used to transport natural gas, please see Furthermore, in order to ensure safe handling of products we gas, and are working with other producer companies to page 40 issue Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS1) to provide establish a supply sharing system to ensure a stable supply of information on product hazards, constituents, and gas even in the event of an emergency. appropriate handling. Regarding transportation of oil products, in order to In the future we will respond swiftly to changes in quality ensure safe loading and unloading we participate proactively control standards, including additions to the list of specified in conferences and seminars held by companies operating chemical substances as well as changes to threshold values, product loading terminals and consumer sites where the Website only and enhance systems for ensuring continued stable and safe products are unloaded to share information on safety during product supply even in the event of a natural disaster. transportation and accumulate knowledge on safe delivery Improved Customer measures. Service at Gas Stations ■ Safety Evaluation During the Product Life Cycle Natural gas Oil Reduce concentrations of Set product manufacturing Production specifications mercury and benzene Storage Control quality of stored products Create and update accident Regular patrolling and prevention manual, Transportation disaster-related drills Cargo Safety Committee, etc. Establish and improve Analyze sampling of Supply gas supply sharing system shipped products Raise awareness of safe handling through MSDS Raise awareness of Usage Raise awareness of safe use safe handling through MSDS of odorless gases Pipeline monitoring center INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 47 Society Human Resource Development and Utilization senior employee is assigned to each new hire to help him/her Basic Policy adjust to work and life at the company, and to provide moral We have established the following Basic Policy on Our support during his/her first year. Human Resources Management System as the cornerstone of a personnel management system that contributes to the Utilization of Human Resources sustainable development of the company in our effort to be We strive to establish an employee evaluation system a globally active integrated energy company. By operating that fairly evaluates and rewards our employees for their systems based on this policy, our goal is to harness employee achievements and demonstrations of capabilities, and to capabilities to produce high-quality results as a team and operate it in an equitable manner. become an organization capable of competing in the global These evaluations are not merely one-way assessments of arena at a high level. employees by their managers—they also include tools such as an Action Reflection Sheet and a Goals Challenge Sheet Basic Policy on Human Resources Management System that our employees can use to complete a self-evaluation 1. A system that encourages all employees to play their part and work as while reflecting on their performance. Employees are given a team to achieve higher organizational goals, contributing to the growth of the company. opportunities to discuss their achievements at work with their 2. A system that encourages all employees to gain a broader perspective on work duties so as to identify issues, come up with solutions on their managers in face-to-face meetings. This is to assess the gap own initiatives, and act responsibly. between the self-evaluation and the superior’s evaluation. 3. A system that assists all employees in their determined efforts to continue to pursue self-development through work over an extended The system is designed so that improvements can be made period of time. 4. A system that is transparent and straightforward in recognizing the to each type of evaluation, thereby contributing to human individual contribution of employees to achieving corporate objectives resource development and boosting the credibility of the and in making them feel that they are rewarded fairly. evaluation. We also employ a self-report system under which our Human Resource Development employees can submit requests for new assignments and We hold training to build the all-round skills of our transfers once a year. Although we cannot accommodate employees, so that they can continue to contribute to the all requests, this gives the company a better understanding company’s business over a long-term career. of the extent to which employees think they are fit for their We provide a range of level-based employee training current assignments and what career paths they wish to and development programs based on the personnel requirepursueboth of which are helpful for the company in develments, anticipated future role, and required capabilities of oping plans for recruiting and allocating human resources. In each employee categorization, including global administraparticular, in cases such as those where an employee needs tive staff, global engineering staff, and area staff members. to care for a family member, the Human Resources Division We also provide a range of programs to rapidly develop operates an effective system in which it offers positions to suit employees who can thrive in an international business these needs to employees who request such consideration environment, including overseas language study, training during divisional transfers. at overseas sites, and study at specialist overseas training To make these systems an established part of the entire facilities. INPEX Group, we regularly provide line managers (i.e., personIn addition to the general orientation and training for nel in charge of human resources and discrete organizational new recruits, we also operate a mentoring system for them. A units) with practical training for conducting evaluations as ■ List of Major Training Programs Program Overview Participants FY2011 Training for employees at milestones in their career from joining the company to being promoted or moved to a new positionto help them Level tailored training gain an understanding and awareness of their new role and acquire necessary skills 204 Language training Training at overseas language school in the UK and other countries for young employees to improve their international communication skills 13 Specialist skill training Training for young employees in the procurement division and mid-career employees in the legal division to improve their specialist skills 5 Business skill training In-house training to improve financial knowledge, logical thinking skills, and legal knowledge 75 On-the-job training for young technical employees at domestic and overseas offices or at sites inside and outside the company to acquire basic Technical training knowledge and the latest specialized knowledge of global technologies 47 Overseas office Practical training for young clerical workers at overseas offices to acquire knowledge of overseas business practices and to prepare for future training overseas postings 17 Overseas specialized training Training at an overseas specialized institution for young employees to acquire expert knowledge of oil E&P business 47 Overseas study Training at an overseas postgraduate institution for young employees to acquire advanced expert knowledge of oil E&P business 2 48 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 part of level tailored training in order to operate the employee the option to renew the contract every year until the age of evaluation system fairly. 65. We have hired over 90% of all applicants to this program. As of the end of fiscal 2011 (March 31, 2012), 47 of our Promoting Diversity employees are working under a retire-rehire contract.  Diversity Management We hire talented employees regardless of views, culture, Employee Statistics nationality, belief, race, gender, or age. Our policy is to appoint and compensate the best person for the position, ■ Number of Employees (Consolidated) As of March 31, 2012 and there is no difference in the basic salary of male and By Region Male Managerial Female Managerial Short-term Total female employees. staff staff employees* thereof thereof We hire and train employees we need regardless of nationality. Highly specialized global staff members work Japan 1,361 467 193 5 315 1,554 across the INPEX Group. Asia and Oceania 301 128 130 6 429 431 Additionally, because our large-scale overseas projects are now approaching their full-scale development and Eurasia 7 5 2 0 3 9 production phases, with expectation for long-term operations Middle East and we directly recruit local employees who will play an integral Africa 41 16 6 0 15 47 part in running our overseas offices in line with local laws and North and Central America 8 4 2 0 4 10 with a transparent hiring process. We are working to maintain competitive hiring criteria, and offer fair compensation in South America 70 11 25 1 22 95 order to maintain a strong work ethic among local employees Number of employees 1,788 631 358 12 788 2,146 and improve our employee retention rate. We will continue to * Contract employees, fixed term employees, temporary employees, etc. actively practice diversity management.  Employment Opportunities for Physically Challenged We have been proactive in hiring the physically ■ Number of Employees (Unconsolidated) challenged while giving consideration to varying working Category Male Female Total conditions and responsibilities. As of the end of fiscal 2011 Number of employees 1,019 182 1,201 (March 31, 2012), we employed 32 physically challenged Average salary 9.36 million yen employees, 2.0% of the total workforce. We will continue to make efforts in the future to employ as many physically Average age 39.6 years challenged people as feasible. Average length of service 16.1 years  Rehiring Retirees We have a rehiring contract system whereby we rehire employees who have reached the full retirement age of 60 ■ FY2011 Hiring Data (Unconsolidated) to help them continue working while making use of their extensive experience and advanced abilities and skills. This Category Male Female Total system allows for the hire of retirees for positions that match New graduate hires 41 10 51 the interests of both the company and the employee, with Mid-career hires 11 1 12 ■ Percentage of Physically Challenged Employees in Total Employment (%) (persons) ■ FY2011 Staff Turnover Rate (Unconsolidated) Number of physically Percentage in total employment 2.20 challenged employees at the end of the fiscal year 2.00 0.77 % 35 at the end of the fiscal year 2.00 1.80 2.00 * Excludes age-limit retirees and 1.70 1.90 1.80 30 employees rehired as executives 1.50 32 1.44 1.60 25 29 29 1.40 25 20 1.20 22 ■ FY2011 Number of Staff Turnovers (Unconsolidated) 1.00 15 18 18 0.80 Category Male Female Total 10 0.60 Under 30 years 1 2 3 0.40 5 0.20 30–60 years 7 1 8 0 0.00 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 49 Society Human Resource Development and Utilization their children and help them maintain a balance between Promoting Work-Life Balance their work and child-rearing. Seeking to maintain working environments that cater Our parental leave system includes various programs to to different lifestyles and enable employees to fully support employees in caring for their children, including express their abilities, the INPEX Group is working to create special leave for male employees allowing them to take up to workplaces that support versatile work styles and offer a three days paid leave during childbirth and a reduced healthy balance between work and home life. We also pay working hours system that can be used until the child close attention to factors in the external environment, such reaches the fourth grade. As a result of increased awareness as Japan’s declining birth rate and aging population in of these programs, in fiscal 2011 all employees who had order to promote work-life balance. taken parental leave returned to work, and have continued in  Making the Most of Work Time their positions since. With overseas operator development projects beginning Under our nursing care support system, employees can in earnest, employees have been extremely busy as the take up to 365 days of leave to care for one sick or elderly INPEX Group expands its business. To promote efficient use family member or, instead of taking leave, use a reduced of working time by focusing on work when needed and hours system to take care of family while working. taking time off during less busy periods, in April 2011 we launched a campaign that encourages employees to leave Dialogue Between Employees work before 6 p.m. at least four times a month, with flexibility and Management allowed for each person’s work schedule. We also ran a We strive to maintain and promote sound relationships campaign encouraging employees to take paid leave over between our management and employees based on a founsummer with the objective of allowing staff to refresh and dation of mutual trust and cooperation and a common goal revitalize through consecutive days off. Maintaining a regular of furthering the company. To maintain a healthy relationship, work schedule helps employees to rejuvenate themselves our management meets regularly with employee representaboth mentally and physically, use their limited work time tives to exchange views and ideas on a broad range of issues more effectively, and be more productive at work. that include challenges we are facing and our business And as a measure to reduce overtime work, when outlook. employees are forced to extend their overtime hours beyond Although we take care to set an appropriate advance the predetermined limit we encourage managers and junior notification period in the case of matters that would cause a staff to not only review the latter’s workload but also discuss significant alteration in the duties of employees, there are current conditions and challenges they are facing. currently no such matters under discussion. We do not  Supporting Child-Raising and Family Care infringe on employees’ freedom of association, including at We offer all employees, including contract employees, a our sites outside Japan. greater variety of support programs that go beyond the legal As of March 31, 2012, the INPEX Labor Union has 1,030 limits to assist them in caring for their families while working. employees, comprising 72% of the total regular employee We have also devised a general action plan as required by base. Japan’s Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Labor-Management Meetings Held in FY2011 Next Generation to implement programs to encourage both Central labor-management meetings: July and December male and female employees to be more involved in raising Branch labor-management meetings: Niigata region—July; Akita region—July; Chiba region—July ■ Family Care Support Systems (Unconsolidated) System Overview Number of users System to provide leave until a child reaches 18 months of age; 20% of salary is granted in addition to statutory childcare 11 female employees, Parental leave system leave benefits 2 male employees Reduced working hours Until a child is in the fourth grade, employees can: (1) Reduce their standard working hours (reduction of two hours) system for child rearing (2) Work on flex-time (3) Receive exemption from working overtime or on days off 17 female employees System that allows employees to take special paid leave to care for sick children under elementary school age; employees 15 female employees, Child healthcare leave receive up to five days for one child and up to 10 days for two or more children, and may take leave in half day units 4 male employees Assistance for nursery 12 female employees, schools, day care centers, Employees who have children aged three and under are eligible to receive a partial subsidy for the startup fees and annual 35 male employees and babysitters expenses for nursery schools, day care centers, and babysitters (332 employees since program began) Nursing care system Employees can take up to 365 days of leave per family member while receiving 20% of their salary 1 male employee When not taking nursing care leave, employees can: (1) Reduce their standard working hours (reduction of two hours) Reduced working hours (2) Work on flex-time (3) Receive exemptions from working overtime or on days off for up to one year during the nursing for nursing care system care period System that allows employees to take special paid leave to care for their sick or elderly family member in need of assistance; Special leave for employees can receive up to five days for one family member and up to 10 days for two or more family members per year, 2 female employees family care and are allowed to take leave in half-day units 50 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Society Health Management checks and vaccinations through an affiliated medical institution Basic Policy specialized in travel medicine, and have introduced an InternetThe INPEX Group considers health maintenance and based service for health consultation, introductory information promoting better health among our global employees to be for medical institutions, and a telephone counseling service in critical to the execution of our business activities. We adopt Japanese. In the event of an emergency, a contracted emergency various approaches to ensure that our employees are medical service company will arrange for our overseas employphysically and mentally healthy. ees to receive medical treatment, be transported, and brought Each of our Operational Organizations has an occupaback home. tional physician, and organizations above a certain size We are constantly developing and adapting our employee have a resident occupational health nurse. These staff work wellness programs to make them more beneficial and user to maintain and improve the health of our employees by friendly. offering advice in response to health check results, providing counseling on overwork-related issues, participating in the Mental Health Initiatives Health Committee, centrally managing and analyzing the We have introduced a self-service stress test that allows health check results through a database, and periodically employees to gauge their stress levels whenever they feel distributing health-related information. concerned. Once a year we hold a mental health awareness In addition, we have established employee health regulamonth during which we encourage all employees to check their tions based on the Japanese Industrial Safety and Health stress levels. The results of tests are analyzed for each Law, and every April the Health Committee determines the organization to check whether further action is needed. Our company’s specific health initiatives for the coming year. health staff swiftly provide extra care to employees diagnosed Even if employees experience health problems that with high levels of stress as part of our efforts to detect and treat cause them to be unable to perform their duties, they may stress in its early stages. take a leave period of up to 3.5 years, providing them the In other efforts to provide better consultation services, we time necessary to fully recover before returning to work. introduced an employee assistance program (EAP) through which employees and their family members can take advantage Measures to Improve of expert counseling services. The program has also provided Health Maintenance mental health counseling for employees who return from areas In addition to the periodic medical checkups required by of conflict. law we provide employees with assistance to monitor their From 2010 we have conducted programs to support employhealth. Employees aged 30 and over are provided with ees in their return to work after a mental health leave. Given the lifestyle disease checkups, and employees aged 35 and over particular importance of close communication between the are provided with complete medical checkups. We also allow employee’s supervisor and primary physician, health staff, and employees to choose their checkup date, medical institution, human resources staff during and after rehabilitation, we created and optional tests according to their own circumstances. a manual that prescribes what each party should do at each Moreover, we provide employees with assistance for flu stage in the process. vaccinations, and try to prevent transmission by offering all employees the opportunity to get vaccinated at work. For employees transferring overseas, we provide health ■ Mental Care System Stages of mental care Early detection and treatment Leave and return to work Entity responsible for care Prevention (1st prevention stage) (2nd prevention stage) (3rd prevention stage) Online diagnosis Employees Leave Return to work  Stress check  Self-learning Daily care by line managers  Start of leave Line managers  Care during leave Pleasant work environment Early detection and treatment  Training for return to work  Planning for return to work Meeting with occupational physicians and nurses  Decision on whether to return Occupational health staff Online (Employees with high stress levels/long working hours) to work Feedback to line management organizational  Post-return follow up Conducted with support from primary diagnosis Counseling service physician, occupational physician, External specialist Health consultation service line managers, nursing staff, HR staff INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 51 Society Appropriate Information Disclosure the meeting, reported on our activities using slideshows, Basic Policy sent out notices as early as possible, and avoided holding Our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy dictates that meetings on days when other shareholders’ meetings are we communicate promptly and openly with shareholders, held. At our shareholders’ meeting, in addition to financial suppliers, business partners, and other stakeholders. matters we have received questions from shareholders Based on this policy, we disclose corporate information on our risk management system and utilization of female in a timely, appropriate, and fair manner through investor employees. relations activities, the company website, and public We also have regularly conducted a CSR incentive quesFor details, please refer relations outreach. Doing so ensures the transparency of tionnaire in which the number of responses from shareholdto the Disclosure Policy management, and we constantly strive to improve on these ers determines how much we donate to a nature conservaon our website: http://www.inpex.co.jp/ir/ initiatives. tion group. In fiscal 2011, in addition to donating 131,150 yen policy.html Regarding our internal frameworks we have named the to the Keidanren Nature Conservation Fund, we also donated head of the Corporate Strategy & Planning Division as the 310,950 yen to the Great East Japan Earthquake Recovery official in charge of information disclosure and established Fund run by the Japanese Red Cross Society. We use the the Corporate Communications Unit as a body devoted opinions received in the questionnaires to help improve our to information disclosure. Regarding procedures for shareholder communication activities. disclosure, the Rules for Corporate Information Disclosure We will continue working to improve our IR activities stipulate processes for Group-wide collection, management, through proactive communication with investors both in communication, and disclosure of information, and we strive Japan and overseas, with a particular focus on disclosing to increase awareness of these rules in an effort to prevent information on the Ichthys LNG Project in an easy-todisclosure leaks and insider trading. understand format. Major IR Activities in FY2011 Disclosure Related to In fiscal 2011, we held two briefing sessions with financial Funding Transparency analysts and institutional investors to report financial results. The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) is an For analysts and investors, we also held a briefing meeting for international initiative to prevent corruption and bribery, and the Ichthys LNG Project, offered a project site tour in Niigata promote resource development that leads to sustainable Prefecture, and held 409 investor relations (IR) meetings growth and the elimination of poverty. The EITI accomplishes in Japan and overseas. Due to the recent increase in the this by increasing the transparency of payments made to the percentage of shares held by foreign shareholders, over half governments of resource producing countries by extractive of our IR meetings were held for foreign investors. industries, including oil, natural gas and mining. 35 countries In addition to IR exhibitions, our IR activities for individual participate in the EITI as of March 2012. We cooperate with investors included 12 information sessions held in 10 cities the initiative in disclosing data regarding payments made around Japan with over 900 investors in attendance. in countries in which we operate, including Azerbaijan, To make our shareholders’ meetings as open as possible, Kazakhstan, East Timor, D.R. Congo, and Indonesia. We are The INPEX Group’s since our founding we have issued notices and documents also considering becoming a supporter company in order to Annual Report 2011 received the Grand related to the meetings (some with English versions) on our contribute to the EITI more proactively. Prize at the 14th Nikkei Annual Report Awards website, screened videos of presentation materials before ■ Shareholding by Shareholder Type1 Treasury stock 0.1% 2.9 % Individuals and others Shareholders: 1 Shares: 4,916 Shareholders: 37,051 Shares: 106,949 Securities companies 1.4 % Shareholders: 70 18.9 % Shares: 50,263 Minister of Economy, Foreign corporations Trade and Industry2 and other 41 % Shareholders: 1 Shareholders: 669 15 % Shares: 692, 307 Shares: 1,496,698 Financial institutions (including trust accounts) Other domestic corporations 20.7 % Shareholders: 114 Shareholders: 429 Shares: 547,264 Shares: 757,412 1 Shareholding ratios are for all issued and outstanding shares (common shares) 2 Excludes one special class share Ichthys briefing meeting Booth at the 2011 Nikkei IR Fair 52 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Third Party Comments on Sustainability Report 2012 Toshihiko Goto of your commitment. I therefore hope that you will show Chief Executive an unwavering commitment to implementing your current Sustainability Forum Japan diverse variety of initiatives, and that you reflect this in your decision-making. Japan is also focusing on “Environmental Future Cities” as a key component of the Green Economy. How can the INPEX Group’s business contribute to this? I believe that forming a consortium with other industries and a variety of sectors—for example women, young people, indigenous people—and It is clear that the commitment to CSR by top management researching, developing and realizing this vision will lead to of the INPEX Group has deepened over the past few years. I benew opportunities. lieve that the Group’s new Mediumto Long-term Vision is one I also see that you have started tackling areas such as example of the successes. Human resources, organizational geothermal energy in earnest. The quality of the electricity strength, and innovation (intellectual property) are generally supply has been cited as a problem with renewable energies. referred to as the intangible assets of an organization, and so However, as geothermal energy offers a stable electricity is the value of CSR. Although INPEX has provided information supply and is extremely important as an alternative to fossil on human resources and organizational strength, there is no fuel power and nuclear power, I would like to see you innovate section detailing innovation. As INPEX has committed to this in and succeed in this area, including the utilization of heat. the statement by top management, I would like to see INPEX Your focus on ISO 26000 is timely and commendable. develop this area as a part of the company’s infrastructure, and To summarize very broadly, ISO 26000 is respect for human on the human resource development side I hope INPEX will rights throughout the entire value chain. To achieve this, a due further empower the female employees. diligence process—in other words conducting CSR auditing of Although the Green Economy was one of the topics suppliers—is critical. I can see that INPEX is strengthening HSE discussed at the Rio+20 summit in June this year, there did initiatives with each subsequent year and I hope the upgrading not appear to be any definite conclusions reached. However, status of the process would be made visible in the highest I believe this reflects the current inability of international priority area of safety. As contractor safety management is presociety to agree on issues in terms of “hard laws.” In a world cisely what the due diligence process involves, this should also where international society is unable to come to a consensus, be useful in expanding initiatives to other suppliers. I note that the role of “soft laws” becomes increasingly important. CSR INPEX is working to differentiate the roles of the Sustainability is a positive response to these types of soft laws, and one Report booklet and the CSR website to respond to a range of must make one’s own decision on what actions to take, and information needs, and I hope that you will continue building to what extent. The key to avoiding errors in judgment is upon these efforts. engaging with a range of stakeholders and making a pledge Response to Third Party Comments I am grateful to Mr. Goto for his valuable feedback concerning our Sustainability Report. We enhanced our CSR promotion system and set our key CSR issues in April 2012, and are working to further strengthen our CSR-based management. We changed the name of this year’s report to the Sustainability Report, and focused on conveying the Group’s proactive approach towards the creation of a sustainable society through our business, presented in a format that could be easily understood by our various stakeholders. Mr. Goto has provided a range of feedback that are of great value for us to proceed with our CSR initiatives, including his hopes that we proactively tackle innovation and the utilization of female employees during the realization of our mediumto long-term vision, and the importance Seiji Yui of developing and visualizing a due diligence process for human rights as a practical step for ISO Director Senior Managing 26000. Executive Officer We will use these opinions to enhance our dialogue with stakeholders and further improve our in charge of CSR CSR initiatives. INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 53 Communication Tools The INPEX Group provides reports on its business Annual Report and initiatives to various stakeholders through a range of communication tools utilizing the media The INPEX Group’s Annual Report 2012 provides a general capabilities of our publications and websites. We outline of the Group’s management, including the current hope you will take a further look. business environment, an overview of the Ichthys LNG Project on which we are currently focusing, and the details of the Group’s mediumto long-term vision that was Sustainability Report formulated in May 2012. http://www.inpex.co.jp/english/ir/library/ annual_report.html In fiscal 2012 we expanded and enriched the content of our CSR Report. While maintaining the stable supply of energy as the foundation, we also Factbook included information on a range of additional items. These items include A summary of data related to the Group’s financial results and consideration for local communities key management indices. and the environment through our LNG projects—an area on which we are fohttp://www.inpex.co.jp/english/ir/library/factbook.html cusing as we move forward—and our initiatives for a diverse range of energy sources, including renewable energies. INPEX Mediumto Long-Term Vision Outlines the Group’s growth objectives and the key initiatives we are taking to CSR Online 2012 reach them. http://www.inpex.co.jp/english/ Our CSR website focuses on delivering complete and timely company/vision.html information. The site features information on our initiatives in more detail than the printed report, and also introduces our latest CSR activities. Please refer to the CSR Online 2012: Table of Contents on page 55 for details. http://www.inpex.co.jp/english/csr/ Awards Received Media Award and Organizer Grand Prize, The 14th Nikkei Annual Report Awards Annual Report 2011 (Nikkei Inc.) Encouraging Prize, Environmental Communication Awards CSR Report 2011 (co-sponsored by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment and the Global Environmental Forum) IR website Excellence Award, 2011 Internet IR http://www.inpex.co.jp/english/ir/ index.html (Daiwa Investor Relations) New graduate The 33rd Japan BtoB Advertising Awards recruitment website Gold Prize, Recruitment Website Category http://www.inpex.co.jp/english/career/ (BtoB Advertising Association Japan) index.html 54 INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CSR Company Overview Online 2012: Table of Contents Items with this mark are covered on the website http://www.inpex.co.jp/english/csr/ Company Name: Established: The CSR website features INPEX CORPORATION April 3, 2006 detailed information on our CSR initiatives in addition to the content in this report. CONTENTS Capital: 290,809,835,000 yen Headquarters: Akasaka Biz Tower 31st to 34th, 38th floors, For details 4 Top Management Commitment Top Management Commitment 5-3-1 Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo, JAPAN 107-6332 Safety Phone: +81-3-5572-0200 8 Mediumto Long-Term Vision of INPEX Mission, Corporate Social Responsibility Policy and Code of Conduct Fiscal Year End: March 31 Safety 10 BasicCSR Policyof the INPEX Group Mediumto Long-Term Vision of INPEX Management 12 MajorRelationships Accident Prevention Number of Employees: 2,146 (Consolidated) as of March 31, 2012 with Major Stakeholders CSR of the INPEX Group Main Businesses: Promotion of CSR-based Management Research, exploration, development, production and 14 Aiming to Reduce Accidents Business Activities Emergency Response Our Mission and CSR sales of oil, natural gas and other mineral resources; Contractors’ Safety Management For details Establishment of CSR Promotion System SafetySpecial other related businesses; and investment and lending to 16 Management Feature 1 of Pipelines Key CSR Issues Project Safety Management companies engaged in these activities Stable Supply of Energy to Japan Participation in UN Global Compact For details 18 Special Feature 2 Relationships with Relationships with Stakeholders Ichthys LNG Project and CSR Major Stakeholders Society Financial Information (Consolidated) Stakeholders’ Comments and INPEX’s Response 20 Special Feature 3 Business Activities Dialogue with Stakeholders Net Sales Net Income Building Trust What is Expected of a Global Energy Company Basic Policy with and Considering Human Rights During Operations (million yen) (million yen) 194,000 Contributing Coexisting with Local Communities Special Features 1,200,000 1,186,731 to Local 22 Management Involvement in Public Policy 150,000 Communities 128,699 23 Corporate Governance Special Feature 1 943,080 Stable Supply of Energy to Japan Initiatives to Working to Reconstruct Areas Affected by Disaster 800,000 840,427 107,210 For details Contribute 24 SponsoredCompliance Course at The University of Tokyo Special Feature 2 Ichthys LNG Project 100,000and CSR to Local 25 Graduate RiskSchool Managementof Public Policy Website only Communities Special Feature 3 400,000 Dialogue with Stakeholders 26 Contributing HSE to Local Communities Management System Recovery Work for Niigata and Fukushima Rain Damage What is Expected of a 50,000 Global Energy Company Snow Clearing Volunteer Work 30 Sponsoring EBRD Microfinance Initiatives Environment Sponsorship of Australian Football Club 0 0 Management 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 31 Supporting Environmental the Establishment Darwin Activities Our Business ImpactofofCharles 32 University Global North Australian Warming Centre for Oil and Gas Mitigation Corporate Governance Basic Policy Sponsorship of NT Training Awards Net Production by Region 33 Sponsorship Biodiversity Conservation of Economic Development Forum for Website only Overview of Our Corporate Governance Internal Control System 34 Indigenous ReducingPeopleOur Environmental Impact Japan 7% Donation to Alzheimer’s Australia WA 36 Sponsorship Fighting Climate National of Australian ChangeMaritime ComplianceTotal Basic Policy Asia and Oceania 47% Museum Exhibits Website only Compliance Training 426 Help-Line System Eurasia 6% 38 Muanda City Electrification Project Society Cabinda Region Contribution Initiatives thousand 39 Zazarida Safety Port Management Dredging Risk ManagementBOEPD1 Basic Policy Middle East and Africa 36% Business Continuity Plan (BCP) for Emergency Situations 42 Supporting Building Environments the Improvement Trust with and of Learning Contributing Americas Information Security Measures 4% to Local Communities Organic Farming Training and Education Website only Climate Change Risk 43 Dili Heliport Initiatives to Contribute Infrastructure Project to Local Communities Proved Reserves by Region2 46 Supporting Construction Fair Trade of Greenhouses with Business Crop Growing and Agricultural Training Partnersfor HSE Management System Message from Director in Charge of HSE Health, Safety and Environmental Policy of the INPEX Group 47 Inviting Product Quality Control Students from the UAE to Japan for Training Japan 6% HSE Management System Initiatives 48 Basic Human Policy Resource Development and Utilization Fair Trade Total HSE Training and Cultivating Asia and Oceaniaan HSE Corporate Culture 64%with Business 51 PromotingHealth Management Awareness of Fair Trade 2,432 HSE Communication HSE Initiatives in Eurasia Projects For details 8% Partners 52 Consideration Appropriate for Local CommunitiesDisclosure During Business Information MMBOE Basic Policy for Selecting Contractors HSE Objectives and Plans Middle East and Africa 21%Product 53 Basic Third Policy Party Comments on Sustainability Quality Control Management Report 2012 of Oil Product Safety Website only Americas 1% Safety Management of Natural Gas Product Environment 54 Communication Management Tools During Transportation 1 Barrels of oil equivalent per day 55 CSR Customer Improved Online 2012: ServiceTable at Gasof Contents Stations 2 Proved reserves are Impact Environmental evaluatedofin Our Business accordance with Activities SEC regulations and include proved reserves owned by equity method affiliates Website only Human Resource Basic Policy Global Warming Basic Policy Development Human Resource Development Mitigation Reducing GHG Emissions and Utilization Utilization of Human Resources Saving Energy at the Office Editorial Policy Scope of Reporting and Data Compilation Promoting Diversity Employee Statistics The INPEX Group Biodiversity publishes its CSR Conservation Report Basic Policyannually to keep its stakeholders informed of its  INPEX CORPORATIONPromoting consolidated and its 59 Work-Life subsidiaries Balance CSR initiatives and activities. Biodiversity Conservation Measures Taken at Projects Dialogue Between Employees and Management For the 2012 edition of this report, renamed the Sustainability Report, we formulated the editorial Reducing policy Ourbelow in light of our Basic Policy effort to incorporate the following ideas from continued Forward-Looking Statements Health Basic Policy the 2011 edition: to Environmental enhance the Measures disclosuretoofPrevent Impact Soil Contamination information on the issues and initiatives we Management This Measures to Improve report includes forward-looking Healththat information Maintenance reflects the plans and estimates of face as a global company, to enhance PreventingtheAir Pollution of information on our worldwide disclosure INPEX CORPORATION Mental and itsHealth Initiatives affiliates (hereinafter called the INPEX Group). Such projects, and to use our website more Management ofto effectively Chemical complement Substances the printed report. forward-looking information is based on assumptions and beliefs of the INPEX Group in light Appropriate Basic Policy Use of Water Resources ofInformation information currently available, and involves known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and 1. We will express our role as an energy corporation. Major IR Activities in FY2011 2. We will report on the steps we are taking toWater Preventing enhancePollution CSR-based managementWebsite through only our other factors. Disclosure Such risks, uncertainties, and other factors may cause the INPEX Group’s actual Disclosure Related to Funding Transparency CSR promotion system. Waste Management results, performance, achievements, or financial position to be materially different from any 3. We will report on two-way communication Proper Management and Treatment with stakeholders on ourofkey Waste PCBCSR issues. future results, performance, achievements, or financial position expressed or implied by such 4. We will further improve the content Oil Pollution Prevention of the report to fulfillMeasures our accountability. forward-looking information. Please be advised that the INPEX Group shall assume no Third Party Comments/Response responsibility for such risks. to Third Party Comments Website only Reference Fighting Climate Guideline Change Basic Policy Website only Communication Tools Global Reporting Initiative’s SustainabilityIncreasing Use of Eco-Friendly Reporting Natural3.1Gas Guidelines Version Regarding the Cover Page Reforestation Project in Australia GRI Content Index Reporting Period The INPEX Group pays proper consideration to the society and the environment as an energy Fire Management in the Savanna Editorial Policy corporation while providing an efficient and stable supply of energy to contribute to a brighter April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012 (Including Developing references to activities New Technologies thatwe undertook during or Reduce future. The mangrove tree image used in the background is native to Darwin Harbour, the main after April 2012) Environmental Impact Website only Ichthys 2012 site where the Report Sustainability Download LNG (liquid natural gas) Project is being implemented, in the Northern Territory in Australia. It represents the Group's efforts in paying consideration to the natural Cost of Environmental Technologies CSR Report Back Numbers environment in our activities. Site Data Questionnaire INPEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 03 55 Research & CSR Group Corporate Strategy & Planning Unit Akasaka Biz Tower 32nd Floor 5-3-1 Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo, JAPAN 107-6332 Paper used in this report is produced from fiber sourced from well-managed Phone: +81-3-5572-0231 http://www.inpex.co.jp/ forests and other forests where unacceptable sources have been excluded, as defined by the Forest Stewardship Council. Publication Date: September 2012 Printed using vegetable oil-based ink that does not release volatile organic (The last report was published in September 2011. compounds (VOCs), and waterless processes that do not involve harmful The next report is scheduled for publication in September 2013) wastewater emissions.
