Chairman’s Note Piraeus Bank is dealing with the current economic and social challenges responsibly and realistically. Given the constraints of the economic environment, we ardently support the efforts that help restructure the Greek economy, upgrade public administration and enhance social responsibility. We believe in a new sustainable economic model and take action towards this direction. We do not limit ourselves to our banking operations. We commit to initiatives that support sustainable growth, culture and the less privileged members of our society. We act with consistency and full awareness that our actions have direct and indirect impact on households, businesses, the workforce and society as a whole, both in Greece and in SE Europe countries, where the Group has had a presence for more than a decade. In this Report, we set out the Corporate Responsibility Principles (including those of the UN Global Compact) which we apply; we present the basic Group actions for 2011, the results of these actions and the targets we have set for the future. The basic principles that govern our corporate activity remain: trust, consistency, solidarity, collectiveness as well as encouragement to innovate, to take initiative and to be creative, values which today, more than ever, are crucial for the financial and social reconstruction of the country. Michalis Sallas Chairman of the Board of Directors 12 6 ΕΚΘΕΣΗ ΕΤΑΙΡΙΚΗΣ ΥΠΕΥΘΥΝΟΤΗΤΑΣ 2011 CORPORATE / ΠΙΣΤΟΠΟΙΗΣΗ RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Independent Assurance Statement To the management of Piraeus Bank S.A. Piraeus Bank Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 (the Report) has been prepared by the management of Piraeus Bank S.A., who is responsible for the collection and presentation of the information within it. Our responsibility, in accordance with management’s instructions, is to carry out a limited level assurance engagement on the Environmental section of the Report, as well as to perform a GRI Application Level Check for Level B+, for the period from 01.01.2011 to 31.12.2011. Our responsibility in performing our assurance activities is to the management of Piraeus Bank only and in accordance with the terms of reference mutually agreed. We do not accept or assume any responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or organisation. Work Scope and Criteria Our assurance engagement has been planned and performed in accordance with the International Federation of Accountants’ International Standard on Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE3000), in order to provide a limited level assurance opinion on: A. The accuracy of statements reported in the Environmental section (pages 66 to 79) B. The completeness and accuracy of Environmental data reported in the tables found on pages 74 to 75 C. The B+ Application Level of the Global Reporting Initiative G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI G3) declared by Piraeus Bank, against the GRI Application Level criteria The statements and data under scope (A & B) have been evaluated against completeness and accuracy, criteria agreed with the management of Piraeus Bank as follows:  C ompleteness  W hether all material reporting units, as defined in the boundaries and time period stated in the Report, are included in the Environmental data presented in tables found on pages 74 to 75.  A ccuracy  W hether statements reported in the Environmental section (pages 66 to 79) accurately reflect Piraeus Bank sustainability performance during 2011.  W hether Environmental data have been accurately collated at corporate level, and accurately transposed to tables found on pages 74 to 75. What We Did To Form Our Conclusions In order to form our conclusions in relation to the scope and criteria mentioned above, we undertook (but were not limited to) the steps outlined below: 1. Reviewed information or explanations to substantiate data and statements regarding Piraeus Bank’s sustainability performance in 2011, as presented in the Environmental section of the Report. 2. Interviewed specialists responsible for managing, collating and reviewing Environmental data at corporate level for internal and public reporting purposes. 3. Reviewed Environmental data reported to corporate level from the reporting entities to test completeness of coverage of reporting entities and to examine for selected reporting entities the checks which have been applied at corporate level. 12 8 ΕΚΘΕΣΗ ΕΤΑΙΡΙΚΗΣ ΥΠΕΥΘΥΝΟΤΗΤΑΣ 2011 CORPORATE / ΠΙΣΤΟΠΟΙΗΣΗ RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 4. Reviewed relevant documentation and reporting systems at corporate level, including collation tools, templates used, guidance documents and training materials. 5. Reviewed the Report for the appropriate presentation of the Environmental data, including the discussion of limitations and assumptions relating to the Environmental data presented. 6. Reviewed whether Piraeus Bank reporting has applied the GRI G3 Guidelines to a level consistent with the B+ application level. Level Of Assurance Our evidence gathering procedures have been designed to obtain a limited level of assurance (as set out in ISAE3000) on which to base our conclusions. The extent of evidence gathering procedures for a limited level of assurance is less than that of a reasonable level assurance engagement (such as a financial audit) and therefore a lower level of assurance is provided. Limitations Of Our Review  O  ur review did not include the English version of the Report. In the event of any inconsistency in translation between the English and Greek versions, as far as our conclusions are concerned, the Greek version of the Report prevails.  O ur review was limited to information provided in the Environmental section under scope and did not include financial data nor the corresponding narrative text in the Report.  We do not provide any assurance relating to future information such as estimates, expectations or targets, or their achievability.  T he scope of our work did not include activities or performance of any third parties, nor attending stakeholder engagement activities.  O ur review did not include testing the Information Technology systems used to collect and aggregate data.  O ur scope of work was limited to corporate level activities concerning 2011 performance and did not include site visits. Our Conclusions On the basis of our review and in accordance with the terms of reference and limitations of our work, we provide the following conclusions on the Report in relation to the above section on ‘Work Scope and Criteria’. Our conclusions are based on the appropriate application of the selected criteria and should be read in conjunction with the above section on ‘What We Did to Form Our Conclusions’. A. How accurate are the Environmental section statements (pages 66 to 79) within the Report? We have reviewed information or explanations on selected statements presented in the Environmental section of the Report and we are not aware of any misstatements in the statements made. B. How complete and accurate are Environmental section data found in the tables on pages 74 to 75? We are not aware of any material reporting units within the defined boundaries and time period which have been excluded from the scope of the Environmental data reported in the tables on pages 74 to 75. We are not aware of any errors in the collation of Environmental data at corporate level or the transposition of these data to the Report, that would materially affect the data as presented in the tables on pages 74 to 75. C. Does the Report meet the requirements of the B+ Application Level of the GRI G3 Guidelines? Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Piraeus Bank management’s assertion that the Report meets the requirements of the B+ Application Level of the GRI G3 Guidelines is not fairly stated. PIRAEUS BANK 9 Our Independence And Assurance Team This is the first year that Ernst & Young has provided independent assurance services in relation to Piraeus Bank Corporate Responsibility Report. We conducted our engagement in compliance with the requirements of the IFAC Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, which requires, among other requirements that the members of the assurance team as well as the assurance firm are independent of the assurance client, including not being involved in writing the Corporate Responsibility Report. Ernst & Young has systems and processes in place to monitor compliance with the Code and to prevent conflicts regarding independence. The firm and all professional personnel involved in this engagement have met these independence requirements. Our assurance team has been drawn for our global environment and sustainability network, which undertakes similar engagements to this with a number of significant Greek and international businesses. Our team has the required competencies and experience for this engagement, including Certified Sustainability Assurance Practitioners. Athens, 18.05.2012 For Ernst & Young Business Advisory Solutions S.A. Georgios Papadimitriou Partner SELECTED FIGURES ASSOCIATED WITH 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLES STAKEHOLDERS’ DIALOGUE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY KEY ACTIONS AND TARGETS U.N. Global Compact Participation in Organisations, and CSR Indices Distinctions /CHAPTER 1 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE /CHAPTER 2 CUSTOMER AND SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIP /CHAPTER 3 HUMAN RESOURCES /CHAPTER 4 SOCIETY, CULTURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT Appendix: GRI Reporting Content 12 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Final review date for the Corporate Responsibility Report: May 30, 2012. PIRAEUS BANK 13 Selected Highlights Associated with the Group’s Corporate Responsibility for 2011 Group Human Resources 11,247* Human Resources Compensation and Benefits €372 mn* Piraeus Group Training, Seminar Man-hours 417,000 * Group Customers 3.5 mn* Customer Satisfaction Index (Greece) 96% of total customers, based on independent survey Shareholders 155,000 Contribution to Social, Cultural and Environmental Actions, 2% of Group’s FY 2011 Programs and Initiatives pre tax and provision profit* Culture   useum Network: 7 thematic museums operating in select sites of the Greek periphery M (Soufli, Dimitsana in Arcadia, Lesvos island, Tinos Island, Oreini Korinthia, Volos, Sparta) with 120,000 (67% free of charge) visitors in 2011 compared to 97 thousands in 2010.   High-standard cultural events and educational programs: 10 exhibitions, 23 other actions, 28 guided tours and educational programs (16 for under-18’s and 12 for adults).   Provision of scientific support to the academic and research community, to various bodies (on 31 occasions), to training young scientists (3,600 hours) and donation of books/educational material to schools and libraries (1,150 in total).   Contribution to the shaping of official cultural policies.   Publication of a reference book on modern Greek economic history. Environment   8% increase in green loan balance versus 2010 at 0.7 bn. 2  More than €1 bn in green loan credit limit.  RES projects totalling 364 MW were completed with the support of Piraeus Bank thus preventing the emission of 598,000 tonnes of CO2.  ISO 14001 and EMAS certification for all Bank branches and administration buildings in Greece.  4.6 % reduction in electricity consumption (per employee).  Doubling of ink and toner quantities recycled.  7.1% reduction in total CO2 emissions.  Creation of Climabiz Computational Model assessing the financial consequences of climate change on businesses and the cost of their adaptation.  Participation of over 73% of Bank employees in more than one “green” training program. * The data do not include the Group’s discontinued operations in Egypt. 14 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Corporate Responsibility Principles Corporate Responsibility is the voluntary commitment to include social, environmental and cultural actions in business practices and the assumption of initiatives over and above the legal obligations with the aim of enhancing social welfare and progress. 1.Harmonious Relationship with Social Stakeholders   eturning part of the value generated by the Bank to its social partners within a strategiR cally designed and systematic framework of social actions. 2. Alignment of Business Targets with Social Progress and Solidarity   Customer support before and after product and service sales, with emphasis on the Bank’s consulting role.   Support of entrepreneurial initiatives aimed at the promotion of competitive fields with potential and prospects for growth. 3. Corporate Governance Optimization  T  ransparency in governance and organizational structures.  Adoption and realization of best practices of governance and operation.  Symmetric and systematic information dissemination to the investment and business communities, media and NGOs.  Transparent supplier/business partner evaluation and selection processes. 4. Adoption of Best Workplace Practices  D  evelopment of a humane and responsible organization, where competent, committed and inspired employees work together and –by capitalizing on diversitylead the market, innovate by adding value and ensure the prosperity and sustainable development of the Group. 5. Environment Protection using natural resources responsibly and supporting environmentally beneficial business activities  C  ontinuous support of green entrepreneurship through development of new green products and enhancement of existing ones.  Development of strategies to improve the Group’s environmental performance and reduce its ecological and carbon footprints.  Implementation of institutional and natural risk management procedures due to climate change and the development of evaluation tools.  Support to individuals and businesses and strengthening of the market to better adapt to the effects of climate change 6. Promotion of Culture   ctive contribution to the promotion of greek cultural identity through the creation of a theA matic museums’ network in Greece (events, educational programs).   Ongoing research programs and publications relevant to the purposes of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation.  Safeguarding and giving added value to the Bank’s historical archive.  Providing scientific advisory support to state and local institutions and societies.  Contributing to the formation of cultural policies. PIRAEUS BANK 15 Stakeholders’ dialogue Investors Customers Information regarding the course and Responsible information and provision strategy of the Group to evaluate investment of product and services with respect scope in Piraeus Bank scope to the code of business conduct and business ethics G  eneral Meetings of Shareholders. 2 4h Customer Call Center. ways of Cooperation ways of Cooperation Disclosure of Financial Results (presentations, Branch network and alternative channels (ATMs, press releases, teleconferences, internet) through e-banking, mobile banking). communication channels. Customer Service-complaint handling procedure. Communication of business developments Seminars and informative meetings with (press releases, internet). customer groups. Contact with the Management and the Business Customer satisfaction survey at regular intervals. Planning & Investor Relations Division (events, meetings, teleconferences, roadshows). Structured discussion between customers and the “Relationship Management Service” for Immediate response to individual requests by personalized organization and management of means of website and e-mail contact forms. their finances. Contact with the Shareholder Registry. Immediate response to individual requests by means of website and e-mail contact forms. Significant presence in social media. Voice of Customer. Banks Equity Analysts Mutual Information sharing and Information regarding the course and representation in fora strategy of the Group to evaluate scope scope investment in Piraeus Bank shares or securities C  ontact and meetings with relevant units at Contact with Management and Business Planning & ways of Cooperation ways of Cooperation each Bank. Investor Relations Division (presentations, meetings, Participation in legislative drafting or technical teleconferences, roadshows). committees at an international, European and Disclosure of Financial Results (presentations, national level. press releases, teleconferences). Cooperation with foreign financial agencies Communication of business developments (press and associations in the framework of bilateral releases). and multi-lateral collaborations. Business Community State-Regulatory Authorities Mutual cooperation on a win-win basis Group compliance with the regulatory framework scope scope D  ialogue and cooperation with Trade Associations, O  rdinary and extraordinary communication with ways of Cooperation ways of Cooperation Commercial, and Industrial Chambers. supervision authorities. Participation in Seminars and other information Data and information provision, meetings, participation events. in consultations, developmet of reports and participation in consultations. 16 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Employees & their Families Local Communities Open Communication Fostering and supporting local initiatives Ongoing development, fair treatment and scope reward of human resources scope Care for quality of life improvement in all aspects of their lives Internal communications network (intranet). O  peration of Museum Network on a national level ways of Cooperation ways of Cooperation Internal newsletter ‘winners’ distributed to all (support of local economies, job positions, local Group employees. suppliers). Piraeus Bank Group Employee Satisfaction Survey. Support of local social and cultural events and training programs. Training programs. Assuming an advisory scientific role in cultural and Open communication with all employees developments actions upon request. concerning staffing needs to offer development and transfer opportunities. Meetings to exchange of views on common interest issues Established procedure for employee performance review and competency appraisal. Branch Network Employee Assistance Programs. Collective Representation. Non-Governmental Organizations Media Supporting environmental and social actions Information, communication and promotion of corporate and product Group actions scope scope Synergies for common interest actions (the Press releases and conferences. ways of Cooperation ways of Cooperation environment, society, culture).  dvertising Campaigns. A Financial support of specific NGO actions. Communication through the Bank’s Press Office. Cooperation through volunteer actions. Social Media. Suppliers & Service Providers Credit rating firms Cooperation on a win-win basis Information regarding the course and strategy of the Group to evaluate the credit rating of scope scope Piraeus Bank E stablished procedures for supplier and service  ontact and meetings with the Management and C ways of Cooperation ways of Cooperation provider tendering, evaluation and selection through appropriate Bank units. outsourcing. Provision of financial data and information. Seminars, information meetings and attendance of live material demonstrations for large procurements of information systems, green supplies & procurement etc. PIRAEUS BANK 17 Corporate Responsibility Key Actions and Targets Business Environment 2011 Targets   Continuing support to customers and business initiatives with potential.   Emphasis on pioneer green and e-banking services.   With the completion of the share capital increase by €807 mn at the beginning of 2011, the Bank was strengthened further, enabling it to deal with the challenges of the economic environment from an even stronger position.   Taking advantage of the development prospects both in Greece and in the wider geographical region is a priority for the Group, as soon as the economic conditions allow for it. 2011 Key Actions   Approx. 180,000 new customers in Greece, reaching 2.5 mn at the end of 2011. 1 mn customers stemming from Group’s international operations.   Market share in Greece: 10% deposits and 11% loans.   More than 15% of RES investments (wind farms, photovoltaic, small hydro-electric plants) in Greece have been financed by Piraeus Bank.   In 2011, the Group’s business loan portfolio balance in Greece amounted to €20 bn almost at the same level as in 2010.   €1 billion of approved credit limits for green loans in 2011. Green Loans amouted to €0.7 bn, +28% on an annual basis. Key Targets for 2012   Realization of a complete investment program consisting of private capital, EU resources and funding, which including bank funding is expected to reach €1.6 bn in the next 5 years. Enactment of the ETVA Industrial Parks investment program will strengthen the local economies of the Greek periphery, as 1,000 new small and medium businesses are expected to be included in the Business Parks, resulting in the creation of 15,000 new jobs in the next 5 years.   Piraeus Bank continues to support particularly small, small and medium-sized Greek businesses through the granting of low-interest, long-term loans in the framework of the “Innovative Entrepreneurship, Logistics, Food, Drinks” Action in conjunction with the Entrepreneurship Fund, which is managed by the Hellenic Fund for Entrepreneurship and Development (ETEAN). The aim of this program is to assist businesses with the funding of their investment plans. The total funding to be granted amounts to €150 mn, deriving from the joint investment of the Entrepreneurship Fund (€50 mn) and Piraeus Bank (€100 mn).   Support of initiatives, aiming to improve the productivity of new sectors with potential and to promote new fields that are dynamic, innovative and with a notable scope for development.   Maintaining market share in Greece with emphasis on Green Banking, fields with potential and e-banking. 18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Working Environment 2011 Targets   Communication of Employee Satisfaction Survey 2010, Implementation of actions for improvement.   E xpansion of counseling awareness and support to subsidiaries in Greece and abroad.   Enactment of employee volunteering and implementation of 10 volunteer actions on a Group level.   E xpansion of performance review policies and tools to 80% of the Group.   Providing 34 hours of training on average per employee in the Group.   Commencement of e-training through webinar.   E xpanded and more in-depth training in Green Entrepreneurship.   E xpansion of e-learning to subsidiaries abroad.   Further use of technology and exploitation of flexible working. 2011 Key Action   Communication of Employee Satisfaction Survey 2010 results, development of action plans and enactment of improvement actions.   Completion of Volunteer Policy design and implementation of 25 volunteer actions on a Group level with the participation of 746 employees.   Provision of 37 hours of training on average per employee in the Group despite the significant reductions in employee expenses.   E xpansion of performance review policies and tools with uniform criteria to 83% of the Group.   Completion of installation and configuration of e-training through webinar.   E xpansion of e-learning to Serbia, Cyprus and Bulgaria. As a result the percentage of e-learning man-hours reached 48% of total training man-hours on Group level.   Completion of the 2nd series of training interventions regarding Green Banking. Key Targets for 2012   Securing over 97% retention rate for talents in the Group.   Coverage of 80% of vacant positions in the Group through internal reassignments and promotions.   Preservation of 37 training hours per employee on average in the Group.   Further reduction of employee expenses by 12% on weighted average while preserving employee social benefits.   Further expansion of uniform assesment review policies and tools to at least 85% of the Group.   Active use of the webinar e-training system, aiming to achieve that 10% of all Bank training manhours are implemented via the webinar channel.   Enhancement and more in-depth training in the sectors of e-Banking and Green Banking   E xpansion of volunteerism in the Group, aiming for the enactment of 35 actions with the total participation of at least 1,000 employees. PIRAEUS BANK 19 The Environment 2011 Targets   1% reduction in the total electrical power consumption in the Bank’s buildings versus 2010.   10% increase in the recycling of paper versus 2010 in the Bank as a total.   2% reduction in the consumption of paper versus 2010 in the Bank as a total.   Continuation of green training -internal certification of 400 employees in Environmental Management System.   Completion of EMAS certification procedures.   Responding to customer needs in all sectors of green entrepreneurship, with specialized products and services and in accordance with the developments of the regulatory framework. 2011 Key ActionS   ISO 14001 and EMAS certification for all Bank branches and administration buildings.   7.4% reduction in electricity consumption.   10.2% reduction in paper consumption versus 2010 and consequently reduction 8.3% in paper recycled.   5.2% reduction in CO 2 emissions due to transportation versus 2010.   35.1% reduction in travel by car for educational purposes   22.3% reduction in business trips by plane.   62.5% increase in recycled plastic.   28% increase in green loan balances, reaching €0.7 bn with credit limit exceeding €1 bn.   New “green product” for Piraeus Bank’s “Energy efficiency at Household buildings” program, which gained significant market share (29% share in application approvals).   C reation of advisory and technical services to cover the complete range of green entrepreneurship by Piraeus Bank.   R ES project loans totalling 364 MW, thus preventing the emission of 598,000 tonnes of CO2.   A rrangement of e-meetings in all Green Branches for an “appointment with the professional” specialized in green entrepreneurship matters.   C ompletion of the “on the job” training program for 355 employees of the Bank’s Green Branch network. Key Targets for 2012   Increase in percentage of green entrepreneurship loans.   5% reduction in business travel by car.   More than 5% increase in all recycling indices.   2% reduction in electricity consumption.   E xtension of the Environmental Management System to Group subsidiaries.   Completion of the 3-year European climabiz program on the adaptation of the market to climate change.   Internal certification of Enviromental Management Coordination (EMAS).   Continuing training in green banking for all Green Banking employees. 20 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Culture 2011 Targets  Increase in visitor numbers and events (cultural and educational) of the 7 thematic Museums operating in Greece.  Preparation for the operation of 3 new museums (Chios Mastic Museum, Silver-smithing Museum at Ioannina and Museum of Paper Making and Greek Typography, in Kerkira).  Organization of exhibitions, educational and cultural events.  C apitalization on research material.  Digital actions (scientific, educational and popularizing character).  New publications.  C ollaboration with the Hellenic Ministry of Culture and Tourism for the Intangible Cultural Heritage (UNESCO).  Ongoing scientific processing of the Historical Archive and new additions.  Provision of scientific advisory work to organizations and local communities and shaping of cultural policies. 2011 Key Actions  Operation of a Network of 7 thematic technological Museums in the Greek periphery.  Inclusion in funding framework and initiation of procedures for the construction of 2 new Museums.  O rganizing of high-standard cultural events and educational programs in the Network’s Multi-Purpose Halls [exhibitions (10), other actions (23), tours (28), and educational programs (under-18s 16, adult 12)].  Donation of PIOP educational series and volume collections to school communities.  E xpansion of PIOP’s research interest to the basic zones of industrial development in regions of modern Greece.  Contribution to the formation of official cultural policies.  Provision of scientific advisory support to agencies, new scientists, researchers and doctoral candidates as well as internships to new scientists (3,600 hours).  Support of the academic and research communities: collection and management of Historical Archives (history of banks, financial agencies and companies) – operation of specialized libraries (matters concerning museum studies, cultural management, history of technology and history of economy) –organizing of scientific events.  P ublication of a reference book on modern Greek economic history. Key Targets for 2012  M aintaining and upgrading the level of PIOP’s operation and the level of satisfaction of all interested parties.  Further dissemination of PIOP’s work to multiple groups of society, in accordance with Piraeus Group’s corporate responsibility principles.  Completion of construction and museum work on two museums to be included in the Museum Network in the Greek periphery (Chios Mastic Museum, Silver-smithing Museum at Ioannina).  Coordinated implementation of high-quality cultural events in several regions of the Greek periphery.  Organizing of scientific events and intensification of provision of scientific assistance to public organizations, local/social agencies and new scientists.  Broadening of the Institution’s research scope to the cultural reserve of the major historic industrial regions of the Greek State.  Valorization of the scientific reserve already accumulated in the Institution.  Enhancement of the Institution’s educational role in continuing education, with emphasis on educational professionals and young scientists.  Creation of a interactive portal to broadly diffuse educational material and to communicate with a larger number of stakeholders and recipients. PIRAEUS BANK 21 Society 2011 Targets  Piraeus Bank’s commitment and unfaltering dedication to a society that is faced with a prolonged economic crisis.  Encouraging Bank employees to participate in volunteer work. 2011 Key Actions  Preservation of actions and support of the family institution, protecion of children and young people (especially orphans and disadvantage children or young people in detoxification programs) including the care of the elderly, protection of the environment and reinforcement of young enterpreneurship.  Actions to facilitate customers facing repayment difficulties due to the economic crisis.  Enactment of targeted actions and initiatives with public welfare organizations in countries where the Group is present in the four fields of: “Child, Society, Health, the Environment”. Key Targets for 2012  Encouraging the participation of Piraeus’ employees in volunteer work.  Piraeus Bank’s commitment and unfaltering dedication to society.  Cooperation with public welfare organizations to further enhance the Bank’s contribution to the fields of action: “Child, Family, Health, the Environment”, with targeted social intervention. 22 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 PIRAEUS BANK 23 UN Global Compact At the beginning of 2004, Piraeus Bank joined voluntarily the UN Global Compact, which pertains to ten principles in the areas of human rights, employment rights, environment protection and anti-corruption. Piraeus Bank took the initiative to support and promote these principles in its scope of activities. The table below lists the ten Global Compact principles and the actions taken by Piraeus Bank in order to put them in practice. Implementation Method Description Basic Principles or Reference to the 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 1. Support and respect the protection of inHuman rights Full compliance with the relevant Greek and internationally proclaimed human rights with ternational legislation. businesses and their sphere of influence Additionally, incorporation of the Group’s Human 2. Make sure that businesses have no comRight’s Policy plicity in human rights abuses 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of Full compliance with the relevant Greek and inassociation and the effective recognition ternational legislation. of the right to collective bargaining Corporate Responsibility Report 2011, Labor 4. Elimination of all forms of forced and com“Human Resources” pulsory labour 5. Effective abolition of child labour 6. Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 7. Support the precautionary principles in enCorporate Responsibility Report 2011, The Environment vironmental challenges “Society, Culture and the Environment” 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9. Encourage the development and expansion of environmentally friendly technologies 10. B  usinesses should work against all forms  Code of Conduct and Compliance Policy Anti-corruption of corruption, including extortion and  Relevant terms in employment contracts bribery  Relevant labour relations framework in the Bank  Control mechanisms and procedures, and anti-money laundering information system (including fraud detection)  Corporate Responsibily Report 2011 “Corporate Governance”  Training programs Human Resources 24 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Participation in Organisations and CSR Indices Piraeus Bank participates in international initiatives and indices aimed at forwarding and promoting corporate responsibility to both the business world and social environment driven by sustainable development. Furthermore, by participating in this process, Piraeus Bank adopts self assessment mechanisms for its CSR policies and practices based on international standards and compared to international practices with the goal to continuously improve them. In 2011, with the completion of the certification process, the Bank’s Environmental Management Systems received EMAS and ISO 14001:2004 certification for all its branches and administration buildings in Greece. Since 2002, Piraeus Bank has consistently been meeting the FTSE4Good Index criteria. This international index was established by FTSE in order to provide investors with ratings of companies that implement Corporate Responsibility programs. Apart from its membership in the UN Global Compact, the Bank also signed the Statement of accession to the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) in 2007 whereby more than 200 financial institutions from around the world pledge to take into account social and environmental criteria in their decision-making. Piraeus Bank is the only Greek bank to have signed the Statement of “Caring for Climate: The business leadership platform” under the UN Global Compact whereby 350 businesses world-wide demonstrate leadership in mobilizing the market to deal with climate change. At the same time, Piraeus Bank is a member of the Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility. For the fourth consecutive year Piraeus Bank has received the highest recognition awarded in Greece from the Corporate Responsibility Index (CRI), in the platinum category. CRI is a leading business management and benchmarking tool that enables companies to effectively measure, monitor, report and improve their impacts on society and the environment. Since 2009, the Piraeus Group’s Human Resources Division has emerged as one of the first corporate departments in Greece to have acquired the international certification ‘Investors in People’. This certification remains valid, depicting the Group’s ongoing commitment as a responsible employer, emphasizing on the improvement of its competitiveness and corporate performance through the effective management and development of its people. Furthermore, Piraeus Bank also participates in the non-profit organization Carbon Disclosure Project by providing data on its environmental performance. PIRAEUS BANK 25 2011 Distinctions and Awards Piraeus Group’s commitment to providing high quality products and services is demonstrated from the following prominent distinctions and awards that the Group received in 2011:  One of the 15 Greek companies to be awarded in the framework of the “BRAVO” Social Reporting Awards that the non-profit organization QualityNet Foundation organized for a second year.  THALES-CEO & CSR 2011 Award: Best Listed Company in Corporate Social Responsibility at the 2011 CEO & CSR Money Conference.  Was awarded by the European Finance Marketing Association (EFMA) for Best Approach to Social Media in Europe, concerning the “Think Green” platform, which formed an environmentallyconscious online user group with presence in the most popular social media (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Flickr).  Ranked among the only 10 Greek businesses to be included in the worldwide list of top 1,000 socially responsible businesses, according to CRD Analytics’ rating in collaboration with JustMeans; with a higher ranking this year than in 2010.  Recognition of Piraeus Bank as “Best Consumer Internet Bank” in Greece, among the best e-banking service providers world-wide, by the international magazine “Global Finance”.  Recognition of Piraeus Bank Ukraine as the most dynamic bank and one of the best employers in the country by the business magazine InvestGazeta at the 2011 Ukrainian Banking Awards.  Piraeus Bank Bulgaria was awarded the first prize in the category “Cause-related Marketing” at the annual “Responsible Business Awards 2011” organised by the Bulgaria Business Leaders Forum for the “Blagodetel” (Benefactor) campaign in collaboration with Unicef.  In recognition of Piraeus Bank’s high standard of payment services, Deutsche Bank awarded the “2010 EUR STP Excellence Award” (for the eighth consecutive year) and the “2010 USD STP Excellence Award” (for the fourth consecutive year); similarly, JP Morgan awarded the Bank the J.P. Morgan Elite Quality Recognition Award” in recognition of its high standards in the Funds Transfer services (for the third consecutive year).  The Cultural Foundation of Piraeus Group ‘s (PIOP) Museum Network was nominated for the 2011 Prince of Asturias Awards by the Hellenic Committee of ICOM and received a “Special Mention” by Europa Nostra in the European Union Prize for Cultural Heritage (category 3: Dedicated Service). 28 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CHAPTER 1 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE For the purpose of safeguarding its corporate interest as well as the interests of its shareholders, Piraeus Bank Group has adjusted itself to the institutional framework of corporate governance. At the same time, the constant upgrading of the systems of governance and internal control, compliance, transparency and information diffusion towards the investment community as well as the integration of best governance principles to cover all activities are of primary concern to the Group. Within this framework, Piraeus Bank applies the following:  adjustments to the composition of the Board of Directors in order to be compliant with the effective regulations on Executive, Non-Executive and Independent members;  the Audit Committee, comprised of non-Executive and Independent non-Executive Directors, which monitors and evaluates the efficiency and effectiveness of the Internal Control System at Parent and Group levels, based on the data and information provided by the Internal Audit Unit, and findings and remarks of the external auditors and regulatory authorities;  the Risk Management Committee, which aims to cover all forms of risk (credit, market, operational), and ensure integrated risk control, expert risk management and the required coordination on individual and consolidated bases;  the Corporate Governance and Corporate & Legal Affairs Divisions, which are responsible for the development of Corporate Governance actions and programs approved by the Management, and for the supervision of their implementation in the Bank and the Group’s companies in Greece and abroad. Additionally, the General Division of Corporate Governance supervises the operational support provided to the Board of Directors and its committees applying corporate governance best practices;  the Corporate Governance Structure and Operating Regulation, which ensures transparency and symmetrical information, and encompasses issues which are not stipulated in the Bank’s Articles of Association but are indispensable for its smooth operation, such as the Code of Conduct, which governs the obligations of the Group’s employees;  the General Division of Internal Audit (Internal Audit Unit under Act 2577/2006 of the Governor of the Bank of Greece), which is independent, reports to the Board of Directors-through the Audit Committeeand the Chairman of the Bank’s Board of Directors, and is responsible for Group-wide internal control;  the Compliance Division, which institutes and applies procedures and prepares the annual compliance program in order to achieve the Group’s timely and permanent compliance with the effective regulatory framework, ensuring compliance and preventing the involvement of the banking system in legalizing funds that originate from illegal activities and combating terrorism;  Investor Relations, Shareholder Registry and Corporate Announcements services, entrusted with the task of informing investors, shareholders and appropriate regulatory authorities accordingly. For more details on Corporate Governance practices, please refer to Consolidated Annual Financial Report 2011/Corporate Governance Statetement 30 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 / CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Supreme Management Bodies The Supreme body of Piraeus Bank is the Shareholders’ General Meeting, whose responsibilities include the composition of Piraeus Bank’s Board of Directors (BoD), elected by the Regular Shareholders’ General Meeting. Constitution of the Board of Directors In accordance with the provisions of article 2, para. 2(e) of the resolution 3/347/12.07.2005 of the Hellenic Capital Market Commission, Piraeus Bank apprises that on the meeting of the BoD that took place on 30.05.2012, the Board of Directors reconstituted as a body, as follows:  Michael Sallas, father’s name Georgios, Chairman Non-Executive Member Executive Board Members  Stavros Lekkakos, father’s name Michael, Managing Director & CEO  Alexander Manos, father’s name Stefanos, Managing Director  Christodoulos Antoniadis, father’s name Georgios, Deputy Managing Director  Ilias Milis, father’s name Dimitrios, Deputy Managing Director  Spiridonas Papaspirou, father’s name Athanasios, Deputy Managing Director Non-Executive Vice-Chairmen  Iakovos Georganas, father’s name Georgios, First Vice Chairman  Ioannis Vardinoyiannis, father’s name Vardis  Panagiotis Roumeliotis, father’s name Vassilios Non – Executive Board Members  Georgios Alexandridis1 , father’s name Paraschos, Independent, Non – Executive Member 2  H ariklia Apalagaki1 , father’s name Andreas, Non – Executive Member  Eftyhios Vassilakis, father’s name Theodoros, Non – Executive Member  Stylianos Golemis, father’s name Dimitrios, Independent, Non – Executive Member 2  T heodoros Mylonas1 , father’s name Pavlos, Independent, Non – Executive Member 2  Vassilios Fourlis, father’s name Stylianos, Non – Executive Member  Jiři Šmejc, father’s name Jiři, Non – Executive Member  Konstantin Yanakov, father’s name Periklis Non – Executive Member Representative of the Greek Government pursuant to Law 3723/2008  Athanasios Tsoumas, father’s name Andreas Representatives of the Greek Financial Stability Fund pursuant to Law 3864/2010  Solomon Beracha, father’s name Albert  Ekaterini Beritsi, father’s name Konstantinos For the purpose of more effective and secure operation of the Bank, the Board of Directors has entrusted the following main committees with special issues and specific responsibilities: Board of Directors (BoD) Committees  A udit Committee  R isk Management Committee  R emuneration Committee  S uccession and Nomination Committee of BoD Members  S trategic Planning Committee Main Executive and Administrative Committees  G roup Executive Committee, with subcommittees a . Approval Committee b. IT Strategy and Planning Committee  A ssets and Liabilities Committee (ALCO)  R etail Banking Development Committee  I nternational Planning Committee  B udget Expenses Committee  C orporate Social Responsibility Committee  C risis Management Committee  P romotion and Advertisement Committee  S ponsoring Committee For more details on Group Administrative, Managerial and Regulatory Bodies and Commitees, please refer to: www.piraeusbank.gr>Investor Relations> Corporate Governance 1 Audit Committee Member. 2 In accordance with the provisions of Law 3016/2002 on Corporate Governance. PIRAEUS BANK 31 Remuneration POLICY A remuneration policy has been established, as an integral part of the Group’s corporate governance, aimed at strengthening the Group’s values, safeguarding its long-term interests and deterring from excessive risk taking. The remuneration policy is in accordance with the Group’s business strategy and supports its performance culture, which aligns the organization’s goals with those of the interested parties -employees, management, shareholdersand motivates employees to continue to act in the Group’s best interests. This policy is aimed at: aligning remuneration with profitability, with risk and capital adequacy; enhancing performance; attracting and retaining talents; complying with the regulatory framework; and at internal transparency. Specific criteria are applied in measuring the performance of the above. The Group controls, re-evaluates and updates remuneration procedures and structures in order to align them with both business targets – at Group and stand-alone levels – and the regulatory framework. The procedures which determine remuneration are clear, recorded and transparent. Evaluation of risk is connected to remuneration policy and is continuously controlled. Independent auditing divisions contribute to the design of the remuneration policy and, more importantly, play a significant role in policy control. The Remuneration Committee is responsible for shaping and controlling the implementation of the policy and for regularly reviewing it. It is composed of Non-Executive BoD Members, the majority of whom are independent, including its Chairman. The remuneration policy covers all remuneration payments and includes all forms and types of remuneration. Emphasis is placed on fixed salaries and on prevention of risk-taking. The Group performs annual publication of quantitative and qualitative information regarding remuneration policy, aiming for complete transparency. 2011 Group Figures Higher Persons that Persons with Management assume risks control duties Number of Employees 71 37 22 Corporate and Investment Banking 16 25 Retail Banking 6 2 22 Portfolio Management 3 0 Other 46 10 Total annual remuneration 7,500 3,646 1,542 (in thousand €) Corporate and Investment Banking 2,452 2,335 Retail Banking 785 225 1,542 Portfolio Management 264 0 Other 3,999 1,086 Total annual variable remuneration 37 40 1 (in thousand €) Corporate and Investment Banking 29 3 Retail Banking 0 0 1 Portfolio Management 0 0 Other 8 37 32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 / CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Internal Audit System (IAS) Piraeus Group systematically monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of the existing Internal Audit System and takes prompt action to constantly deal with and mitigate risks. At the same time, the Group has the appropriate early-warning mechanisms to ensure the prompt implementation of the Internal Audit System in the Units, as well as the full compliance of all those involved in the principles and goals of the Internal Audit System. The Internal Audit System is a detailed recording of the auditing mechanisms and procedures which cover all activities and transactions of the Bank and is conducive to the Bank’s effective and safe operation. Consequently, it is a priority for the Bank to develop and constantly upgrade the Internal Audit System, on both an individual and group level. The Bank has set up a strong Internal Audit System to ensure protection of its assets, the individual and detailed maintenance and safeguarding of its customers’ assets and to ensure the interests of its shareholders. The members of the Board of Directors have the final responsibility to maintain IAS and to monitor and evaluate the efficient and effective application of the System, which aims to effectively deal with possible risks to the Bank and not necessarily to eliminate them. In accordance with the effective statutory framework, the IAS is supported by an integrated communication and Management Information System (MIS) as well as mechanisms which complement each other and constitute an integrated audit system of the organisational structure and the activities and the Bank as well as of the Regulations. The Internal Auditor, the Audit Committee and Internal Audit are all in charge of adherence of IAS. The members of the Board of Directors assess the efficiency and effectiveness of IAS annually and design the strategy for its improvement based on the relevant report submitted by the Bank’s Administration and on the Audit Committee’s report observations. The efficiency assessment of IAS on a Bank and Group level is assigned to external, non-regular, chartered auditors-accountants and takes place periodically and at least once every three years and following Audit Committee recommendation. The relevant evaluation report is made known to the Bank of Greece within the first six months of the year following the three-year expiry. For more Information on the IAS and Internal Audit, please refer to. Annual Financial Report 2011/ Corporate Governance Statement Internal Audit The Group’s General Division of Internal Audit, established in 2007, is independent and reports to the Bank’s Board of Directors, through the Audit Committee, The General Division of Internal Audit supervises and coordinates the activities of Internal Control Units in the Group subsidiaries. In this context, in 2011, the General Division of Internal Audit:  prepared a detailed audit plan with an annual audit cycle for branch network and with a 2to 3-year audit cycle for the rest of the activities according to risk assessment;  the Bank maintained its continual observation and monitoring of branch activities in Greece and subsidiary banks in Bulgaria, Romania, Albania and Serbia by means of the Regional Divisions’ Auditors;  continued the in house development of a data base which enabled the electronic tracing of transaction, the development of fraud identification and prevention scenarios, and aimed at supporting the auditing work performed by Branch Auditing Team;  the Bank completed the implementation of this system in its subsidiary Bank in Serbia while its implementation in the Ukraine is in progress;  provided consulting in the development of specific Bank processes in order for them to incorporate proper auditing mechanisms;  participated in the development and conducting of specialized seminars on effective branch operations and anti-fraud mechanisms;  increased its certified Internal Auditors to 27%, and continued the training of its people directing them PIRAEUS BANK 33 towards appropriate professional certifications (ACCA, CIA, CISA etc.) and further specialization thereof;  conducted the annual quality assurance control for the Internal Audit Unit of the Bank’s subsidiaries in Albania and Bulgaria, thus confirming that they are operating in compliance with international Internal Control Standards and the General Division of Internal Audit’s guidelines;  updated the Teammate information system in the parent Bank in order to automate specific auditing procedures. The Group’s General Division of Internal Audit aims for successful and smooth performance of its work to strengthen the Internal Control System (ICS) operation in the parent Bank and Group subsidiaries in Greece and abroad. The 2012 action plan includes:  further development of an electronic monitoring transaction IT system;  realization of an electronic monitoring transaction IT system similar to the one operating in Greece, Romania, Bulgaria , Albania and Serbia to the Group’s subsidiary Banks in the Ukraine and Cyprus;  conduct of quality assurance control for the Internal Audit Units of the rest of Bank’s subsidiaries;  ongoing updating of procedures, standards and methods to ensure smooth and efficient operation of the General Division of Internal Audit. External Auditors According to the resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders of Piraeus Bank made on 20.05.2011, the audit firm PriceWaterhouseCoopers was designated as Certified Auditors for Piraeus Bank’s stand alone and consolidated financial statements 2011; specifically Mr. Konstantinos Michalatos (Reg. no. 17701) was appointed Regular Certified Auditor and Mr. Dimitrios Sourbis (Reg. no. 16891) as Substitute Certified Auditor. It should be noted that the certified auditors are elected by the General Meeting of Shareholders annually and the maximum mandate may be up to five consecutive years. Compliance In the context of the new Basel II regulatory framework and the relevant guidelines of the Bank of Greece, the independent Group Compliance Division operates and reports directly to the Management (General Manager of Corporate Governance), in accordance with the provisions of the Bank of Greece Governor’s Act 2577/2006 and is accountable to the Group’s General Division of Internal Audit in terms of the adequacy and effectiveness of the compliance procedures, which the Bank is additionally certified for based on the model ISO 9001:2008. In 2011, the following actions took place:  inspections of Branch networks to ascertain their compliance to internal policies, procedures and the regulatory framework;  on-site inspections were performed of the Compliance Units of Piraeus Bank Cyprus, Piraeus Bank Romania, Piraeus Bank Beograd, Piraeus Bank Bulgaria, Tirana Bank and JSC Piraeus Bank ICB;  completion of risk analysis on money laundering and terrorist funding at Group level;  completion of modifications of the Bank’s system of automated categorization of customer base in accordance with the regulatory framework;  completion of procedures for the implementation of market abuse policy;  updating of Group Compliance Policy and forwarding to the Bank’s subsidiaries for adoption and implementation;  installation of the operational unit of the Anti-Money Laundering system (AML) at subsidiaries Piraeus Bank Cyprus, Piraeus Bank Romania, Piraeus Bank Beograd and JSC Piraeus Bank ICB to be fully compliant with International Organizations’ restrictive measures in real time;  recording and codifying of the regulatory framework in the Compliance Chart;  updating of the training material and conducting of training programs on money laundering and terrorist funding for Bank employees in collaboration with the Group’s Human Resources Division. In 2012 the following are expected to be completed:  Development of procedures to reduce the risk of money laundering and terrorist funding, based on the results of the relevant risk analysis. 34 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 / CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  Implementation of market abuse policy procedure by means of a special information system.  T  he development of a special information system for more effective supervision of the timely submission of statutory reports by the Bank.  Connecting the Compliance Chart with internal policies and procedures of the Bank, to ensure the Bank’s compliance to the regulatory framework.  Extensive controls and reviews on Bank Units and subsidiary companies on issues of money laundering and terrorist funding and of a general conforming to the regulatory framework.  Continual training of Bank employees on money laundering and terrorist funding issues and the development of training material on regulatory compliance, in collaboration with the Group’s Human Resources Division.  Installation of the operational unit of the Anti-Money Laundering system (AML) at subsidiaries Piraeus Bank Bulgaria, Tirana Bank to be fully compliant with International Organizations’ restrictive measures in real time. For the enactment of the aforementioned, the Division’s human resources were strengthened via the internal transfer of 7 more employees, thus now totalling 28 people. For more information on the responsibilities and the Group’s Compliance Policy, please refer to: www.piraeusbank.gr>Investor Relations>Corporate Governance>Compliance Transparency and Communication Investor Relations Investor information is provided by the Business Planning and Investor Relations Division with the active involvement of the Group’s top Management. Its purpose is to provide systematic and symmetrical information to individual and institutional investors regarding the course and progress of Piraeus Group. In 2011, 134 scheduled communications with institutional investors and equity analysts took place in Greece and abroad; the Bank also participated in 9 roadshows and conferences in Europe and the U.S. Shareholder Registry The Shareholder Registry is responsible for providing direct and symmetrical information to all shareholders, as well as assisting them in exercising their rights in accordance with the law and the Bank’s Articles of Association. Corporate Announcements Service Corporate announcements are the responsibility of the Corporate Announcements Service. It was set up in accordance with Law 3016/2002 and the Capital Market Commission’s Board resolution no. 5/204/14.11.2000, and is responsible for the Bank’s compliance with the institutional framework of this resolution. The Bank’s announcements are sent immediately to the Hellenic Exchanges in order to be recorded in the Daily Official List and to inform the investors. For further information regarding the responsibilities of the above units, please refer to: www.piraeusbank.gr>Investor Relations>Corporate Governance>Transparency & Communication Shareholder Relations Piraeus Bank is a multi-shareholder company with a broad shareholder base consisting of eminent representatives of the business world, local and foreign institutional investors and numerous private investors. Despite the adverse economic environment in Greece, the Bank proceeded with an €807 mn capital share increase at the beginning on 2011, which was completed with an oversubscription 1.3 times and the participation of approx. 94 thousand investors from Greece and abroad – a sign of confidence towards Piraeus Bank. On 31.12.2011 the total number of shareholders was 155,073 and of the total common shares (1,143,326,564 shares) 33.8% was held by individuals and the remaining 66.2% by legal entities. PIRAEUS BANK 35 Common Shareholders’ structure 31.12.2011 4.8% Greek Institutional Investors 33.8% 29.8% Individual Investors Foreign Institutional Investors 1.3% Greek State 30.3% Companies Furthermore, Piraeus Bank has issued 1,344,234,800 preferred shares (77,568,134 on 14.05.09 and 1,266,666,666 on 30.12.11) without voting rights, to the Greek State, in accordance with the provisions of Law 3723/2008. 38 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CUSTOMER AND SUPPLIER CHAPTER 2 RELATIONSHIP Customer Relationship With responsibility and respect towards its customers as its main priorities, Piraeus Bank strives for the utmost transparency and clarity in its transactions with existing and potential customers. At all stages of creation, marketing and delivery of its products, the Bank incorporates the rules of the Code of Banking Ethics, which pertain to the relations between banks and customers. The Code is a result of interbank collaboration under the auspices of the Hellenic Bank Association and is in accordance with the applicable legislation and business ethics. In the framework of the existing national and European legislation and of its internal policy and regulations, the Bank takes great care to provide customers with timely, clear and complete information on the terms of the services offered. In particular, the Bank fully complies with EU Directive 2007/64/EK, which governs all EU payment services (Payment Systems Directive-PSD). Piraeus Bank has modified and consolidated the existing General Terms regarding payment services into a unified agreement –the Provision on Payment Services Agreement. At the same time, the Bank provides full pre-contractual information for mortgage products; for consumer credit agreements, the Bank ensures the implementation of the 2008/48 EU Directive as has been agreed upon by the European Consumer Associations and the European Credit Sector Associations. Beyond complying with the directive rules and regulations, the Bank is constantly concerned with its customers’ familiarisation with the terminology and description of the products and services offered, as well as with the customers’ use of new technologies, thus enhancing their financial literacy and providing them with easier access to its services. To this end, the Bank ensures that its products and services are advertised accurately, thus further protecting its customers from the risks entailed by ignorance or misunderstanding of the terms of the product/service. The Bank’s products and services are advertised accurately, without inaccurate or misleading statements, excessive promotion or attempts to conceal any features of such products and services and without trying to take advantage of the public’s ignorance, inexperience or fears and fully compliant with the relevant regulatory framework. Particular importance has been placed on personalizing products and services for its customers. Indicatively, this individualized customer service also includes the possibility of granting a new loan or a balance transfer program with superior favourable terms adjusted to the unique customer profile. In addition, a new banking relationship model has been created: Piraeus Axia Personal Banking, which comprises an individualized assistance to the customer’s complete banking relationship, including regular transactions, financial check-up, financial planning and monitoring of their portfolio. This service is provided by the Relationship Manager a specialised bank . In 2011, a particularly challenging year, Piraeus Bank broadened its initiatives to support its individual and business customers who have been adversely affected by the difficult market conditions by strengthening its refinancing and debt adjustment programs to relieve them. The aim of these programs is to provide customers with a variety of proposals and choices to assist them. One of the services which reflects the Bank’s ability to provide solutions to their customers’ current needs is the Consumer Loan for Financial Obligations to the State, with a low interest rate and long repayment period. The greatest advantage of this product is that it gives customers the benefit of a tax deduction as they make a one-off payment of the amount. 40 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 / CUSTOMER AND SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIP Piraeus Bank’s commitment to strengthen its clients’ trust and protection is also reflected in the Bank’s online transactions. In particular, Piraeus Bank received PCI DSS Certification regarding data protection of e-transactions by credit and debit cards as well as the protection of the card-holders’ personal details. It is worth noting that Piraeus Bank is the first Greek Bank to receive such certification. The Bank designs and provides customer-centred services that cater to each customer’s particularity and dynamic. The Bank ultimately aims for a complete and concerted support from all service channels, a targeted approach to developing and managing its customers’ portfolio and facilitating customers’ access to banking services. An indicative example of this is the winbank mobile application, which this year became available to various smart phones (iPhone, Android etc) with which everyone (including users who are not registered Piraeus’ customers) can easily pay their bills (utility, phone etc) by means of innovative methods such as, barcode scanning and direct cell phone imaging of bill. Particular emphasis was placed on matters concerning customer personal and bank data protection with the new, innovative for Greek standards service “Piraeus Customer Protection”. This service includes direct coverage of customers in case of data loss or theft anywhere in the world. Among others, it offers cancellation of cards of all banks, transaction monitoring for fraud prevention, direct dispatch of cash and card replacement, coverage of unwanted charges and of the cost of replacing personal belongings such as documents, cell phone, keys etc. In support of new entrepreneurship, in 2011 Piraeus Bank Group once again supported businesses in Greece and abroad in various sectors and at different stages of development. Indicatively, via private equity and venture capital projects and advisory services, the Group participated in all stages of entrepreneurship and innovation enhancement with:  Investments in new businesses through its subsidiary’s O.F. Investments collaboration with Open fund, which covers the first steps of a business. In 2011, investments in 9 newly-founded companies in the field of technology were completed.  Equity investments in Renewable Energy Sources (RES) in SE Europe and mainly in countries with strong Group presence, by means of Piraeus Clean Energy LP capital stock.  Support of 6 companies in the fields of technology, renewable energy/environment and other specialized fields of the Greek economy involved in exports, through the Piraeus – TANEO Capital Fund (PTCF). The total number of Piraeus Group customers in Greece and abroad reached 3.5 million in December 2011. Despite the adverse market conditions, a significant number of approx. 180 thousand new customers began a collaboration with Piraeus Bank in 2011; the Group’s new customers stemming from international operations reached approx. 50 thousand at the end of the year. The Bank is committed to customer satisfaction and aims for enhancing its response to customer requests. In order to determine whether the Bank meets its customers’ level of satisfaction, among other measures, it systematically monitors its customer satisfaction rate by means of specifically designed surveys performed by independent companies. In this manner, information is provided on customer satisfaction as a whole and on other customer related indices. According to the 2011 survey, total customer satisfaction with Piraeus Bank scored particularly high, as the combined rate of (“totally satisfied” and “generally satisfied”) satisfied customers remained unchanged (96%) with the percentage of “totally” satisfied increasing significantly from 62% in 2010 to 68% in 2011. The level of satisfaction with «the complete information provided, with clear explanations from the beginning» is significantly higher, as 91% of customers replied «Totally Satisfied» to the question, versus 87% in the 2010 survey. Similarly, to the question «If in the future you wanted more products/services from a Bank, how likely would you be to turn to Piraeus Bank?», the percentage of customers who replied «Highly Probable» iilustrates a notable increase over time (73% in 2011 and 61% in 2010). PIRAEUS BANK 41 Overall customer satisfaction with the Bank Overall customer satisfaction with the complete information and clear explanations the Bank provides 23% 14% 20% 10% 7% 42% 35% 41% 34% 28% 53% 60% 54% 62% 68% 72% 82% 76% 87% 91% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Intention to Recommend Piraeus Bank to Intention to use the Bank for Friends / Colleagues Further Products / Services 35% 32% 29% 26% 21% 37% 30% 27% 26% 21% 55% 64% 67% 68% 72% 56% 61% 64% 69% 73% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Highly Probable The aim of the Bank remains to maintain the high level of customer satisfaction. It should be pointed out that when the survey is conducted, customers are asked to identify areas of improvement in the standard of service provided by the Bank, and the information collected is used by the Bank to implement respective corrective action. In order to enrich the communication mechanisms with its customers, Piraeus Bank introduced the “Voice of the Customer” program. The object of this program is a structured and measurable recording of the customer’s experience, with the aim of improving it. The program takes place at specific contact points that are significant to the customers (Moments of Truth – MoT) and which influence the customer’s perception and loyalty towards the Bank. In 2011, the Bank initiated the analysis and measurement of the digital customer satisfaction rate, assessing all service channels (winbank, branch network, call centre etc), thus revealing significant areas of improvement. In particular, areas of improvement indicated are specialized training of employees on e-banking products and procedures as well as the need for dissemination of e-culture at branch network to ensure the fullest and 42 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 / CUSTOMER AND SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIP best customer information provision. The implementation of the relevant improvement recommendations is already on course. Measurement of the digital customer’s experience will continue in 2012; at the same time, the measurement of the green customer’s experience in all service channels will commence. Customer Service and Ombudsman for Banking-Investment Services In response to the institution of the Banking Ombudsman, the Bank has set up a Customer Service, whose main responsible and tasks are to review and settle any grievances or complaints of Bank customers and provide information and clarifications with respect to its banking services and products provided. This is accomplished through a mechanism of receiving and timely investigating customer concerns: through a simple process, customers can choose one of the numerous means of communication to address their concern (at a branch, call center, via fax, e-mail, 24h internet) in order to receive the appropriate responses-clarifications. further information regarding the ways to communicate with the Customer Service, please refer to: www.piraeusbank.gr>Individuals>Steps 1-2-3 The distribution of written and verbal complaints per product category filed with the Bank’s Customer Service in 2011 compared to 2010 are outlined below:  L oans: 68% versus 75% Loans : 64% versus 61% Cards: 36% versus 39%  D eposits: 19% versus 20%  I nvestment/Structured Products: 3% versus 2%  R emittances and Payment Services: 5% versus 2%  O ther : 5%, versus 1% The Bank’s customer cases handled by the Ombudsman for Banking-Investment Services, compared with those of the Greek Banks in total, recorded a significant decrease to 4.5% versus 5.4% in 2010 for written complaints, and 3.9% versus 4.9% in 2010 for phone calls. Similarly, the percentage of legal entity cases (self-employed professionals and small enterprises) of the Bank handled by the Ombudsman for BankingInvestment Services, of the total of the banks’ cases, remained steady with slight increase at 11.1% versus 11% in 2010 for written complaints and at 10% versus 7.5% in 2010 for phone calls. The aim of the Bank remains to be their further improvement in the near future. Nevertheless, such percentages are considered to be within acceptable range, considering the Bank’s market share in loans and deposits, which was at 11% and 10% respectively. Following the Customer Service’s proposal, modifications were implemented in the workflow of the request-complaint-formal complaint management process via the APPIAN system, this upgrade aimed at increasing the effectiveness of processing incoming customer cases. More specifically, the modifications were related to delegated cases to Branches of the network, as well as the detailed informing of the Network Regional Divisions on customer issues that arise at the branches under their responsibility. Supplier Relationship The Bank’s supplier relations are governed by the principles of merit-based selection and transparency in the contract terms. Collaboration proposals and financial offers submitted by potential business partners and suppliers are evaluated on the basis of established criteria and processes, which are incorporated both in the registered responsibilities of the Group Engineering Project Management & Administration Support Division and in the relevant Group’s Outsourcing Policy. The Bank works with suppliers who meet objective and measurable criteria, such as the performance and quality to price ratios, reliability and market position. There are uniform procedures applied to all suppliers who are regularly evaluated, so as to maintain relations with most appropriate ones based on the progress PIRAEUS BANK 43 of the cooperation. It should be noted that local suppliers are used in each country by approximately 100%, with the exceptions of furniture, cashier counters and signs, for which the Group has signed a global contract in order to maintain a uniform corporate identity. In an effort to achieve a consolidated management of supplies and procurement (products and services), Piraeus Group incorporated a Group Procurement Regulation, where the following are described: the rules and basic principles on all products and services supplied; relations with existing and potential suppliers; the manner in which supply requests of all Group organizational units are handled to cover their operational needs. This Regulation is uniformly applied to the entire Group (the Bank and its subsidiaries) and regards all the Bank’s organizational units in Greece and all Group subsidiary companies, in Greece and abroad. Its basic goals are:  uniformity in procurement management throughout the Group;  mitigation of operational and credit risks which might arise from collaboration with suppliers;  the timely supply of products and services to the Group;  limiting the cost of supplying products and services, by using e-auctions;  the formation of long-term collaborations with suppliers who are evaluated on a regular basis;  the formation of a regulatory framework, through which transparent and clear processess can take place;  the establishment of a uniform contractual framework and its enforcement on prospective suppliers and external partners;  the definition of a cooperation framework between the organizational units involved in the supply management;  the definition of quantitative and qualitative specifications for all products and services supplied. Recognising the need for responsible operation, Piraeus Bank implements a concrete green supplies policy. The choice of environmentally friendly products decreases the environmental footprint of the Bank itself as well as contributing in the development of new markets related with the so-called “green supplies”, such as environmentally friendly paper, recycled consumables and low CO2 emissions corporate vehicles. 46 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CHAPTER 3 HUMAN RESOURCES One of the fundamental objectives and constant pursuit of Piraeus Bank Group is to bring out the full potential of its people and ensure their commitment to achieving corporate targets. In 2011, the following Group commitments were reaffirmed:  supporting and empowering the people of the Group;  ensuring recruitment procedures free of discriminations utilising specific candidate selection systems;  ensuring job positions;  offering pioneering training programs, and  ensuring full-time employment for our people. The Greek banking sector, which showed notable resilience during the international financial crisis during the period 2007-2009, has been under intense pressure in the past 2 years. Nevertheless, for the protection of the Group and the continuation of its contribution to the economies of Greece and the wider regions where it is present, further rationalization of operational expenses and in particular of labor costs needs to take place so that the Bank can adjust to the present economic conditions maintaining its unwavering objective to preserve job positions. The Group’s employee costs, which in 2011 amounted €372 mn, equivalent to a -5% annual reduction compared to 2010 , occurred through the following:  numerous internal transfers to cover open job positions created to a great extent by an increase in retirements comparing to 2010;  limiting of new hires to cover only the specialized positions;  cost rationalization of Group insurance programs;  the targeted differentiation of salary in positions where their importance and significance suggested or allowed for it;  the decreasing of each training man-hour’s cost by 16% versus 2010. Commitment to Safeguarding Human Rights Piraeus Bank has adopted the principles of the UN Global Compact for the protection of human rights, applies equal opportunity principles to all its actions and is opposed to any form of discrimination, inequality or human rights violation. All the Bank’s policies, procedures and human resource management practices are governed by respect for human rights. Thus, the Bank ensures that there is no possibility of discrimination, while at the same time individuality is recognized and promoted. Aiming to raise awareness of the entire Group’s human resources regarding human rights, Piraeus Bank continued in 2011 to offer Group employees in Greece and abroad the e-learning training unit entitled “The Human Rights in Piraeus Bank Group”. Moreover, the issue of respect towards human rights continued to be included as a separate course in the curriculum of the Management Academy. The study material of these courses is based on the six fundamental principles of human rights according to the UN Global Compact and ILO Conventions: Forced Labour, Child Labour, Equal Opportunities, Collective Bargaining, Health and Safety at Work and Working Conditions. The above actions are aimed at the dissemination of the Group Human Rights Policy through systematic training. In addition to the above, Piraeus Bank, intending to enhance communication with all employees, has cre48 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 / HUMAN RESOURCES ated a specific contact point within the internet (intranet), where they can highlight issues that concern them and receive guidance from qualified partners. In addition, the Bank has incorporated a process for complaints regarding the safeguarding of human rights. To this end, the Group’s Human Resources Division evaluates its partners and suppliers, in order to contribute actively to the elimination of child and / or forced / compulsory labour. In 2011 there were 2 cases related to human rights which were addressed according to the Complaint Handling Procedure. Number of People Working AT Piraeus Group* At the end of 2011, Piraeus Bank Group employed 11,247 people versus 11,637 in 2010. Piraeus Bank in Greece employed 4,638 people in 2011 versus 4,832 in 2010. In total, at the end of 2011, the Group employed 6,172 people in Greece and 5,075 abroad compared to 6,350 and 5,287 in 2010 respectively. The average age of the Group’s employees is 38 years. The age composition is such that it facilitates the introduction and implementation of changes in technology, methods and targets, as 81% of people are up to 45 years old. At the same time, its highly-trained employees provided invaluable support in offering efficient customer guidance and services in the critical year that elapsed. By empioying a high rate of undergraduate and graduate degree holders (67%), the Group has managed to have in its employment high quality and education employees who contribute substantially to the achievement of its business goals. It is worth mentioning that the equivalent percentage of such employees in the international subsidiaries is 77% of its total workforce. * The data do not include the Group’s discontinued operations in Egypt. PIRAEUS BANK 49 Distribution per Employment Type and Contract Piraeus Bank Group employs 99.8% and Piraeus Bank 100% of their people on a full-time basis. In the Group, 96.6% of the employees hold an indefinite time contract, with the equivalent percentage for the Bank at 99.3% (0.6% are employed on a definite time contract, regarding a trial period starting right after their hiring). Moreover, 100% of Piraeus Bank employees receive as a minimum the compensation and benefits agreed upon in the employment contracts that resulted from collective bargaining. Promoting Equal Opportunities for Career Development The equal opportunities policy of the Bank and its clear orientation towards effectively and continuously developing its people, enabled newly appointed to develop and get promoted, covering positions that arose mainly from retirement. Regarding career advancement, irrespective of level of management, 97 employees, of which 52 men (53.6%) and 45 women (46.4%), were promoted. Concerning Group subsidiaries abroad, 245 employees, of which 82 men (33.5%) and 163 women (66.5%), were promoted. Selecting the Right People for the Right Roles For Piraeus Bank, respect of human value, ethos and integrity of character carry special weight. This is reflected in the philosophy and practices of human resources management, starting from the selection and recruitment stage. In 2011, as in 2010, emphasis was placed on utilizing the existing human resources to meet new business needs. Specifically, 96.6% of vacancies were covered through internal reallocations in Piraeus Bank (internal transfers and transfers among Group companies), while only 3.3% were filled through external recruitment. At Group level, staffing needs were met through internal reallocations and promotions by 73%, while through external recruits by 27%. Having actively and consistently used internal hiring in recent years:  vacancies are communicated openly and transparently, and are filled by existing people in the Group as a priority thus ensuring the development of employees who have the competencies to assume management roles in the medium-term;  development and career incentives are given to all employees based on their individual career development plan;  assessment & Development Centres are used for middle and higher management roles;  expatriation is encouraged, with the posting of executives to Group subsidiaries abroad for optimal coverage to the greatest feasible extent of staffing needs with experienced and able executives. In 2011, 32 expatriation postings took place in 6 countries. Of these, 7 were new postings that commenced in 2011. The average duration of expatriation postings abroad is 3.1 years. For the purpose of candidate selection and evaluation, the Group uses a set of standard tools, which vary according to the candidate’s level of education and experience and ensure a transparent and objective recruitment procedure. The tools include job simulation exercises, competency tests, occupational personality questionnaires and a structured interview. In 2011, Piraeus Bank’s vacancies were filled by men by 46% and women by 54%. Moreover, for external recruitments, emphasis is placed on local candidates in order to support the local communities where Piraeus Bank operates. In 2011, 99% of the Branch Managers in the periphery of Greece were locals; similarly, Piraeus Bank aims to meet internal hiring and employee reallocation needs based on the criterion of local origin. Thus, Piraeus Bank can ensure better understanding and service of the local needs and, consequently, achieve its goals. EMPLOYEE Turnover Piraeus Bank Group recorded a 5.8% turnover rate, stemming from voluntary departures. Regarding Piraeus Bank, respectively, the turnover rate from voluntary departures was maintained in significantly low levels and amounted to 1.3%. 50 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 / HUMAN RESOURCES Human Resources Communication Philosophy In everyday practices, the Organisation takes advantage of every opportunity for open and bilateral communication between management and employees. In order to enhance communication, the Group uses systematic and reliable communication channels and provides counselling to employees in all aspects of their lives. For more information on the communication channels please refer to:. www.piraeusbank.gr>Group>Human Resources>Our Philosophy Investing in People’s Development Piraeus Bank Group consistently invests in the development and improvement of its employees’ competencies and skills, creating a user friendly learning and development environment, aiming to bring out the full potential of its people. The use of standard efficiency criteria, incorporated into the advanced evaluation systems used by Piraeus Bank Group, enables the alignment of human resources performance with the Group’s strategic goals. The performance appraisal procedure ensures continuous communication and guidance of employees by their managers, and creates the framework for recognizing individual contribution. Similarly, employees are given the opportunity to make their self-assessment and then review their evaluation so they can openly express their views prior to the finalization of the procedure. Annual performance appraisals based upon standard criteria and following a specific procedure were applied to 100% of the Bank and subsidiaries employees in Greece in 2011. At Group level, the above performance review system was applied to 83% of total staff marking a 5.5% increase versus 2010. In alignment with its strategy, the Group invests in continuous training for its employees, designing and implementing high added-value training activities in two directions: a) to establish an integrated skills development system made up of specifically designed “Academies”, and b) to conform to the existing legal and regulatory framework and be systematically covered against any possible risks (operational, credit, market). In total, 416,888 training man-hours were recorded in Piraeus Bank Group in 2011 while 2,684 educational courses (in-house and external) were organized or attended. At Group level, average training man-hours remained steady at 37, as in 2010, with a significant increase of 8% in the number of Group employees to have attended at least one training course, reaching 79% from 71% in 2010. The respective figures for Piraeus Bank were 43 training man-hours per person in 2011, while 87% of employees participated in at least one training course during the year. Piraeus Bank Group Distribution of training man-hours by topic 13% CSR issues 13% Development of leadership & management personal skills 37% Financial education 28% Business development & customer quality service 9% Specialized technical knowle dge PIRAEUS BANK 51 Of all training man-hours, 62% were aimed at employees, 37% at middle and higher management and 1% at top management. In 2011, 48 employees of Piraeus Bank were certified in providing specialιzed insurance advice and 206 employees were certified in financial investment services. Moreover, the Group continued to invest extensively in the training of employees and also in raising their awareness of issues related to fraud and corruption. In 2011, 46% of Piraeus Bank Group employees were trained in issues related to fraud and corruption. Τhe implementation of two Academies (each of 3-year duration) in 2011 continued with complete success. Specifically, the “Top Management Network Academy”, which is attended by 31 top managers of the branch network, aimed at creating an already active and fully-trained group of leaders; and the “Management Academy”, which is attended by 108 middle and high level managers, aimed at strengthening their managerial and leadership skills. At the same time, “Piraeus Bank Group Management e-Academy” was continued successfully with the participation of Group Managers from the Bank and subsidiaries abroad. Moreover, “The first Steps in Management” e-learning program was implemented with great success, certified by the prominent Harvard Business School Publishing,. Extending on the successful implementation of the Group’s programs, the Corporate Banking & Credit Academy was inaugurated, aimed at young, talented managers; at the same time, the successful course of Credit Analysis School continued in 5 countries with Cyprus ranked first having recorded the successful completion of 4 events. As innovation enhancement is one of the Group’s basic strategies, a series of educational interventions were implemented in 2011 aimed at offering the Group’s employees the necessary knowledge, skills and opportunities to make the most of their own and their colleagues’ creativity and transform it into innovative practices, products, systems and procedures. These were attended by 109 high and top managers of the Group. At the same time, the Bank extended its employees’ educational process in green banking by implementing local training sessions as well as specialised training programs for its branch network and the central units. A total of 3,800 people were trained in green entrepreneurship and the environmental management system through e-learning and in classroom contexts. E-learning proved once again a major foothold for training work. Within the framework of corporate responsibility and aiming to reduce the environmental impact from travelling, there was increased use of e-learning with 22,286 participations, corresponding to 198.911 training man hours trough e-learning, in 2011 versus 19,692 participations in 2010. It is important to clarify that a high percentage of participation in e-learning courses is recorded in the form of integrated modular courses, implemented with the use of classroom, e-learning courses or other learning means. Finally, in 2011 Piraeus Bank Group also continued its highly successful support and development program for employees, financing the participation of 41 selected individuals in under-graduate and post-graduate courses. In addition, 260 individual training programs and individual development plans were planned and executed. Rewarding Human Resources Piraeus Bank Group acknowledges that it has to attract, develop and retain the most competent employees with the required knowledge and skills in order to achieve its strategic goals. To this end, benchmarking with other organizations is used so as to keep compensation and benefits at a competitive level and according to the level of skills, and the evolvement/progress of expertise and knowledge. Compensation and benefits are an integral part of the Group-employee relationship and evolves over time according to employees’ business maturity and growth. On the basis of the equal opportunities policy, no discriminations are made in the definition of minimum wages between men and women, nor in the various hierarchy levels or age groups. 52 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 / HUMAN RESOURCES Focusing on improved performance and efficiency, employees’ additional effort is recognized and rewarded. For this reason, bonus systems have been designed to reward both individual and team effort. It should be noted that the bonuses and incentives provided are structured in such a manner that they prevent the assumption of excessive risks or the focusing on short-term benefit against long-term targets. In this particularly adverse economic period, it is difficult to maintain a competitive level in tems of compensation/benefits. Efforts are being made to substitute these incentives with ones of qualitative value which place emphasis on employee development, such as training, ethical rewards and enrichment of knowledge /experiences in different aspects of work, among others. At the same time, group benefits covering basic and essential employee needs remain at competitive levels. Moreover, Piraeus Bank provides Employee Assistance Programs (EAP’s) to all employees and their families. Providing a Modern and Safe Work place Piraeus Bank complies with the legislative regulations regarding employees’ health and safety. Fully respecting its legal obligations and the importance of the issue, and being showing particular sensitivity to employees’ physical and mental health, the Bank takes care to provide a modern, healthy and safe workplace. During 2011, there were no accidents or injuries in Piraeus Bank. For further information regarding health and safety at the work place, please refer to: www.piraeusbank.gr>The Group>Human Resources>Our People>Health and Safety Social Policy Piraeus Group aims to offer its employees the compensation and benefits that ensure a satisfactory standard of living and motivate productivity. Total staff expenses of the Group amounted to €372 million in 2011, allocated as follows: Staff compensations €267 mn Social insurance contributions €61 mn Other expenses €16 mn Retirement benefits €28 mn Other expenses include the cost of medical care, employees’ insurance with death and permanent disability coverage (Group Insurance Scheme), preventive check-up for employees, as well as expenses for nursery schools, employer contributions other than social security funds, etc. Piraeus Bank fully meets its obligations regarding the defined benefit plan. For further information regarding Piraeus Group’s Social Policy and additional benefit employees, please refer to: www.piraeusbank.gr>The Group>Human Resources>Our People>Compensation and Benefits It is worth noting that within the framework of the Bank’s social policy, new mortgage loans of €2.9 million were granted to employees in 2011, while total employee loan balance amounted €52.1 million at the end of 2011. Talent Management and Retention As Piraeus Group’s main objective is to ensure business continuity and the continued strengthening of its human potential, in the last 3 years it has established a systematic approach in managing talents working in various sectors of the Group . PIRAEUS BANK 53 In particular, via a variety of actions the Group ensures the constant development and the best possible use of its talented employees’ skills and abilities. As a result of the above actions, the Bank achieved the significantly high talent retention rate of 99%. Employee Assistance Programs (EAP) In 2011 all Bank employees and members of their families had the opportunity to take advantage of counselling and psychosocial support for prevention and intervention in order to manage more effectively the issues being faced in different aspects of their lives. In particular, the Bank offers a 24h Helpline, individual counselling services, support in critical events (robberies, health issues, family issues). In the framework of promoting health in the workplace, a specialized approach was designed and implemented by means of a procedural enactment as well as by relevant training and awareness sessions aimed at reducing operational risk associated with the human factor. At the same time and with the aim of strengthening employee resilience, emphasis was placed on raising awareness on this matter through lectures and targeted information provision (through Intranet, the internal newsletter and other specialized brochures). In 2011, programs were also created to support expatriate Group executives, with the aim of ensuring the smooth transition of their families and themselves to a new culture and work environment. These support services include, among others, a 24/7 Helpline with certified counselors and individual sessions to guide the executives and their families on issues associated with personal and work life. Placing particular emphasis on families and the need for counselling guidance of parents and teenagers on the key issue of study and career choices, in 2011 4 career orientation events were held. Furthermore, 76 high school students were given the opportunity to take advantage of a specialised career orientation test and individual advice based on their test results. Investing in the most Sophisticated Market Solutions for HR Management Systems The integrated human resource management system (HRMS) remains the core platform for the human resource information management and the automation of the relevant procedures. In 2011, emphasis was placed on developing a subsystem for international assignees management and a subsystem for payroll plan management and several improvements to the training management subsystem and MIS environment. With a view to extending the Performance Appraisal Policy to the Group’s international subsidiaries, the installation of the special IT platform continued in subsidiary Tirana Bank in Albania. One of the 2012 targets is the further development and improvement of the applications offered, with particular emphasis on the subsystem for management development as well as system extensions supporting labor changes. Collective Representation Almost all Piraeus Bank employees are represented by three unions, of which the one with the most representatives is recognised as the competent body for bargaining with the Management for HR issues. Seeking to empower the dialogue with employees and their collective representation bodies, in order to establish an even better working environment, the Bank not only fully complies with the respective legislation framework and the individual and business contracts, but also organizes a work meeting among Top Management executives and Union representatives at least once a month. During these meetings, parties are informed about the Group’s activities including important operational changes. It should be noted that 100% of Piraeus Bank human resources receives the salaries and benefits agreed upon in the employment contracts that resulted from collective bargaining. At Group level, the percentage is 62.4%. 54 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 / HUMAN RESOURCES Contribution to Information Society and Entrepreneurship Executives of the Bank are encouraged to take part in conferences and seminars in Greece and abroad, in an effort to actively contribute to enhanced entrepreneurship and dissemination of the organisation’s best practices. In this context, 21 executives of the Bank participated as speakers in conferences and scientific seminars in 2011, providing know-how and best practices to the market in support of the business and academic community. With a sense of social responsibility, the Bank participated in the Future Leaders in Greece program contributing actively to the advancement and promotion of the leaders of tomorrow and the support of local communities. Specifically, 2 Group executives acted as advisors, guiding 2 groups of university students in the planning and executing of projects in different regions in Greece. Recognizing the importance of its own contribution to teenagers’ familiarization with the financial environment and the development of entrepreneurial thinking, the Group implemented 6 actions with 6 different schools in Attica and Crete took place in collaboration with the Junior Achievement Greece organization and the Association of Youth Entrepreneurship;. As this initiative takes place also in the framework of volunteerism, 21 Piraeus Group executives participated and 156 Junior High School students benefited from these actions. PIRAEUS BANK 55 58 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 SOCIETY, CULTURE CHAPTER 4 AND THE ENVIRONMENT Piraeus Bank sponsors and supports various programs aimed at assisting disadvantaged social groups and protecting the natural environment every year. Moreover, the Bank has also made remarkable contributions to culture through the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation. In total, the Bank’s contributions to actions, programs and initiatives regarding social, cultural and environmental work in 2011 accounted for 2% of the Group’s annual pre tax and provision profit and for 2011 and 1% of the Group’s operational costs for 2011. Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Piraeus Bank has incorporated Corporate Social Responsibility in its values as a strategic investment, thus contributing in every possible way in developing the economy and the community. Within this context, and for better coordinating and implementing various corporate responsibility programs, the Bank has established a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee which comprises of 7 members and is chaired by Mrs. Sophia Staikou, Chairman of Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP). Other members of the Committee are: three General Managers, the General Manager of Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation and two Deputy General Managers. The Committee’s responsibilities are:  to evaluate and support programs that support disadvantaged social groups and to protect the natural environment;  to evaluate philanthropy programs and submit proposals for the Bank to support;  to examine and participate in programs that lead to the creation of museums;  to supervise the Bank’s sponsorships and press subscriptions. Social Actions In the context of the anthropocentric philosophy governing its business activities, the Group has placed special emphasis on those Corporate Responsibility principles that contribute to the protection and support of various community stakeholders and the society at large. Specifically, the Group undertook initiatives that aimed at improving the living conditions of vulnerable groups of people, upgrading in general the living and cultural standards and protecting the environment as a necessary condition for the welfare of society. In 2011, Piraeus Group realized a total of 25 actions with special emphasis on family, child protection and youth protection (especially orphans, disadvantaged, sick and young people that are addicted to substances), elderly care, protection of the environment and support of young entrepreneurship. For the Group the greater value of these actions was to encourage the volunteer participation of its employees. The total number of employees participating in the aforementioned initiatives in 2011 rose to 746. At the same time, recognizing the role of non-governmental organizations, Piraeus Group sought to cooperate with them, and continued to support their efforts in various ways and to inform the Group’s customers of their important work. Among these organizations some indicative examples are UNICEF, Doctors Without Borders, the Smile of the Child, etc., while the Group supported in various ways research organizations in 2011, such as the Hellenic Heart Foundation, Development Institute of Social Work, and the University of Piraeus and Patras TEI (scholarship programs). 60 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 / SOCIETY, CULTURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT Similarly, the Group’s international subsidiaries are adopting and applying the Group’s anthropocentric philosophy. They take on initiatives that support charity work and aim to be an integral part of society. More specifically, in 2011:  In Albania, Tirana Bank continued its exemplary collaboration with the local Red Cross branch and its actions supporting the SOS Children’s Villages  In Bulgaria, Piraeus Bank Bulgaria formed a collaboration with Unicef for the launching of the “Blagodetel” (Benefactor) campaign. The Bank created co-branded credit and debit cards and their use contributed financially to Unicef’s work with children in need. For this initiative, the Bank was awarded the first prize in the category “Cause-related Marketing” at the annual “Responsible Business Awards 2011”. In addition, Piraeus Bank Bulgaria participated for another year in the annual Careers Forum in Bulgaria, offering career opportunities to young people in the country.  In Serbia, Piraeus Bank Beograd donated hospital equipment to the premature baby ward of the Kragujevac Medical Centre. Also, in collaboration with the Ministry of Youth and Sports, it grants scholarships to distinguished university students.  In Romania, Piraeus Bank Romania is official sponsor of the Romanian Olympic Committee for the London 2012 Olympic Games. Through special actions, the Bank joins the National Olympic Team with society, strengthening the national athletic effort for world-wide distinction and makes lottery draws with prizes like trips to London for the 2012 Olympic Games benefiting society as a whole.  In Cyprus, Piraeus Bank (Cyprus) Ltd places particular emphasis on its social actions. Every year, it offers scholarships to distinguished Cypriot pupils and university students while at the same time it assists people through its special collaborations with Unicef, Europa Donna, Cyprus Autistic Association and the Cyprus Breastfeeding Association.  In the U.S.A., Marathon Bank continues supporting and strengthening the Greek expatriates who live and work in the U.S.A. Moreover, Piraeus Group’s international subsidiaries encourage artistic expression through a wide range of sponsorships every year. They support music, painting, the theater, local customs and traditions. At the same time, they contribute to the preservation of local monuments and place each country at the center of world attention with the distinctions they receive and the initiatives they take, which extend “beyond borders”. Cultural Actions The Cultural Foundation of Piraeus Group (PIOP) enacts an important part of the principles and targets of the Group’s Corporate Responsibility policy in the cultural sector. It is a public benefit foundation which is subsidized for its operation by Piraeus Bank. Its primary statutory targets are to safeguard the traditional technology and industrial heritage of Greece and to contribute to the cultural and economic development of the Greek periphery, through the promotion and designation of its cultural reserve. It fulfils its scope through the implementation of research programs, rescue actions, the organization of the historical archive, which is connected to the economic and industrial development of Greece, the publication of scientific works and the creation and operation of an extensive network of thematic technological museums in the Greek periphery. These museums do not belong to PIOP or the Bank; they belong to either local authorities or the greek state. The Foundation undertakes the museums’ exemplary operation, covering their operational and maintenance costs, the managing of their collections and cultural events for a 50-years period. Following that period, the owners of these museums will take on the responsibility, if they choose to do so. 2011 was a year of development for PIOP, during which its operation and services provided to the greek society high standards were ensured, despite the objective difficulties of the present economic conjunction. The construction of two new thematic technological museums (Chios Mastic Museum, Silver-smithing Museum in Ioannina) to be added to the Museums Network, which were prepared by the Foundation in the past was included to the european and national funding framework. A large number of cultural events was organised in the Multi-Purpose Halls of the Museums Network. Significant research material accumulated in the Foundation’s repository was properly capitalised, while research activity was extended to major industrial zones in modern Greece. The publishing activity of the Foundation was PIRAEUS BANK 61 carried out, as well as the covering the research needs of the scientific community (through the Libraries and its Historical Archive) and of local and social institutions. The Foundation is highly involved in the public international dialogue with the aim to stipulate strategies in the cultural sector by collaborating with relevant institutions in Greece and abroad. Furthermore, its oeuvre was communicated to broader audiences in Greece and abroad, when invitated by official public institutions, this way promoting Greek culture internationally. PIOP’s Museum Network was nominated for the 2011 Prince of Asturias Awards by the Hellenic Committee of ICOM and received a “Special Mention” by EuropaNostra in the European Union Prize for Cultural Heritage (category 3: Dedicated Service). Additionally, the Foundation further aligned its operation with the principles and procedures of the Piraeus Bank Group’s Social Responsibility policy. PIOP’s plans for the near future refer mainly to the completion of the two above-mentioned museums, which will reinforce the Foundation’s influence on the cultural map of Greece. Fully coordinated high quality events will be continued in the Greek periphery, to support local communities, both culturally and financially, by promoting cultural tourism in the regions. One of the major Foundation’s concerns is to futher the impact of its operation to multiple stakeholders, in accordance to the Piraeus Bank Group Social Responsibility principles and commitments. The Cultural Foundation aims:  to maintain and further enhance the level of its operation, as well as the contentment degree of all interested parties;  to intensify the provision of scientific assistance to public organizations, local/social institutions and young scientists;  to broaden its research scope toward the industrial heritage reserve in major industrialised regions in modern greek history;  to widen its educational influence over adult lifelong learning with an emphasis on education professionals and young scientists;  to provide downloadable educational material on its website, making it widely accessible to the education community.  t o create an interactive web portal in order to enhance communication with diverse audiences to provide information (both scientific, popularized and educational) on the Foundation’s basic field of interest and methodology. Analytically, in 2011, the operation of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation referred to:  Operation of the Museums Network consisting of seven thematic technological museums spread into the Greeck pheriphery, which designate local traditions of technique and production (Silk MuseumSoufli, Open-Air Water-Power MuseumDimitsana, Museum of the Olive and Greek Olive OilSparta, Museum of Industrial Olive Oil Production in Lesvos-Aghia Paraskevi, Lesvos island, Rooftile and Brickworks Museum N.&S. TsalapatasVolos, Museum of Marble CraftsPyrgos, Tinos island, Museum of the EnvironmentStymfalia). PIOP ensures the sustainability of these local museums by covering all their operational costs and their smooth operation by a system of central administration; there are also monitoring committees to which local partners and representatives of the Hellenic Ministry of Culture and Tourism also participate. Visitors to the Museums Network (many of which only recently inaugurated) increased to 120,000 in 2011 (23%) noting that 67% of admissions were free of charge. This continual increase in visitor numbers is connected to the fact that museums are becoming more recognisable as units of the Foundation’s Museum Network and that they are supported by the local communities, that value the benefits of promoting their cultural identity and strengthening local economy. The increase in visitors also stems from the constant renewal of museums activities presenting periodic exhibitions, lectures, conferences and a multitude of cultural events. In addition to contributing to the development of tourism in remote or island regions, PIOP also supports the economic development of local communities, as 80% of the goods and 50% of the products sold in the museum cafés and shops are supplied by local producers. The Foundation employs local people to serve as Museums’ personnel. The personnel undergo regular training, thus upgrading the standard of services provided to museum visitors (such as assistance to vision or hearing impaired individuals, use of audio guides and emergency evacuation). Besides managing their collections (digital data base management, maintenance-storage, framing, digital programs etc) and event supporting, operation of the Museums Network also entails all regular and irregular management issues, maintenance work, management and enrichment of Museum Shops, cafés and museum sales . 62 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 / SOCIETY, CULTURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT In 2011, in the context of expanding the Museums Network, two new projects (Chios Mastic Museum, Siilver-smiting Museum in Ioannina) were included –Piop being the beneficiary and at total expense of €9,234,800 and €7,179,275 respectively-, following the invitation of the Local Management Committee of the Operational Program Competitiveness and Entrepreneurship entitled “Enhancement of Cultural Inventory Infrastructure aimed at creating tourism development cells of regional, interregional and national importance” (co-funded by: the European Regional Development Fund -ERDF).  O rganizing cultural events of high standards in the Multi-Purpose Halls of the Museums Network aiming to establish them as permanent cultural centres for the local communities, in which they operate. The Foundation organizes artistic and scientific events, which are in relevance to the character of each museum or are presented in the network; it often collaborates with local authorities and groups to house events under their own initiative. In particular, in 2011, there were organized 10 exhibitions, 23 other actions (of which 8 in collaboration with third parties) and 28 guided tours (for Greek and foreign officials, participants of scientific meetings, university students, tourist agents, the Association of Graduate Tourist Guides, local functionaries, Association of Friends of Greek Museums). It is worthmentioning that the exhibition Myrtis was adjusted for people with disabilities through the application of special museum solutions in collaboration with The Lighthouse for the Blind People of Greece.  O rganizing various educational actions in all Museums of the Network, which are attended by a number of students (16 educational actions with 24,500 participants in 2011). In addition, adult educational programs were organized, with an emphasis on primary and secondary education professionals, and on museum and environment education (12 actions for 400 teachers in 2011). Concerning lifelong learning, an annual workshop on Industrial Heritage has been prepared for 80 participants (300 training hours) to be held at the Foundation’s headquarters.   onation of educational folders to be used by teachers to prepare school visits to the Museums D Network and of the Foundation’s published volumes to enrich public, school, local, university and research libraries upon request (a total of 1,150 in 2011), together with the distribution of 29 published volumes included in university reading lists at a significantly reduced price.  R  esearch work is an integral part of Foundation’s three-fold activity comprising research/exhibition/ publication for the creation of museums. Research work is designed on an interdisciplinary basis building on the Foundation’s long-standing, renowned and specialized experience in specific thematic areas and the development of relevant innovation. The results of this activity are implemented for creating thematic technological museums, renewing their collections, organizing exhibitions, preparing the publication of studies, often setting the basis for the existing bibliography or creating the marketing material for local economies. Research output is often digitized to serve to research development and enables the Foundation to intervene on national-scale initiatives on behalf of Greece, in collaboration to well-established cultural institutions. As far as research areas are concerned, the emphasis is placed on traditional technology, the country’s natural resources management, the material culture and the wealth produced until recent years. Priority is given to the study of the most important sectors of the Greek economy, while special products or techniques are also considered as worth-studying. Certain projects concern local traditions of particular regions –often upon request of the relevant local community – as well cultural tourism issues. In 2011, the following projects were completed: i) the preparation of the Chios Mastic Museum, with an emphasis on enriching its collection and artifacts conservation, ii) the preparation of a touring exhibition entitled The craft of tinsmith in the 20th Century. The case of Georgios Chatzilaos, with imprint of the research results in a museum scenario and a relevant monography, iii) recording of the industrial reserve of Elefsina and Thriasio Pedio, as an extension of PIOP’s research interest in the basic industrial development zones of modern Greece, and iv) initiation of a research program (in-house production) entitled Longlasting Short Stories, referring to the Piraeus Bank’s historic overview, to be included in Winners (the Group’s periodical edition) and the publication of a relevant volume in the near future.  O peration of a library highly specialized on museum studies and cultural management, which is constantly enriched by monitoring international studies, in order to better serve the research and academic community. The acquisition of publications (monographs, periodical titles and educational PIRAEUS BANK 63 material) is achieved through purchase and exchange with similar institutions (217 titles were acquired in 2011). Researchers have free access to original PIOP research findings in the Central Section of the Library. This kind of digitized outputs are also located in the following databases: i) “Information on technology through Archives and Libraries of Venice”, the result of a research program on technology in the Greek regions under the Venetian rule, realised in the past by PIOP in collaboration with the Greek Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies in Venice, and, ii) “Greek Musical Instruments”, the result of a research program by the Department of Music Iconography of the School of Fine Arts, Aristoteleio University of Thessaloniki, sponsored by the Foundation.  P reparation/organization of scientific events, such as: i) PIOP Hellenic Section of The International Committee for the Conservation of Industrial Heritage (TICCIH), Life-long Learning Workshop on the industrial heritage: The multifariousness of industrial heritage, ii) 12th scientific PIOP conference, The History of the Production and Processing of Tobacco in Greece (following the tradition of eleven previous scientific conferences dedicated to local tradition and basic production sectors of the Greek economy), iii) the presentation of a research program on the industrial reserve of Elefsina and Thriasio Pedio.  P rovision of scientific advisory support to institutions, local authorities young scientists, researchers and doctoral candidates upon their request to prepare cultural products and actions or projects related to PIOP topics (31 cases, among which: preparing the nomination dossier for the Chios Mastic to be included in the National List of cultural products and the UNESCO Intangible Cultural Heritage List for the Hellenic Ministry of Culture and Tourism-Directorate of Modern Cultural Heritage; scientific and management support provided to the Hellenic Section of the International Committee for the Conservation of the Industrial Heritage (TICCIH).  O ffering internship to university students, under the supervision of a Foundation’s personnel; 3,600 hours of one-to-one mentoring were provided to 13 trainees studying in the Departments of History-Archaeology and Philosophy and History of Science of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, the Departments of History-Archaeology & Anthropology and Primary Education of the University of Thessaly and the Department of Archives and Library Science, Ionian University.  Participation in national and international educational institutions, aiming at: i) the contribution to forming cultural policies, via the participation of the Director General to the Museums Council of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the frequent participation of both the Director General and the Foundation’s executives to scientific fora (24 events in 2011), the cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and Tourism (within the context of the Ministry initiatives, the NSRF framework, the PIOP Museum Monitoring Committees), ii) PIOP’s participation in research and academic partnerships for the realization of international scientific programs, i.e. Re-connecting the bonds between archaeological artifacts and historicity project, The Civil Society Facility–EU–Turkey Intercultural Dialogue, Museums (ICD-MUSE) program, EU funding and the project The Mediterranean Metaphor. Transfers and Uses in Past and Present, Marie Curie Initial Training Networks for call FP7-PEOPLE-2011-ITN, iii) PIOP’s international networking, both at a scientific level (ΤΙCCIH, TIMS, etc.) and at a European foundation network (European Foundation Center, Escite) to persue know-how transfer and “good practices” diffusion, enhancing the opportunities for scientific collaboration and common project funding.  Publications on a wide range of research fields, such as the history of technology, industrial archaeology, museology studies and economic history. The Foundation’s publishing activity is mainly coordinated with the Museums Network operation and the research programs run by the Foundation. The selection of PIOP publications to be included in academic reading lists bears witness to their impact to the scientific world, while there are also works of popularised character. In 2011, there was a reference book on modern greek economic history [Thanassis Kalafatis Evangelos Prontzas (eds.), Economic History of the Greek state, vol.1-3] and an anti-war children’s book (Christos Boulotis, A girl flies over Kerameikos ancient cemetery. An anti-war history in Athens of the classical era) were published. Other publications include monographies, conference proceedings, museology manuals, children’s books,, reprinting of out-of–print Foundation publications, educational material, museums leaflets, Museum shops products and events promotional material. 64 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 / SOCIETY, CULTURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT  Supporting historical research as well as day-by-day banking operations through the operation of a Historical Archive, into which archives of the ETBAbank (up its absorption by the Piraeus Bank in 2002-2003) are kept, together with the historical archives of banks, organizations, entreprises and individuals who were directly linked to the Piraeus Bank Group’s business activities (45 collections of which 3 bank, 4 organizations, 38 business and 3 personnal archives). The Archive Dpt. processes research requests by external researchers interested in economic history and industrial archaeology and Bank research requests referring to a large section of its semi-active archive. In 2011, the following archival material was organized, sorted and classified: active and semi-active Bank and Group archives (approx. 12,300 files), historical archives (approx. 1,850 files), newly incorporated archives (section of X. Triantafillopoulos’ Archive, archive and Library section of Konstantinos G. Kourtidis). Moreover, 115 research requests for archive material were handled, of which 90 were related to the Bank’s active archive, while a Special Library Section was enriched with 86 new book titles and 25 periodical titles and assisted 54 researchers. In order to further intergrate the Piraeus Group’s Corporate Responsibility principles to its operation, the Foundation pursued the following: the introduction of key performance indices concerning its operation, the revision of its Quality Managenement System, the training of its personnel on Internal Audit Procedures (Internal Auditors Quality Management Systems Seminar according to the Standard ELOT EN ISO 9001:2008. ELOT, 5-7.7) and the consideration of applying the EMAS system (already adopted by the Piraeus Group) to the Foundation’s premises and Museums Network. There was also a dramatic increase in employees’ development rates (in excess of 2,000 hours in 2011 for a total of 56 employees). To raise awareness on the Corporate Social Responsibility principles and relevant commitments of the Piraeus Group among the Foundation’s employees, a Foundation executive was certified as a Certified Sustainability CSR Practitioner and there were internal seminars/ discussions on the Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility (commitments, activities, public accountability), involving the entire PIOP personnel. The Foundation’s communication strategy is defined by its close relationship to the credit institution that funds it, the institutional establishment it abides by, the distinctiveness of its field of operation and the scope described in its statute. A series of regular interventions by the Foundation for the dissemination of its oeuvre are organized towards the following recipients: the Piraeus Bank Group, the scientific community, specific professional networks (cultural tourism networks, educational institutions and unions), at a local level (schools, local unions), the daily Press, periodicals and various scientific journals. These interventions are performed by exploiting intranet, the Winners magazine, the website (www.piop.gr) and internet sales, the use of social media (facebook, youTube), the e-newsletter (“piopnews”) reaching 7,500 persons, TV commercials, short film at Piraeus Bank branches, special features or articles in daily Press or periodicals on cultural events or products organized by the Foundation, presentation of its work at cultural fora -to which PIOP is invited as a good practice example-, events hosted by local, authorities, actions organized by scientific associations, universities and schools, the operation of sales point of museum souvenirs at a central location in Athens and the use of printed promotional material. PIOP assesses its impact on its target groups through systematically collecting data on Museum Network visitor numbers, keeping visitor’s books in the museums (qualitative analysis), recording visitors requests and comments/complaints, continually interrelating with all interested parties and responding to all their requests and observations, and by monitoring a qualitative and quantitative analysis of website visitors, the response of the newsletter recipients and a consistent press-clipping and record-keeping of press releases. PIRAEUS BANK 65 Selective financial volumes of PIOP in € mn 10.6 9.9 9.3 8.6 3.5 3.2 Assets Equity Turnover -0.9 -0.7 2010 2011 66 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 / SOCIETY, CULTURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT Environmental Actions Environmental Strategy Following up from its Environmental Management Policy (2003), Piraeus Bank adopted a new Environment Policy in 2010 placing emphasis on Green Banking and sustainable development. Furthermore, the Bank formulated its Climate Change Strategy (2010) aiming at the reduction of the Bank’s environmental footprint and the evaluation of risks and opportunities that arise from climate change. It is noteworthy that this environmental dimension is included with specific references in the amended (2008) Articles of Association of the Bank. Finally, a member of the Board of Directors has been appointed in charge of environmental issues since 2010. Piraeus Group aspires to become the most prominent banking Group specialised in green business, based on an innovative model of development that adheres to the principles of sustainable banking. For further details regarding the Group’s Environmental Strategy, please refer to: www.piraeusbank.gr>The Group>Corporate Responsibility>Environment www.piraeusbank.gr>Investor Relations>Corporate Governance Piraeus Group’s Green Structure For the coordination of the Bank’s environmental work, the Environmental Office was formed in 2004 which evolved into the Environment Unit in 2009. In the same year, the Green Business Sector was formed, which includes, among others, the Green Banking Division, the Green Banking Branch in Athens (in operation since 2008 and replaced by the 42 green branches on 1/1/2012), and the Green Banking Office in Northern Greece-inaugurated in Thessaloniki in 2011. With the aim of strengthening green business, a Green Banking employee has been appointed to all Bank branches in Greece for more effective promotion of green products and services. Piraeus Bank’s green products provide financial support to projects, such as renewable energy sources, energy-saving, green transport, alternative waste management, organic farming, ecotourismagrotourism, thereby indirectly addressing multiple environmental issues, such as those of climate change, depletion of natural resources, as well as water and land pollution. Furthermore, four thematic Green Banking employees have been placed in each of the 42 existing network branches in Greece, thus providing even more specialized advisory services to businesses and private individuals interested in mitigating their environmental and carbon footprint, reducing their operational costs and, ultimately, protecting the environment through their business activity. The development and constant update of the dedicated Database on Environmental Legislation & Case Law (DEL&CL), supports Piraeus Bank’s compliance with the applicable legal requirements and corporate responsibility commitments regarding the environment. The DEL&CL provides the Bank with the necessary legal information regarding: i) the general obligations and trends of environmental law, ii) the development and implementation of Environmental Management System programs for the prevention and reduction of direct environmental impacts and, iii) the task to reduce indirect environmental impacts through environmental risk assessment, adaptation to climate change and the promotion of environmentally friendly investments and green business. In 2012, emphasis will be placed on subject areas pertaining to biodiversity as well as on recording legal case studies. For further details regarding the Group’s Environmental Dimension, please refer to: www.piraeusbank.gr>The Group>Corporate Responsibility>Environment www.piraeusbank.gr>Investor Relations>Corporate Governance PIRAEUS BANK 67 Environmental Certification In 2011, the procedure for EMAS (Eco-Management Audit Scheme) and ISO 14001:2004 certification of the Bank’s Environmental Management System was completed for all its branches and administration buildings. EMAS is a European Union management tool that has a Register where all institutions which improve their environmental performance are registered. Active participation of employees, the increasing demand for transparency and the disclosure of environmental information to the public, are all basic factors that differentiate and distinguish EMAS from all other standards. The Environment Unit, in collaboration with the relevant Divisions, is responsible for the monitoring, management and, consequently, reduction of the environmental impact connected to the Bank’s activities. A specially-trained employee has been appointed Environmental Management Coordinator in every branch and in each administrative building in order to ensure reliable data collection, effective implementation of procedures and environmental programs as well as the achievement of environmental targets. European Climabiz Project Climate change resulting from human activity is one of the greatest challenges of our time and has already had significant adverse effects on the natural and socioeconomic environment. Greek economy sectors can be affected both positively and negatively by climate change. This might be the result of either the change in the institutional framework, the change in climate conditions, or the change in consumers’ attitudes – now opting for products and services with a reduced carbon footprint. In the past 2 years, Piraeus Bank has been implementing the 3-year European climabiz project, in collaboration with WWF Greece and Face3ts consultancy. The project is co-financed by the European Union and more specifically by the funding instrument “LIFE+ Environmental Policy and Governance”. It aims to prepare the market for its timely adaptation to the new climate conditions and to leverage the opportunities arising from climate change. For further details regarding climabiz project, please refer to: www.climabiz.gr Environmental Management The Environment Unit collects data at regular intervals from the relevant Bank Divisions, processes the data with the help of the Environmental Footprint Calculator Database1 and draws conclusions by monitoring the special indices that measure its environmental performance. It then sets targets and designs programs for reducing the Bank’s environmental footprint. The Bank’s overall environmental footprint was reduced in 2011 versus 2010. This is primarily attributed to the increased employee awareness, achieved in particular through the procedure that led to environmental certification, but also through the successful implementation of environmental footprint reduction programs. Indicative of this is the fact that of the 15 targets set in 2011, 10 were achieved, and in certain cases the results were much better than anticipated (see table, p. 74). Such cases are consumption of electricity and consumables, which account for the main environmental impacts caused by the Bank’s operation. Consumption of Consumables The constant decrease that has been observed in the past years in the consumption of paper, ink and toners, reflects to a large extent, the improvement in the environmental behaviour of the Bank’s employees. In 2011, a pilot program for the management of all printing procedures (Management Print Services) was implemented in 2 administrative buildings in Athens. As expected, the results revealed a decrease in both the operational and management costs as well as the consumption of paper and printing materials. In 2012, the Bank plans to extend this specific application to other buildings as well, with the aim of saving consumables and raising productivity 1 The Environmental Footprint Calculator Database was developed in the framework of the GREENbanking4Life project and follows the data collection and processing methods developed according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG) Initiative guidelines of the World Resources Institute (WRI). 68 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 / SOCIETY, CULTURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT Paper There was a 10% reduction in total paper consumption, mainly due to the reduction of paper consumption from newspapers, as most subscriptions were switched to electronic ones. Moreover, the percentage of recycled chlorine-free paper versus conventional paper improved further, now representing 2/3 of total paper used in the Bank. Paper consumption (tn) Target 2012: -5% Target 2012 2011 Target 2011: -2% Performance 2011: -10% 2010 532.51 Level 2010: 592.97 tn 592.97 Calculation of total paper consumption derives from the sum of data collected by newspaper subscriptions, paper consumption from use of paper consumables and printed transactions and from paper consumption for marketing reasons. paper consumption from newspaper subscriptions paper consumption total from use of paper consumables paper and printed transactions consumption paper consumption for marketing reasons PIRAEUS BANK 69 Ink Consumption of ink and toner was reduced. The results showed a 5.6% decrease in 2011, well exceeding the 1% goal set. Moreover, the use of reusable toners had a notable increaseof the 21,373 items used, 40% derived from recycled ink cartridges. Ink consumption (items) Target 2012: -5% Target 2012 2011 Target 2011: -1% Performance 2011: -5.6% 2010 21,373 Level 2010: 22,637 items 22,637 Energy Consumption The assessment of the operational environmental aspects indicate that the total annual building electricity consumption has the greatest overall share in the Bank’s environmental impact. For this reason, in 2011 environmental projects -aimed at reducing the Bank’s electricity consumptionwere designed and implemented. These projects, combined with other pilot programs, proved particularly effective. Furthermore, and in the scope of sensitizing employees, a poster with energy-saving guidelines was designed for the Bank’s branches. The specially-designed frame with the guidelines was placed in a position where it is also visible to customers. Electricity Consumption Total electricity consumption in the Bank’s buildings was reduced by 7.4% in 2011 compared to 2010. Electricity consumption (GWh) 35.00 Target 2011: -1% 34.00 -7.4% 31.47 30.00 2010 2011 Year 70 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 / SOCIETY, CULTURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT In 2011, the following environmental programs were implemented:  C hange of branch signs: the light bulbs and electronic parts of signs were replaced. It is estimated that energy-saving from this particular action ranged between 60-66%,  R eplacement of conventional with LED light bulbs in secondary areas of administrative buildings. It is estimated that energy-saving from this particular action reached 80%,  M otion detectors in WC, hallways, corridors and in storage areas of the branch network. It should be noted that this action had been designed for implementation in 110 branches initially but was extended to all the branches network. Energy-saving from a motion sensor varies depending on the size of the area and the purpose of its use, but usually ranges from 35-45%,  Installation of energy-management system allowing for automatic activation/deactivation of electric and electronic appliances. Its pilot implementation showed energy-saving ranges from 20-30% but under certain conditions can reach 50%.  Actions to reduce electricity consumption at the IT center of the Bank in Athens. A series of energy-saving actions took place, such as the sealing of the false floor and heat insulation of the floor. With these relatively low-cost and directly implementable measures, energy saving is estimated at 120,000 kWh/year. Heating fuel Consumption The rather cold winter in 2011-2012, increased the need for fuel consumption by 16,000 litres. Nevertheless, as has been stated in previous reports, heating fuel shows great fluctuations per year and at the same time does not constitute a major environmental impact for the Bank. Water Consumption Water consumed in Branch buildings is mainly used for cleaning the premises and for personal hygiene. In 2011, total water consumption in the Bank’s buildings reached 41,873 m3 –thus achieving 11.15% decrease in comparison to last year. Water consumption per employee reached 8.1 m3 versus 8.8 m3 in 2010, a fact that confirms the employees’ efforts to save water. Solid Waste Management Recycling programs in the Bank constitute a basic component for constant and systematic improvement of its environmental performance. Employee participation is rising and is strengthened by the annual recycling competitions between Bank branches and administration buildings. Collaboration with licensed collectors as well as alternative waste management is described analytically in the procedures and guidelines of the Environmental Management System. Paper Paper recycling is one of the first environmental programs in the Bank. The output in paper recycling follows -as is naturalthe output in paper consumption. Consequently, the reduction in paper consumption in 2011 resulted in an 8% reduction in paper recycling, and this explains why it seems that the target of 10% reduction was not met. In 2011 233.9 tonnes were recycled and the percentage of recycling versus total paper consumption reached 44%, thus achieving the target for 1% reduction. Piraeus Bank has recycled more than 1,300 tonnes of paper. 245 238 255 234 156 100 77 56 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 PIRAEUS BANK 71 Paper recycling (tn) Target 2012: +5% Target 2012 per person 2011 Target 2011: +10% Performance 2011: -8% 2010 233.93 Level 2010: 255.12 tn 255.12 Ink cartridges and Toners For a second consecutive year, the Bank’s employee performance in ink cartridges and toner recycling exceeded all expectations and led to more than the doubling of items recycled. Ink cartridges recycling (items) Target 2012: +5% Target 2012 2011 2010 Performance 2011: +97% 8,392 Target 2011: +5% Level 2010: 4,274 items 4,274 Batteries Battery recycling is implemented in all of the Bank’s premises. The 2011 set target of 5% increase was overshot almost threefold, reaching 14.56%. In addition, 1.9 tonnes of large accumulators, mainly UPS, were delivered for recycling. Target 2012: +5% Target 2012 per person 2011 Performance 2011: +14.56% 2010 Target 2011: +5% 5,150 Level 2010: 4,495 Kg 4,495 72 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 / SOCIETY, CULTURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT Plastic Plastic recycling was extended to all Administration Buildings, as planned, resulting in a 62% increase recycling, by far exceeding the 10% target set. Plastic recycling (Kg) Target 2012: +10% Target 2012 2011 2010 Performance 2011: +62% Target 2011: +10% 9,593 Level 2010: 5,904 Kg 5,904 Electric and Electronic Appliances and Light Bulbs Electric and Electronic Appliance recycling is the result of the exemplary collaboration between various Bank Divisions, the Environmental Management Coordinators and the companies the Bank collaborates with. In 2011, approx 13 tonnes were recycled, of which 284 kg were light bulbs. Electric and Electronic Appliance recycling (Kg) Performance 2011: +343% 2011 2010 12,835 Level 2010: 2,900 Kg 2,900 Transportation There was significant reduction in training trips by car, which reached approx 35%. At the same time, through the use of e-learning programs, total trainee trips equivalent to 2,000,000 km were prevented, thus asserting for another year the emphasis that the Bank has been placing on e-learning programs over the past few years. Finally total air travel in 2011 showed significant reduction, exceeding 20%. PIRAEUS BANK 73 Performance 2010 Training trips by car (km) 2011: -35.1% 2011 Performance 2012 (Target) Professional trips by car (km) 2011: -1% Target 2012: -5% Performance Air travel (km) 2011: -22.3% Target 2012: -5% 0 1,000,000 2,000,000 3,000,000 4,000,000 5,000,000 6,000,000 7,000,000 8,000,000 Gas emissions Gas emissions from the Bank’s activities were significantly reduced, as there was a considerable decrease in electricity consumption as well as fuel consumption for employee business travel. 5% 1% Road transportation Heating (diesel) 1% Air transportation 93% Electricity 74 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 / SOCIETY, CULTURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT Results Trend Target Target Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprintii 2010-2011 (%) 2011 (%) 2012 (%) 2010 2011 Consumables Newspaper consumption from subscriptions (tonnes) [I] 93.59 31.96 -65.85 + -5✓ Paper comsumption from the use of paper comsumables + 142.53 137.22 -3.73 + bank transaction forms (tonnes) [IΙ] Paper comsumption from Marketing (tonnes) [IΙΙ] 1.43 8.09 465.73 Total conventional paper comsumption (tonnes) [I]+[II]+[IIΙ] 237.55 177.27 25.38 + Total conventional paper consumption (Kg/employee) 44 34 22.73 + Comsumption of toner and cartidges (items) 22,637 21,373 -5.58 + -1✓ -5 Comsumption of toner and cartidges (items/employee) 4.23 4.12 2.60 + Green Procurement Α4 and Α3 recycled paper consumption (tonnes) [IV] 355.42 355.23 -0.05 + Α4 and Α3 recycled paper consumption 66 68 3.03 + (Kg/employee) Total paper consumption (tonnes) [I]+[II]+[III]+[IV] 592.97 532.51 -10.20 + -2✓ -5 Total paper consumption (Kg/employee) 111 103 -7.21 + Εnergy Energy consumption from electricity (kWh) 33,999,570iii 31,472,812 -7.43 + -1✓ Energy consumption from electricity (kWh/employee) 6,351 6,061 -4.57 + -2 Energy consumption from electricity (kWh/m ) 2 169.69 158.29 -6.72 + Heating fuel consumption (litres) 103,800 119,598 15.22 Heating fuel consumption (litres/employee) 19.41 23.03 18.65 Heating fuel consumption (litres/m ) 2 0.52 0.60 15.38 0 Water Water consumption (m ) 3 iv 47,129 41,873 -11.15 + Water consumption (m3/employee) 8.81 8.06 -8.51 + -10 -2 Solid Waste Management Paper recycled (tonnes) v 255.12 233.93 -8.31 +10 Paper recycled (Kg/employee) 47.66 45.05 -5.48 +5 Percentage of paper recycled (paper recycled / paper consumed) 43.02% 43.93% 2.12 + +1✓ Recycled ink cartridges and toners (items) v 4,274 8,392 96.35 + +5✓ +5 Recycled ink cartridges and toners (items /employee) 0.80 1.62 102.50 + Plastic recycled (Kg)vi 5,904 9,593 62.48 + +10✓ +10 Plastic recycled (Kg/employee) 1.10 1.85 68.18 + Batteries recycled (Kg) 4,495 5,150 14.57 + +10✓ Batteries recycled (Kg/employee) 0.84 0.99 17.86 + +5 Transportation Business travel by plane (Km) 2,131,551 1,656,537 -22.28 + -5✓ -5 Business travel by plane (Km/employee) 398 319 -19.85 + Business travel by car (Km) 7,697,271 7,635,101 -0.81 + -5 Business travel by car (Km/employee) 1,438 1,470 2.23 -2 Travel by car for educational purposes (Km) 290,358 188,417 -35.11 + -5✓ Travel avoided by opting for e-learning (Km) 2,100,193 2,006,543 -4.46 0 -2 PIRAEUS BANK 75 Results Target Target Trend Gas Emissions 2011 2012 2010-2011 (%) 2010i 2011 (%) (%) CO2 emissions (tonnes) 29,595 27,496 -7.09 + -1✓ CO2 emissions (Kg/employee) 5,530 5,295 -4.25 + -1 CH4 emissions (Kg) 856 822 -3.97 + -1✓ CH4 emissions (grams/employee) 160 158 -1.25 + -1 NOx emissions (tonnes) 74 68 -8.11 + -1✓ NOx emissions (Kg/employee) 13.75 13.16 -4.29 + -1 SO2 emissions (tonnes) 162 150 -7.41 + -1✓ SO2 emissions (Kg/employee) 30.29 28.90 -4.59 + -1 CO emissions (tonnes) 67.90 65.16 -4.04 + 0✓ CO emissions (Kg/employee) 12.69 12.55 -1.10 + -1 VOC emissions (tonnes) 9.39 9.02 -3.94 + 0✓ VOC emissions (Kg/employee) 1.75 1.74 -0.57 + -1 PM10 emissions (tonnes) 16.58 15.35 -7.42 + 0✓ PM10 emissions (Kg/employee) 3.10 2.96 -4.52 + -1 Table Notes: i) The 2010 data regarding gas pollutants were reviewed. These changes are attributed to the revision of gas pollutants emissions factors for the production of electricity as based on the latest data regarding the energy mix in the electrical energy sector of the country. ii) The Environmental Footprint refers to the effects stemming from Piraeus Bank’s operations during 2011. iii) The 2010 performance data were reviewed against the respective data published in the 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report. Specifically, by upgrading the Environmental Footprint Calculator Database , a more accurate distribution of the electricity consumed throughout the year is recorded. iv) Water consumption concerns data of consumption for 2011 based on utility bills that have been received until the end of March 2012. v) The calculation of the amounts of paper, ink cartridges and toners recycled is realized in organizational units found in the broader region of Attica, Thessaloniki and certain branches of the periphery. vi) Plastic recycling is implemented in administration buildings. CO2= carbon dioxide, CH4= methane, NOx= nitrogen oxides, SO2= sulfur dioxide, CO= carbon monoxide, VOC= Volatile Organic Compounds, ΡΜ10= Particulate Matter : gas emissions from car travel : gas emissions from energy consumption : gas emissions from plane travel + : target achieved 76 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 / SOCIETY, CULTURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT e-Banking The promotion of e-Banking along with the environment comprise the two strategic thrusts of growth for Piraeus Bank. The constantly growing preference – particularly in the last three years – of the Bank’s customers for alternative service channels such as winbank transactions, ATM’s, the easypay platform and use of Phone, Mobile and SMS Banking have borne, among others considerable environmental benefits. Given that these transactions would normally have been made at Branches, the use of e-channels saves time, money and paper. Thus, in 2011 28mn such transactions took place which led to saving 145 tonnes of paper; in other words, e-transactions prevented the cutting of the equivalent of 70,000 m2 of forest. Environmental Risk Assessment In 2011, Piraeus Bank developed specialized tools to evaluate environmental risk. Environmental risk is defined as that which can derive from air and water pollution as well as from climate change – one of the greatest environmental challenges today. Generally environmental risk is assessed by means of environmental indices (eg. kilos of green house gases or kilos of liquid waste) as well as financial indices, especially concerning natural or institutional risk arising from climate change. In climate change risk, there are financial indices which estimate possible solutions and reduction practices. In the framework of the climabiz project, the “climabiz Computational Model” was developed. This is an IT application that assesses the risk deriving from climate change in sector, sub-sector and business level. The application calculates in financial terms climate risk (natural and institutional) for businesses active in the fields of manufacturing, agriculture, shipping, energy production and services (hotels, offices, hospitals). The “climabiz Computational Model” is capable of analyzing 80 sub-sectors and 146 typical units. A second application was developed within the context of climabiz, with which the cost of implementing one or more practices to reduce climate risk can be assessed. With this application, the specially trained Green Banking Employees from Piraeus Bank’s branches network around Greece have the opportunity to suggest solutions to Greek businesses in order to deal effectively with climate change. Moreover, total calculation of environmental footprint at business,sector and sub-sector level is also possible. In particular further to green house gases, other air pollutants as well as liquid waste generation can be calculated. The “climabiz Computational Model” enables the placing of the businesses/sectors or sub-sectors on a ranking scale according to their environmental risk. Assessment of Financial Opportunities arising from Climate Change Climate Change entails financial risk, however, it is possible for business opportunities to arise and their timely detection can contribute to economic development and consequently to limiting of climate change and its negative impact. In the framework of the climabiz project, a special study was compiled assessing the financial opportunities that arise from climate change entitled “Climate Change and Business Opportunities”. The sectors of the economy that are analyzed include: the financial and insurance sector, the construction (energy saving) sector, RES’s, food & beverage sector, agriculture (organic farming and bio fuel), telecommunications and tourism. An extensive summary of the report can be found on www.climabiz.gr. Green Business Consistent with the dedicated manner by which it manages its environmental operational impact, Piraeus Bank has demonstrated leadership in supporting and funding investments that promote environmentally and socially responsible actions. In this context and with respect to its commitment in supporting green PIRAEUS BANK 77 business, the Bank has created a range of green banking products and consultancy services, and also supports its investors with the specialized Green Banking Employees that staff the entire branch network. Piraeus Bank’s accumulated knowhow and specialization in green business, combined with the advanced technical needs required for implementing such projects, ensure full support and a complete guidance in every step of the investment, from the business plan assessment and the licensing procedure to the very project execution. As a result, by funding Renewable Energy Sources projects in 2011, Piraeus Bank has contributed to preventing the emission of 598,000 tonnes of CO2. For further details regarding Green Banking of Piraeus Bank, please refer to: www.piraeusbank.gr>Investor relations>Annual Reports >Annual Report 2011 Collaborations In the framework of Piraeus Bank’s strategic alliances with the civil society for the protection of biodiversity and the environment, it has a long-standing co-operation with the environmental organisation MOm for the protection of the endangered Mediterranean Monk Seal. Piraeus Bank has also supported activities of ARCHELON, the Hellenic Ornithological Society, the Society for the Protection of Prespa, Callisto and the Ecological Recycling Society. WWF Greece is a partner in the implementation of the three year European climabiz program of Piraeus Bank. In the framework of employee participation in volunteer programs, in 2011 the Bank collaborated with the Hellenic Ornithological Society, WWF and the Management Agency of Parnitha National Park. Furthermore, Piraeus Bank’s collaborates in Attica with the social cooperation of limited liability “Klimax plus” for the collection of paper to be recycled. This collaboration, apart from contributing to the achievement of its environmental goals, is also part of the Bank’s policy to support disadvantaged social groups, as well as the organisations that are involved in the rehabilitation of these groups. There has been progress in the creation of a common cooperation ground between Piraeus Bank and its partners-suppliers in order to initiate synergies for sustainability actions/programs. The objective is to establish a constant dialogue between the Bank and the partners-suppliers and exchange knowhow and experience. Responding to climabiz needs, a workshop was organized with representatives from business sectors and universities in order to examine the economic consequences of climate change. This was followed by the completion of a relevant questionnaire by other business and agency representatives as well. The basic conclusion is that the Greek economy is going to be significantly affected by climate change in the years to come and that this impact will be mostly adverse yet with opportunities also arising. These results contributed to the drafting of the “Climate Change and Business Opportunities” report, a deliverable of the program (posted on www.climabiz.gr). Environmental Training and Communication Informing and sensitizing the Group’s employees and the wider public regarding environment and sustainability are a priority for Piraeus Bank. The active participation of the employees guarantees the improvement of the Bank’s environmental performance. In conclusion, over 73% of Bank employees has participated in at least two training activities on the environment and green banking in the last two years. On average, 400 employees are informed on a monthly basis through the “green news” that are posted weekly on the intranet, in the climabiz project framework. Employees in certain Group subsidiaries (ETVA-VIPE, Piraeus Direct Services, Piraeus Bank Cyprus) have access to these “green news”. Environmental education takes place on two levels. The first one is general, with e-learning programs that describe basic environmental issues and the Bank’s environmental work. The table next page presents analytically the 2012 training activities. 78 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 / SOCIETY, CULTURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT no. of Participants Total no. in 2011 Description of Participants Training Activity Title Target Group Piraeus Bank and the All in Piraeus Bank 2,300 3,800 A series of five hour-long environment employees e-learning courses on sustainable development, energy, water, recycling, green supplies. Adaptation to climate Green Banking Employees 810 810 New e-learning created in the change and business and all Piraeus Bank Cyprus climabiz framework on risks opportunities, Part 1: Ltd employees 100 100 and opportunities arising from Basic Information climate change On the second level, training is more specialized and it concerns green business, the Bank’s green products and the procedures of the Environmental Management System under EMAS. The table below presents the results for 2011. no. of Participants Total no. in 2011 Description of Participants Training Activity Title Target Group Environmental Environmental 120 515 Special e-learning training ManagementEMAS Management in the Environmental Coordinators (EMAS) Management System EMAS Green business Green Banking 490 2,225 Special Training in Green Employees Entrepreneurship sectors and in Green products/ services of the Bank Climate drives business Green Banking 240 240 Workshops in the climabiz Employees from the framework on risks and 42 dedicated green opportunities arising from branches climate change Basic principles of Branch Managers 365 1,850 1-day or 3-day in-class Green Banking and Green Banking training on environmental Employees terminology, Green Banking and Green Banking Products of the Bank “On the Job” training Green Banking 355 355 One-day training of Employees and staff of personnel in the branches green branches PIRAEUS BANK 79 The web site www.climabiz.gr is continually renewed with the progress of the European climabiz project. The Green Banking portal (www.greenbanking.gr) was created in the framework of the climabiz project for the presentation of good practices implemented by institutions and /or businesses for the reduction of their environmental footprint, as well as for the presentation of businesses producing/selling products or providing services included in the green business sectors. Moreover, the “Think Green” platform started operation with presence in the most popular social networks (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Flickr) and has created an online user community sensitized in environmental issues. In the framework of a biannual survey on the Bank’s employees environmental behavior, an on-line questionnaire is voluntarily completed, the results of which are analyzed by the Ecological Recycling Society. Through the environmental awareness programs, the average employee environmental performance rose from 5.8 in 2007 to 6.3 in 2009 and 6.8 in 2011 (on a scale of 1-10). A significant incentive for employee sensitization is the annual competitions whereby branches and administration buildings with the best performance in recycling of consumables are rewarded. Environmental Actions by Piraeus Bank’s Subsidiary Banks Abroad Environmental actions are also undertaken by the Bank’s international subsidiaries that either focus on reducing their environmental footprint and enhancing green entrepreneurship, or on raising awareness of both employees and the public. Specifically:  I n Albania, Tirana Bank, continued tree planting initiatives.  I n Bulgaria, Piraeus Bank Bulgaria pioneered in sending electronic monthly statements to customers, thus saving significant quantities of paper.  I n Serbia, Piraeus Bank Beograd, which has also signed the UN Global Compact, placed on prominent sites throughout the country paper recycling bins, thus encouraging people to recycle. It also initiated cooperation with National Geographic of Serbia in a joint effort to raise public awareness regarding global warming.  I n Romania, Piraeus Bank Romania has launched a green consumer loan for energy saving at home.  I n Cyprus, Piraeus Bank continued to encourage recycling in cooperation with various local Municipalities, and to inform students on environmental protection in cooperation with the Commissioner of Environment and the Energy Bureau. Additionally, Piraeus Bank (Cyprus) Ltd offers financing solutions for photovoltaic systems installation. 80 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 APPENDIX GRI REPORTING CONTENT The present Corporate Responsibility Report covers the calendar year 2011 and forms part of the Piraeus Bank Group Annual Report. It is structured with the aim of conforming to the Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative G3 (GRI-G3) to determine its content (Substantiality, Stakeholder Dialogue, Viability Context, Completeness) and quality (Objectivity, Comparability, Accuracy, Reliability, Clarity). Piraeus Bank Group has implemented the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines for a fifth consecutive year, in line with the 2010 Report, considering that this model is a comprehensible framework of principles that facilitates the disclosure and communication of Corporate Responsibility issues for both the Group and the stakeholders. The 2011 Annual Report pertains to the entire Group. It covers almost all the activities of the Group; however, some of the data reporting and quantitative measurements are focused on specific areas of its activities. Wherever this applies, reference is made to the relevant Report sections, while figures and ratios for Human Resources exclude the discontinued operations of Piraeus Bank Group in Egypt. The objective is to gradually extend the Bank’s knowhow and systematic approach of CSR issues to all the Group companies. The section entitled Environmental Actions and B+ Application Level of the GRI G3 guidelines, which is met in this Piraeus Bank Group Report, have been assured by Ernst & Young. The detailed Independent Assurance Statement is included in the first part of the Corporate Responsibility Report. At the same time, Piraeus Bank Group voluntarily follows the directions for the publication of annual and progress reports as indicated by the UN Global Compact, and posts its Annual Report on the relevant website (www.unglobalcompact.org). For the collection of the 2011 data contained in the Report, the electronic database management systems were used, enabling data collection and processing. Moreover, internal processes have been adopted to ensure the validity and reliability of information. In regards to the data measurement methodology used in this report, it should be noted that due to the upgrading of the Environmental Footprint Calculator Database, a more accurate distribution of the electricity consumed per year was recorded. Furthermore, data regarding gas pollutants were reviewed. These changes are attributed to the revision of the emission factors of gas pollutants in the production of electricity, based on the latest composition of the energy mix for the production of electricity in Greece. The Table of Global Reporting Initiative below contains all the information for the key GRI indices required for the application level B, including a significant number of supplementary GRI indices. Additionally, the concise table below contains relevant references to policies, approaches and management aspects adopted by Piraeus Bank for each GRI index category. Questions/views on the report and/or its content may be submitted to: Investor_Relations@piraeusbank.gr. 82 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Indicator Description Reference PROFILE 1 Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization AFR 2-7. CRR 5 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities AFR 2-7 2 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization PIRAEUS BANK GROUP 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. www.piraeusbank.gr 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, www.piraeusbank.gr>Investor Relations operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters 4, AMERIKIS ST., ATHENS 105 64, GREECE 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report www.piraeusbank.gr>The Group 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form www.piraeusbank.gr>Investor Relations 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) www.piraeusbank.gr>The Group 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization CRR 48, 81, AFR 4 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership CRR 81, AFR 7 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period CRR 25 3 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided 01.01.2011-31.12.2011 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 20.5.2011 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents investor_relations@piraeusbank.gr 3.5 Process for defining report content CRR 81 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance CRR 81 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope) CRR 81 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from peCRR 81 riod to period and/or between organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially CRR 75,81 diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) CRR 75,81 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report CRR 75,81 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report CRR 82-88 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. CRR 7-9, 81 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagment 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight CRR 29 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer CRR 30 PIRAEUS BANK 83 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members CRR 30, BoD 17 Members, of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 5 Executive Board Members and 12 Non-Executive Board Members, 3 Independent 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. CRR 15-16 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the AFR 16, CRR 31 organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided AFR 18-20, CRR 30 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of AFR 16 the highest governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on ecowww.piraeusbank.gr>Corporate Governance nomic, environmental, and social topics &Oper. Regulation, p.6 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and CRR 14 the status of their implementation 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles CRR 30-31 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance AFR 16 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization AFR 18-20 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses CRR 23-24 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization:  Has positions in governance bodies;  Participates in projects or committees; Provides substantive funding CRR 24-25 beyond routine membership dues; or  Views membership as strategic 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization CRR 15-16 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. CRR 15-16 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. CRR 15-16 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting CRR 17-21 DMA PS Product Portfolio FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines CRR 14, 39, 59, 66 FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines CRR 41-43, 67 FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies and procedures as applied to business lines CRR 50-51, 78 84 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities CRR 15-16 Audits CRR 67 Active Ownership www.piraeusbank.gr DMA EC Economic Performance Economic Performance CRR 59-60 Market presence AFR 2-4 Indirect economic impacts AFR 4-6, CRR 43, 59-61 DMA EN The Environment n Materials CRR 67-69, 74 Energy CRR 69-70, 72-77 Water CRR 70, 74 Biodiversity CRR 66, 77 Emissions, effluents and waste CRR 69-70, 73-75 Products and services CRR 70-72, 74-77 Compliance CRR 66 Transport CRR 72-75 Overall CRR 59, 66-67 DMA LA Labor/management Employment CRR 14, 16, 47-49, 53 Labor/management relations CRR 14, 16, 49-50, 54 Occupational health and safety CRR 16, 52-54 Training and education CRR 16, 18, 49-52, 78 Diversity and equal opportunity CRR 14, 49, 52 DMA HR Human rights Investment and procurement practices CRR 23-24, 43, 47-48 Non-discrimination CRR 23, 24, 47-48 Freedom of association and collective bargaining CRR 16, 23, 24, 47-48, 54 Child labor CRR 23, 24, 47, 48 Forced and compulsory labor CRR 23-24, 47, 48 Security practices CRR 23, 24, 47-48 Indigenous rights CRR 23, 24, 47-48 DMA SO Society Community CRR 59-61 Corruption CRR 23, 51 Public policy AFR 2-5, CRR 5 PIRAEUS BANK 85 Anti-competitive behavior AFR 2-5, CRR 39-41 Compliance CRR 39-41, 50-51 DMA PR Disclosure and Management Approach PR Customer health and safety CRR 39-42 Product and service labelling CRR 39-41 FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services CRR 39-41 Marketing communications CRR 39-41 Customer privacy CRR 39-41 Compliance CRR 39-41 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Product portfolio FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. www.piraeusbank.gr>Investor Relations> micro/SME/large) and by sector Recent Results>FY 2011 & AFR 3-5 FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social CRR 13 benefit for each business line broken down by purpose FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific enviwww.piraeusbank.gr> Investor Relations> ronmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Recent Results>FY 2011 & CRR 13, 40 Audit FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmenCRR 67, Annual tal and social policies and risk assessment procedures Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operatAFR 4-7, CRR 53, 59-60 ing costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organizaCRR 67, 76 tion’s activities due to climate change www.climabiz.gr EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations AFR 4-7, CRR 53 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government AFR 4-7 Market presence EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at CRR 43 significant locations of operation EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from CRR 49-50 the local community at significant locations of operation Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement CRR 59-61 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts CRR 43, 59-61 86 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume CRR 67-69, 74 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials CRR 67-69, 74 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source CRR 70, 74-75 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source CRR 69-70, 72-75 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements CRR 69-70, 74-75 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products CRR 76-77 and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. CRR 69-70, 72-75 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. CRR 70-74 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. None EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Pilot program in water re-use in Kea island Biodiversity ΕΝ11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected None areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas ΕΝ12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiverNone sity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas ΕΝ13 Habitats protected or restored. CRR 77 ΕΝ14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts CRR 66, 77 on biodiversity ΕΝ15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with None habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Emissions, effluents and waste ΕΝ16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight CRR 72-75 ΕΝ17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight CRR 73-75 ΕΝ18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved CRR 69-70, 73-75 ΕΝ20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight CRR 75 ΕΝ22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. CRR 70-74 ΕΝ23 Total number and volume of significant spills None Products and services ΕΝ26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of CRR 76-77 impact mitigation Transport ΕΝ29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials CRR 73-75 used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type CRR 59 PIRAEUS BANK 87 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region CRR 48-49 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region  CRR 53 CRR 49, 53 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or parttime employees, by major operations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements CRR 49, 54 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether CRR 54 it is specified in collective agreements. Occupational health and safety LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region  CRR 52 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases CRR 16, 53-54 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions CRR 53-54 Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category  CRR 18, 50-51 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continCRR 16, 49, 50, 51-52 ued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews CRR 50-51 Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other AFR 13-18 indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category CRR 52 Social: Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening.  CRR 23, 24, 47-48 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions takenί  CRR 23, 24, 47-48 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained  CRR 23, 24, 47-48 Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken CRR 23, 24, 47-48 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. CRR 16, 23, 24, 47-48, 54 88 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Child labor ΗΡ6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor.  CRR 23, 24, 47-48 Forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor  CRR 23, 24, 47-48 Social: Society Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting CRR 60-61 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged peopl ATM for visually impaired Corruption SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption CRR 23 Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and AFR 2-5, CRR 5 lobbying Social: Product Responsibility Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products CRR 39-40 and services categories subject to such procedures PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. CRR 39-40, 42 Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements CRR 39-40 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes CRR 39-40 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys  CRR 39-40, 42 measuring customer satisfaction FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary CRR 39-40, 42 Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship CRR 39-40, 42 PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes CRR 39-40, 42 PIRAEUS BANK 89 Indicator Category Symbols used in the table above EC Economic Website www.piraeusbank.gr EN Environment CRR (number): C orporate Responsibility Report 2011, page number LA Labor Practices and descent work AR (number): Annual Report 2011, page number HR Human Rights AFR (number): A nnual Financial Report 2011, page number SO Society Core Index PR Product Responsibility PS Product Portfolio  The Index is partially reported. All other Indices are reported in full.
