Communication on Progress 2011 Statement of ORIGIN’s Continued Support for United Nations Global Compact The ORIGIN way has always been one of sustainability and social responsibility. As such, ORIGIN remains strongly committed to upholding the 10 key principles set out in the UN Global compact in the next year of 2012. Since our last Communication on Progress, where we aimed to promote greater transparency and accountability, we have achieved much in our continued journey towards upholding the principles of the UNGC in our own way. In the past year, ORIGIN has embarked on exciting new adventures in contributing back to the community. 2011 saw the launch of Singapore’s first ever large scale community project to tackle bedbugs, and ORIGIN is proud to have been a part of this massive undertaking, contributing our expertise, time and effort to educate the residents on bedbugs, as well as contributing our work on a pro bono basis, with our very own Sparky the Bedbug Detection Dog, assisting to inspect homes for bedbugs. The very real social impact of this project saw close to 100 families receiving much needed assistance with their bedbug problems. Whilst this does not directly contribute to the 10 principles set out in the UNGC, we feel that our efforts to contribute to the community do directly impact our staff, and help them to find more meaning in their work life beyond the everyday operations as a business. In keeping with the company’s continued support of the principles set out in the UN Global Compact the company has continued our efforts in fair employment policies, and ensuring a safer work environment for our staff. These efforts are presented in this, our Communication on Progress for the period 2011 to 2012. We hope that you will find this of interest. Mrs Dolores Baptista Managing Director, ORIGIN Exterminators Pte Ltd Supporting the United Nations Global Compact ORIGIN announced its participation on April 21st 2007, and this year, will be continuing our commitment to supporting the UN Global Compact with a communication on the progress made on implementing the 10 principles in the past year. The Global Compact (GC) was mooted on January 31st 1999 by the former Secretary General of The United Nations at an economic forum. By pledging to commit to this global initiative, ORIGIN has agreed to embrace a total of 10 principles in the following areas: • Human Rights Communication on Progress 2011 • Labour Standards • Environment • Anti-Corruption The ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact: Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, 5. the effective abolition of child labour, and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Communication of Progress (COP) ORIGIN’s progress in the last year or so has been largely focused on maintaining our efforts from the previous year especially with regard to our continued stance against anti corruption, and the carrying through of fair labour policies. In addition to that, ORIGIN has made larger strides forward in the area of the environment, for principles 7-9. Human Rights and Labour In our last COP, we underlined our development of a formalized code of conduct in keeping with UNGC principles on labour practices and human rights. We are pleased to report that 100% of all our employees have now been trained in the code of conduct and all new employees also undergo this training within their first week of commencing work with our organization. In addition, to ensure Communication on Progress 2011 that our labour practices are carried through to all our staff, we have taken on a dedicated Human Resources Executive, who serves as a bridge between the management and the staff, and has assisted to ensure that policies are carried through properly. In the interest of ensuring no discrimination in the workplace based on race and age, we have continued our monitoring the distribution of our workers according to age and race. The results are shown below for 2011 Age Distribution of Employees 2% 6% 21-30 14% 31-40 46% 41-50 51-60 32% >60 From this distribution chart, it is clear that the large majority of the company’s employees are in the 21 -30 and 31-40 age group. This is important as the field staff do require good physical abilities due to the strenuous nature of the job. Although the company has some more matured workers, ORIGIN realized the need to engage with a more matured and experienced group of people as this would be of benefit, and therefore looked to the employment of more matured workers. Whilst in 2011 ORIGIN had already started offering flexible work arrangements to matured workers, there was no new take up of staff in this arrangement. That was due to the increased number of internship tie ups with local educational institutions, thus reducing the need for part time workers. Communication on Progress 2011 Race Distribution of Employees 14% 24% Chinese 15% Malay Indian Others 47% Race distribution of Singapore chinese malays indians others 3% 9% 14% 74% * Figures taken from Department of Statistics Singapore, Census of Population 2010, Statistical Release. Figures available at: http://www.singstat.gov.sg/pubn/popn/c2010sr1/indicators.pdf Looking at the race distribution of the employees in ORIGIN in 2011, compared to the race distribution of Singaporeans in 2010, one can note that the race distribution in ORIGIN shows greater representation of minority races than the national average. This is an encouraging trend, and ORIGIN will continue to provide equal employment opportunities for all races. Another two labour indicators which ORIGIN started looking at in 2011, was the gender distribution among executives, as well as the average wages for each gender. This is because in 2011, ORIGIN had embarked on promoting gender equality in the workplace. Gender distribution among field staff was not looked at, as 100% of ORIGIN’s field staff are male. This is due to the nature of the job, whereby daily contact with pests is part of the job, and the job itself requires much physical strength Communication on Progress 2011 and stamina. As such, we have not had any female applicants for the post of field technician, and this is consistent with the rest of the pest management industry in Singapore. Gender Distribution (Executives) Male 50% 50% Female From the gender distribution chart, we have coincidentally managed to attain a 50-50 distribution of male to female staff. This is among a total of 32 executives in the office, inclusive of management level staff. ORIGIN aims to maintain similar proportions of gender distribution among executive staff. Average Monthly Wage (executive) Male Female $2,525.40 $2,568.21 With respect to the average monthly wage among executives, the above table shows that the female and male executives are paid at the same level, with a marginal difference of approximately $40 per month. This small variance is inconsequential and shows that there is no discrimination across genders with regard to wages. This figure is computed for executive staff non inclusive of management level staff. Average Monthly Wage (management) Male Female $6,045.50 $7495.86 With respect to the average monthly wage among management level staff, the distribution in the above table shows that female management level staff have a higher average monthly wage. As this Communication on Progress 2011 data is computed from among 4 management level staff, among which is the managing director of the company, who is female, the difference is inconsequential. From our above labour indicators, we can conclude that ORIGIN has managed to stick to our aims to avoid age, race and gender discrimination in the workplace. We will continue our drive to maintain these standards in the year to come. Upon commencement of work with the company, all staff, from technicians to executives, undergo a mandatory orientation programme, where they are given more details about the company’s outlook, operations as well as the Code of Conduct, which was created in view of adherence to the UNGC principles. The completion of this orientation programme is then recorded in each individual’s personnel training record, thus ensuring that this is implemented consistently across the board. In addition, the previous renewal of the staff handbook has helped to address concerns by the employees. With a dedicated human resources staff now on board, staff are also able to approach human resources for any clarifications they may need on policies, or to raise their concerns. It is our interest to educate staff on the rights and benefits they are entitled to enjoy, and empowering our staff to have a better understanding of this would help them become more confident and happy in their daily work. The orientation programme developed in 2010 has also now been handed over for the human resources department to administer. This ensures more consistent information being disseminated. Within orientation programme itself, new employees are encouraged to report any violations of the Code of Conduct during their tenure to senior management. In the interest of facilitating this, ORIGIN has also included the policy of maintaining the anonymity of all reporters. With the new appraisal system in place, it allowed for ORIGIN to help develop our staff capabilities in a more focused manner, and as a result, many staff have benefitted from this. In 2011, more staff were sent for external training courses, to develop their various strengths, and overcome their weaknesses. Through the appraisal system, staff were also able to set more realistic targets and achieve these targets. Safety is always a concern for ORIGIN, especially since our field technicians do handle licensed chemicals. To this end, ORIGIN has maintained our stringent safety training programme, ensuring each staff is duly equipped with the knowledge and equipment to protect himself or herself whilst out in the field. As an additional precaution, 2011 also saw the development of a supervisory team, which among other quality assurance checks, also assisted to check that all safety guidelines were duly adhered to by field technicians. Those found in violation of the guidelines were counseled to ensure better adherence in the future. This way, we can be ensured that all our field staff are being well protected by the measures put in place. Anti Corruption Communication on Progress 2011 In looking to upkeep the anti corruption principle in UNGC, ORIGIN has, in early 2010, voluntarily went for CaseTrust Gold accreditation. CaseTrust Gold is the highest attainable level of the CaseTrust Accreditation Scheme. This award serves to define businesses and companies as leaders in transparency and accountability to the customer. In 2011, ORIGIN has continued maintaining this high standard, ensuring that our systems for service recovery, fair pricing and accurate advertising were duly carried through in adherence to the requirements of the CaseTrust Gold accreditation. Environment Key Performance Indicators Category Indicator Targets and Status Targets for 2012 Performance Parameter 2010 2011 Only recycled Total no. of Not Not Our target of reducing We target to paper used. paper reams achieved Achieved paper usage to 1.90% complete the used as % of was not achieved. project to go revenue Target: Target: Whilst initiatives were paperless in 1.90% 1.90% made to go paperless 2012, and from in 2011, these there, will be 2011 processes took longer able to observe 2010 figure: figure: than expected, and and set new 3.47% have carried over in benchmarks for 3.46% 2012. However, paper paper usage. *Based on usage has only latest increased very revenue marginally by 0.01% in figures for 2011. 2011 that has yet to be audited at the time of this report Communication on Progress 2011 Recycled Paper Total Achieved Achieved We have successfully Continue 100% percentage of maintained only usage of recycled paper usage Target: Target: recycled paper in our paper. in the office 100% 100% office. Furthermore that is of usage usage our external recycled communication with origin clients, our quarterly newsletter, is also printed on recycled paper only. Recycling of Total amount Target: no Increased We have increased To more actively paper of paper (kg) target amount of the amount of paper encourage and sent for stated prepaper being sent for continue to recycling viously being sent recycling. This year we monitor the for have added junk mail amount of paper 186kg recycling that our staff regularly that is being receive, thus the recycled. 469.40kg increase in amount. Water The amount We are unable to monitor water usage levels, as We will continue of water used we have a shared billing system with the other our policies to units in the building. This was arranged as our encourage staff water usage levels are negligible. to carefully manage usage However we do still ensure that practices such as level to minimize not leaving the pantry tap running, are wastage. maintained. Fuel Total petrol Not Not Whilst actual target We will target to Consumption consumption Achieved Achieved was not achieved, reduce fuel as a % of the actual fuel consumption as a revenue Target: Target: consumption as a percentage of 1.93% 1.90% percentage of revenue by a revenue has dropped further 0.25% in 2010: 2011: slightly by 0.23%. As 2012, instead of 2.76% 2.53% such, we will striving to reach continue to monitor 1.90% overall, as *Based on fuel consumption that is looking to latest and target to reduce be a level far revenue this year on year below our normal figures for instead. usage levels. 2011 that has yet to be audited Communication on Progress 2011 at the time of this report Energy Total annual Not Not Whilst the actual We will target to Consumption energy achieved achieved target was not further lower consumption achieved, the actual energy usage in Target: Target: energy consumption the office in 49612 KW 48123KW dropped from the 2012. previous year by 2010 actual 2011 actual 6379KW or 10.4%. usage usage This goes to show 61272 KW 54893KW that our efforts over the last year to reduce energy usage have borne results, and we should continue these efforts and measures.
