COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) SUPPORT OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT INITIATIVE Member: euroscript International S.A. Reporting period: September 2011 to September 2012 Published on September 23, 2012 Since euroscript International S.A. was founded, the importance of protecting the environment and the well-being of its employees has been paramount to the company. euroscript International S.A.’s dedicated management system for Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainable Development (CSR|SD) highlights its awareness of global issues and problems in society, as well as its willingness to contribute to a social and sustainable environment within its scope of influence. The euroscript Group is the result of the integration of many companies in different countries, each with their own cultural background and business history. Through the CSR|SD system, common values concerning human rights, labour standards, environment protection and anti-corruption are emphasized and monitored. euroscript International S.A. maintains its commitment to the Global Compact and its ten principles. This annual report presents our actions and progress objectives, which are set up around three major clusters: People, Planet and Profit. Together, these cover the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Mark Evenepoel Chief Executive Officer euroscript International S.A. Page 1 / 5 euroscript International S.A. • 55, rue de Luxembourg • L-8077 Bertrange • Luxembourg Tel.: +352 31 44 11 1 • Fax: +352 31 44 11 209 • e-mail: contact@euroscript.com • www.euroscript.com R.C. Lux.: Section B 122347 • Autorisation d’établissement: 115562 • Tribunal de Commerce: Luxembourg • Capital social: 470.588 € Management board: Mark Evenepoel, Michael Such, Philippe Gaillard • ID TVA LU 214 986 51 IBAN: LU07 0081 6164 7100 1003 / BIC (SWIFT): BLUXLULL 1 People This cluster covers the following principles:  Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.  Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Policy and Goals euroscript aims at being recognized as an organization that is transparent and ethical in all its dealings, as well as a company which provides a positive contribution to the community in which it operates. This is reflected in the ‘People’ cluster of its CSR|SD Policy, which focuses on the fair treatment of all its employees, business partners and clients (ethical business practices). As the market leader in global solutions for lifecycle management of content, euroscript International S.A. believes that the men and women of the Group are its key asset for development and seeks to promote equal opportunities and decent work. Implementation The respect of labour and human rights principles is part of euroscript’s philosophy. To underline their importance, trusted representatives have been nominated e.g. Representative for equal rights for women; Health and Safety Officer; Information Security Manager. In addition to the Personnel delegation and the HR department, these persons monitor the actual situation, propose actions for improvement and are available at all times for the reception and handling of complaints. euroscript has defined indicators which will be monitored group-wide; in this cluster, 4 main items are focused on: Anti-Discrimination and Human Rights: euroscript fights against all forms of discrimination, particularly with research in the equitable distribution of employment between genders • Training: euroscript strives to motivate staff through the development of the skills of each employee • Appraisals: euroscript is attentive that a continuous dialogue between employees and managers take place during interviews Page 2 / 5 • Occupational Health & Safety: Ensuring the safety and promoting the health of employees is a major concern of euroscript Measurement of outcomes None of the above-mentioned contact persons have reported any incidents. As in past years, discrimination is prohibited. Men and women with different ethical backgrounds and religious convictions have been hired and work together equally. All staff members have had the possibility to develop their skills by participating in training sessions and they have all had the opportunity to express themselves during a personal talk with their superior. In the past year, extra efforts have been put into the extended training of the Health and Safety Officer. 2 Planet This cluster covers the following principles: Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Policy and Goals euroscript aims to be recognized as an organization that is transparent and ethical in all its dealings, as well as a company which provides a positive contribution to the community in which it operates. This is reflected in the ‘Planet’ cluster of its CSR|SD Policy, which focuses on high standards in all matters related to environmental protection. euroscript wishes to fight actively against global warming by reducing its environmental impact. For this reason, euroscript seeks to minimize its contribution to gas emissions, reduce energy consumption and promote green procurement in order to act effectively against global warming. Implementation Although our business sector does not belong to the polluting industries, a group-wide investigation has been started to check the existing hardware and eventually replace it by environmentally friendly hardware. We have invested in material and licences for organising video and telephone conferences, so that business travel can be reduced, influencing our CO2 footprint. euroscript has also defined indicators which will be monitored group-wide; in this cluster, 3 main items are focused on: Page 3 / 5 • CO2 footprint: euroscript seeks to reduce its carbon footprint by following the consumption of CO2 during business travel • KWh electricity: All Group entities are encouraged to limit electricity consumption • Green purchasing: euroscript promotes green purchasing for all office equipment and materials, e.g. recycled paper Measurement of outcomes The use of video or telephone conferences has become common practice and is of great value for the organization of group-wide meetings as a replacement for travel. Waste separation for recycling has been introduced in several entities and will be further promoted. The purchase of FSC paper (or similar) has been started and should gradually replace paper without an ecolabel. The need to rent new buildings or to renew electrical installations is taken as an opportunity to choose buildings and installations with a low energy impact e.g. in France, installations with a high energy performance (THPE-label). 3 Profit This cluster ensures the sustainable development of the company and covers the following principle: Anti‐Corruption Principle Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy and Goals euroscript aims to be recognized as an organization that is transparent and ethical in all its dealings, as well as a company which provides a positive contribution to the community in which it operates. This is reflected in the ‘Profit’ cluster of our CSR|SD Policy, which focuses on the transparency of business policies and practices. To ensure the sustainability of the Group, euroscript strives for economically viable development. Moreover, the Group's management is committed to analyzing and taking all necessary measures for dealing with incidents reported not only in the context of the fight against corruption, but also for all the anomalies related to the 10th principle of the UNGC. Implementation Long-term contracts with customers in the public sector (via tenders) represent the highest majority of our turnover. Page 4 / 5 Before signing a contract with customers of the private sector, an analysis concerning money-laundering or fraud is carried out if the value of this contract exceeds a threshold. euroscript has also defined indicators which will be monitored group-wide; in cluster, 2 main items are focused on: • Turnover: euroscript ensures sustainable growth, following sales related objectives • Incident management: euroscript intends to treat all incidents reported concerning the non-application of the AntiCorruption principle. Measurement of outcomes Long-term contracts ensure the sustainability of the company, with increasing turnover, and the fact that most of our customers belong to the public sector significantly reduces the risk of corruption. No incidents of money-laundering or corruption have been reported. Page 5 / 5
