UAB VILNIAUS VANDENYS 2011 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTENTS A WORD FROM DIRECTOR GENERAL ....................................................................................................... 3 ABOUT THE COMPANY ................................................................................................................................ 4 PHILOSOPHY OF SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE ACTIVITIES ...................................................................... 5 EMPLOYEES .................................................................................................................................................... 6 ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION ..................................................................................................................... 8 SOCIETY ........................................................................................................................................................... 9 CUSTOMERS .................................................................................................................................................. 10 2 A WORD FROM THE DIRECTOR GENERAL “Splashing of water is easy, but it is difficult to collect it.” Chinese Proverb More than a half thousand years ago Lithuanian towns started to centralise supply of water to their inhabitants. Most of us see the drinking-water supply and waste water collection as a daily matter-of-course thing; however, the reliable provision of these services requires sophisticated engineering equipment, operating water supply and waste water collection networks and skilled professionals of this field. UAB VILNIAUS VANDENYS is the largest and oldest water management company in Lithuania supplying water to Vilnius City as well as Vilnius, Švenčionys and Šalčininkai Districts. Our mission is to create a value to our customers by reliable supply of high quality drinking water and application of environmental requirements to the collection and treatment of waste water. We follow the principles of social responsibility – respect to human rights, commitment to environmental protection, improvement of the society. First of all, the principles are followed by employees of the Company, but we also seek to educate our consumers by improving their public consciousness and responsible consumption of natural resources. In 2011, the Company implemented a number of projects. In order to ensure the top quality of our services we annually invest into development and modernisation of our facilities and networks. Old and worn water supply and waste water networks are regularly rehabilitated, new pipelines of water supply and waste water networks are laid. In 2011 we were working on six projects partially funded from the Cohesion Fund of the European Union. One of the projects – the Neris River Basin Investment Programme, 1st Stage – has been completed, while implementation of two others – Extension of Rehabilitation of the Infrastructure of the Water Supply and Waste Water Networks in Šalčininkai District and Vilnius City – was started in last quarter of 2011. We actively contribute to implementation of the goal set in the strategy of our country, i. e. connection of 95% of the Lithuania‟s population to the centralised water supply and waste water networks by 2015. Responding to a changing economical environment, rehabilitation, extension, modernisation and development of water and waste water management require large financial resources. Although support from EU funds, funding from state and municipal budgets and Company‟s resources are used for that, they are not sufficient. Therefore, in autumn of 2011, for the first time in 10 years the price of cold drinking water was increased by 0.15 LTL/m³ and a new sales fee (subscription fee) was introduced. Until then we have been the only water management company in Lithuania, which did not apply such fee. Although the price of water supply and waste water management has increased, it is still the smallest if compared to other cities and towns of Lithuania. In 2011, we changed our management structure, which enabled to optimise the work of the Company. The Company reduced the number of its departments, divisions and subdivisions. Upon review and assessment of all job positions it was decided to decrease the number of the employees by 5%. In order to increase efficiency of the activities of the Company we follow the requirements of environment protection and quality management systems in accordance with the standards LST EN ISO 14001 and LST EN ISO 9001. Certified management systems allow the Company to ensure the internal order of organisation, to improve the servicing of customers and to implement one of the key goals of the Company – provide every consumer with the safe and high quality underground water. In the rest of the world consumers are usually supplied with the purified and chemically-treated surface water of rivers and lakes; therefore, many countries could be envious of high quality underground water supplied to consumers in Lithuania. VALENTINAS MILTIENIS 3 ABOUT THE COMPANY We supply drinking water to Vilnius City, Šalčininkai, Švenčionys and Vilnius Districts, supply industrial water to the companies of Vilnius, collect and treat waste water from Vilnius City, Šalčininkai, Švenčionys and Vilnius Districts. We are the largest water supply company in Lithuania, providing the services to the customers located in a few hundreds of square kilometres. The consumers are supplied with underground water from deep wells only. Shareholders UAB “Vilniaus vandenys” is a joint stock company with the authorized capital of LTL 353,133,400. The authorized capital of the Company is divided into 3,531,334 ordinary registered shares and the nominal value of each share is LTL 100. Shareholders Number of shares % of the authorized capital Municipality of Vilnius City 3,366,318 95.33% Municipality of Vilnius District 39,395 1.12% Municipality of Švenčionys District 69,738 1.97% Municipality of Šalčininkai District 55,883 1.58% Management The Company has an approved three-level management system. The management structure consists of General Meeting of Shareholders, Supervisory Council, Board of Directors and Head of Administration. The shareholders of the Company – municipalities of the city and the districts – directly participate in the management process by delegating their representatives to the General Meeting of Shareholders, Supervisory Council and the Board of Directors. Indicators of Activities We work in accordance with requirements for management systems in accordance with the standards LST EN ISO 14001:2005 and LST EN ISO 9001:2008. The main goals of our Company are to reliably provide consumers with water with drinking water, the quality of which meets all hygiene norms, and to ensure that the proper treatment of waste water complies with the environmental requirements. In order ensure a continuous supply of water we operate 50 tanks of clean water, 1598 km of water supply pipelines, 1514 km of which are located in Vilnius City. For collection of waste water and their transportation to the waste water treatment facilities we use 1128 km of waste water networks, including 117.6 km of pressure pipelines and 123 waste water pumping stations (103 of which are located in Vilnius City). Production Indicators of Key Activities 2011 Volume of Drinking Water Supplied to Water Supply Networks 33.0 million m3 Volume of Drinking Water Supplied up to Input Measurement Devices 28.9 million m3 Volume of Drinking Water Sold 25.8 million m3 Volume of Waste Water Treated 42.35 million m3 4 PHILOSOPHY OF SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE ACTIVITIES The Company„s activities comply with the integrated environmental and quality management systems, which are implemented in accordance with the national standards LST EN ISO 14001 and LST EN ISO 9001. Thanks to the efforts of our employees, the Company maintains and improves operation of the management system by introducing new technologies for maintenance and management of water supply and waste water networks and facilities. We strive to be a modern drinking water supply and waste water treatment company, which satisfy needs of individuals, businesses and the society. Main Goals of the Company:  To ensure reliable supply of safe and healthy drinking water  To collect and treat waste water according to the environmental standards of waste water treatment  To provide high quality services, which satisfy needs of the customers  To implement the social responsibility policy in respect of the employees and society Priorities of the Company in Production Activities:  To comply with the laws and legal requirements of the Republic of Lithuania regulating the activities of the Company  To maintain compliance with the environmental and quality management systems, which are implemented according to the national standards LST EN ISO 14001 and LST EN ISO 9001  To reduce the negative impact of the Company‟s activities upon the environment and to continuously improve the environmental protection  To ensure that the water supplied to the customers meets the requirements of the Hygiene Norm of Lithuania HN 24:2003 “Safety and Quality Requirements of Drinking Water , while the treated waste water complies with the environmental requirements for treatment of waste water  To preserve natural and energy resources without compromising on quality of our services  To introduce new technologies for control and management of operation of water supply and waste water systems  To improve water supply and waste water collection systems  To control drinking water losses within the water supply systems  To gradually reduce air pollution from mobile sources The Management of the Company takes responsibility for the Company's impact on the environment and undertakes:  To improve management of business processes and provide conditions necessary for increasing productivity and efficiency of the employees  To provide social security and friendly working environment  To acknowledge initiatives and achievements of the employees and encourage improvement of their results  To annually revise the environmental and quality management policy and improve it  To comply with all applicable standard and contractual requirements and improve efficiency of the environmental and quality management policy Membership Since 25 July 2011 the Company is a member of the Global Compact initiated by the United Nations and strives to be an example to other companies and organisations on how to operate responsibly, to participate in solving environmental, social challenges and to contribute to the welfare of the society by introducing the principles of the Global Compact. 5 EMPLOYEES In the end of 2011, in order to improve efficiency of our activities, to upgrade technological processes, to introduce new techniques, to reduce the costs of our services and to use labour force more effectively, we started transition to the new organisational management structure approved by the Board of Directors on 10 November 2011. All job positions were carefully reviewed and the compliance of employees‟ qualifications to the applicable requirements was assessed. New employment agreements were signed with the employees who satisfied qualification requirements applicable to their positions. On 31 December 2011, there were 916 employees in the Company. The distribution of the employees within districts shows that the largest number of employees is in Vilnius City. Rights of the Employees By complying with the principles of the Global Compact, we declare that we do not tolerate any infringements of human rights, we are against any discrimination and forced labour, children's labour, we do not tolerate harassment of any type, psychological violence, we respect employees‟ leisure time and comply with the laws regulating work duration and overtime work. Distribution of Genders Men constitute a majority of the employees of the Company, i.e. there are 664 men and 263 women. It is primarily due to the specific nature of our activities – technical jobs are traditionally chosen by men. Women mostly choose field of administration, servicing of customers and accounting. The employees within the management line of the Company are distributed as follows: men managers – 90, women managers – 19. We follow the principles of social responsibility and do not discriminate aged employees and we appreciate their professional experience. On 31 December 2011, the age composition of the employees was as follows:  98 employees were younger than 30  127 employees were 30 to 40 years old  255 employees were 40 to 50 years old  323 employees were 50 to 60 years old  113 employees were older than 60 Trade Unions We support trade union of our employees, which together with the Management of the Company solves issues related to the employees (occupancy, re-skilling and salaries of the employees). Collective Agreement We comply with the collective agreement of the Company, which establishes terms and conditions of the job, its payment, social, economical and professional conditions and guarantees, which are not regulated by laws and other legislation. We provide additional guarantees to the employees (allowances in case of accidents, death of family members, additional day off on birthday, payable vacations for studies). 6 Improvement of Competences of the Employees We arrange formal and informal obligatory trainings for our employees. In 2011, 811 employees took participation in such trainings. Moreover, in 2011, 471 employees participated in conferences and workshops in Lithuania and abroad. The Company also arranges internal trainings, conducted by our high qualification employees. In 2011, 340 employees participated in internal trainings. Internship Opportunities We provide opportunities to the students of universities and colleges to apply their theoretical knowledge in our activities and to gain practical skills. In 2011, 16 students completed internships in the Company. Security and Health of the Employees As part of caring for our employees, we arranged examinations of their health. We vaccinated 118 employees who performed their work outdoors against tick-borne encephalitis. We provided the employees an opportunity to examine their eyes in the Company. By promoting healthy lifestyle of the employees, we contribute to a number of sports activities arrange different sports contests, sports festival, provide the employees with the opportunity to travel to work and back home by bicycles. Every year we participate in a free-of-charge blood donation campaign. In 2011, 43 employees, including 22 ones who donated their blood for several times, participated in the campaign. 7 ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION The main goals of the Company are to provide the consumers and subscribers with the drinking water, to ensure collection and treatment of waste water, to extend and develop water and waste water systems and to ensure their safe operation. In our activities we support use of work methods and measures, which reduce costs and pollution, and actively look for new ways on how to reduce negative impact on nature and humans. Preservation of Resources Last year marked the final phase of one of the largest projects implemented by the Company – Construction of Vilnius Sludge Treatment Facilities at the Vilnius Waste Water Treatment Plant. The new sludge treatment facilities will be commissioned and start the full operation in July 2012. The facilities will help the residents living nearby the wastewater treatment plant to get rid of long-term problem – irritating odour outspreading from the sludge composting site of the waste water treatment plant. Since July 2012 all waste water sludge will be treated in closed digesters. The new technology will reduce the quantity of the dried sludge from 200 tones down to ca. 40 tones per day. Participation in Environmental Campaigns In 2011, the employees of the Company participated in voluntary public campaign “Darom 2011” (Let‟s do 2011). During the campaign, which aimed to promote ecologic thinking, social activity and sociality, our employees cleaned the bank of the River Neris in Vilnius City. Moreover, every spring our employees in cooperation with the state enterprise “Vilniaus pilių direkcija” clean the pass of the River Vilnelė and thus contribute to preservation of nature and beauty of Vilnius City. We encourage our employees to travel to work and back home by bicycles, therefore we installed special places for parking their bicycles. 8 SOCIETY Partnership In March 2011, in order to promote consumption of tap water and develop the environmentally friendly water consumption culture, we became a partner of the public organisation VšI “Gyva LT” in initiative “Don‟t Buy Water in Plastic Bottles” as part of the project “Gates: Social and Environmental Business Innovations of ESF and JTVP in Lithuania. Together with the public organisation we started promoting the responsible culture of water consumption. Collaboration with the Society Education. We arrange excursions for schoolchildren, students and other groups of interested individuals to the water supply museum located in the Park of Sereikiškes, Antaviliai Water Improvement Facilities and Vilnius City Waste Water Treatment Plant. In this way we let the society to acquaint with the activities of the Company and present the high quality drinking water produced from the underground wells, which is suitable not only for drinking but it is also considered as a source of minerals. Support. We actively communicate and support festivals arranged in the communities and the city. In 2011, we contributed to the organisation of the Song and Dance Festival of the Students of the Baltic States “Gaudeamus”, the festival of Balsiai community and the Festival of St. John in Lazdynai, participated in the social and cultural project “1st September” and the event of “Gediminas‟ Days”. 9 CUSTOMERS By the end of 2011 the number of the consumers and subscribers of the Company in Vilnius City reached 219.3 thousand, 200.3 thousand of which were living in flats of multiple-dwellings, 12.7 thousand – private houses and 6.3 thousand – companies and organisations. In 2011, the inspectors of the Company had 14,674 visits to the flats responding to the customers‟ calls regarding the inspection, sealing and removing of seals of water meters. For the convenience of the subscribers and customers of the Company, there is a self-service website where the subscribers can declare readings of drinking water meters and print VAT invoices, while the consumers can review information about the quantity of consumed water, calculated fees and their payments. The number of the users of the self-service website increased from 911 in the end of 2010 up to 1300 subscribers in the end of 2011. Upon introduction of the new prices for drinking water on 1 September 2011, the Company started changing water meters in the flats of multiple-dwellings. In 2011, the central dispatcher office of the Company registered 8,906 phone calls. In the reporting year, the Emergency Service for Water Supply Networks received 2,790 calls or 7.3 call per day on the average, while the Emergency Service for External Sewage System received 4,143 calls or 13 calls per day on the average. Water supply accidents were eliminated without delays and without interrupting water supply to the consumers. Website In 2011, the Company started to update its website, where the most important information for our customers is provided in English and Russian; therefore, the website can be used by national minorities. Opinion of Customers The opinion of our customers is very important for us as it is used for improving our services and increasing satisfaction of their needs. Every year we conduct surveys of the opinion of our customers. The customers can easily provide their opinion by completing survey questionnaires at the Customer Service or online at www.vv.lt Accountability for the Society The reports on our social responsibility activities are published on the following websites: www.vv.lt www.globalcompact.org www.globalcompact.lt 10
