2011 Corporate Sustainability Report Table of Contents 1 Introduction 2 CEO Statement 6 About ABM 7 Governance Structure 8 ABM Operational Structure & Service Offerings 12 How We Approach Sustainability 16 Sustainability in ABM Operations 22 Sustainability in ABM Services 28 How We Value Our People 34 ABM in the Community 37 Appendix ABM Corporate Sustainability Report Introduction 1 In everything we do, we’ve earned a reputation for integrity and high levels of performance. Our commitment to sustainability is an integral part of that reputation. This report is about how we ‘walk the talk.’ ABM has produced our Fiscal Year 2011 Sustainability Sarbanes Oxley (SOX) certification. ABM rigorously Report for clients, shareholders, employees, supplier evaluates its control environment throughout the year partners and others with an interest in our corporate for each of its business units, ensuring that our financial approach to sustainability. operations and reporting processes are well-designed, effective and efficient. With 103 years of facility services experience, we continue to serve thousands of clients across the United States Sustainability reporting is an ever-changing discipline, and in various international locations. Over the next couple and as our corporate sustainability programs continue of pages, Henrik Slipsager, ABM President and Chief to mature, so too must our reporting. We strive to be at Executive Officer, will detail today’s ABM, including the forefront of best practices, both inside and outside our recently launched new brand and the Company’s our industry segment. To that end, this year we have transformation towards our new vision: To become the submitted this report for the assessment of The Centre for global leader in Integrated Facility Solutions. Sustainability and Excellence (CSE) an independent, outside entity. CSE’s evaluation is included We have proclaimed that it’s a “New Day” at ABM, later in this report. a momentous time that most certainly includes an unwavering commitment to environmental stewardship. Further, readers can provide We understand that as a corporate citizen and industry feedback on our plans and leader, we must minimize our environmental impact across progress through the channels each of our business units while providing world-class identified at the end of this services to our clients. We are keenly aware of our impact report. Please funnel your upon the fiscal, social and physical environments we all comments, questions or share, and our operations, both internally and externally, concerns to ABM’s Corporate reflect that mindset. Communications team at sustainability@abm.com. This Sustainability Report details the sustainability We welcome your insights achievements, goals and challenges that ABM has on how we can meet our identified within our operations, and it publicly identifies shared commitment to a our commitment to monitor and improve our impact on sustainable world. people and the earth. ABM is a publicly-traded company and thus held to a higher standard of ethics and compliance compared to many competitors in the facility services industry. A critical example of ABM’s compliance is our This report is about how we walk the talk. Introduction CEO Statement Dear Stakeholder: When a company has been in business for more than 100 years, and sustainable building market. With the combined repositioning and redefining that enterprise is neither a strength of our existing engineering business and Linc, simple mission nor an easy journey. ABM Facility Solutions expands the breadth of our client-focused energy solutions for facility Yet, that is exactly where ABM stands today. The Company owners and operators in North America and various is poised at a transformational moment in our long and international locations. storied history – the start of a “New Day” – for ABM’s expanding business, for our nearly 100,000 valued employees ABM today offers clients guaranteed energy savings and for the thousands of clients we are privileged to serve. through a range of innovative financial and technical solutions that, over time, cover the costs of Time of Transformation clients’ investments. Through organic growth in our traditional markets, and We successfully retrofit commercial, government, strategic acquisitions adding new markets and new industrial, health care, educational and other facilities capabilities, ABM today offers more services, in more to help produce the guaranteed energy savings, industries and in more places than at any time in the reduce environmental impact and comply with Company’s 103-year history. government regulations. To mark our new point of arrival, we launched a vibrant Building on this solid foundation, we recently chartered and dynamic new ABM brand and set our sights on a ABM Energy to implement energy technologies designed new vision: To become the global leader in Integrated to help clients across multiple industries achieve the Facility Solutions. twin goals of improving energy efficiency and lowering operating costs. Our new brand tagline – “Building Value” – captures and conveys the tens of thousands of physical assets we service Further, we are leveraging cutting-edge technology while and maintain as well as the asset value we preserve and reducing emissions by installing consumer-friendly electric create through our innovative, client-focused solutions. vehicle charging stations throughout the U.S. We are well-positioned to support emerging trends in the electric ABM builds value for our clients by reducing operating costs vehicle market. while keeping their properties safe, clean, comfortable and energy efficient, through individual or integrated solutions. During the year, we also continued to expand our green cleaning through our industry-leading ABM Green Care™ Building Value through Sustainability program. Our green cleaning expertise and capabilities One of the most significant steps in our transformation played a major role in reaching a multimillion-dollar, was the acquisition of The Linc Group (“Linc”) in the fiscal multiyear global partnership with AEG, one of the world’s first quarter of 2011. Linc is a leading provider of technical leading sports and entertainment presenters. business services, operating in multiple countries, AEG is committed to environmentally safe products and servicing more than one billion square feet of space and practices at its many premier venues around the world, maintaining and managing the core infrastructure of more and pursues Leadership in Energy and Environmental than 25,000 client facilities worldwide. Design (LEED) certification. ABM today counts more than The Linc acquisition was an inflection point in the Company’s 300 million square feet in its portfolio of green cleaning, capacity to meet the growing demand within the green a key criterion in achieving LEED certification. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 3 Other examples across ABM reflect our sustainability solutions – from our Parking business introducing stateof-the-art solar parking meters and free Wi-Fi access in Galveston following the devastation of Hurricane Ike to our Government Services business providing specialized “environmental cleaning” services to meet the unique requirements of Womack Army Medical Center, which supports more than 160,000 beneficiaries, the Army’s largest population served at a single facility. Thank you for the opportunity to share our progress on the journey. Our Commitment, Our Future All ABM’s businesses leverage technology, innovation, products and expertise to deliver sustainable solutions to our clients. As a major employer and enterprise, we also are mindful of our own impact and influence on our shared environment. In this report we outline our many efforts across ABM to be good stewards of our environment and responsible citizens within the communities we serve. It is for these reasons we remain committed to our participation in the U.N. Global Compact. We are proud to be a part of this strategic policy initiative and to uphold the “ten principles,” along with other dedicated businesses around the globe. Closer to home, ABM’s Board of Directors this year further committed to advancing our corporate social responsibility initiatives. The Board chartered the new Corporate Citizenship and Communications Committee to advise the Board and Management on policies, strategies and practices involving, among other areas: sustainability and environmental practices; green energy; and corporate philanthropy. Henrik C. Slipsager President and As I look ahead, I want to see the “new ABM” enhancing and Chief Executive Officer expanding our internal measures towards sustainability, building on our foundation. I recognize that we have an enormous opportunity to make a difference – as we do for so many of our clients – in the promise of a better planet and a brighter future. Introduction All ABM’s businesses leverage technology, innovation, products and expertise to deliver sustainable solutions to our clients. Report Parameters This report is ABM’s second Sustainability Report and covers activities related to our 2011 fiscal year that ended October 31, 2011. ABM’s initial Sustainability Report was issued February 24, 2011. The development of this report evolved from various internal discussions with key stakeholders as well as a materiality assessment following the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. An index of the GRI indicators and metrics is provided on the last two pages of this report, linking the applicable topics with the corresponding page(s). We also took our commitment one step further this year by submitting our report to the Centre for Sustainability and Excellence (CSE) for an independent audit assessment. Finally, we will continue to update this report each fiscal year and publish it online along with other key company information found in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which will be made available on our website at www.abm.com. The ABM Corporate Sustainability Report covers the corporate activities and services provided by ABM and its subsidiaries throughout North America. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 5 Organization of this Report We will introduce ABM, our services, and organizational structure. We will then identify our key impacts, risks and opportunities relating to our corporate sustainability initiatives, and the primary stakeholders for whom our sustainability commitment is most impactful. We will also discuss our governance for ensuring we perform with utmost integrity on behalf of our stakeholders. From there, we will take a look at the following: • Sustainability in ABM Operations • Sustainability in ABM Services • How We Value Our People • ABM in the Community Introduction about ABM ABM Corporate Sustainability Report ABM (NYSE:ABM) is a leading provider of integrated facility solutions, which operates through its subsidiaries. Thousands of commercial, industrial, government and retail clients outsource their non-core functions to ABM for consistent quality service that meets their specialized facility needs. ABM’s comprehensive capabilities include expansive facility services, energy solutions, commercial cleaning, maintenance 7 and repair, HVAC, electrical, landscaping, parking and security, provided through stand-alone or integrated solutions. With more than $4 billion in revenues and nearly 100,000 Governance Structure employees deployed throughout North America. ABM At ABM, our governance structure, along with our Code of delivers custom facility solutions to meet the unique client Business Conduct, provide the framework for us to effectively requirements of multiple industries – ranging from serve our clients, stakeholders and employees with integrity. healthcare, government and education to high-tech, Information concerning Governance and our Board of Directors aviation and manufacturing. ABM leverages its breadth is available at investor.abm.com. Specifics on the board’s of services, deep industry expertise and technologycomposition are available here. enabled workforce to preserve and build value for clients’ physical assets. Responsibilities of Board of Directors The basic duty of ABM directors is to exercise their business ABM’s business services include ABM Janitorial Services, judgment to act in what the Board reasonably believes to ABM Facility Solutions, ABM Parking Services (formerly be in the best interests of ABM and its stockholders. The Ampco System Parking) and ABM Security Services. primary responsibilities of the Board are providing oversight, To provide comprehensive services to our wide range of counseling and direction to the management of the Company client types, the ABM subsidiaries are organized by trade in the interest and for the benefit of our stockholders. The expertise and a vertical market focus to reach our clients Board may fulfill its responsibilities directly or through its via our 300+ strategically placed branch offices in North Committees. The Board’s detailed responsibilities include: America. ABM Industries Incorporated was founded in 1909. For more information, please visit www.abm.com. • S  electing, evaluating and setting the compensation for the Chief Executive Officer and approving the compensation of ABM is incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware other senior executives; and is a publically owned company, governed by a board • P  lanning for succession with respect to the Chief Executive of directors. Our global headquarters is in New York, NY. Officer and monitoring management’s succession planning for other senior executives; Shares of ABM are traded on the New York Stock Exchange [NYSE: ABM] . • R  eviewing and, where appropriate, approving the Company’s major financial objectives, strategic and operating plans and actions; The list below details persons who have reported in Schedule 13G or Schedule 13D filings made with the • O  verseeing the conduct of the Company’s business to evaluate whether the business is being properly managed; SEC that at December 31, 2011 held 5% or more of the outstanding shares of ABM common stock. • O  verseeing the processes for maintaining the integrity of the Company with regard to its financial statements and other • Bank of America Corporation public disclosures, and compliance with law and ethics; and • Blackrock, Inc. • D  eveloping, monitoring, and evaluating its own actions and • Franklin Resources, Inc. processes to ensure that the Board and its Committees fulfill their duties and responsibilities to ABM’s stockholders. • Lord Michael A. Ashcroft • State Street Corporation In discharging its responsibilities and duties, the Board • The Theodore Rosenberg Trust is empowered to investigate any matter brought to its • Vanguard Group, Inc. attention that it determines to be within the scope of its authority with full access to all books, records, facilities • Wells Fargo & Company About ABM and personnel of the company. The Board has the power Committee. Since our last report, the Board chartered the to retain consultants, outside counsel or other experts as Corporate Citizenship & Communications Committee. the Board may deem appropriate in its sole discretion, and The new Committee recognizes, formalizes and expands the shall receive funding from the Company to engage such commitment of the Board and Management to ensuring that advisors, and have sole authority to approve related fees ABM remains focused on its responsibilities as a corporate and retention terms. citizen, community member and engaged partner with the Company’s many stakeholders, internally and externally. The Board of Directors has delegated certain of its responsibilities to its committees. The Board of Specifically, the Corporate Citizenship & Communications Directors has delegated to the Chief Executive Officer, Committee will act in an advisory capacity to the Board and working with the other executive officers of ABM, the Management as well as provide Board-level oversight with authority and responsibility for managing the business respect to policies, strategies and practices including, but of ABM in a lawful and ethical manner, consistent with not limited to: the standards, policies and procedures of ABM, and • Employee Diversity in accordance with any specific plans, instructions or • S ustainability and environmental and directions of the Board. The Chief Executive Officer green energy issues and the other executive officers are required to seek • Crisis management planning and communications the advice and, in appropriate situations, the approval • Public affairs, public policy and government relations of the Board with respect to certain major decisions in • Political action committee activities, if any both the ordinary and extraordinary course of business. ABM operates with a separate Chairman of the Board • Marketing, branding and communications and Chief Executive Officer. • Corporate philanthropy • Tone at the top, except as addressed by the Ethical Conduct Audit Committee Directors shall act at all times in accordance with the • Shareholder proposals that may relate to government requirements of ABM’s Code of Business Conduct, which relations or public policy as delegated by the shall be applicable to each director and employee of governance Committee, which typically provides the Company in connection with his or her activities on oversight and advice on shareholder proposals behalf of or relating to ABM. This obligation includes adherence to ABM’s policies with respect to conflicts of interest, confidentiality, protection of ABM’s assets, ABM Operational Structure ethical conduct in business dealings and respect for and Service Offerings and compliance with applicable law. Any waiver of the requirements of the Code of Business Conduct with ABM has a variety of divisions and operating units within respect to any individual director must be approved by them; they are listed below: the Board of Directors. Stock Ownership ABM Janitorial Services is led by Jim McClure, Executive The Board is committed to fostering compensation Vice President, ABM, and President, ABM Janitorial Services. programs and policies designed to encourage ownership of ABM Janitorial Services has a number of subsidiaries, along ABM stock by directors and executive officers over the long with a wide variety of service offerings. term. In addition, the Board has adopted stock ownership ABM Janitorial subsidiaries include: guidelines for directors and certain senior executives. In • Diversco Integrated Services the view of the Board, such programs will help align the interests of ABM’s directors and executive officers with • OneSource Landscape & Golf those of our stockholders. • Southern Management • Sterling Services Board of Directors Committee Added in Fiscal Year 2011 One exciting and relevant change to ABM’s governance structure is the addition of a new Board of Directors ABM Corporate Sustainability Report ABM Janitorial service offerings include: ABM Facility Solutions service offerings include: • Blind cleaning • Integrated Facility Solutions • Clean room services • Electrical • Computer room cleaning ₋₋ Electrical service • Construction clean up ₋₋ Electrical testing • Medical waste disposal • HVAC & Mechanical 9 • Escalator cleaning ₋₋ Emergency service & repair • Food service sanitation ₋₋ Energy service and/or retrofit projects • Golf course maintenance ₋₋ Service agreements • Green cleaning • Maintenance & Repair • Irrigation ₋₋ On-site maintenance • Landscaping ₋₋ Mobile maintenance • Light industrial cleaning • Clinical Engineering • Pressure washing • Production line support ABM Parking Services • Recycling services (Formerly Ampco System Parking) is led by Mark Muglich, • Restroom sanitation President, ABM Parking Services. ABM Parking Services • Special event services offers parking and transportation services. • Snackfood & bakery operations ABM Parking Services subsidiary: • Surface floor care • Healthcare Parking Systems of America (HPSA) • Window cleaning ABM Parking Services offerings include: • Parking management ABM Facility Solutions is led by Tracy Price, Executive Vice President, ABM, and President, ABM Facility Solutions. • Shuttle transportation services Within ABM Facility Solutions, there are five primary • S ignage, graphics and aesthetic enhancement recommendations divisions – and certain operating units within those divisions. ABM Facility Solutions include: • Stack parking programs • ABM Building & Energy Solutions • Valet parking ₋₋ ABM Building Solutions • ADA compliance review ₋₋ ABM Building Services • On and off-street meter collections ₋₋ ABM Electrical Solutions • Comprehensive audits of procedures and revenue accounting ₋₋ ABM Electrical Power Solutions • Consulting on pre-construction design and ₋₋ ABM Electrical Power Services layout of parking facilities ₋₋ ABM Health • Client parking operations satisfaction surveys • ABM Franchising Group • Assistance in preparing schedules used in due diligence ₋₋ Linc Service Network • Parking enforcement ₋₋ Greenhomes America • Parking utilization analysis ₋₋ ABM Electrical Network • Rate analysis and recommendations ₋₋ TEGG Current Safe • R evenue control equipment recommendation and • ABM Facility Services supervision of installation • ABM Government Services • R evenue enhancement programs through new and innovative services • ABM International About ABM ABM Security Services Data at a Glance is led by Chris Hansen, President, ABM Security Services. The following selected financial data is derived from ABM Security Services has a variety of security offerings. ABM’s consolidated financial statements as of October ABM Security Services subsidiaries: 31, 2011. This information should be read in conjunction with our financial reports such as the Annual Report on • Silverhawk Investigations Form 10-K and other periodic and current reports that • Elite Protection Services we file with the SEC from time to time, which are available here. Our common stock is listed on the New ABM Security Services service offerings include: York Stock Exchange [NYSE: ABM]. • Uniformed, unarmed and plainclothes security services Once again, ABM participated this year in the Carbon • Background checks and investigative services Disclosure Project [www.cdproject.net], which operates as the • Concierge and receptionist services world’s largest global climate change reporting system. • Patrol and alarm response Stated emissions are based upon current data acquired as well as estimated assumptions based on historical • Security consulting, system design, security surveys data collected. • Security trained support personnel • Special events coverage and crowd control • Ushers and ticket takers • Workplace violence solutions • Access control Significant Changes This Year In the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, ABM acquired The Linc Group (“Linc”). Linc, which is now fully integrated under the ABM name, is a leading provider of technical business services – operating in multiple countries, servicing more than one billion square feet of space and maintaining and managing the core infrastructure of more than 25,000 client facilities worldwide. The acquisition transformed our engineering and energy business overnight. In combining ABM’s existing engineering operations with the acquired Linc business to form our Facility Solutions division, we brought together two entities which generated revenues of $900 million in FY 2011. Speaking to sustainability, by harnessing the strength of these two entities, we are now better-positioned than ever to deliver leading client solutions to meet the global drive towards green buildings and energy efficiency. Our leadership in sustainability solutions is reflected through our client services. We retrofit commercial, government, industrial, health care, educational and other facilities to help produce energy savings, reduce environmental impact and comply with government regulations. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report Units FY 2011 FY2010 Financial Revenue Thousands 4,246,842 3,495,747 Operating Profit Thousands 117,568 108,839 Operating Profit 11 as a percent of Annualized Sales Percent 2.77% 3.10% Net Income Thousands 68,504 64,121 Stock Common Stock High Dollars 27.14 23.00 Common Stock Low Dollars 17.29 17.94 Dividends declared per Share Dollars 0.56 0.54 Registered holders (as of 12/9/11) 3,701 2,883 Note: ABM does not receive any significant financial assistance from any host government. Our leadership in sustainability solutions is reflected through our client services. About ABM how we approach sustainability ABM Corporate Sustainability Report As an industry leader, ABM recognizes the ever-growing necessity to maintain transparency and accountability in sustainability reporting. As such, we have addressed corporate sustainability within our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework. 13 Risks and Opportunities As part of ABM’s Enterprise Risk Management All ABM business units are analyzed for risk, susceptibility framework, the ABM risk portfolio is initially identified for fraud and compliance by our ERM program, internal through a structured interview process with senior audit and the SOX team. management. Risks in the portfolio are then evaluated with impact and probability risk rating scales by Risk ABM has reviewed our risks and opportunities related to owners – Risks are reviewed by the Risk Committee, climate change and emission regulation changes, listing which is comprised of cross-divisional and functional the outcomes of these reviews in our Carbon Disclosure leadership. The Risk Committee agrees on the ranking Project Supply Chain submission (www.cdproject.net). of our company’s key enterprise risks and sub-risks, These risks and opportunities primarily revolve around risk-owner roles, responsibilities and identification clients reacting to carbon regulations by changing their and next steps. employee totals and, thus, densities within existing buildings, closing buildings as a result of those changes ABM has moved forward with the integration of and opportunities to improve the efficiency of their sustainability into our business strategy following the existing buildings. four key principles of responsibility in the following: Our service divisions have minimal risk related to regulatory requirements on climate change because our • Responsibility in the workplace relates to a broad range service model is labor intensive, not product-intensive. of items including labor standards, talent management, ABM’s services are performed by our employees at client diversity and inclusion, employee training and safety, and employee health. site locations and we do not manufacture products. • Responsibility in the marketplace revolves around client Additionally, ABM has such a diverse client base from both safety, service quality, responsible sourcing and supply an industry and geographic perspective that we are not chain management, and proper and responsible heavily dependent upon one industry sector or geographic marketing practices. location for a majority of our business, limiting our • Responsibility in the environment is centered on our energy regulatory risk. We could experience indirect exposure to and resource efficiency, reducing or eliminating drains on the such regulations and impacts through suppliers of cleaning environments we share and reusing or repurposing products we use and distribute to maximize their lifecycle. products, cleaning equipment and changes in building • Responsibility in the community is the culmination of the first engineering requirements, but these are a minor risk to three principals as those feed directly into how we affect our business model. the public at large within our circle of influence. ABM has the opportunity to positively enhance the quality of life for our Additionally, ABM is committed to complying with all laws employees and their families, our clients, their clients and prohibiting child labor, including adherence to minimum age customers and even the general public given the diversity of our business model and the scope of our efforts. provisions of applicable laws and regulations. This includes ABM’s internal workforce and our suppliers. Following this model, our multi-year action plan was Financial Implications and Risks/Opportunities created to outline how we will analyze our stakeholder for ABM Due to Climate Change Regulation needs, develop our CSR assessment and strategy and implement various programs and activities to empower our As stated before, one potential reaction of clients to integration and execution. The results of this process are carbon regulations is to make significant changes to their shared following the Global Reporting Initiative framework physical space and/or employee density with that space. and the publication of our annual Sustainability Report. Radical shifts in client employee density within existing space ABM services can dramatically affect our ability How We Approach Sustainability ABM will remain a sustained company, providing value in the shared world in which we all exist. to service an area with the existing labor. Due to climate These additional services are not traditionally within our change regulation, these radical changes may occur within current contract scopes and, therefore, will be performed the next five years as companies that are significantly at additional cost to the client based upon contractually affected by carbon regulation begin to consolidate people, negotiated service rates or via negotiation or through RFP resources and energy consumption in condensed areas. response depending upon the extent of the work being The primary driver of ABM’s costs is labor dollars, and performed. ABM has built and maintains a diverse network increases in density can change our costs to maintain the of offices and employees throughout North America that area at the same service level prior to the density changes. allows us to assist regions that have experienced weather extremes (hurricanes, earthquakes, flooding) from regions Changes in the time required to maintain a more densely not directly affected. populated area may require more labor dollars in contracts, which do not allow for adjustments based upon the building census. Most clients recognize the change in scope and How our Approach to Sustainability has Evolved, allow for contractual adjustments to maintain the service and How it Affects Stakeholders level desired. Our planning department, which ensures Our approach to sustainability integration is based upon accuracy in workloading and pricing of contracts, evaluates addressing known and perceived stakeholder needs. With the changes that these density adjustments make on our our primary stakeholders being clients, employees and productivity and communicate it to our operations and shareholders, people are our number one stakeholder sales teams. category, and understanding the varied and sometimes intertwined needs of these groups is paramount to the Physical changes linked to weather extremes (hurricanes, success of all involved. earthquakes, flooding) do present opportunities for cleanup and building engineering activities that assist clients in ABM identifies our stakeholders as those individuals rebuilding and returning their businesses back to pre-event that can affect or be affected by the Company’s actions. status. Temporary disruptions to our ability to provide ABM understands and believes in the concept that joint service in these areas affected may place temporary outcomes mutually benefitting all ABM stakeholders, strains, but often this is mitigated by our diverse national as identified above, result in furthering the value of the footprint. Changes in temperature extremes can present organization as a whole. ABM stakeholders may contact opportunities to aid clients in upgrading or retrofitting ABM’s Board of Directors and non-management directors electrical, lighting, HVAC, mechanical, controls, etc. through email or a direct letter. Contact information is available here. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 15 With ABM’s service model executed on-site at our in each division/department, and demonstrate how clients’ locations, and often an integral part of our they addressed those stakeholder needs. While several clients’ sustainability integration (e.g. cleaning, facility company activities and programs were already in place or maintenance, energy conservation, security, safety, etc.), recently completed, others were enabled or improved upon our approach to sustainability is rooted in our service as a result of the assessment. offerings. Through listening to our clients’ needs and implementing sustainable service offerings they desired, The results of our CSR self-assessment allowed ABM to our realization of the benefits of CSR became more produce our first Sustainability Report and proactively apparent. The implementation of our sustainable service communicate our commitment and accomplishments offerings quickly proved to benefit clients and their related to CSR to our clients, employees and shareholders, employees (marketplace), our employees (workplace) and while giving them a platform to contribute additional fostered a reduction in the ecological drain through energy feedback. External training has enhanced and accelerated savings, reduced toxins, fuel reduction, etc. (environment). our CSR strategy and helped define an improved assessment. These assessment improvements have Further, while not a carbon intensive company, we made identified the need to begin understanding and addressing the decision to identify and track our internal emission our secondary stakeholders’ needs in balance with our levels using GHG Protocol toolsets and to assess the primary stakeholders. Following our multi-year action Company’s role, risks and potential gains in relation to plan, ABM will integrate the four pillars of Responsibility climate change. We recognized that what we were doing to in the Workplace, Marketplace, Environment and the reduce emissions and risk for clients also worked well with Communities in which we operate into the policies, our own business model goals (shareholder needs) and our programs and daily operations of the company. By employees’ desire to contribute to the shared environment. understanding our past and the clear direction of our future, ABM will remain a sustained company, providing Through the review of several models and guidelines for value in the shared world in which we all exist. addressing and communicating our CSR commitment and achievements, ABM decided to adopt the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines as our framework. Using the GRI guidelines as the basis for our CSR self-assessment and strategy, our department heads learned to formally identify internal stakeholders’ and/or the company’s formal policies How We Approach Sustainability sustainability in ABM operations ABM Corporate Sustainability Report While serving our clients remains our top priority, we also recognize the vitality in environmental stewardship as it relates to our own facilities and operations. The ability to improve our efficiencies while reducing our own carbon footprint is a fundamental principle of our commitment to sustainability. ABM’s large national and now global footprint means we’re within that region and comparable square footage 17 always near our current and prospective clients. With over were used. 300 offices across North America, we are able to cut down on our travel, emissions and time delays. We have excluded activities occurring at client sites (40,000+) as those would be already included in our client’s Each of our branch office locations handles its own scope 1 and 2 calculations as well as the refrigerant leakage utilities. Therefore, we asked our branch office personnel at this time of our leased office locations. to complete a web-based survey to efficiently aggregate the energy consumptions of their respective offices by Direct vehicle fuel usage by type (gasoline, diesel, E85) known fuel type. by gallon for the time period was provided by our fleet management company and the corresponding For offices in which the utilities are included/prorated information was entered into the mobile transport tool within the lease agreement, as well as those for which from Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions reporting. The actual data was not able to be secured with reasonable increase of our Scope 1 and 2 emissions in the 2011 reporting attempts, estimates of consumption from known offices period was due to several factors: With our primary Scope 1 Emissions (July 1, 2010 June 30, 2011) Units 2011 2010 Scope 1 CO2 – e Tonnes 47,683 26,413 Scope 2 CO2 – e Tonnes 10,437 7,679 Scope 3 CO2 – e Tonnes 1,311 1,599 Fuel used MWh 198,195 111,609 Electricity Used MWh 17,653 13,385 ABM’s Overall Fuel Consumption (Fleet and Office Locations) July 1, 2010 June 30, 2011 Fuels MWh Motor Gasoline 181,612.42 Diesel/Gas Oil 7,570.83 E-85 431.43 Natural Gas 8,580.45 Total 198,195 emissions coming from ABM vehicles, improvements were ABM has a national distribution network servicing every made in both the reporting and management of our fleet major city across the U.S. These 47 strategically located to ensure that all fuel purchases were actually tracked. distributors provide an efficient locally-based way for our Additionally, there was an increase of fleet vehicles and employees to order and receive the products used in our office locations from The Linc Group, L&R Group and daily service delivery to clients. These distributors receive Diversco acquisitions which contributed to emissions. and distribute products from our corporately approved Finally, several multi-site, national accounts requiring route suppliers, ensuring the consistency of our service delivery work were added over the reporting year. and streamlining the ordering process. Sustainability in ABM Operations As a matter of good business, we’ve remained everpaid electronically. We have also started the online pay conscious of forward-thinking ways to go green and advice program. We enrolled approximately 2,000 people in the program in FY 2011 resulting in a reduction in the operate more efficiently at our own facilities. annualized volume of paper pay advices printed/distributed of Some of the measures and concepts we’ve undertaken approximately 52,000. This is a program we also will continue during the 2011 fiscal year include: to expand heavily in 2012. • Printing internal documents in “duplex” mode [on both sides of • Building off of our paperless work order management systems the paper], reducing paper usage by 14% up from 10% in the (Corrigo.net) that were already in place, recent upgrades to the previous year. Our current goals include increasing this to 20% systems now provide us with the opportunity to copy multiple in 2012. users on each job order. This enables us to send the work order directly to all key parties (e.g., subcontractors, ABM managers) • Payroll added 13,500 employees to our direct deposit – effectively expediting the process and reducing paper. program. Approximately 43% of the ABM workforce is now Billable vs Non -Billable FY Bill Back Settings False True Total ALL ACTIVE WO# Count 162,426 90,019 252,445 TOTAL WO# Count 162,426 90,019 252,445 ABM IT Continues to Improve our Efficiency Our in-house Information Technology department improved the performance and stability of the entire continued to expand on our “OneABM” initiative in 2011. environment. The initiative, which began in 2008 and is now fully deployed, continues to streamline our communications With such a large mobile workforce, supporting mobility through greater speed and efficiency of internal has been core to the ABM IT deliverables. Nearly every services, thereby creating cost savings and reducing single system can now be accessed through a browser on our electrical consumption. a mobile device, and ABM now fully supports 26 different mobile devices including IPADS, Tablet PC’s and slates The ‘OneABM’ initiative has consolidated approximately from all major vendors and operating systems including 100,000 employees onto a unified enterprise resource Microsoft, Apple, Google Android, and Blackberry. planning system (ERP) and hundreds of disparate business applications throughout the ABM environment. This A fully integrated client portal has been released allowed for a scalable, robust and efficient infrastructure. (customer.abm.com) which provides the ability for our clients to view inspection reports, manage and view the In 2011, ABM substantially increased its virtualization status of work orders, pull invoices online, view on-premise footprint from 74% to 94%, which is a significant reporting (a homeland security requirement) for employees improvement (27% in FY2011) in reducing power demands currently working at high profile clients, pay via credit card, and our carbon footprint. In all, since the launch of upload documents, view all relevant account data and more. OneABM ABM reduced its physical server footprint by nearly 75% by adopting virtualization, improved reporting National accounts receive a single unified invoice for all performance by an average of 800% with high speed services and jobs that ABM provides, as well as electronic storage, and improved server processing times by 28% and EDI invoicing. Clients have the ability to utilize our through new server systems. The environment was built inspection systems to self-inspect their facilities, and in with redundancy in mind, and can grow quickly to meet the some cases we have full and seamless integration between demands of any future acquisition. Despite tremendous our work order systems feeding directly to the clients data, employee and system growth, ABM has continually work order systems, providing clients visibility into the ABM Corporate Sustainability Report status where ABM services a building, as well as to reduce print on-demand website to quickly and accurately update call center and administrative costs for both ABM and our and provide materials to our offices across the country, clients. For a full rundown of our quality control measures, while reducing excessive waste in the process. This allows please visit here. for digital prints of much of our collateral on demand, and in most cases offers online pdf versions of our With ABM’s data growth performing at 2.5 times industry materials for ABM employees, thereby reducing shipping average (*Gartner 2011 Data Growth Statistics), and costs and paper usage in many instances. We also store 19 numerous acquisitions, the OneABM initiative completely offset materials here, when absolutely necessary to print replaced its previous outdated infrastructure and put into and store, allowing us to maintain inventory of printed place a new, 100% virtualized VMware environment, Cisco materials and responsibly distribute or recycle those. Nexus SYSTEM switching DATA environment, IBM XIV high performance storage for database reporting, and new ISeries systems As mentioned earlier, ABM has recently undertaken the for250,000 our JD Edwards platform. most comprehensive and significant rebranding effort in our 103-year history. The foundation for the rebrand 200,000 launch in early 2012 was laid throughout fiscal year 150,000 SYSTEM DATA 2011, as we sought the most responsible practices for creating new collateral as well as for disposing, utilizing 100,000 250,000 and recycling our old collateral materials. Those materials 50,000 include offset stationery, envelopes, letterhead, brochures, 200,000 forms, old tradeshow booth materials and much more. 150,000 0 Prior to the launch of the new brand, ABM’s offset printer 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Data (GB) 30,000 60,000 85,000 140,000 205,000 was instructed to distribute all existing printed collateral 100,000 (upon request) to offices across the country in an effort 50,000 to use up materials we have developed and accumulated. 0 Concurrent to our responsible management of our 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 existing branding collateral, we began thinking of ‘greener’ Data (GB) 30,000 60,000 85,000 140,000 205,000 processes for our new collateral materials. Examples of those include: USERS • Covers/backs printed on materials made with recycled water bottles – available print-on-demand 6,500 • Cover sets and tabs 5,800 • F  orest Stewardship Council (FSC) Chain of Custody (COC) certified 5,100 USERS • Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) certified 4,400 • Binders 6,500 3,700 • Wrap and liner is 10% post-consumer FSC certified 5,800 • Board is recovered board and FSC certified 3,000 5,100 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 • Matt film is eco biodegradable Users 3,300 4,500 4,600 5,172 6,552 4,400 • Metal can be removed and recycled • We are printing all proposals double-sided 3,700 • Increase in on-line bids has helped reduce the number 3,000 of hard copies distributed via various shipping methods Responsible 2007 Marketing 2008 Practices 2009 2010 2011 around the country Users 3,300 4,500 4,600 5,172 6,552 Maintaining the twin goals of consistently and accurately depicting our services and brand while reducing costs and resources to do so remained a primary focus for the ABM Marketing department in 2011. ABM is utilizing a Sustainability in ABM Operations Additional ways we are sustainably marketing include: • Application for and ongoing maintenance and documentation of company trademarks that are properly applied for and • We continue to update our website to provide managed by our Corporate Marketing and Legal departments comprehensive information. through the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office. • We are leveraging technological marketing practices versus • Copyrighting of all marketing communications on the company traditional methods, including QR codes in lieu of collateral; website, which includes industry expert articles/white papers search engine optimization and pay-per-click methods rather and sustainability processes. than direct mail; social media; print-on-demand website, as mentioned before. • The truthful depiction of safety and health practices in images (e.g., of ABM employees in action) used for marketing communications. ABM’s business-to-business marketing practices continue • Adhering to ABM’s data privacy protection policy, which to be compliant with the ICC International Code of discloses data collection methods (i.e., data collected automatically, “cookie,” volunteered information). Advertising, where applicable, as it relates to advertising The policy is posted on the company web site. and marketing communication in its entirety. This includes: Environmentally responsible marketing communications • Responsible messaging (i.e., legal, decent, honest and truthful) defined for the appropriate targeted audiences. printing practices which include: • P  rinting smaller digital quantities on recycled Mohawk 50/10 • Sourced technical data and statistics that are substantiated, paper, manufactured entirely with green e-certified windand include the ABM brand name, value proposition, and generated electricity via our online print-on-demand system. contact information. • O  ur partnering with offset printers who are Forest • An established review process by Corporate Marketing, Legal, Stewardship Council (FSC) certified for paper manufacturing internal subject-matter-experts and executive management and printing processes. This is displayed thru the FSC for ensuring the company represents itself appropriately and certification logo on applicable marketing communications. with goodwill. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 21 ABM’s large ABM has no reported incidents of non-compliance with national and now regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and global footprint means sponsorship, by type of outcomes. we’re always near Looking Forward to 2012 our current and We have a number of initiatives already underway for 2012 that we believe will yield promising results in our prospective clients. sustainability mission. Some of those include: • We will be coordinating with our offset print inventory storage provider to track recycling for offset materials that cannot be used. • Recycling will also include the existing 20x30 booth we have been using for tradeshows; we have also been in discussions with a certain higher education institution about donating this to them in 2012. • NanoShapes circular digital signage for the new brand – Eco friendly – this is being designed as a green alternative. One display draws about as much power as a household appliance and can be plugged directly into a normal 110-volt wall socket. Additionally, NanoShapes displays are made from up to 50% reclaimed material and can be completely recycled. Sustainability in ABM Operations sustainability in ABM services ABM Corporate Sustainability Report By assisting our clients in identifying and mitigating their sustainability risks and opportunities, we help them positively improve their sustainability and interaction with the environment. As a facility solutions provider, our primary assistance services that improve operating efficiencies, reduce energy in emission reduction activity relates to the provision of consumption and lower overall operational costs of critical environmentally sustainable service offerings for clients, facilities, installations and buildings in the government, 23 aiding their own emission reduction strategies. commercial and residential markets. ABM Green Care™ ABM Energy The ABM Green Care™ program, originally implemented With rising energy costs having profoundly negative in 2006, is currently green cleaning more than 300 million impacts on many businesses, governments and individuals square feet of building space. The ABM Green Care™ around the world, organizations must be prepared to program includes the following: weather the difficulties of escalating utility costs. ABM • Cleaning products with reduced volatile organic compounds Energy is our new energy-technology epicenter for clients and business partners. We are able to optimize energy • Post-consumer recycled paper products efficiency for clients’ and partners’ properties through • Client assistance for recycling activities expertise across multiple disciplines: • Daytime cleaning to reduce energy consumption • Supply-side energy contracts (electricity and natural gas) • Leading-edge technology and cloud-based building As a member of the U.S. Green Building Council [USGBC], automation we continue to offer specific products and procedures for • Regional variances in regulated and deregulated utility markets buildings to maintain certification through the Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design [LEED] Rating system. • Demand response programs • Demand-side energy efficiency assessments and improvements Sum of Gross Square Footage (in million) • Electrical, lighting, HVAC, mechanical, controls and Leed Certified 138,800 engineering trade experience Initial Phase 98,100 • Energy monitoring and energy management Leed Registered 74,300 Grand Total 311,200 Number of LEED Certified Buildings 271 Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Further emphasizing our commitment to providing dependable, advanced energy-related services, ABM began Facility Solutions installing electric vehicle charging stations at certain client We also directly assist clients seeking to reduce their locations around the country. Read the following press carbon footprint, energy consumption and energy costs release to learn about how ABM installed EV Charging through a range of energy management solutions – from stations for a client in Southern California in 2011. analysis and audits to commissioning and maintaining engineering-efficiency systems. Additionally, read this press release to learn about how ABM installed Electric Vehicle Charging Stations at another Our acquisition of The Linc Group early in the 2011 fiscal Southern California location in Laguna Beach. year has significantly expanded our client offerings. The Linc Group provides end-to-end integrated facility Sustainability in ABM Services Energy Performance Metrics table Energy Performance for Existing Buildings Most Recent 12 Months EPA’s Portfolio Manager How many of your customers’ buildings have you benchmarked through EPA’s Portfolio Manager? (Energy Performance Scores or EUIs) 425* How many of these buildings were benchmarked more than once? 201** What percentage of all your customers’ buildings have you benchmarked through EPA’s Portfolio Manager? 47%* How many of your customers’ buildings have received the ENERGY STAR Label? 201** Continuous Improvement of Building Energy Performance Most Recent 12 Months EPA’s Portfolio Manager How many buildings improved their energy performance rating score by 10 points or more? 2 What percentage of all your customers’ buildings have improved their energy performance rating by 10 points or more? .5% ENERGY STAR Leaders – Continuous Improvement of Portfolio-wide Energy Performance in Buildings Most Recent 12 Months EPA’s Portfolio Manager How many of your customers’ portfolios have improved their energy performance rating by 10 points or more? 0 How many of your customers’ portfolios have an average energy performance rating of 75 or better? 4*** * Where ABM is contracted to do so, ABM benchmark’s the buildings. In addition, ABM labels all of the buildings that we are contracted to label, if they qualify. ** ABM continuously benchmarks most of the buildings in our portfolio. Many of the buildings in our portfolio qualify for automated benchmarking. The 201buildings represent the number of buildings that have been labeled by ABM in the past 12 months. These buildings required an on-site visit by a licensed professional engineer (ABM Energy Services), which includes benchmarking the building again. *** ABM has six main portfolios in place for our largest clients, one of which is Glenborough. Energy Star Partner of Year Comparative Energy Performance Report Facilities included: All Number of facilities in report: 414* Year ending Year ending 10/2010 10/2011 Change Total Floorspace (sq. ft.) 93,577,672 93,478,765 -98,907 Average Rating 85 85 0 Number of Facilities with a Rating 258 120 -138 Number of Non-ratable Facilities* 156 294 138 Total Site Energy Use (kBtu) 4,407,675,197 1,807,533,938 -2,600,141,259 Total Weather Normalized Source Energy Use (kBtu) 17,036,532,102 13,895,827,824 -3,140,704,278 Average Weather Normalized Source Energy Intensity (kBtu/Sq. Ft.) 182.1 148.7 -33.4 Average Site Energy Intensity (kBtu/Sq. Ft.) 47.1 19.3 -27.8 Total Site Electric Use (kWh) 1,069,903,988 451,098,512 -618,805,476 Total Site Natural Gas Use (Therms) 5,864,465 2,424,670 -3,439,796 Average Actual Annual Source Energy Intensity (kBtu/Sq. Ft.) 138.9 58 -80.9 *Non-ratable buildings are defined as buildings that currently are ineligible to receive the ENERGY STAR rating due to its operating characteristics and/or building type. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 25 Sustainability in ABM Services Looking Forward City of Galveston, Texas Recently, ABM announced the formal charter of ABM (Case Study) – Parking In 2008, Hurricane Ike devastated Galveston’s Historic Energy to implement energy technologies that are designed District, flooding nearly 75% of the Texas island, wrecking to reduce clients’ energy consumption and operating its tourist-based economy. Amidst the devastation, costs and to meet the growing demand within the green every parking meter in the City was destroyed by saltsustainable building market. water infiltration. ABM Energy will work across all of the Company’s ABM’s Ampco System Parking worked with Galveston to businesses to identify and deploy technologies and rebuild the parking infrastructure, implementing a highsolutions that drive energy efficiency and sustainability – tech, cost-effective, tourist-friendly solution. Ampco from state-of-the art building improvements and electric installed a system featuring 100 solar-powered meters vehicle charging stations to renewable energy sources and that communicate wirelessly with each other to provide cogeneration systems. real-time monitoring, while giving visitors the convenience of remotely paying for parking from any City meter, parking ABM Parking Services station, or cell phone. In addition, the meters provide public ABM Parking Services implements a number of Green Wi-Fi access city-wide—providing a convenient, free entry Care™ solutions, such as: point for Internet access to visitors. • ABM Parking Services and subsidiary Healthcare Parking Systems (HPSA) offers discounted parking for people who Alicia Cahill, City of Galveston: “Ampco’s assistance in share rides or participate in van pools. restoring parking and implementing this state-of-the-art, customer-focused program—(while) delivering public • Flex fuel and alternative fuel vehicles—more than half of Internet access downtown—is an important part of the our shuttles use natural gas or propane, running 11 million rebuilding of our historic downtown.” miles a year. • Vehicle washing (including water reclamation systems) ABM Security Services according to local environmental regulations. Our security offerings have a two-pronged sustainability approach • Motion sensitive light switches in the parking and office storage areas. The motion sensitive switches automatically We seek the highest trained professionals in the industry, shut off lights if there is no movement in the area for a and we provide clients with leading-edge technology to specified time, saving energy. help them operate as efficiently as possible. Recruiting security personnel ABM is Proud to Partner with the ABM Security Services seeks the highest-caliber talent Green Parking Council available, including former police officers and retired ABM proudly serves as a Platinum Level Partner of military personnel. A significant percentage of candidates the Green Parking Council (GPC), a 501c3 non-profit fail to pass our stringent selection process. organization that provides leadership and oversight for green conversion of parking facilities to sustainable, Training environmentally responsible assets. GPC is dedicated The ABM training program includes a variety of to expanding green parking practices through components and training mediums such as classroom, developing certification and credentialing programs, video, home study, and handbooks. We own a video training open-sourced standards, professional leadership and library of more than 200 videos and also offer web-based, educational development and training for organizations on-demand advanced training. and individuals in the parking industry. New Employee Training After orientation, new employees receive training covering: • The importance of a Security Officer • Characteristics of a “good” Security Officer ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 27 We seek the highest trained professionals in the industry. • Responsibilities & functions the employee understands the correct answers. of the Security Officer Read more about ABM Security Services’ training • Patrolling methodology here. • Report writing Technology • Security Officer safety Round-the-clock technology also helps us successfully • Fire/life safety manage security communications in a near-paperless • Client service environment. ABM’s interactive web-based data collection • Performance evaluations and reporting system allows us to administer our services • Powers of arrest more efficiently. At the same time, we can provide clients with real-time orderly reports and meaningful charts on • Public relations demand delivered to desktops or PDAs. Through the use of this system, we’re saving more than 100,000 paper forms At the conclusion of each class, we administer a written a month. Not only does this benefit the environment, examination that the employee must successfully but it eliminates risks associated with paper forms and complete. We individually discuss any errors to ensure manual record keeping. Sustainability in ABM Services how we value our people ABM Corporate Sustainability Report At ABM, people are our most valuable asset. It has been that way for 103 years. In fact, as we recently rebranded the company and set our new vision, the value of our employees was at the forefront of our thinking, language and approach – including reflecting the image of an employee in the “M” conveyed in our new logo. At the heart of our rebranding is the concept of “OneABM” – bringing together the collective strength of our broad and diverse workforce 29 of around 100,000 employees with deep industry experience and expertise. We strive to be an employer that attracts and retains highly global marketplace it is critically important that the skilled and diverse individuals. Rich diversity has always rich experiences, backgrounds and skills of our diverse been a principal feature of our workforce, and will continue employee population are fully embraced to help us meet to be throughout our future. Further, we pride ourselves the diverse needs of our clients. on being an inclusive organization that promotes a culture of learning, teamwork and mutual accountability. Our pledge to diversity and inclusion encompasses our With over 300 offices located throughout the country, commitment to equal employment opportunity and ABM offers job opportunities in a variety of disciplines. affirmative action. ABM will not discriminate on the basis For more information, visit our careers section on the of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, creed, sexual Company website . orientation, disability, ancestry, marital or veteran status, or any other protected status covered by law. Diversity and Human Rights Sustainability And, as a federal contractor, ABM also has Affirmative Founded on the company’s core values of respect, integrity, Action programs and policies — including proactive collaboration, innovation and excellence, ABM recognizes outreach efforts — which are designed to create equal that diversity and inclusion, and how we treat each other, employment opportunities for all, including individuals provide distinct business advantages. In an increasingly with disabilities, veterans, women and minorities. TOTAL EMPLOYEE COUNT as of 10/31/11 96,819* Employee Breakdown Total % Male % Female % Minority Age<30 Age 30-50 Age >50 Board 9 78% 22% 22% 100% MGT 4128 72% 28% 46% 6% 55% 39% Non-Mgt 92682 58% 42% 75% 20% 48% 31% *This number includes the board members click here to read about the “CEO in Leadership Action Winners” How We Value Our People Employee Training Our Code of Business Conduct ABM is dedicated to maintaining and improving its human ABM’s annual Code of Business Conduct capital through training and development course offerings, and Anti-Harassment Training are which supports overall employee career progression and ensures equal opportunity in the workplace. Various required for all staff and management learning and development programs at ABM include: employees. The Code of Business Conduct • Annual harassment prevention training has been updated to include language concerning the Company’s government • Regional supervisory training contracting activities. The Code of • Management development training Business Conduct training tool also has been modified and updated to include • Civil Treatment for Managers class questions specifically concerning anti• Safety/OSHA standards and procedures at the management bribery and anti-corruption compliance, level and other course offerings at the service worker level political contributions, personal across all divisions relationships, information systems usage ABM recognizes training and development contributes and the overall ethical environment at to motivating improvement at the personal and ABM. Links to policies related to the Code organizational level. of Business Conduct have also been Approximately ten hours of training are devoted to updated in the Code of Business Conduct ABM management level employees, while service level and Anti-Harassment Training program. employees are given approximately 25 hours (on average) of training. All ABM management level employees participate in the goal setting process and attend corporate All directors, officers and employees of ABM and its sponsored training courses in addition to courses offered subsidiaries and affiliates adhere to a Code of Business at the divisional level nationwide emphasizing client Conduct. We give new employees a copy of the code, we service, safety practices, business ethics, professional post it in company break rooms, and each year we require development courses, and contractual training agreements certain management employees to review the Code and are also offered by ABM to its large client-base. attest to compliance with it. Our Code of Business Conduct is approved by our Board of Directors. While our Code Additionally, ABM offers internal employee training and requires us to comply with applicable laws and regulations assistance programs that equip employees to meet where we do business, it is not only about compliance. strategic targets in a changing work environment. Rather, it provides us with an ethical framework for This includes training on how to handle case-by-case achieving our goals by focusing on areas of ethical risk and problems that should arise from any one of our varied providing tools to help our people recognize and deal with clients in each of our divisions. ethical risks; report unethical conduct; and preserve and nurture our culture of honesty, integrity and accountability ABM also supports continued professional development and educational services through tuition reimbursement funding for its employees. At this time, pre-retirement planning for intended retirees, assistance transitioning to a non-working life, and retraining for those intending to continue working are offered. However, ABM does offer severance pay (taking in employee’s years of service) and job placement services in certain situations. A more skilled and aware workforce enhances the organization’s human capital and contributes to employee satisfaction, which correlates strongly with improved performance. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report Turnover Data as of 10/31/11 Annualized Turnover Overall Voluntary Involuntary Enterprise 51.2% 22.7% 28.5% COR-Corporate 19.2% 9.0% 10.2% 31 FSG-Facility Services 35.5% 9.8% 25.7% JAN-Janitorial 52.6% 22.9% 29.7% PRK-Parking 50.0% 21.8% 28.2% SEC-Security 52.2% 28.2% 24.0% Staff & Mgmt 26.2% 11.2% 15.0% Service 52.8% 23.4% 29.4% Bargaining Agreements Employee Union and Employment Status Breakdown Employees Union Non-Union Full-time Part-time 96,810 66% 34% 69% 31% Providing a Safe Workplace Fundamental Philosophy and Guiding Principles Safety is a core value that is integrated into the operational • Minimizing time spent on responding to workplace incidents and post-incident management activities ABM employees perform. From basic cleaning procedures to complicated and hazardous electrical work, • Eliminating expenses associated with ABM or if we cannot do the job safely, ABM will not do the job. client-owned equipment/material repair due to Safety is a responsibility that every employee is expected an incident to take personally, and the Company strives to do its part to see every employee leaves the workplace every day • Minimizing expenses associated with liabilities arising from ABM incidents involving 3rd parties in the same condition as they arrived (i.e uninjured)… Safe In – Safe Out. • Improving client relations, which impacts retention efforts At ABM, safety is a foundational pillar in the culture of ABM is currently recalibrating its enterprise and divisional the Company; when our work is carried out safely it is safety programs to become more in-line with “best in class” often done properly and with higher quality. A safe work models. Updated Injury and Illness Prevention Programs environment improves profitability at each client by: (IIPP’s) are near completion, referencing American National Standards Institute’s (ANSI) Z-10, OSHA’s Voluntary • Keeping our most important resource – our people – at their jobs Protection Program (VPP), California’s IIPP and the international Occupational Health and Safety Assessment • Minimizing interruptions in our work schedules Series (OSHAS) 18001 specifications. We plan to report due to incidents more on these programs in our 2012 report. How We Value Our People ABM Corporate Sustainability Report Applying ABM Standards to Partners Training and Safety Awareness ABM training systems and programs match the needs ABM understands that safety performance accelerates of clients, the responsibilities of employees’ positions, when it effectively partners with clients’ safety 33 and the work environment in which they perform their professionals. The partnership helps improve the overall job tasks. ABM programs present comprehensive performance and strength of each other’s safety and health instruction in the skills required for employees to safely efforts. The results are strong business relationships and and effectively perform assigned job duties. ABM’s a continued pursuit of world-class safety programs. To curriculum also includes safety management training for promote the safest work environment for employees, ABM operations leaders to promote safety considerations in conducts several fundamental safety activities at the job all operational decisions. Training methodologies include site. We: the use of “hands-on” demonstrations, role-play, video and 1) Perform a Site Hazard Assessment at the client’s DVD presentations, formal classroom instruction, off-site location(s) prior to commencement of operations to seminars and on-site training meetings. assist ABM management and employees in mitigating potential hazards in the workplace. Key Rates 2) Create a Safety Plan, based on the site hazard assessment, to address any hazards and provide ABM’s attention to safety in the workplace and aggressive appropriate training to ABM employees assigned to claims management has allowed it to hold the experience the client’s site(s). modification rate (EMR) and OSHA total recordable case 3) Conduct the appropriate employee Orientation and (TRC) and Days Away from Work and Restricted Activity Training regarding the hazards of the job before the (DART) rates at low levels. first assignment is given and then conduct appropriate team and/or one-on-one training as needed. 4) Communicate regularly that if an employee is unsure how to do his/her job safely, or feels the work conditions are unsafe, he or she has the right to stop the work and get the help necessary to ensure that the job is done safely and properly. 5) Ensure that ABM managers and supervisors never ask an employee to do a job that he or she has not been trained to do safely. ABM OHSA Rates TRC DAFW DART Hrs Worked 2009 3.304 1.477 2.465 148,003,821 2010 3.070 1.513 2.321 142,326,786 2011 3.135 1.438 2.429 153,096,731 How We Value Our People ABM in the community ABM Corporate Sustainability Report Client Recognition and how we give back Middle School in Salt Lake and the other traveled to Honowai Elementary. The teams scraped and repainted ABM is committed to operating under a core set of curbs. They also re-striped faded parking stalls, crosswalks fundamental values: and the bus zone in front of the school. ABM received • Respect a glowing letter of acknowledgement and thanks from 35 State of Hawaii Department of Education Superintendant • Integrity Katherine L. Matayoshi for its work. • Collaboration In October, employees from the ABM Hawaii Engineering team participated in the ‘Adopt-A-School’ program • Innovation organized by the local Jaycees. The 30 employees divided into groups to help three public schools with special • Excellence projects, including painting, digging trenches and electrical work. The schools included Jarret Middle School, Palolo These values intertwine to provide a baseline mentality for Elementary and Kaimuki High School. how we operate, and nowhere is that more evident than in how we take responsibility for our activities which impact College Scholarship Fund stakeholders and the environment. In fiscal year 2011, ABM established the Morton-Sweig Scholarship at Pace University. This donation goes towards Supporting Our Communities Pace University’s general scholarship fund. We believe that in order to be a good business leader, we ABM Supports International and American Red Cross must also be a good community leader. We support many In fiscal year 2011, ABM made financial contributions to the different programs and endeavors that help fuel the International Federation of the Red Cross in support of social and economic vitality of various community sectors. Haiti earthquakes relief. Additionally, at the 2011 Building Operators and Managers Supporting Improvement Districts Association (BOMA) national convention in Washington D.C. Through ABM’s business improvement partnership in June, and in conjunction with the American Red Cross, program, we are providing several socially focused ABM sponsored a blood drive by providing refreshments to programs to ensure employment to members of those donors – blood donated went to Metropolitan Washington, communities – ABM operates in 20 improvement districts D.C. hospitals. across the United States. Some of these social service programs include: Our local offices support a variety of charitable efforts. • Homeless shelters Our list of community activities grows and changes year after year as we continue to encourage a corporate culture • Welfare to work of giving. Some of the organizations to which ABM offices • Special needs have donated in the past include: • Veterans • American Heart Association • Court sponsored community service • Habitat for Humanity • Substance abuse recovery • Junior Achievement • Juvenile Diabetes Foundation ABM Giving Back to Schools • Make-a-Wish Foundation Hawaii Public School Assistance • Muscular Dystrophy Association In July, 13 ABM employees formed two teams to participate • Special Olympics in a community outreach day to help preserve the beauty • American Red Cross of Hawaii’s public schools. One team traveled to Aliamanu ABM in the Community At ABM, we promote and encourage a charitable way of life. In 2011, we participated in the following corporate • Outreach sponsorships: • Catalog For Giving • Institute for Irish American Studies • Boston Business Journal • BOMA Membership Directory • Boy Scouts of America • Galveston Chamber of Commerce • Great Friend to Kids Awards • AIR Society • LA Police Foundation • Covenant House New York • Tiro A Segno Foundation • Prevent Child Abuse NJ • Special Olympics of NY • Pace University Leaders in Management Awards • Muscular Dystrophy • IREM Orange County • Boston Business Journal • National Multiple Sclerosis Society • Long Island Children’s Museum ABM will strive to continue to operate as a responsible • DAS Gala corporate citizen and encourage our employees to serve • Danish-American Society the best interests of clients and the community. • Heart of the Hamptons Ball • US Airways Education Foundation Recognition for Our Integrity and Expertise • Rogosin Institute Client Related: • Chinese Opera Jones Lang LaSalle Supplier of Distinction Award • Thomas Hartman Foundation for Parkinson’s Research Third Party and Industry Related: • Pocono Mountain Community Fundraiser • The International Association of Business Communicators • Teeing off to Change Lives St. Jude Hospital (IABC) Silver Flame award in the “Integrated Marketing Campaign – Event Marketing” category in 2011. • TAMFI • The Association for Corporate Growth (ACG) Orange • Linda Creed Breast Cancer Foundation County Chapter Green Award to Linc at the 16th Annual • Children’s Trust Fund ACG Awards Event ABM Corporate Sustainability Report APPENDIX GRI Content Table ○ Fully Reported Partially Reported Standard Disclosures Section coverage 1 Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization about the 1.1 relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. CEO Statement ○ 37 CEO Statement Risks and Opportunities 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Financial Implications and Risks/Opportunities for ABM Due to Climate Change ○ Regulation 2. Orgizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Introduction ○ Building Value through Sustainability 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. ABM Operational Structure and Service ○ Offerings Building Value through Sustainability Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating ABM Operational Structure and Service 2.3 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Offerings ○ Significant Changes This Year 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. About ABM ○ Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with 2.5 either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. About ABM ○ 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. About ABM ○ Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 2.7 customers/beneficiaries). About ABM ○ About ABM 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Data at a Glance ○ Significant changes during the reporting period 2.9 regarding size, structure, or ownership Significant Changes This Year ○ 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Recognition for Our Integrity and Expertise ○ 3. Report Parameters Introduction 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Report Parameters ○ 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Report Parameters ○ 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Report Parameters ○ 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Introduction ○ 3.5 Introduction Process for defining report content Report Parameters ○ 3.6 Boundary of the report Report Parameters ○ 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Report Parameters ○ Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced Report Parameters 3.8 operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Significant Changes This Year ○ 3.10 Report Parameters Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement Significant Changes This Year ○ Report Parameters 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. Significant Changes This Year ○ Sustainability in ABM Operations 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. GRI Content Table ○ ABM GRI Table APPENDIX GRI Content Table 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Report Parameters ○ 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest 4.1 governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational Governance structure oversight. ○ 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer Governance structure ○ 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Governance structure ○ 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to How our Approach to Sustainability has Evolved, the highest governance body. and How it Affects Stakeholders ○ How We Approach Sustainability 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization How our Approach to Sustainability has Evolved, ○ and How it Affects Stakeholders How We Approach Sustainability 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. How our Approach to Sustainability has Evolved, ○ and How it Affects Stakeholders ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Section coverage Direct, economic value generates and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, About ABM, EC1 employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital. Annual Report (http://investor.abm.com) ○ EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. Financial Implications and Risks/Opportunities for ABM Due to Climate Change Regulation ○ EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Data at a Glance ○ Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local EC7 How we value our people community at locations of significant operation. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Supporting Our Communities ○ ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Section coverage EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Sustainability in ABM Services ○ Sustainability in ABM Operations EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. ABM IT Continues to Improve our Efficiency ○ EN18 Data at a Glance Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Sustainability in ABM Operations ○ ABM IT Continues to Improve our Efficiency LABOR PRACTICES INDICATORS Section coverage LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. How we value our people LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. Employee training LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Employee training ○ LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of Training and safety awareness work-related fatalities by region. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Diversity and Human Rights Sustainability ○ HUMAN RIGHTS INDICATORS Section coverage Employee training HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Our Code of Business Conduct ○ HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour. Risks and opportunities ○ HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour. Risks and opportunities ○ ABM Corporate Sustainability Report Employee training HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. ABM Security Services ○ 39 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Section coverage SO2 What is the percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption? Risks and Opportunities ○ SO3 What is the percentage of employees trained on anti-corruption policies and procedures? Employee training ○ SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying Governance Structure ○ PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS Section coverage PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Responsible Marketing Practices ○ Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. Responsible Marketing Practices ○ ABM GRI Table APPENDIX GRI APPLICATION LEVEL CHECK The 2011 Sustainability Report presents the commitments and the achievements of ABM in relation to its overall economic, environmental and social performance, as well as all related improvements made within this period throughout its US operations. ABM has self-declared their 2011 Sustainability Report to be Application Level C+. Centre for Sustainability and Excellence (CSE) has checked and confirmed that ABM has satisfactorily applied the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting Fully Reportedamework, as specified by G3 Guidelines. The 2011 Sustainability Report meets the requirements of GRI G3 Version 3.0 Application Level C+. Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report On: Report on all Same as requirement 1.1 criteria listed for for Level B OUTPUT 2.1 2.10 Level C Plus: G3 Profile Disclosure 3.1 3.8, 1.2 3.10 -3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1 4.4, 4.5 4.13, 4.14 4.15 4.16 4.17 Standard Disclosures Not Required Management Management Approach Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Approach Disclosures for each Disclosures for each Indicator Category OUTPUT G3 Management Indicator Category Approach Disclosures Report on a Report on a minimum Report on each minimum of 10 of 20 Performance core G3 and Sector G3 Performance Performance Indicators, at Supplement* Indicator OUTPUT Indicators & Sector Indicators, at least one from with due regard to the Supplement least one from each of Economic, Materiality Principle Performance Indicators each of Economic, Environmental, by either: a) reporting Social and Human Rights, Labor, on the indicator or b) Environmental. Society, Product explaining the reason Responsiblity. for its omission. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report Assurance Statement Introduction The Centre for Sustainability and Excellence (CSE) was commissioned by ABM to provide external assurance and commentary, and to undertake a third-party Application Level Assessment based on 41 the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines for its 2011 Sustainability Report. The overall goal of this process is to provide reassurance to ABM’s stakeholders that the information is accurate, reliable, objective, and covers material areas. CSE used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 guidelines in order to assess Sustainability Report key elements. The process also involved a GRI G3 Application Level Check. This work included an independent assessment through discussions, and the collection and validation of sample quantitative data for 2011, reflected in the Sustainability Report. Our conclusions and overall opinion have been made on the basis of supporting objective evidence and review of ABM documentation. We believe that our work provides an appropriate basis for our general conclusions mentioned below: Assurance Statement Based on the above methodology, CSE performed an independent assessment of ABM and its underlying structures, procedures and company results for 2011. We took into consideration the fact that ABM offers a diverse set of services and is active through its subsidiaries throughout the United States. We believe that our work provides an appropriate basis for our general conclusions mentioned below: • ABM has a good understanding of its direct and indirect, • We encourage ABM to continue to focus on putting processes global and local impacts across all aspects of its operations. in place for the implementation of its sustainability practices It is a people-driven organization focused on addressing its key and achievement of goals. Specifically, for measuring progress material issues in a sustainable manner. made in key areas related to Economic, Environmental, Human Rights, Labor, Society and Service/Product Responsibility. • ABM is focused on the development of vision, strategy and associated policies and governance processes that, apart • We encourage ABM to continue on its journey towards from integrity and high levels of performance, demonstrate sustainability and identify the environmental, social, and its commitment to sustainability. economic impact of its innovative solutions, activities and business approach to its key stakeholders. • Good practice has been demonstrated in a number of specific internal and external initiatives. • The scope of the assurance was limited to the above and the opinion above has been formed on the basis of, and is subject • ABM has identified financial implications, risks and to, the inherent limitations outlined in this independent opportunities for its activities due to climate change. assurance statement. • ABM has identified requirements of stakeholders and opportunities arising, and has undertaken initiatives to Nikos Avlonas provide energy-efficient services. Assurance Expert • ABM has been undertaking initiatives related to the identification and reduction of energy consumption. • ABM has a high standard for internally responsible marketing programs. www.cse-net.org ABM GRI Table ABM Corporate Headquarters 551 Fifth Avenue, Suite 300 New York, NY 10176 800.874.0780 | abm.com
