Elite Rent-a-Car Communication on Progress Period covered: from 1st August 2011 to 10th August 2012 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer I am pleased to confirm that Elite Rent-a-Car reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our channels of communication. Graziella Zanoletti President Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Elite Rent-a-Car actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In the luxury sector offences to human rights sometimes happen. (Prostitution for example) Elite is particularly attentive to human rights and implement a strict code of behavior. Implementation Elite Rent-a-Car has implemented a code of conduct that has been communicated to all employees. Elite supports Friends of Humanity project to defend sexually-abused girls in Burundi through sponsoring (direct financing and lots for the event) Outcomes All requests from clients or partners that do not respect human rights are not fulfilled. Thanks to Elite support and also to private donors, funds have been raised for abused girls in Burundi. 76 young girls could receive moral, material and medical support. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Since its creation by Graziella Zanoletti, values such as tolerance or non discrimination are at the core of Elite Rent-a-Car human resources policy. Elite Rent-a-Car is committed to eradicate any kind of forced work and to preserve the dignity, integrity and security of our employees, partners, customers and providers. Implementation Recruitment is driven by a skill-centered approach and a principle of non discrimination. Elite also make sure that its providers, clients or partners are not linked to forced work. Outcomes Elite Rent-a-Car is employing different 32 nationalities and even in positions for which men are usually in majority (such as chauffeur) women are present. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Elite Rent-a-Car is concerned about reducing its environmental impact and chooses its new cars among cars using technologies whose aim is to lower fuel consuming. Implementation Internally, Elite has launched a program (Elite goes green) to reduce the environmental impact of its offices. Elite also fosters greener cars when purchasing new cars. Outcomes Elite offices now recycle its waste, use 100% clean energy, separate rain water from used water and encourage paper, water and energy saving. Elite gives priority to less fuel consuming cars and hybrid vehicles. For example the Tesla Roadster is 100% electrical. Elite Rent-a-Car clearly displays the CO2 emissions of each car on its catalog in order to inform clients and create awareness. Elite also supports a reforestation project in Brazil through Friends of Humanity. Anti‐Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Elite Rent-a-Car is committed to fight against any forms of corruption and also ensures the safety and confidentiality of its clients’ data. Implementation Elite Rent-a-car makes its employees aware of the anti-corruption principles they should respect. Outcomes Employees must not accept or pay commissions that are not approved by the GM To avoid conflicts of interest all contract are signed by the GM
