Sustainability Report 2011 Extracted from Lindab’s Annual Report 2011 lindab | case carbon fo o t pr i nt BUILDING PRODUCT DECLARATION FOR CIRKULAR DUCT SYSTEMS Work is under way to establish Building Product Declarations for Lindab products in accordance with the recBUILDING PRODUCT DECLARATION ommendations of The Ecocycle CounGWP cil. The Building Product Declaration (CARBON FOOTPRINT): shows GWP per kg of finished product. 1,3 KG CO2 – GWP=Global Warming Potential or EQUIVALENT/KG PRODUCT greenhouse effect. 45 l i ndab | l i n d ab lif e Lindab’s work with social responsibility (SR) has positive outcomes for the business and its employees as well as for the environment and society. Lindab sees its sustainability efforts as a value-creating cycle, in which the initiatives that favour the external environment and stakeholders also beneﬁt the company. Lindab Life The work to create sustainable development Lindab Life consists of four areas – Business, ners and other stakeholders. The Code is also has always been part of Lindab’s values and Environment, Employees and Society, which used to ensure that the company’s suppliers opsocial responsibility forms the basis for Lindab’s also act as a framework for reporting the comerate in a way that is consistent with the Code. entire operations. The current priorities for pany’s sustainability work. this work are based on a dialogue with the The CEO and senior management are responcompany’s stakeholders. Guidelines regardLindab’s Code of Ethics and core values govsible for Lindab’s work regarding SR, which is ing Lindab’s responsibility for daily conduct ern Lindab’s organisation and its operations. implemented by Group Staff Legal. The work within the field are combined under the conTogether with the UN’s Global Compact, the is executed by a group of employees reprecept Lindab Life. sustainability reporting in accordance with GRI senting the Legal, Finance, Purchasing, HR and ISO 26000 comprise the necessary corand Communication functions. The Lindab Life concept summarises how nerstones and the basis for a strong brand. Lindab should act on a daily basis, and how The data presented refers to the calendar year the company should behave towards its cusLindab’s Code of Ethics is implemented in for 2011 and, unless otherwise specified, intomers, suppliers and other partners. Lindab several languages throughout the Group and cludes all Lindab Group operating subsidiaries Life also governs its behaviour towards emis monitored continuously. The code is based that were included from the start of the year. ployees and the communities in which the on the UN Convention on Human Rights and Companies that were divested or ceased opcompany is present. Furthermore, it covers describes the principles regarding how every erations reported data for the time that they every significant environmental issue from a employee should behave in their relations with were active. The previous sustainability reprocess and product perspective. other employees, shareholders, business partport was published in April 2011. LINDAB’S SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND LINDAB LIFE ARE BASED ON THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES AND CONTROL INSTRUMENTS: Ř ISO 26000 – guidelines for social responsibility. Ř Greenhouse Gas Protocol – guidelines Ř Global Compact – Guidelines on human for calculating greenhouse gas emissions. rights, environment etc. Ř Lindab Code of Ethics – comprehensive Ř Global Reporting Initiative, GRI – Sustaininternal policy document dictating approaches ability reporting guidelines. Lindab reports towards the outside world in matters relating under GRI level C. to social responsibility within each relevant area, based upon for example the UN’s Declaration on Human Rights. 46 lindab | lin dab l i fe Lindab’s work with social responsibility The Board of Directors Goals Control instruments Reports Control President and CEO Group management Priority issues for Lindab within SR* management social responsibility: SR group Finance Purchasing Legal Environment HR Communication r Business ethics r Energy efficiency Stakeholder dialogue Materiality and risk analysis r Climate and environmental impact Stakeholders Suppliers Customers Employees Investors Society r Safe work environment *) SR=Social Responsibility. WHISTLEBLOWER It is vitally important that all employees respond and act when deviations occur from the principles of Lindab Life. A key point in Lindab’s Code of Ethics therefore describes the “whistleblower” function, i.e. the opportunity for all employees to anonymously to report abuses that are contrary to Lindab Life. Notifications have been received in 2011 resulting in investigations and disciplinary action where necessary. STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE S u p plier s Lindab’s stakeholders primarily consist of customers, suppliers, investors, employees and society. During the year, dialogues have been held with representatives for these groups aimed at discussing the issues Cu et y deemed most important for the company. Based upon the exchanges s to S oci mer s in these stakeholder dialogues, a materiality analysis has been completed in which Lindab’s priorities have been decided. Issues that emerged as most important relate to, for example, ethical matters such as antiLindab corruption and free competition, environmental aspects such as the effect of steel on the environment, energy-efficient products, as well as the rs Em Group’s energy consumption and climate impact. o p t es lo I nv ye es 47 l i ndab | l i n d ab lif e Simplifying construction for customers is fundamental to Lindab’s development of new energy-efﬁcient products and services. In most products, steel and sheet metal are the common denominator, which are materials offering many advantages from an environmental and sustainability perspective. Business Lindab’s business is based on energy-efficient Lindab cooperates with the steel mills to better understand how the use of steel and products and services that simplify construcproduce more durable materials, with reLindab’s solutions for simplified construction. Together with sound business ethics, this spect to both the environment and qualition help reduce the environmental impact, contributes to healthy and long-term relationty. One example is a newly developed rust but also, for instance, how their company ships with the company’s customers and to protection, which achieves a better effect can benefit from more effective planning and social responsibility. Lindab’s social responwith half the amount of zinc (which is a limfaster installation. sibility work includes encouraging its suppliited resource). In 2012, for certain product ers and other business partners to strengthen groups, Lindab will begin using sheet steel Product development their own endeavours regarding these issues. with coating systems that are completely and quality All major suppliers must adopt Lindab’s Code free of chrome and that only contain half Lindab’s strives to contribute to simplifying of Ethics and thereby commit to meeting the the quantity of solvents. construction in all phases of the construction associated requirements. Local suppliers are process: in the design phase, of the product chosen whenever possible. Steel possesses a long service life compared itself, its installation and delivery. This forms with other building materials. Steel does not the basis for the company’s product develEnergy efﬁcient products require pesticides or other chemicals to proopment. The goal is to continue to develop Steel and sheet metal are the dominant matect against pests, mould or rot since steel sustainable and energy-efficient products. terials in Lindab’s products. Apart from emisis an inorganic material that does not absorb Product launches in 2011 have included new sions during the production process, steel has liquids. For that reason, buildings incorpodemand controlled and energy-saving indoor a relatively small environmental impact. Steel’s rating a steel frame do not provide a breedclimate, energy efficient ventilation solutions most important properties that help to coning ground for mould or other allergens. Steel for the Swedish “million programme” plus softserve natural resources are its light weight, gives off no emissions that can give rise to ware that helps to minimise the risk of energy high strength and good recyclability. The high hypersensitivity or allergies. Virtually all steel losses in new buildings. strength of steel and constant development can be recycled and steel is today one of the allow for lighter buildings that use less mamost recycled materials in the world. Since people spend a large proportion of their terial. Since steel is a very strong material, a time indoors, it is important that the indoor smaller amount of steel is required to perform In 2011, Lindab launched Think Less, a new environment is healthy and that the compothe same function as concrete or wood. This communication concept to educate about nents used in the building present no health also contributes to fewer shipments when steel from a sustainability perspective. The risks. Lindab works actively to identify and resteel is used for construction. goal is to get the audience to “think” and place anything that can be considered to be DISTRIBUTION OF REVENUE BY STAKEHOLDER Lindab’s revenue in 2011 amounted to SEK 6,878 m (6,527), comprising the sale of the company’s products and services. Most of this allocated among the company’s stakeholders. Suppliers, 67% (65) Employees, salaries inc. social sec. contributions and pensions, 25% (26) Investors, profit for the year, 2% (1) Society, tax, 2% (1) Banks etc., interest income and expenses, 1% (3) Other1), 3% (4) 1) Other consists of items that cannot be attributed to individual stakeholders. This item mainly comprises depreciation, the write-down of goodwill, exchange rate differences and capital gains on the sale of assets. 48 lindab | lin dab l i fe a hazard to the environment or to health. MaReduced Carbon Footprint content of Lindab’s policy in order to avoid terial research and development projects are of Lindab products violation of these rules. also conducted together with suppliers, noIn cooperation with the international analysis tably into surface treatment, corrosion proband engineering company, WSP, Lindab has Lindab has zero tolerance towards corruplems, strength as well as health and environdeveloped life cycle analyses for a large portion tion and the anti-corruption policy is designed mental aspects. of its products. The analyses, which include to ensure that conduct that might be considthe climate impact in terms of greenhouse ered as corruption does not take place in the Resources are also being dedicated to the gas emissions (Carbon Footprint), are includcompany. Our view regarding zero tolerance development of products in order to optimise ed in the building product declarations. The is being increasingly recognised by the marthe manufacturing process, and to reduce calculations are made from “cradle to gate”, ket and is a key selling point. costs and the environmental impact. Lindab i.e. from raw material extraction through to tests and documents the products that are the product leaving Lindab’s factories. The During the year, disciplinary action has been developed to ensure quality and functionalresults of the analyses have shown that the taken against employees for acting in breach ity. Quality management systems are applied content of steel in Lindab products means of ethical principles. throughout the business and Lindab’s larga lower Carbon Footprint than for products er production units all have quality systems containing other materials. Read more on certified under ISO 9001. pages 44–45. The products are supplied with the docuBusiness ethics mentation requested by the various markets Good business ethics are pursued throughsuch as user manuals, certificates and enviout Lindab’s business. Unfortunately, in the ronmental product declarations. construction industry and in the various geographical markets where Lindab operates, The high quality and functionality of Lindab’s certain operators behave in a manner that is products ensure that the risk of adverse efnot acceptable. Lindab has long had a comfects on health and safety are low. No breachpetition policy that is continuously reviewed es have been identified during the year in the and updated. Conduct that breaches comGroup’s provision of products or in the health petition rules is unacceptable. Company emand safety impacts of the products. ployees are informed and trained about the SMART ENERGY EFFICIENCY THROUGH THE MILLION PROGRAMME In order to meet the EU requirements for energy efficient buildings, it is increasingly important to build tight and ventilate right. A large number of the approximately one million apartments that were built in Sweden between 1965–1975 as part of the so-called million programme are in desperate need of renovation and improved energy efficiency. Energy efficient ventilation is part of this. Lindab’s patent-pending renovation system, InCapsa, is a smart ventilation system that consists of Lindab’s duct system and a discrete cover in white painted steel. It is the result of customer-focused innovation that makes it easier for both property owners and ventilation installers, while contributing to a more energy-efficient housing stock. The same occupational group performs all the work and everything is completed in a single occasion, meaning that the tenant avoids having to move out while the work is carried out. 49 l i ndab | l i n d ab lif e Lindab’s modern manufacture of steel products has a relatively small environmental impact. Furthermore, several projects focusing on energy efﬁciency and reduced volumes of scrap are being conducted within the Group. Environment Lindab’s continuous environmental work is The long-term objectives are complementfactory site and the handling of oils. Reports governed by the environmental policy and ed by shorter, more locally based objectives are submitted to regulatory bodies in each agreed environmental objectives. and activities. In particular, this means better country. No violations of permit conditions processes and reduced energy consumption. or local environmental laws have occurred in The direct responsibility for environmental isEnergy consumption has decreased in 2011, 2011 or previously. sues within Lindab lies with the local compabut the fuel mix means that greenhouse gas nies, each of which has one person responsiemissions have increased slightly. Work is in Climate change ble for local environmental work. The Group progress to review the fuel mix, initially with Climate change is affecting Lindab’s operahas a central environmental function with reregard to the Group’s largest units. tions to an ever greater extent. These changsponsibility for the development, coordination es are treated as risks, and assessments are and monitoring of the environmental work. A Environmental continuously being made to identify and preGroup-wide environmental council – with repmanagement system vent further risks. Identified risks include exresentatives from the various business areas – Most of Lindab’s major production units are treme weather with increased precipitation and monitors the business units, puts together accertified according to ISO 14001, with more flooding, as well as longer and colder winters tion plans and exchanges positive examples. to be certified in future. Non-certified compawith the resulting increase in energy costs. nies are primarily sales companies. Energy and climate objectives Lindab’s impact on the environment arises from Lindab has set three long-term objectives Localisation energy consumption and from the consumpaimed at reducing the Group’s impact on the Lindab’s production units are generally sitution of raw materials. Several projects focusing environment and climate. The objectives are ated within areas designated for industrial acon energy efficiency and reduced volumes of based on the EU’s objectives for 2020 and mean tivities, where operations have no direct imscrap are being conducted within the Group. that taking 2008 values as a starting point: pact on biodiversity. The Group reports to the Carbon Disclosure Ř energy consumption will decrease by Project, which measures greenhouse gases 20 percent Permits and allocates scores based on emissions. Ř 20 percent of energy will come from reThe permits that are required for Lindab’s Lindab’s score has improved every year. In newable sources operations normally relate to ordinary busithe latest report, Lindab received a score of Ř greenhouse gas emissions will decrease ness permits for the industry. In some loca70 (62), compared with the Nordic 260 averby 20 percent. tions, these permits relate to the size of the age disclosure score of 64 (60). CONSUMPTION OF RAW MATERIALS WASTE & SCRAP METAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Steel, tonnes 193,000 182,000 Steel scrap, tonnes 14,574 13,590 Total, tonnes 60,084 52,366 Oils, m3 80 210 Hazardous waste, tonnes 635 490 Direct emissions, tonnes 11,895 10,392 Paint, tonnes 446 640 Total other waste, tonnes 4,705 6,340 Indirect emissions, tonnes 23,016 19,798 Solvents, m3 20 20 Recycling rate, % 90 90 Other sources, tonnes 25,173 22,176 Rubber, tonnes 675*) 1,280 *) Partially estimated quantity. ENERGY CONSUMPTION CONSUMPTION OF TJ SEK m 410 7,100 PACKAGING MATERIALS ENERGY 2011 2010 2011 2010 390 6,600 Cardboard, tonnes 1,914 2,130 Total, TJ 396 403 370 6,100 Plastic, tonnes 380 730 Direct energy, TJ 198 170 Wood, tonnes 7,290 11,580 Indirect energy, TJ 198 232 0 0 2009 2010 2011 50 Energy consumption Sales revenue lindab | lin dab l i fe Resource use Emissions Independent inspections of the business show Lindab’s main raw material is steel. 20 percent Transport that no pollution has occurred that may reof the steel that Lindab uses is estimated to Environmental demands are made in the cenquire the decontamination of soil or water. come from recycled sources. Additive materitral procurement of transportation. Consolals are also used such as paint, rubber seals, idation and logistical planning also reduce Waste plus lubricants and oils for metal processing. the environmental impact of transport. The Lindab’s products are recyclable and are Furthermore, the production requires certain majority of packaging consists of renewable easy to separate in the event of reconstrucchemicals and fuels for the operation of furmaterials, which are recycled. tion or demolition. naces, vehicles, trucks and heating. Lindab’s Carbon Footprint studies show that The waste products generated during proWater is used in production primarily for transport accounts for a small part of the prodduction comprise mainly scrap metal, but cooling and cleaning. In 2011, Lindab used uct’s overall climate impact. other types of waste are also generated. The 176,000 m3 (193,000) of water, mainly from recovery rate is high. Scrap metal is recythe company’s own wells. Measures to reProduction cled completely along with about 90 percent duce water consumption include the instalLindab’s operations, with the manufacture of of other waste. Some incoming and surplus lation of water saving taps, as well as recysteel products, have a relatively small environpackaging materials are reused on site. Ancling process water. mental impact. This can be small emissions ything not used is sorted and dealt with acof dust, solvents from paint and metals into cording to existing laws. Energy conservation is an important area for waste water. The processes that can result Lindab. In 2011, the Group consumed apin emissions into water use closed systems, Hazardous waste that is produced includes proximately 396 TJ (403 TJ) of energy, of and air containing dust is filtered continually paint and solvent waste, absorbent materials which 10 (15) percent came from renewaprior to being emitted. No unintended emisand other oily waste. The waste is collected ble sources. Several projects are under way sions have occurred during the year. by local waste management companies, and to reduce overall energy consumption, such there is no information as to whether any has as installing more energy-efficient lighting in Most of the Group’s production facilities are been exported. our premises. connected to municipal drainage. Water that is discharged over land surfaces is runoff and Chemicals In 2011, the ventilation units were renovatcoolant water. This is usually clean but small Lindab uses chemicals in production and is ed in the press hall at the ventilation plant in traces of metal deposits may be present. To therefore affected by the EU’s chemical legGrevie. The coolant in the machines can now protect against accidental discharges there islation, REACH. The business is classed as be recycled more effectively, meaning a reare degreasers and sediment traps. a downstream user, since Lindab neither production in the amount of fresh water conduces nor imports chemical products to the sumed for cooling. Furthermore, the maLeakage checks on cooling/heating pump European market. Lindab’s work in this area chines make better use of waste heat, which equipment are carried out to avoid ozoneis mainly focused on communication with reduces the need for supplying external heat depleting substances from leaking out. No suppliers and customers about REACH reto warm the premises. emissions have been recorded during the year. lated issues. IMPROVED LIGHTING AT REDUCED COST Lindab is working to continuously improve energy performance and reduce operating costs within production. One project that was completed in 2011 was the replacement of fluorescent lighting fixtures in one of Building Components large production halls in Förslöv, Sweden. The 310 fluorescent lighting fixtures were older models of poor quality that used energy-consuming technology. It was therefore decided to replace all the fixtures with an industrial fixture with high lighting performance and low energy consumption. The investment in the new fixtures will soon be recouped. Control measurements before and after the change indicates an energy saving of about 25 percent, corresponding to approximately SEK 60,000 per year at a cost of SEK 1/kWh. 51 l i ndab | l i n d ab lif e Lindab’s success depends on attracting, developing and retaining talented employees who share Lindab’s core values, vision and goals. The cornerstones of this work are the efforts already being made regarding the corporate culture, employee and organisational development, and preventive health care. Employees At Group level, a couple of joint initiatives have work and in their private lives. In Jels, DenThe production unit in Förslöv, Sweden, has been launched in 2011 including the new Permark, all hourly wage earners have received won a prestigious Lean award from “Teknik formance and Development Talk process. This a basic course in Lean. The aim has been to och Kompetenscentrum” and the South Swedis an important tool in the development of both get everyone to understand the reasoning ish Chamber of Industry and Commerce. employees and the organisation to achieve behind Lean and take responsibility for the The justification was based on “continuous Group goals and increase employee motivachange processes taking place in Jels with improvement through long-term leadership tion. Linked to this initiative is Talent Review regard to streamlining production and ensurthat engages all.” and Succession Planning, which supports ing ownership throughout the business. The the identification and development of potenbasic course is partially paid by the state and Preventative health care tial replacements for key functions. In 2011, has been both dynamic and interactive in its Lindab is actively working with preventive these three initiatives were implemented for approach, which has created commitment health care on an individual, as well as Group 90 senior executives, and will then be applied among the participants. The factory in Yaroand company basis. To support a healthy and at the next level in the organisation in 2012. slavl in Russia has grown rapidly since its insafe working environment, employees are for ception and to ensure that key competencies example offered health profiles, ergonomic Local initiatives are met, there is an investment of 26 hours of aids and traditional health checks. Emphasis In addition to the recruitment of new employtraining per employee per year. These include is placed on encouraging employees to lead ees, a large number of local initiatives are negotiation and presentation skills, business an active and healthy lifestyle. This is supbeing carried out at local level from training English and Lean concepts. ported with coaching, some financial supto team activities. Several units have a Lindab port and includes physical activity, balanced Academy with training resources, where sales Focus on entrepreneurship diet and balance between work and leisure. and production staff, as well as customers, Strong entrepreneurship is part of Lindab’s are given training about Lindab’s products, corporate culture and decisive for the Group’s Safe work environment technologies and systems. successful development. At the production Work regarding the vision of zero work-related units in Sweden, it has long been imporinjuries is different throughout the Group. Each For several years, the production unit in Haderslev, tant to encourage employees to make sugbusiness unit is responsible making sure that Denmark, has been working to improve readgestions for improvements. In recent years, laws and regulations are followed and that all ing and writing skills in dyslexic employees. three of the units ranked among the top ten staff undergo training for the tasks that they In 2011, 11 employees received training and in Sweden in terms of number of suggestions must perform. In 2011, a new Group-wide equipment, making it easier for them both at per employee. procedure has been initiated to follow-up AVERAGE NO. OF EMPLOYEES GENDER DISTRIBUTION, % GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES, % 6,000 5,389 Men, 79 (79) Sweden, 22 (22) 5,013 5,000 4,586 4,454 4,484 Women, 21 (21) Czech Republic, 17 (17) 4,000 Denmark, 11 (11) UK, 6 (6) 3,000 Russia, 6 (6) 2,000 Luxembourg, 5 (6) 1,000 Other, 33 (32) 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 52 lindab | lin dab l i fe work-related injuries in order to create commonitored continuously. The code is based Lindab encourages diversity and treats emmon benchmarks and enable proactivity in on the UN Convention on Human Rights and ployees without discrimination with regard critical risk areas. describes the principles regarding how every to gender, race, religion, age, disability, sexemployee should behave in their relations with ual orientation, nationality, political opinion, At the Ventilation business area in Switzerland, colleagues, shareholders, business partners union affiliation, social or ethnic origin. Many the management are working actively to preand other stakeholders. Every employee has units from both the Swedish and internationvent accidents by holding monthly discussions the right to form, join or refrain from particial parts of the Group are making positive reregarding important topics in the ﬁeld of health pation in trade unions or other organisations ports regarding greater diversity. One case and safety, such as the need for proper safety that engage in collective bargaining. Lindab of discrimination was reported and investiequipment and observing safety regulations. makes risk assessments of its geographic gated in 2011. All employees are given regular safety training. markets concerning factors such as oppression, child labour and forced labour. The risk of Human rights such violations is considered to be low within Lindab’s Code of Ethics is implemented in sevthe Lindab Group and during the year no vioeral languages throughout the Group and is lations were recorded. INCREASED ATTENDANCE THROUGH PREVENTATIVE, ACTIVE HEALTH WORK In 2001, Lindab employed a health motivator for companies on the Bjäre peninsula, and in same year Lindab became the first industrial company in Sweden to receive a health diploma from the Swedish National Institute of Public Health. This signalled the beginning of a decade long preventative health initiative that today encompasses the entire Swedish operations and has contributed to substantially improved attendance at work. In October 2011, the tenth anniversary was celebrated at Lindab Arena, with employees and their families invited. In Denmark, Lindab has undertaken a comprehensive health project, funded to 80 percent by The Danish Prevention Fund. The goal was to improve the physical, psychological and social circumstances of employees and thereby reduce sick leave through a variety of activities and contribute to a generally improved quality of life. The project is also aiming to create the industry’s best workplace. 53 l i ndab | l i n d ab lif e 54 lindab | lin dab l i fe Lindab conducts operations in 31 countries and is one of the largest employers in many locations. It is important for Lindab to have good and close relations with local authorities and organisations, as well as initiatives that support and contribute towards positive development in the local community. Society Lindab recognises the importance of asversities and at various job centres in the reinstance, employees from Lindab participate suming the social responsibility expected gions where it operates. In some countries, as guest lecturers at various university conof a large company and aims to contribute before each school year Lindab offers school ferences and research is sponsored relating towards local development. The strong enage children of employees teaching materito developments within building systems and trepreneurial mindset that has long been a als for school and preschool, in order to proventilation. Lindab also offers work experience part of the Group’s corporate culture is what mote and encourage learning. In Grevie and for students at both secondary school and unidrives this commitment at both a central and Förslöv in Sweden, local residents are invitversity, by offering internships and assistance local level. In many places where Lindab oped to neighbourhood meetings, where Lindab with thesis work. In Biatorbagy, Hungary and erates, the Group is a market leader and one provides information about production plans in Yaroslavl, Russia active efforts are under of the largest employers, especially at the for the area and the “neighbours” are given the way to increase contacts with universities in locations in Sweden, Denmark and Luxemopportunity to comment and ask questions. the region through student visits, contribubourg, where the Group’s major production tions to course content and collaborations units are situated. Lindab provides support to various aid orwith various research programmes and profesganisations and local sports clubs where the sorships. In Sweden, through the employers’ Community involvement company is established. One example from organisation Teknikföretagen, Lindab particiLindab is involved in a number of activities in 2011 was Lindab’s contribution of complete pates in Teknikcollege, which is a hallmark of support of local communities. Through colroofing systems for eight newly built houses, quality for programmes in which municipalilaborations with various organisations and as a means of helping families in Dorohoi in ties, education and business work together government agencies in the places where Romania who were left homeless following to enhance the attractiveness and quality of operations are conducted, Lindab endeavfloods in the summer of 2010. technically oriented courses. ours to contribute to a generally positive development and to the long-term strengthenIn Sweden, Lindab sponsors events such Government assistance ing of the region’s attractiveness and comas the Swedish Open tennis tournament in Received contributions amounted to approxipetitiveness, something that benefits both Båstad, and the Lindab Arena in Ängelholm, mately SEK 34 m in 2011. The majority, 59 perthe society and Lindab. An important factor which is home to the Rögle ice hockey team. cent, was national support for reduced workfor Lindab’s commitment is that the majority ing hours, primarily in Luxembourg. The supof the recruitment of new employees, both Education Partnerships port payments were intended to reduce the managers and other employees, occurs in the Partnerships with schools, universities and impact of the recession and to secure jobs in communities where the Group’s units are loother educational institutions and their stuthe country. The remainder consisted mostcated. Lindab is active at career days at unidents occur frequently throughout Lindab. For ly of training and freight support. LINDAB FUNDS TO PROMOTE INDUSTRY IDEAS If anyone has an idea relating to sheet metal work, ventilation or lightweight construction technology, money can be sought from the Lindab Fund and Lindab’s Scholarship Fund. The funds were established in 1984, and grants have subsequently been awarded every year to stimulate education, encourage new ideas and promote research and development within the sheet metal and ventilation industries. Lindab, Plåtslageriernas Riksförbund and Byggnads (Swedish construction unions) are behind these funds. In 2011, the funds awarded scholarships to secondary school classes in sheet metal work for study trips to Copenhagen and Prague, and to the film-maker Björn Hammar, for the production of a film about the sheet metal profession. In June 2010, scholarships were awarded to each of the eleven new immigrants who had just completed a qualified training course for construction sheet metal workers in Örebro, Sweden. All eleven found employment directly after finishing the course. 55 l i ndab | l i n d ab lif e GRI Index Lindab follows GRI guidelines for sustainability reporting, and reports through self-assessment in accordance with GRI level C. Indicator Status Page 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 CEO statement on Social Responsibility F p. 9 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation F Front cover 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services F p. 4 2.3 Operational structure F Note 30 2.4 Location of headquarters F Note 1 2.5 Countries where the Group operates F Note 30 2.6 Nature of ownership F p. 38–39 2.7 Markets served F p. 14–15 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation F p. 71ff 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period F p. 71ff 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period F N/A 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period F p. 46 3.2 Date of most recent report F p. 46 3.3 Reporting cycle F p. 46 3.4 Contact persons P Back cover 3.5 Process for deﬁning report content F p. 46 3.6 Boundary of the report F p. 46 3.7 Speciﬁc limitations on the scope or boundary of the report F p. 46 3.8 Reporting of entities that can affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations F p. 46 3.10 Explanation of the reasons for and effect of any restatements of information F p. 46 3.11 Signiﬁcant changes in the scope, boundary or measurement methods F p. 46 3.12 GRI Index F p. 56–57 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation F p. 59–65 4.2 Chairman’s position F p. 58 4.3 Number of independent, non-executive Board members F p. 59–65 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or directions to the Board F p. 59–65 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Group F p. 18–19, p. 47–48, p. 62 4.15 Basis for the identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders F p. 47 5. MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Economic performance indicators EC1 Economic value generated and distributed F p. 48 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s deﬁned-beneﬁt plan obligations F Note 6, Note 23 EC4 Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance received from government F p. 55 Environmental performance indicators EN1 Materials used F p. 50 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials F p. 50 EN3 Direct energy consumption F p. 50 EN4 Indirect energy consumption F p. 50 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efﬁciency improvements P p. 50–51 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source P p. 51 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse-gas emissions F p. 50 EN18 Initiatives to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and results F p. 44–45, p. 50 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method P p. 50–51 EN28 Fines and sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and legislation F p. 50 56 lindab | lin dab l i fe Performance indicators for labor practices and decent work LA1 Total workforce P p. 52, p. 62, Note 6 LA2 Employee turnover P p. 52, p. 62, Note 6 LA7 Work-related accidents and diseases P Note 6 LA13 Composition of the Board, management and employees by category F p. 62 Performance indicators for human rights HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken F p. 53 HR6 Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child labor and actions taken F p. 53 HR7 Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced labor and actions taken F p. 53 Performance indicators for society SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption F p. 49 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption F p. 49 Performance indicators for products PR1 Products and services impact on health and safety throughout the life-cycle F p. 44–45, p. 48–49 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of F products and services, by type of outcomes p. 49 PR9 Monetary value of ﬁnes for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning products and services F p. 49 N/A= Not applicable F = Full P = Partial 57
