COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) – 2012 PAHARPUR BUSINESS CENTRE & SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY INCUBATOR PARK (PBC™-STIP) “Consume less; share better” 21, NEHRU PLACE GREENS, NEW DELHI 110 019. INDIA T: +91-(0)-11-4120 7171 F: +91-(0)-11-2620 7575 E: qualitylife@pbcnet.com www.pbcnet.com Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. From the CEO’s Desk: Global Compact Compliance Statement “Sustainability is about ecology, economy and equity” We are happy to share our organisation’s Communication on Progress (COP) and how we comply with the ten principles of United Nations Global Compact. Its been our endeavour to internalize the principles of United Nations Global Compact in our day to day business processes. As founding members of Global Compact Network in India – we have been doing our business responsibly and profitably. We also strive hard to encourage our partners to adopt these principles in their respective businesses. We firmly believe that COP is an important tool for reporting & sharing responsible business practices. Though all the principles are intrinsic part of our business strategy, we strongly advocate the principles of Environment, Labour Rights and Anti Corruption. We are indeed happy to note that PBCTM-STIP has further been able to contribute to the sustainable growth and development of its business objectives and in that sense year 2011-12 was a significant year for us. While PBCTM-STIP has played a pioneering role in revolutionizing the office facilities and conferencing concepts, its many environmental practices and endeavours have received a widespread appreciation and recognition from various global quarters. We have always believed in doing our business with a difference taking care of our “Triple Bottomline”. This COP provides an insight in our progress and initiatives taken to contribute to our organisation’s sustainable development, while making great inroads in widening our business Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. objectives and goals & creating economic value for our shareholders – the manner in which we have managed our social and environmental issues without compromising on our core values such as ‘Care for the Environment’, ‘Occupational Health & Safety’, ‘Equality and Quality’, ‘Diversity & Inclusivity’ & adherence to ethical business practices. A number of initiatives have been taken to make occupants at Paharpur Business Centre, more conscious towards environment. We have tried to encapsulate all of this in our communication on progress. We firmly believe that Sustainable development is all about improving the quality of life for all of us, including our stakeholders. We believe that sharing our progress, our way of doing our business, any impacts that our business would have on the environment, society, community etc, leads to corporate governance and transparency. How do we meet the challenges thrown by Climate Change? By adopting clean and green technologies and methodologies, we are able to demonstrate our deep commitment to the cause of environment protection and the way we conduct our business, by mitigating any adverse impacts that our business would have on the environment. PBC™ STIP is the first office building in the country to be USGBC LEED (EB) Platinum certified and a BEE 5 Star building with a AAhEPI We once again look forward to sharing our business achievements with you by way of this report and I hope you find the report useful and informative. Your views and feedback are important to us and we look forward to it, as we believe that we can create value by learning from all our stakeholders and by continual improvement. With best regards and good wishes for a great year ahead Kamal Meattle CEO Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. PBCTM – STIP Service Portfolio Our Portfolio of Services includes: 1. BeAssured™ Security Services 2. BusinessPoint™ Virtual Office 3. CuisineArt™ Food and Beverages catering services 4. Café Einstein™ A fine dining restaurant 5. CleanAir™ Indoor Air Quality Services 6. ClearVoice™ Internet Telephony 7. Deutsches Haus Facilitating German Associations 8. FinTax™ Financial and Legal Services 9. GreenGrocer™ Fresh Fruit, Vegetable and Grocery services 10. HappiGreens™ Horticulture Services 11. IndianSpider.com™ Internet Services 12. Implement™ Engineering & Safety Services 13. LegalSpider.com™ Legal Consulting Services 14. MyBusinessValet™ 15. MyConference™ Tele and Video Conferencing 16. MyInterview™ Rooms, Reception to coordinate interviews 17. MyOffice™ Fully Equipped Offices and Workstations 18. MicroManage™ Property Management Systems 19. MyTraining™ Training Rooms equipped with Computers, Multimedia Projector and Internet Access 20. OfficeSupply™ Office Supplies 21. OutReach™ Training and HR Consultancy 22. PBC-PR Public Relation Services 23. PBC Art Gallery Art for a cause 24. QualityLife™ Quality Management Services 25. Relocate™ Real Estate Services 26. SpringClean™ Housekeeping and Maintenance Services 27. TravelSpider™ Tours and Travel Services 28. Workforce Temporary & permanent manpower solutions Associate Services 29. Moduleone.com 30. Alltimejobs.com 31. Packaging Legends Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Mission & Vision Our Mission To be an excellent, world-class business support services company; committed to deliver benchmarked, quality oriented services to address customers' specific needs, whilst caring for the environment & people around us. We firmly believe and abide by the concept that service excellence and delivering quality service by following the triple bottom line approach and the ten universal principles of United Nations Global Compact must be a key part of the very structure and operation of an organization, and that people and systems in the organization must be constantly tuned to customer needs and to management's evolving concept of service excellence and sustainable development. Our Vision To stand out as an organisation, with passion for quality service, care for environment & sensitive to people around, which inspires us from within to professionally provide end-to-end business support to our customers whom we see as the essence of our success. Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Policies Quality Policy Quality policy underlines the commitment of the management and employees of Paharpur Business Centre & Software Technology Incubator Park (PBC™ STIP) towards achieving quality in service by providing quality services and facilities that consistently meet and exceed customer expectation. To have a motivated and committed team by sustaining a working environment where each employee will be encouraged to excel. The Quality Policy is communicated to all employees for effective implementation and will be reviewed periodically for adequacy & suitability. PBC™ STIP will ensure compliance to all the regulatory and legal requirements and shall strive to go beyond the statutory compliance. Policy is available on public domain i.e. on website www.pbcnet.com Environment Management Policy We are committed to comply with applicable environmental legislation, regulations, rules and all the requirements of the ISO 14001: 2004 standard and the norms of USGBC LEED EB (O&M) certification. The environmental policy has been set up by setting and reviewing objectives and targets periodically without sacrificing quality of life. Under the policy, we strive to create awareness among our customers that Paharpur Business Centre is committed to perform its business and related activities in a responsible manner so as to achieve continual improvement in Environmental performance. In doing so, we strive towards:  Encourage recycling or reuse of office waste.  Conserving energy and water through better management.  Minimising use of non-biodegradable in Food and Beverage department.  Providing indoor air quality conforming to specific ASHRAE standards.  Efficient use of resources by addressing the embodied energy criteria. In keeping with our commitment to prevent pollution, PBC has recognised the four R’s Refuse, Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle. Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. This policy will be documented and training imparted to employees for effective implementation. This policy will be made available to public. Occupational Health & Safety Policy Paharpur Business Centre & Software Technology Incubator Park (PBC™-STIP) a service provider of office and conference facilities & a suite of 28 support services, is committed to provide a safe & healthy environment, to prevent injury & ill health to its employees, occupants, visitors, guest, subcontractors & other interested parties. In doing so we strive towards:  Commitment to compliance with applicable legislation, regulations and other applicable requirements that relate to our Occupational Health & Safety Hazards.  We will implement the health and safety policy by setting and reviewing objectives and targets periodically to control and minimize risks due to OH&S hazards.  We will ensure continual improvement in OH&S management and its performance.  This policy will be documented, maintained, communicated and reviewed periodically to ensure that it remains relevant and appropriate to the organisational OH&S objectives & goals. Training will be imparted to all the persons working under the control of the organisation for effective implementation.  We will strive to create awareness among our customers, sub-contractors, guests & other interested parties for better performance & to make them aware of their individual OH&S obligations. Policy shall be made available to public, if required. Social Accountability Policy We, at Paharpur Business Centre & Software Technology Incubator Park (PBC™-STIP), are committed to performing our business and related activities in a socially and environmentally responsible manner so as to achieve continual improvement, responsive to the needs of the organisation. We believe in the triple bottom line evaluation method in delivering performance  Profit  Care for the environment  Social accountability We believe that “it can be a good business” to care for one of our stakeholders viz. the society and people around us. Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. It enables us to employ and retain great employees. We recognise that people are the core of the organisation and we are committed to pursuing practices that ensure welfare and growth of our people. We shall strive to create safe & fair workplace for all our employees. We shall endeavor to create awareness among our customers, sub-contractors, and other important stakeholders on social issues related to our business area. In doing so we shall comply with the applicable national legislation and regulations and respect international conventions. We will implement this policy by setting and reviewing the procedures, standing instructions and related programs. We shall strive to integrate the relevant principles of UN Global Compact that relate to Human Rights and Labor Standards with PBC™ STIP's worker policies, code of conduct, procedures and SA standard requirements, in order to mainstream the principles in our day to day operations. This policy will be effectively documented, implemented, maintained, communicated, and accessible in a comprehensible form to all personnel, including directors, executives, management, supervisor, and staff, whether directly employed by, contracted with, or otherwise representing the Company. The policy will be publicly available in an effective form and manner to interested parties, upon request. Management shall review this policy periodically to ensure that it remains relevant and appropriate to the organizational SA objectives & goals. Corporate Responsibility Policy Paharpur Business Centre and Software Technology Incubator Park (PBC™ STIP) a provider of serviced offices along with a suite of twenty-eight support services, is committed to perform its business in a responsible manner to produce an overall positive impact on society and environment. In doing so, we shall strive towards: Marketplace Leadership – We aim to run our business in a way that singles us out as a great provider of high quality services and preferred partner of choice to do business with. Our aim is to work with our stakeholders to develop long-term sustainable relationships. Environment – We are an environment driven company and are aware of the scale of impact our operation has on the environment. As such, we are committed to exploring ways to reduce the impact of what we do. We shall take a responsible attitude and lead the way in developing initiatives to further improve our environmental footprint. We shall Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. be fully accountable to our clients, employees and the society that we operate in. We will strive to create business opportunities for our stakeholders and follow the core values, norms and ethics that are in-built in the way we conduct our business. Workplace – We are committed to offering our employees a rewarding and challenging workplace. We aim to become the best employer and employer of choice, demonstrated amongst other things, by current and past employees recommending the company as a great place to work. We are channeling our efforts towards making PBC a fun place to work for. We do believe that people are core to any business and are one’s most important asset and therefore we focus our energies in taking good care of them as we believe that it makes good business sense to hire and retain great employees. The idea is to synergize our efforts in order to create wealth for all. Inclusivity and Equal opportunities for all is at the core of our human resource policy. We are strictly against discrimination of any kind. We are committed to create awareness of HIV-AIDS at work place and have an adequate policy in place to handle it. Community – We strive to be good corporate citizens, we work to support the sustainability of both global and the local communities in which we operate and actively encourage our employees, customers, suppliers to consider the needs of others and involve themselves in public service through public private partnering. We are sensitive to the requirements of the community around us and our business strategies are closely interlinked with their aspirations. High standards of corporate governance care for environment and health & safety, override everything else that we do. Equal Employment Opportunity Policy PBC™ STIP and all its related properties and holdings support equal employment opportunities for all. We are committed to the Ten Principles of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) i.e. Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We Are Also Certified For SA 8000 for our Social Accountability. PBC™ STIP’s Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Policy states that every person has the same human rights and privileges without regard to his or her race, color, religion, sex, age, physically challenged, differently-abled, marital status, national origin or economic status. Equal Employment Opportunity means that every applicant for a job should be considered solely on the basis of his or her qualifications. It also means that every employee should be treated equally with every other similar employee, without discrimination because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, age, physically challenged, differently abled, marital status, national origin or economic status. Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. The company expects full co operation of everyone associated with it, to make sure these principles are upheld. Furthermore, the company expects that all matters related to recruiting, advertising, hiring, training, compensation, benefits, promotions, transfers, layoffs, recall from layoffs, educational assistance, and social and recreational programs and all treatment on the job, be free of any discriminatory practices. It is PBC™ STIP’s constant endeavour to spread the message of ‘Equal Opportunities’ for all through various interactions and meetings with its supply chain and other stakeholders. HIV/AIDS Policy PBC™ STIP recognises that HIV/AIDS is an issue at workplace and would like to address it proactively  PBC will provide a safe and healthy environment to the team members by developing nondiscriminatory policy and programmes on HIV/AIDS.  PBC will provide regular HIV/AIDS prevention education to all its team members and their families at various levels through formal and informal sessions.  HIV status of the team member will be kept confidential.  Any Team Member living with HIV/AIDS will be kept in employment as long as they are in position to work. If necessary, employee will be shifted to another appropriate position considering the health status at that point in time.  PBC will not discriminate against any Team Member infected by HIV/AIDS with regard to promotion, training and any other privileges, applicable to all employees of the company.  At PBC HIV/AIDS test will not be a part of recruitment process or any health check-ups.  PBC will educate its Team Members and encourage them to participate in Voluntary Counseling and Testing for seeking advice related to HIV/AIDS. The committee set up for HIV/AIDS will ensure wide dissemination of the policy, review it from time to time and also monitor the implementation of the policy. It is hoped that this policy will help build positive and supportive attitude towards those infected and promote health and safety amongst the employees. SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY PBC™ STIP is committed to provide a work environment that is free of discrimination and unlawful harassment. Actions, words, jokes, or comments based on an individual’s sex, Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. race, ethnicity, age, religion, or any other legally protected characteristic will not be tolerated. If an Employee believes that he/she has been a victim of harassment or is aware of another employee who has been harassed, he/she should immediately report it to HRD/any of the general managers or any member of the harassment redressal committee. Employees can raise concerns and make reports without fear of retaliation. Any Superior who becomes aware of possible harassment should promptly advise Management or HR Representative, who will handle the matter in a timely and confidential manner. All employees are responsible for helping to ensure & assure a workplace free of harassment. The Company forbids retaliation against anyone who has reported harassment or participated in an investigation. All of us must recognize that such behavior not only violates the rules of common courtesy and is a violation of the Company's policy, but is also a Human Rights violation & therefore illegal under law. PBC™ STIP recognizes that Sexual harassment is an issue at workplace and would like to address it proactively  To maintain a work environment that is free of sexual harassment.  To ensure annually one interactive session conducted for PBC team members and lady crewmembers.  To ensure Harassment Redressal Committee Meeting shall be conducted twice a year. ANTI CORRUPTION POLICY PBC™ STIP has a stated anti-corruption and ethical policy monitored by Human Resource Department and all the HODs in their respective business area. PBC provides the wherewithal to all the departments to ensure the success and profitability of the business ventures without compromising on the core values of conducting business such as responsibility, transparency and sensitivity towards the environment. As employees in PBC, we:  Will ensure to behave in an honest & ethical manner.  Will set a good example by being trustworthy.  We will make sure that our behavior complies with the policies and rules of the organization / PBC.  We will use the resources of our company in the best interest of the company, and not for personal & gainful reasons. We will not misuse these resources.  We will not pay or accept bribes / anything of value / cash/ gift / gratuities, offer of employment etc, for the purpose of influencing placement of contracts, obtaining a business advantage or any other reason. Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved.  We will make a clear distinction between the interests of our company and our personal interests, and avoid possible conflicts of interest; we do not accept gifts, invitations or other advantages, which could contradict this principle or influence our business decisions that are against the norms of our company.  Ensure that we comply with law of the land, including National legislations & statutory compliances.  All commissions and fee contracts shall have prior approval of our CEO.  Report incidents, risks and issues which deviates from our policy, to your immediate reporting authority, or HeadHRD or CEO  Are continuously conscious about and aim to maintain our integrity, thereby maintaining the integrity of the organisation.  All employees must adhere to this policy and any violation to the above may result in termination / legal action, as deemed fit by the management.  The CEO must approve any exceptions to this policy. During the year 2011 12, PBC™-STIP’s commitment to UNGC’s ten principles was addressed as: A. Human Rights I. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. We pursued with a mission to educate our employees about organisational commitment to human rights through regular trainings & workshops. These trainings helped our employees in understanding the principles of human rights. Trainings were also given on Environmental & Safety Hazards, Fire safety measures and also on HIV-AIDS awareness. PBC™-STIP ensures strict adherence to laws enacted by the Government of India, to protect the interests of the workers. We follow Shop & Established Act for compensation to workers. SA 8000:2008 certification cements PBC’s commitment on social accountability. Through this PBC reinforces its commitment to basic rights, freedom to all, fair wages, no discrimination, and leave. A fair and open channel of communication is maintained for all personnel at the work place. In our Management Standing Instructions (MSI) Code of Conduct expresses our support for the UN Declaration of Human Rights, and during our various engagements with our stakeholders; we use the opportunity to encourage them to become part of the UNGC pact, as it will lend more credibility to them and their business. We have in place, a procedure for registering sexual harassment complaints which is as under:  All employees who believe that they have experienced or witnessed harassment are strongly urged to notify the Harassment Redressal Committee, headed by the Group General Manager & Head – HR.  The Legal Consultant of the company will be a special invitee on case-to-case basis and his opinion shall be sought on all matters relating to Harassment. The members shall sign a confidentiality contract to ensure that the proceedings/findings or any matter pertaining to any investigation is kept confidential at all times and not shared or openly discussed with other employees/team members, other than the persons concerned that too as part of the investigation process.  Any employee who experiences sexual harassment can get in touch with any member of this Committee, whose contact details are provided below for convenient and confidential access. All such complaints to the committee shall be in writing with full details of the incident, in a closed cover marked “Confidential” and addressed to “The Complaints Committee”. However in special cases action shall be taken based on verbal communication also.  The Committee shall make the formal recommendation within 15 days after receiving the complaint unless there are exceptional circumstances.  Wherever necessary & required, the redressal committee shall take help / advice from the CEO / Director /Managing Director. Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved.  The result of investigation shall be formally recorded and communicated to the CEO / Director / Managing Director along with a recommendation for appropriate action.  Necessary action shall be taken with regard to the offending employee or employees based on the circumstances and seriousness of the offence.  Where the Company is legally advised that any such incident constitutes a criminal offence under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) or under any other law; it shall be the duty of the member of the committee who receives such a complaint to immediately inform the complainant of her right to initiate action in accordance with law with the appropriate authority. If the aggrieved employee directly takes any action, against the offending employee, either civil or criminal, the Committee, on becoming aware of such action by the aggrieved employee, shall be entitled to, start the internal enquiry / investigation and recommend appropriate action. Inclusivity is our primary concern. Our workforce is competitive; we provide our employees an enabling environment that encourages them to be competitive & innovative. Employees are encouraged to communicate their ideas freely at the workplace. We strive to create supportive ambience at workplace. Employees are also empowered to be decisive. We encourage diverse work force in our organisation, equal rights, and equal opportunity to all irrespective of gender/caste/creed/physical challenge etc. We further encourage positive discrimination. At PBC™-STIP, we maintain a very free and open work environment, where each individual is encouraged to excel in their respective areas, take onus and responsibility for their activities and stand up in a crisis situation to take decisions to the best of their abilities. The environment is an enabling one that encourages team members to display their talent and full potential. Our leadership believes in an “Open Door Policy” and welcomes each & every suggestion that comes, irrespective of the level / hierarchy anyone can approach the CEO from the Crew / House boy to the highest ranking official – we encourage our people to be fearless and urge them to be team members rather than individual performers for the overall growth and development of the company. There is a system of not only giving suggestions during appraisal but any time anyone can drop one in the suggestion box that is opened every month and the report is discussed with the top management and the feedback given to team members on what has been implemented and what has not been and why it has not been implemented. Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Apart from this we leverage technology to ensure our team members are truly enabled and have all tools and tackles that are required for doing a particular job. For instance how does one behave when one is employed in PBC – what are the rules and regulations, policies, core values & ethics, etc – All this is in our manual that is called – Management Standing Instructions (MSI) Thus everything is laid out at the outset for one to devote time and energies in promoting and meeting the departmental business objectives. At PBC everyone gets a chance to grow – there are several examples where people have risen from the ranks and are currently holding important management positions – our houseboys / peons etc have been promoted as Sr. Supervisors and HODS as well – based on their committed performance and eagerness to learn and acquire new skills for self development. PBC™-STIP has formulated a scheme of providing monthly incentives on good performance to motivate the employees for their better performance. The performance of each individual employee is appraised by its own HOD on monthly basis & based on that each employee is rewarded and recognised on a monthly basis. HRD consistently measures the performance and provides ongoing feedback to employees and work groups on their progress toward reaching their goals. Benefits Some of the benefits provided to full time employees of PBC™-STIP are as follows: o Mountain Fresh Air inside the business center through the indoor air quality o Safety systems such as fire alarms, extinguishers, fire exits, etc. o Privilege leave of 15 days & Sick/casual leave of 12 days in a year o Provide financial assistance to employees for travel expenses for themselves and their family while on vacation in India. o Minimum wages as per the government norms o Flexible working hours along with work from home facility on a case to case basis o Food Coupons o Opening of bank account for all its employees o Bonus facility o Provident fund o Gratuity & Superannuation to employees o Pension scheme for retired employees o Provide retirement benefits to employees applicable to permanent employees as per rules and regulations of the LIC Gratuity Trust. o Employer’s State Insurance o Maternity Benefits Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. o Internal & External Trainings o Medical room for the sick o Medical Benefits for employee and their dependents o Encourage employees to undergo annual medical checkups at any Company pre approved medical center. o Availability of First Aid Box & Sick Bay in office o Diwali / New Year / Christmas / Family day Parties, o In-House wellness facilities i.e. Yoga / Health Breakfast o Café-Einstein – In-House Fine Dining restaurant o Terrace cafeteria o Green Grocer – making farm fresh fruits and vegetables available in office at wholesale rates o Telephone / Cell-phone facility o Internet connectivity o Celebrations during Earth Day, Environment Day, etc. Picnics, movies, etc. MEDICAL INSURANCE FOR EMPLOYEES Recently, we have enrolled as many as 100 employees in our group Medical insurance policy. The policy is a great benefit for each employee as the policy gives an opportunity to the employee to get their spouse, children, parents and even parentsinlaw enrolled, get covered and avail health insurance benefits. We strongly believe that our employees are our family and their families are our extended family. Normally insurance policies do not have the feature of enrolling parents in the same policy as the age of the parents is a biggest criterion and many insurance companies do not take into consideration one’s parents. This special insurance policy covers parents of our team members up to 80 years of age. It also serves as a big boost for the employees as we have specifically opted policy, which covers old or pre-existing ailments as well. This aids in a larger cover of all type of ailments whether pre existing or not along with benefits like day care procedures, pre and post hospitalization of 30 days and 60 days respectively, cashless facility among others is also available. Care for women employees has been intrinsic part of our organisational goals. Consequently, we have taken such policy that covers maternity from day one for a sum of Rs 50 thousand. In fact, baby cover is also covered from day one. There is also a benefit to cover spouse in case of mid-term marriage. Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. II. Ensure that the organization is not complicit in human rights abuses PBC™-STIP ensures strict adherence to laws enacted by the Government of India, to protect the interests of the workers. In our Management Standing Instruction Code of Conduct expresses our support for the UN Declaration of Human Rights, and we also encourage our suppliers to sign up to the UN Global Compact. There has been no instance of the company having abused human rights in any manner. Our organisation realizes that the prompt handling of grievances of employees and customers is of paramount importance in upholding of human rights and accordingly, we have framed procedures to address any such grievances. PBC™ STIP is certified for SA 8000:2008 where in we have a separate procedure on Grievance Handling Procedure No. SA3. The purpose of this procedure is to establish, maintain and ensure a suitable and effective method for handling grievances of personnel deputed at PBC™ STIP which covers all personnel deputed at PBC™ STIP including workers provided by the sub contractors. No adverse action shall be taken against any employee for filing grievance or use of the grievance procedure. No records of an employee’s use of the grievance procedure shall be kept in his/her personnel file. As stated earlier, there has been no instance of the company having abused human rights in any manner. Apart from this, we encourage employees to express views, raise issues give suggestions, seek clarification in a fair manner. We have a suggestion box for our team members to fearlessly give their ideas / suggestions for improvement in our system. We also have a unique communication systeminternal mailing system. All employees have quick and easy access to HR personnel & Senior Managers, in case of any urgency. B. Labour Standards III. Upholding the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to Collective Bargaining PBC ™-STIP realises that the collective strength of employees is an effective partner towards the goal of achieving continuous sustainable growth and hence no objection is raised on employees to join any trade unions thereby ensuring freedom of association to all its employees. This is communicated through training programmes and implemented through the Social Accountability certification for SA 8000. Till date, no instances of strikes / lock out etc has happened at PBC™-STIP. Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. A noteworthy point here is that a large part of our crew members have been with us for more than five years, this shows the trust and faith that they repose in the management of PBC and also proves the management’s commitment to their personal development and welfare. Also we have appointed a “Workers Representative” (WR) to engage with our crewmembers and understand their queries, requirements & grievances. These are then discussed with the Management Committee and HR & actions are taken to resolve all shortcoming if any. The WR acts as a bridge between the Management & Workers. He is also a key player in the scheme of things at PBC – STIP for staff welfare. WR is also an invitee to all Management Review Meetings in order to present the workers prospective to the management. IV. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour PBC™-STIP believes in voluntary labour and no instances of forced / compulsory labours have come to light during the year. Regular Surveillance Audit by external agencies for compliance with SA 8000:2008 is also conducted to ensure adherence to the standard and compliance to the principle. At PBC, we strongly condemn any kind of forced and compulsory labour. It is one of our values to pursue the concept of voluntary labour. V. The organization supports effective abolition of child labour. We prefer business partners, who treat their employees similarly as PBC™-STIP follows the Delhi Shops and Establishment Act, according to which, the age limit prescribed for child labour is below 15. However, PBC has prescribed the minimum age limit as 18 years for employment. No person below this age can be employed in PBC, whether directly or indirectly, thereby ensuring that child labour is not practiced. By setting the minimum pay scale as per the government norms we ensure that our employees get decent wages and working conditions encouraging them to send their children’s to schools rather than to work. All our contractors & vendors are also required to scrupulously follow the laws/ rules and regulations in respect of engagement of Child Labour. This is addressed through our contract agreement, vendor declaration & regular engagement programmes with our Vendors and suppliers. In our SA 8000:2008 systems, we have a separate procedure on Child Labour – Remediation Plan Procedure No. SA2. Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. The purpose of this procedure is to establish, maintain and ensure a suitable and effective process for detection & prevention of child labour & its remediation, which covers all personnel deputed to include workers provided by subcontractor. VI. Organisation promotes elimination of discrimination in respect of employment The organisation does not believe in any kind of discrimination at workplace & at the time of recruitment only qualification of a candidate to deliver effective performance is considered and yes if all is equal, we give special preference to women, candidates from marginal sections of the society & differently-abled. Yes in the above sense we do practice “positive discrimination” to have a diverse workforce. We have adequate policies in place to firmly deal with these and apart from this it also is detailed in our MSI – Management Standing Instructions and processes under ISO. We ensure 100% compliance to these. The organisation does not believe in any kind of discrimination based on caste, colour, gender, religion or region. We firmly believe in inclusivity and strongly oppose discrimination in hiring, remuneration, access to training, promotion etc at work place. It is evident from the chart given below that Schedule caste & tribes constitute almost 11% & we hire people based on competencies & not caste, creed, nationality, religion, gender etc. However as part of Affirmative Action, we do practice “Positive Discrimination” i.e. if all qualifications and hiring guidelines are met, preference is given to candidate from the marginalized / economically weaker sections of the society – after all the benefits of progress are for one and all. Employment without any caste discrimination is carried out resulting in more than 43% employment for backward classes at PBC. We have equal employment opportunities policy in place at PBC. The below table clearly indicates that there is no caste discrimination within PBC™-STIP employees. Our HRD Process is based on Affirmative Action and Inclusivity giving opportunities to the marginalized sections of our society including Differently-abled, Dalits, Tribals, SCs / STs etc. Emphasis is also given on employing / hiring locally and at this moment we can safely state that most of our management team is hired from the local community / location of operation. Category No of Team Members Percentage Wise General 566 82 SC 53 8 ST 21 3 OBC 48 7 Total 688 100 Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. PBC CELEBRATES WOMAN POWER: If India has to grow, it needs to provide sufficient education to women. Even the Vedas states, “Parents should gift their daughter intellectuality and power of knowledge when she leaves for husband’s home. They should give her a dowry of knowledge.” Educated women today are not only contributing to the success of the society but also play a key role in shaping the life of the succeeding generations. PBC believes in celebrating International Women’s day every year & this year on the occasion, our theme was“Representing Four Generations of Women Power at PBC”. Mrs. G. Swarup – wife of our Late CMDMr. Mahender Swarup along with other women behind the great success of Paharpur Group, graced the event as a chief guest & guests of honour respectively. All our women employees actively participate in the celebrations. The event was initiated by lighting of the traditional oil lamp of enlightenment by the chief guest, Mrs. Swarup. She shared her views on the occasion. Our CEOMr. Kamal Meattle, Group GM, Mrs Roopali Shahaney and other lady members also shared their views on women empowerment & their experience at PBC. Our CEO, Mr Kamal Meattle, in his speech acknowledged the women workforce at PBC and thanked them for their relentless contribution. “Women’s day is important, as a mother is a woman. She loves, takes care and shares everything. She plays the character of a daughter, sister, wife and mother, all within a span of a few years. At PBC, we salute them. We provide a work environment that is supportive.” A video on top women achievers of India was also shown to all women employees on this occasion. Tags of appreciation were presented to each lady team member in order to show the regard that the organisation has for its women employees. PBC also actively support the “NANHI CHHAAN betiyan aur jungle, jeevan karein mangal”, a gender equality and ecological conservation program as part of CII Northern Region's proactive engagement programme for the corporate sector to promote girl child and environment conservation. Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. PBCTM-STIP also has a policy that it adheres to its business that gives equal opportunities to all irrespective of gender / caste / creed etc. Women at PBC hold the highest management positions and we foster the growth & promotion of the weaker sections at all levels. The idea is to adopt a “No Discrimination” policy at work. Mrs G.Swarp lighting the lamp of enlightenment (left), Women power at PBCTM-STIP C. Environment VII. The organization adopts a precautionary approach to Environmental Challenges Paharpur Business Centre and Software Technology Incubator Park (PBC™ STIP) is an SME in the service sector. It is a 25 years old building in Nehru Place Geens, built to government design, is the first office building in India to be USGBC LEED Platinum certified under Existing Buildings (Operations and Maintenance) category – the first retrofit building to be Platinum certified truly a sustainable building.It is also a BEE 5 star rated building. An eco-friendly building inflicts minimal footprint on the environment while enhancing user comfort and efficiency. Typically, environment-friendly architecture tries to optimize the performance of a building, and preserve and protect important resources like water, land, and energy. This is accomplished through an integrated approach to architecture, blending design issues, energy-efficient materials, construction techniques, effective building systems and taking advantage of renewable energy supplies. Environment-friendly architecture is a process that must be integrated into every phase of the construction project, from the beginning to end. To achieve true environment-friendly architecture, eco-friendly ideas need to be supported by everyone involved in the process from design to construction Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. It is our absolute belief, that care for environment can alone help us in addressing the Climate Change issues and take us out of through this. With regard to our environmental initiatives – relating to energy management, water conservation, reduction of our carbon footprint, use of sustainable resources, waste management, local procurement etc all these things are tangible and the system addresses it very substantially. Energy Management Practices : We have benefited from the practices implemented in PBC and the results show almost a 30% reduction in our electricity bills and our MDI has come down from 735 to 400 KVA. PBC is also a Bureau of Energy Efficiency, Ministry of Power, Govt. of India, 5-star rated building, with average annual hourly energy performance index of 28 W hr /hr /m2. Innovative ways to minimize Heat Ingress At Paharpur Business Centre (PBC), besides the major Energy Conservation Projects we also encourage & follow certain best practices that further contribute to reduction in our energy bills: o We have used Green mesh & heat reflective films on the southwest side windows of the building to block the direct sun heat into the building. o The heat gain into the building from the rooftop is minimum because of green house that houses around 300 plants / hydroponics. o High Albedo paint has been put on the building envelope to reduce the indirect heat gain into the building. o We believe that the “Color of Green is White” – therefore building façade and roof has been painted white, so that it reflects the heat back in summers to keep the building cool, reducing the heat ingress and hence reducing the cooling load – this directly impacts our financial bottom line. White is a color that reflects light and thus has a cooling effect. o Each degree centigrade decrease in temperature means a saving of 3-5% in air-conditioning costs. LED LIGHTS Being a USGBC LEED Platinum and a BEE 5 star certified building, energy conservations is an important for us. At PBC our goal is to save as much energy as possible through clean and clean technologies and life style changes. We are striving to bring it down further. In view of our energy conservation targets, we have taken an important measure of replacing all the CFLs with new generation LEDs. We plan to replace 16.5 watt CFL by 5.8 watt LED. Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. In the first phase a total of 75 LED lights are going to be replaced and the lux level is expected to increase by 50 per cent in this case. We will be able to save 65 % energy spent on lighting. The life of LEDs is 6 times higher than CFLS. Energy conservation is vital in any green building and we plan to cut down on our energy usage as much as possible till such time we can become positive. SKYLIGHTS As part of our concerted efforts to further conserve energy, we have installed 37 sky lights which harness solar natural light. Skylights are used in the Green House and each such light make 4 tube lights redundant plus other benefits like: Zero operating cost, Zero replacement cost of choke & Tube light, full spectrum natural sunlight available, very good for the growth of our plants as it provided natural spectrum of light, 100% power saving. It harvests sunlight without generating heat. Since we have an IAQ system that confirms to ASHRAE 62.1-2007 standards. Sky Lights installed in PBC. COOLING TOWER WITH 10 REACH At PBC, we have installed the next generation of Cooling Towersof 1 degree approach manufactured / provided by Paharpur Cooling TowersGuaranteed to cool 800 USGPM of water from 92.30F at a design wet bulb temperature of 83.0 degree F. This is an energy and water efficient cooling tower. At PBC, we also monitor the wet bulb temperature VARIABLE FREQUENCY DRIVE IN AHUS In variable frequency drive we can control the Rotations Per Minute (RPM) of AHU’s as per the load in that particular floor. If there is more load on any particular floor, the rotation would be more and if the load is less, rotation would be less. This ultimately Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. results optimum energy usage and conservation. This way we are actually saving a lot of energy. Water Management Practices At PBC™-STIP, water has always been considered as a precious resource, which is monitored at all inlet and outlet points on daily basis. As water demands and environmental needs grow, recycling & reusing of water plays a major role at PBC™STIP, helping us to conserve and sustainably manage our vital water resources. We save a total of about half million liters of water/year through the various measures undertaken by us. INVERTED PLANTERS At PBC we have put in numerous ‘Sky Planters’ so as to save costly floor space but still meeting with our USP Indoor Air Quality & other best practices. The Sky Planter actually uses a ground-breaking internal reservoir system that feeds water directly to the roots without leaks or evaporation, using up to 90% less water This helps us in further conservation of water. It requires watering once or twice a month only. As many as 9 inverted planters have been out up at our reception area and at our Greenhouse. Inverted Planters hung at our Green House Indoor Air Quality PBC™STIP is set up in a pollution free & green environment with Indoor Air Quality confirming to ASHRAE Standards. Care for the Environment has been an intrinsic part of our business. Parameters of Indoor Air Quality that are monitored on daily basis in PBC arePM10, Co2, Relative Humidity and Temperature. We have a Greenhouse on our roof top that cools the building and treats & oxygenates the air before it enters PBC. EARTH DAY CELEBRATION AT PBCTM – STIP Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Paharpur Business Centre collaborated with The Banyan Tree School, The Climate Reality Project India & The Sharika Enterprises to celebrate the Earth Day & spread the message of conservation of natural resources like water, energy and also to increase the green cover. On the occasion, Children and employees planted and watered saplings at the Nehru Place Greens (NPG). Mr. Ravi Singh, CEO & Secretary General, WWF-India, Mr. S. Padmanaban, Regional Director South Asia Regional Initiative for Energy & Sr. Energy Advisor US Agency For International Development (USAID) – India, Dr. S. Majumdar, Senior Counselor Climate Change & Sustainability, CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development, Mr. Aditya Pundir, Country Manager, The Climate Reality Project and Mr. Kamal Meattle, active environmentalist and CEO of Paharpur Business Centre, planted saplings on the occasion of the Earth Day. They noted the essentiality of trees and green cover in the area, especially Nehru Place. The children from Banyan Tree School were excited to plant saplings. A student from the school said that he had promised his parents to plant as many saplings because “plants turn into trees and trees are the green lungs of the Earth.” Another student quoted, “it is essential to create awareness about the impending climate crisis and to make people understand the need for utilizing more of renewable resources and thus saving our planet.” They enthusiastically watered the plants as well. The Chief Executive Officer of Paharpur Business Centre, Mr. Kamal Meattle, is an active environmentalist and has initiated several activities for creating environmental awareness on a large scale. “Climate change is the most challenging issue of the present century. Green ideas have to germinate in the young minds,” said, Mr Meattle. Banyan Tree school children planting and watering sapling at Nehru Place Greens Park VIII. The organization initiates promotion of greater environmental responsibility Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. • Environmental awareness among PBC Team Members & Stakeholders Our values encourage and motivate us to have a partnership with our customers, employees & other important stakeholders, driving the organization towards sustainable development. Due to our inherent values and environmental sensitivity, we are perceived as a great place to work for. Some of the initiatives for promotion of our Environmental responsibility towards Community & stakeholder: o Awareness Program for School Children, Employees, Clients, Community around us o Celebration of Earth Day, Environment Day etc as official events of the organisation o Regular Interaction with School children to sensitize them to the various issues relating to Environment & Water Management o In-house Employee Awareness Programmes. o Information Dissemination to in-house clients through TFT/Display Monitors installed at Strategic locations including washrooms o Creating Awareness through our annual Communication on Progress (COP) & CSR/CR reports. o Till a couple of years back there were no 4/2 L cisterns available in India. We engaged companies like Cera, Hindware & Orient ceramics and urged them for solution. o Our CEO has been actively interacting with chairman of Delhi Jal Board for getting a STP in a public park near our office for irrigation of plants. o The initiative of water conservation at PBC™-STIP runs across all verticals. o We are constantly talking to our supply chain and sensitizing them on the water issues. o In our new project-GreenSpacesTM we have been able to reduce our potable water demand from 45 L to 20 L with the help of learning from this building. STUDENTS OF BANYAN TREE SCHOOL VISITED PBCTM-STIP TO LEARN SUSTAINABLE WAYS OF LIVING–Creating Awareness by spreading the message of Environment Stewardship, how it can be part Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Towards the end of 2011, PBCTM-STIP actively endeavored to spread awareness on green concepts among school children. On December 8, 2011, children from Banyan Tree School visited PBC to see how green strategies have been implemented in our building. 28 students from commerce and science stream visited PBCTM-STIP. They were educated on various concepts of energy conservation, waste management and sustainability. Everything was demonstrated to make them aware on various measures adopted in PBC that has rendered it as energy efficient and a BEE 5 star certified building. Enthusiastic students actively participated in the presentation and discussions on green concepts. On this enlightening occasion, the youngsters from The Banyan Tree School made green resolutions for the year 2012. The students resolved to make 2012 a greener and a healthier year. One of the students quoted, ‘if there is no greenery it’s bizarre’. They showed a great inclination towards waste management practices and promised to follow the 4 R’s, “Refuse-Reduce-Reuse-Recycle”. Students understanding the know-how of IAQ system at PBC THE RECYCLE OF LIFE – ‘ELEPHANT POOP TO PAPER’A BOOK LAUNCH BY PBC ART GALLERYTM An important and informative event was held by PBC Art Gallery-a not for profit organisation, at the launch of a book, “The Recycle of Life”, compiled by Jonathan Jenefsky, a 12-year-old, Jewish boy, son of Mr. and Mrs. Jenefsky – Titus, of the US Embassy. It was an interesting episode with a concept of recycling of elephant poop to paper that was constructive and functional. Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. The event was organized on November 18, 2011. The chief guest on the occasion, Ambassador A. Peter Burleigh, U.S. Charge d’ Affaires, was also delighted to see the awareness among children and found the book replete with information. Jonathan Jenefsky and his mother Mari Jenefsky decided to write a book about recycling elephant poop into paper, which seemed incredible idea for sustainability and recycling. This thought was actually brought into action after their initial year’s experience in India. Jonathan noticed that it is a simple story on how elephant poop can be converted to paper and useful products. The inspiration to pen down their thoughts imbibed when Jonathan and his mother met a person who actually made paper out of elephant poop. Mari Titus, mother of Jonathan said, “Recycling is a part of life in U.S.A.; however, making paper out of elephant poop is something we got to see in India”. Book launch by PBC Art Gallery IX. Encourages the Development and Diffusion of Environmentally Friendly Technologies PBC™-STIP encourages the use Green & Clean Technologies. We strive to create awareness amongst our stakeholders, especially our supply chain with whom we partner to create superior / green products and services. ENVIRONMENT DAY – PBC™-STIP supported online Teachers Training Programme in collaboration with ‘The Climate Reality Project India’ PBC™-STIP enthusiastically celebrated the World Environment Day by supporting Teachers’ Training Programme – an ambitious project of ‘The Climate Project India’ with a target of training 100 thousand teachers online about climate change. Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Mr Jan Axel Voss – Counselor Environment Renewables Transport & Climate Change, German Embassy, presided over as Chief Guest and Mrs. Madhu Jain, famous designer, presided over as Guest of Honor on the occasion. It is believed that teachers’ in schools can play a crucial role in training young minds to face the reality of impending climate crisis. The Climate Project Foundation launched on this world environment day an online training program to help the teachers in learning about the subject and teaching it in their classrooms. “It’s a free 14 day online certificate programme. All an educator/teacher has to do is to register on the website. As it is an online programme so no registration or fee charges are required. Once trained, these educators can then further disseminate climate message to thousands of students so on and so forth. We plan to reach out to 1 lac teachers in five year,” said Mr Meattle. “This is a brilliant project. I am sure such project can go a long way in spreading the message on climate change across to masses,” said Mr. Voss. Mr Kamal Meattle, CEO, Paharpur Business Centre &Software Technology Incubator Park and Trustee of The Climate Project India, have put in a pertinent point that there was a pressing need for this type of training in the country. Madhu Jain, designer, Mr Jan Axel Voss, Counselor Environment Renewables Transport & Climate Change, German Embassy and our CEO, Mr Kamal Meattle supporting the launch of the Teachers Training Programme D. Anti – Corruption X. Business should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery At PBCTM-STIP, we stringently follow the laws of land and comply with all the legal requirements. Our annual reports are made with due diligence and it gets vetted by the external auditors. Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. We firmly believe in paying our taxes on time. PBC™-STIP has kept its policies transparent to encourage ethical work culture & prevent corruption in business. It is accountable & responsible to its stakeholders in ensuring that it conducts itself in an open & transparent manner. Partner, contractors and vendors also respect our ethical policies while doing business with us. QUALITY PAR EXCELLENCE OUR CERTIFICATIONS & MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS PBC™-STIP has been certified to five international standards: ♦ ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management System ♦ ISO 14001:2004 Environment Management System ♦ OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational Health & Safety ♦ SA 8000:2008 for Social Accountability ♦ ISO 22000:2005 for Food Safety Management System ♦ Commitment to UN Global Compact AWARDS & ACCOLADES IN THE YEAR 2011: ♦ Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) has been awarded CII-ITC award for ‘Strong Commitment To Sustainable Practices’, for the year 2011 The Road Ahead………. o We are working towards getting certified for ISO 50001:2011 EnMS & ISO 27001:2005 ISMS. o Our GreenVilla™ Project will be IGBC Platinum Certified under IGBC’s Green Homes category. We hope to accomplish this by December 2012. o As part of our commitment to “Affirmative Policy” we will continue to give / reserve employment for SCs / STs & OBCs up to 3-4% and try to maximize it as much as possible o In Pursuant of our policy of making PBC one of the healthiest buildings in the country, we propose to get 100% of our team and as much as possible of our clients (Occupants) tested for Tuberculosis (TB) o To carry out more R&D in IAQ by experimenting with Green vertical walls, optimizing Hydroponic system of growing plants, to get ambient and inside CO2 at same levels and further reduce VOC’s, bacteria and fungus from the Indoor air. Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. PBCTM STIP in NEWS Copyright © 2012 Chemical & Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved.
