WE ARE innovating FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report CONTENTS transforming our communities 2 Corporate Information 3 Vision & Mission 6 Corporate Social Responsibility 12 Media Milestones 16 Corporate Events 2010 22 Notice of 40th Annual General Meeting 23 Statement Accompanying Notice of Annual General Meeting 28 Director’s Profile 36 Awards & Recognitions 40 Chairman’s Statement 52 Group Financial Highlights 53 Charts 54 Organisation Chart About us Kuala Lumpur Sentral MRCB is Malaysian Resources Corporation Berhad (MRCB) As a multi-disciplinary specialist, MRCB offers is a leading urban property, infrastructure and integrated solutions in urban planning, engineering, committed environmental regeneration specialist in the urban development, environmental & coastline to engage country. Established in 1968, it became a public listed regeneration and energy infrastructure development. and value our company in 1969, and was listed on Bursa Malaysia Projects developed ranged from the development relationships (Malaysia’s Stock Exchange) in 1971. of fully integrated urban centres, commercial and with the property developments, beach & river rehabilitation, communities road construction & managing road concessions, we serve to developing educational colleges, hospitals, and power transmission towers & plants. 2 MRCB Annual Report 2010 Structured into four divisions, they are: Infrastructure & Concession Division Connecting People to places Property Division MRCB Land – Transforming communities MRCB Infrastructure & Concession, a leader in both integrated infrastructure and environmental Key Facts MRCB Land, MRCB’s property division, is a rehabilitation developments, has been a catalyst leader in planning and implementing integrated for connected urban centres and sustainable developments as epitomised by the iconic Kuala Lumpur (KL) Sentral development. This division is a development in Malaysia. The Group’s successes include the development of the modern Duta-Klang 150 number of catalyst for the transformation of environments and Expressway (DUKE) highway and the ongoing Eastern Dispersal Links (EDL) located in Johore, the projects completed the creation of new communities with its innovative business strategy. southern state in Peninsular Malaysia. From residential to commercial developments, retail This division also carries out coastline and river RM3 billion complexes to transportation hubs, MRCB Land’s rehabilitation activities; which has effectively award-winning properties create new benchmarks in transformed beaches, coastlines and riverine areas sustainable development in Malaysia. It is one of the in Malaysia, including a section of one of the world’s Ringgit turnover first developers in 2008 to pro-actively adopt Green best known islands – Pulau Tioman. Our successes Building certifications for all its new developments include the successful rehabilitation of three rivers, 50 within the KL Sentral developmental area. namely Perai River in Penang, Pahang River mouth and Kuantan River in Pahang State. The green building certifications adopted include facilities managed the US Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Building Services Division Environmental design (LEED); Singapore-based Harmonising the living environment Building and Construction Authority’s (BCA) Green Mark and Malaysia’s Green Building Index (GBI) MRCB Building Services, an accredited MS ISO 9001: certifications. 2000 Quality Management System organisation, with a commitment to best working practices, is Engineering and Construction Division fast becoming a leader in building management Building for a sustainable tomorrow services. Its successes in maintaining and managing building facilities for commercial, government and A full fledge engineering and construction firm high-rise office buildings include Stesen Sentral KL with both national and international reputation for (SSKL) as well as several commercial buildings in KL excellence and commitment to project and service and Penang. distinction, its success is epitomised with the construction of the iconic KL Sentral Development. Its successes and capabilities range from the design and construction of Malaysia’s longest high-voltage Sooka Sentral transmission networks, namely the 273 km SabahEast West Interconnection Grid and the National Grid for Peninsular Malaysia, to being a turnkey contractor and urban developer of townships, commercial, residential and integrated transportation hub developments. MRCB Laporan Tahunan 2010 3 our projects ENERGY EFFICIENCY Pollution Reduction Implementation of site best practice and control plan that and Control enforces the use of • Temporary seeding/mulching/slit fencing • Topsoil protection by stock piling • Prevention of sedimentation for existing storm water • Prevention of air pollution Community Connectivity and Alternative Transportation • Pedestrian connection to and from SSKL as the main rail transportation hub • Pedestrian elevated bridge to adjacent development • Bicycle storage and changing rooms for cyclists • Preferred parking for fuel efficient vehicles and designated handicapped parking lots Indoor Chemical and Pollutant Source Control • Permanent entryway system to efficiently prevent dirt, particulate matter and moisture from entering buildings Reduced Heat Island • A ll parking lots are located underground/within the building Effect • Combination of green coatings and materials in addition to a vegetated roof Reduced Light • R educed interior lighting with direct line by using automatic Pollution and timer sensors • All site and building luminaries set at acceptable illuminance value and beyond boundary • Environmental Tobacco Smoke Control LOT G Utilised Energy Performance • F undamental Refrigerant Management use of nonchlorofluorocarbon (CFC) refrigerant Passive Strategies • Combining visible glass with sun shading devices • Reduced heat gain through cool roof coating • Reduced diffused radiation heat gain through combination of Lot G Retail Key Features vegetated roofing Lot G Retail is working towards obtaining the Active Strategies BCA Green Mark of Singapore compliance • Chilled water supply from designated District Cooling Plant rating at 45.5 points and the Malaysian GBI • Motion and photo sensors combined with daylight harvesting Certified rating of xxxx. The project was strategies for perimeter and day lit areas registered on 24th June 2009 and is still • Lighting zones for utilisation of lighting needs pending pre-certification submission. • Insulated Ducts for return air to Air Handling Unit (AHU) activity using Minimum Efficiency Reporting Value (MERV) rated filter • Carbon dioxide (CO2) level monitoring from construction period and replacement prior to occupancy ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Recycle • C entral storage and collection of non-hazardous waste material • 3 bin recycling area on every office floor 4 MRCB Annual Report 2010 Greenery Green Fixtures and Certified Wood Fittings • Wood-based materials be documented and 50% certified as Key Facts set out in Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) principles and criteria Low Emitting Materials 150 number of • Project specification not exceeding Volatile Organic projects completed Compound (VOC) content limitation for paints and coatings • Requirement against Carpet and Rug Institute (CRI) Green Label Plus Programme. Installation follows VOC content limitation for carpet system RM3 Control of System • Installation of controllable thermostats linked to diffusers to billion Ringgit turnover control temperature at selected areas INDOOR ENVIRONMENT QUALITY 50 facilities managed Air Quality Control Construction Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) and Waste and Management Management Plan • 50% non-hazardous construction and demolition debris to be recycled • Documentation of all site activity, material and utility usage and, incoming and outgoing waste from the site • Daily monitoring and maintenance of central filtration system and air quality during heavy construction activity • Temporary air Filter with MERV – 8 rating • Permanent Air Filter with MERV – 13 rating WATER EFFICIENCY Water conservation • All pavement is pervious for excellent water drainage • Water efficient fittings to reduce water usage REGULATORY COMPLIANCE Standard of Air compliance • Minimum IAQ Performance : Compliance to Section 4-7 American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Airconditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) 62.1-2004 Thermal Comfort • To meet ASHRAE 55-2004 (Day Light and Views. Daylight 75% of Space) Energy Performance • To meet mandatory provision of ASHRAE/ Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IESNA) Standard 90.12004 without amendments MRCB Laporan Tahunan 2010 5 our projects KL Sentral Park development has exceeded the requirement of the BCA Green Mark by achieving more than 30% in energy savings. This achievement has also helped to lower its carbon footprint, there by contributing to Malaysia’s Green Objective. To achieve the BCA Platinum Green Mark Rating, the design of the KL Sentral Parkfocused on: Atrium Operable Glass Louvers for natural ventilation Natural Light Penetration via atrium Naturally ventilated atrium supplemented with low velocity large scale fans 1200 m2 of Photo Voltaic (PV) located on the roof deck External sun shading systems Car park carbon monoxide (CO) Monitoring & Ventilation control 2000 m2 of inclined green wall system landscaping to podium Rainwater recovery tank on roofs High performance Insulating Glass Unit (DGU) and Single Glass Unit (SGU) glazing to office building faces. ENERGY EFFICIENCY Building Envelope – • Enhances overall thermal performance EETV • Project is able to achieve an average Envelope Thermal Transfer Value (ETTV) of 40W/m2 and lower (Maximum permissible ETTV = 50W/m2) • Shading coefficient of 0.27, 0.44 & 0.63 (minimal) • U-Value of Glass designed for 1.5, 1.989 and 5.395 W/m2K Air Conditioning • Project uses District Cooling System LOT E System • AHU System is design at 0.4W/cubic metre per hour (CMH) • CO2 sensors are designed for regulating outdoor airflow Artificial Lighting • P rovision of Energy Efficient Lighting, such a, Light-emitting Diode (LED) and T5 fittings. Savings of 46% better than code Lot E Key Features of practice Ventilation in Car • Mechanical ventilation system coupled with CO sensors KL Sentral Park is the first development parks in Malaysia to fulfil the criteria set-out by the BCA Green Mark (Singapore) for Ventilation in • T oilets and staircases are mechanically ventilated the Platinum rating. To achieve this, we common areas • Atrium is naturally ventilated, with the aid of mechanical worked to ensure that our capital cost ventilation system investments were lowered between 8-10% of the usual capital costs. We Lifts and Escalators • L ifts with AC Variable voltage and Variable Frequency Motor also managed to achieve 30% in our Drive (VFD) operational savings. The development • Dual speed mode coupled with motion sensors has a total of 2 acres of Green area. Energy efficient • P rovision of motion sensors for all toilets and staircases practices and (0.18% savings) The development has also been nominated features • Ductless Mechanical Ventilation System is designed to as one of the pilot projects to achieve a achieve 0.83% savings rating from Malaysia’s GBI in the category of • Heat Recovery Wheel System is designed for pre-cooling and Environmental Sustainable Development. removing moisture from the fresh air entering the building The artistic use of metal, glass and (3.34% savings) environmentally friendly construction • Photo sensors to maximise the use of day-lighting materials gives KL Sentral Park a uniquely urban yet natural finish. Ventilation in Car • Mechanical ventilation system coupled with CO sensors parks 6 MRCB Annual Report 2010 WATER EFFICIENCY Water Efficient • U se of “Good” rating shower taps, shower heads, basin taps Fittings and sink/bib taps based on Water Efficiency Labeling Scheme (WESLS). Water usage and • A ll sub-meters are linked back to the Building Management Leak Detection System (BMS) Water efficient • Rainwater harvesting system with filtration irrigation and landscaping Irrigation System • Rain sensors (100% automated irrigation) GREENERY Green Fixtures and • E nvironmental friendly product certified under The Singapore Fittings Green Labeling Scheme (SGLS): Drainage cell/carton for landscape : Use of “Versicell” or equivalent subsoil drainage carton (SGLS Certified) Ceiling board : Use of “Armstrong” or equivalent ceiling board (SGLS Certified) Key Facts Office Floor Carpet Tiles : Use of “Interlace” or equivalent office floor carpet tiles (Green Star Certified) • P roducts with at least 30% recycled content by weight/ volume: 150 number of Ceiling Plaster Board for function areas/prayer rooms/last office levels projects completed Corian Acrylic Solid Surfaces for pantry RM3 Phenolic resin substrate system partition for toilet cubicles Modules for Green Wall system with recycled content • Calculated Greenery Provision (GnP) is rated at 2.21 billion Ringgit turnover • P rovision of compost recycled from horticulture waste is specified in the landscape tender ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 50 facilities managed Construction • P roject is assessed under the Construction Quality Management Assessment System (CONQUAS) Programme • Main contractor must be ISO 14001 certified • Building user guide for all tenants • Recycling facilities for different types of recyclable waste Public transport • A ccessible to nearby transportation hubs such as Mass Rail accessibility Transit (MRT)/Light Rail Transit (LRT) and bus stops. Ecologically • E nergy efficient design Sustainable Design • Highly efficient ventilation system • Use of natural energy such as solar energy MRCB Laporan Tahunan 2010 7 our projects INDOOR ENVIRONMENT QUALITY Thermal Comfort • Indoor air temperature (22.5 to 25.5°C) and Relative Humidity (less than 70%) is specified in Mechanical & Electrical Engineering (M&E) tender Noise Level • Sound level is specified in the M&E tender Indoor Air Pollutants • Project uses low VOC paint for all internal wall areas High Frequency • P rovision of high frequency ballast for all fluorescent Ballasts luminaries OTHER GREEN FEATURES AND INNOVATIONS Pneumatic Waste • W aste stored in sealed containers before it is disposed to LOT E (cont’d) Collection System landfills • Hygienic, environmentally friendly and convenient Siphonic Drainage • A pplicable to all areas: roofs (flat and metal roof), terraces, System atrium roof and landscape podium Condensate Water • Condensate Water Collection from AHU Collection from AHU Car-park Guiding Advantages: System • Save fuel and reduce CO concentration in air • Improves vehicle movement inside car-park thus saving time • Eases traffic congestion Anti-corrosion • More efficient operations coating for Coil Dedicated paper • Proper segregation of paper waste recycling chute Education corner • E nvironmental awareness including building features and Energy Efficient Systems 8 MRCB Annual Report 2010 SUSTAINABLE SITE Pollution Reduction Implementation of site best practice and control plan that and Control enforces the use of • Temporary seeding/mulching/slit fencing • Topsoil protection by stock piling • Prevention of sedimentation for existing storm water • Prevention of air pollution Community Connectivity and Alternative Transportation • Pedestrian connection to and from SSKL as the main rail transportation hub • Pedestrian elevated bridge to adjacent development • Bicycle storage and changing rooms for cyclists • Preferred parking for fuel efficient vehicles and designated handicapped parking lots Reduced Heat Island • A ll parking lots are located underground/within the building Effect • Combination of green coatings and materials in addition to a vegetated roof Reduced Light • R educed interior lighting with direct line by using automatic Pollution and timer sensors • All site and building luminaries set at acceptable illuminance value and beyond boundary • No flood light used on external building • Environmental Tobacco Smoke Control • Smoke free building WATER EFFICIENCY 348 sentral Water conservation • S election of native species for landscaping to take advantage of reduced irrigation • All pavement is pervious for excellent water drainage • Water efficient fittings to reduce water usage; use of green fixtures and fittings 348 SENTRAL Key Features Our Project Team is working to ensure that 348 Sentral achieves Platinum rating for its Office Tower and LEED (USA) Certification for the Service Residences. With this commitment, we have designed 348 Sentral to save an estimated 40% in energy consumption. The design of the overall developed is aimed to be environmentally friendly. Starting from its construction, where our contractors have to implement erosion and sediment control measures to reduce pollution from construction activities, preventing loss of soil caused by storm water runoff and wind erosion, reducing air pollution caused by dust and particulate matter and achieve 50% diversion of construction waste. 348 Sentral was also designed to use materials with at least 20% recycled content. MRCB Laporan Tahunan 2010 9 our projects ENERGY EFFICIENCY Utilised Energy • F undamental Refrigerant Management use of non-CFC Performance refrigerants Passive Strategies • Reduced heat gain through façade enveloped with selected high-performance glazing • Reduced heat gain through cool roof coating • Reduced diffused radiation heat gain through façades with a combination of vegetated roofing via roof garden Active Strategies • Chilled water supply from designated District Cooling Plant • Motion and photo sensors for perimeter and day lit areas • Lighting zones for utilisation of lighting needs • Insulated Ducts for returning air to AHU using MERV rated filter • CO2 level monitoring from construction period and replacement prior to occupancy MATERIAL AND RESOURCES Storage and • C entral storage and collection of non-hazardous waste Collection of material Recyclable Certified • 3 bin recycling area on every office floor Wood • Wood based materials to be documented and 50% certified as set out in FSC principles and criteria INDOOR ENVIRONMENAL QUALITY 348 sentral (cont’d) Low Emitting • P roject specification not exceeding VOC content limitation for Materials paints and coatings Control of System • Requirement as per CRI Green Label Plus Programme. for thermal comfort Installation follows VOC content limitation for carpet system • Installation of controllable thermostat linked to diffusers and are accessible to help control temperature of selected areas Air Quality Control Construction IAQ and Waste Management Plan during and Management construction • 50% non-hazardous construction and demolition debris to be recycled • Documentation of all site activity, material and utility usage and incoming and outgoing waste from the site inclusive of records of sources • Care for installation of air handler • Protection for all openings from the roof to exhaust fans units • Openings for all Heating, Ventilating and Air Conditioning (HVAC) air moving equipment loaded within the building • Protection of HVAC equipment, ductwork and material on site from dust and odor • Daily monitoring and maintenance of central filtration system and air quality during heavy construction • Temporary air Filter with MERV – 8 rating • Permanent Air Filter with MERV – 13 rating 10 MRCB Annual Report 2010 INNOVATION AND DESIGN PROCESS Innovation in Design • Installation of educational panel in the common area for outreach programme, awareness and information. Key Facts • Reduction of water use by 40% • Provision of Electric car charging stations 150 number of REGULATORY COMPLIANCE projects completed Standard of Air compliance • Minimum IAQ Performance : Compliance to Section 4-7 ASHRAE 62.1-2004 RM3 Thermal Comfort • To meet ASHRAE 55-2004 (Day Light and Views. Daylight 75% billion Ringgit turnover of Space) 50 Energy Performance • To meet mandatory provision of ASHRAE/IESNA Standard 90.1-2004 without amendments facilities managed MRCB Laporan Tahunan 2010 11 organisation chart Corporate Governance Tadbir Urus Korporat chief financial officer Ketua pegawai kewangan group support services kumpulan perkhidmatan sokongan Legal Safety, Health & Undang-Undang Environment Keselamatan, Kesihatan & Finance Alam Sekitar Kewangan Treasury Perbendaharaan Procurement/ Administration & IT Pemerolehan/ Pentadbiran & IT 12 MRCB Annual Report 2010 Board of directors Lembaga Pengarah Secretarial Kesetiausahaan chief executive officer Ketua pegawai eksekutif executive director Pengarah eksekutif infrastructure, building engineering & property concession & services construction hartanah environment perkhidmatan KEjuruterAan & infrastruktur, pengurusan pembinaan konsesi & alam sekitar bangunan Corporate Finance & Customer Relationship Human Resource Corporate Business Development Management Sumber Manusia Communications Kewangan Korporat Pengurusan Komunikasi Korporat & Pembangunan Perhubungan Perniagaan Pelanggan MRCB Laporan Tahunan 2010 13 what sustainability means to us Tioman We have always taken our At MRCB, we design, build and manage essential facilities for our society such as offices, retail responsibilities to the environment stores, residential units, leisure facilities and places and society seriously. This is now of learning. Our activities have an impact on the being driven further by growing environment but at the same time, we are able to demand from stakeholders enhance the environmental and social benefits we and regulation as well as by bring to a location in which we work in. opportunities to manage risk and cut costs. Our approach to sustainability is informed through our stakeholder feedback sessions, research and benchmarking within our industry. Our strategy is also informed by understanding the opportunities in our market place for innovation. 14 MRCB Annual Report 2010 In 2009, we conducted a detailed materiality analysis and identified 13 key improvement areas. This subsequently resulted in the development of our strategic plan to manage sustainability issues within MRCB. Our plan includes: Enhance community Sound environmental engagement Ensure a robust Be responsible in our Corporate governance management where the necessity to workplace marketplace where the necessity to practices where the be more transparent in where the necessity to where it is necessary to identify and manage necessity to operate to reporting and managing develop workplace policies ensure that we conduct potential new challenges global standards and stakeholder expectations benchmarked against our marketing promotions to the company needs meet energy efficiency of growth and profitability, international best practices responsibly while putting to be strengthened with standards has become coupled with the drive has been identified to in place strong governance additional resources important. to fulfil our social ensure that we continue measures to reduce the required to address responsibility has been to attract qualified risk of corruption sustainability issues identified as integral to our employees. andbribery. business. Towards this end, we developed targets to track our progress and are pleased to report our progress for 2010: AREA TARGETS Achievements PROGRESS Corporate governance Systematic Corporate Introduction of MRCB Sustainability Reporting (CSR) Foundation governance structure Environment Management External verification on Carbon footprinting and performance and impact emission study Stakeholder impact assessment Environmental Impact EIA study on Pulau Tioman Assessment (EIA) for all Rehabilitation Project environmentally sensitive projects Green initiatives Development of green buildings (Lot G, E and 348 Sentral) Greening of KL Sentral Community Engagement More active engagement and Impact assessment on contribution to the community community projects Workplace Management Standardise approach to Awareness training for training and development Influenza A and H1N1 disease Environmental training for contractors and subcontractors Fair remuneration system 15.6% increase in funds allocated to employees’ benefit fund Responsible Marketplace Compliance with authorities Publication of monthly and regulators reports on safety matters as required by the Department of Occupational Health and Safety (DOSH). Inclusion of CSR in supplier Development of supplier audit qualification system and audit MRCB Laporan Tahunan 2010 15 our approach to reporting Our aim is to provide a balanced and reasonable Your comments on the content and usability of our representation of our Company’s economic, Sustainability Report are appreciated as they are environmental and social performance. We are useful in preparing future Reports. Please use our continually improving our reporting systems Feedback mechanism if you have any suggestions and endeavor to present useful and accurate for our future Sustainability Reports. information. If you have any further queries, please do not hesitate The 2010 Sustainability Report has been prepared to contact us at: in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. This Contact person report has also been verified by GRI as meeting level Mohaini Mohd Yusof A+ disclosure. It should be recognised that, due to General Manager the size and complexity of our business, judgments Head of Corporate Communications have had to be made regarding the extent of the Malaysian Resources Corporation Berhad information presented in relation to each GRI Level 22, 1 Sentral Indicator. Jalan Travers, KL Sentral PO Box 12640 While every effort has been made to ensure the 50470 Kuala Lumpur accuracy of the information, including the figures, Malaysia in this Report, the data are derived from our many operations and, in some cases; grouped data are Tel : +603 2786 8080 not strictly comparable. Anyone seeking to rely Fax : +603 2780 5883 on information in this Report or seeking to draw www.mrcb.com.my detailed conclusions from the data should contact the Company for verification and assistance. Our past Sustainability Reports are also available on our website. Where possible, we have tried not to repeat information where changes have not occurred. Audience Omission of information may also be related to Our Report is designed to meet the requirements the fact that the GRI indicators do not apply to our of a diverse audience, ranging from those with operations. Instances of this occurring are presented minimal knowledge of our operations, to those in our GRI summary table at the end of the report. who are familiar with our business and processes. Our stakeholders range from employees, local This 2010 Sustainability Report is linked to our 2010 communities, shareholders and contractors, to nonAnnual Report and further details may be presented government organisations, socially responsible therein. investment analysts, governments and academia. It remains an ongoing challenge for us to ensure we meet the needs of, and remain relevant to, such a broad range of stakeholder groups. An important stage in planning for our Report is engaging with different stakeholders to assess their reaction to both content and presentation LOT j in Kuala Lumpur Sentral 16 MRCB Annual Report 2010 Chief Executive Officer’s statement  datuk MOHAMED RAZEEK MD HUSSAIN MARICAR Chief Executive Officer MRCB is widely recognised as a responsible to be reporting the Group’s continued progress developer that is fully committed to sustainable towards achieving the objectives and targets we set development Our vision is to create places for people ourselves, and the lessons learnt in the last 12 months. that offer the highest quality of life. To achieve this, we introduce all the social, environmental and The challenge that faces us all, as individuals and as economic elements that help to make attractive, companies such as ours, is how to ensure that people vibrant and socially inclusive places in which to live in new and existing communities enjoy a good and work. quality of life, whilst at the same time, minimising resource use to ensure that we are not compromising Our total commitment to sustainable development the health and prosperity of future generations. has unlocked new business opportunities and created added value, whilst also helping to Our objective is to create enhanced financial returns ensure our business has complied with current whilst striving to deliver the concept of sustainable and forthcoming policies which may impact on communities to our customers. We believe this is our activities. It has enhanced our reputation and best achieved through our responsible, long-term helped develop constructive relationships with our approach to development. We aim to be a leader stakeholders, whilst promoting customer preference in sustainability in our industry, but always with the and motivating our people. We are therefore pleased intent of adding value to our business. MRCB Laporan Tahunan 2010 17 chief executive officer’s statement Info counter at Sentral Lot E The Group’s key activities remain the same and our commitment to corporate responsibility, we include, design and build contracting, strategic land constantly review our sustainability objectives to and commercial property development. Through a ensure they are aligned with the Group’s business combination of all these activities we create mixedstrategy, Government policy and are as ‘future tenure and mixed-use schemes and sustainable proofed’ as possible. communities. Our strategy continues to strongly support the Our business strategy seeks to maintain the Group’s Government’s principles of sustainable development. reputation for producing high quality products that We are seeking to meet the challenges of change will sustain our reputation with our stakeholders. within our society, increasing stakeholder and We will seek to encourage teamwork throughout the employee expectations and the need to balance the Group and continue to evolve an enjoyable approach natural and the built environments. to work whilst retaining our high integrity culture. We ensure that our approach reflects emerging policies, legislation, management and reporting standards and meets the needs of our business. In order for us to measure our performance against 18 MRCB Annual Report 2010 transforming our communities making time for our communities (S01) PINTAR programme MRCB has a strong tradition of community local communities as well as create a working involvement and charitable support. We promote environment in which we support the aspirations and seek to enhance good community relations; and values of our people in helping make MRCB we seek to make a difference in the communities a great place to work. where we work. Recognising that a “one size fits all” approach When we develop a new building or build a to community engagement and support is not new development area, we recognise that we appropriate, we have developed community have become an intrinsic member of the local engagement activities to meet the needs of the community. During this time, we have the local community. Arising from this, our activities opportunity to enhance the benefits our business are themed around two key areas: brings to the area. This approach have helped us develop and strengthen our links to the • Education • Inclusion 20 MRCB Annual Report 2010 PINTAR PINTAR Education We have a strong tradition in supporting In 2010, we included four other schools into our educational programmes initiated by the programme: Government, private initiatives and by the communities themselves. We have been a strong • Sekolah Jenis Kebangsaan (Cina) (SJKC) supporter of Khazanah Nasional’s “Promoting Yoke Hua, Pahang Intelligence, Nurturing Talents, Advocating • SK Indera Shahbandar, Pahang Responsibility” (PINTAR) programme since • SK Serendu, Pahang 2007. Since then, we have invested more than • Sekolah Jenis Kebangsaan (Tamil) (SJKT) RM1.5 million into the programme. Our focus on Ladang Mayfield, Penang the PINTAR programme is on primary schools as we believe that the foundation of a good attitude As the PINTAR programme was expanded to to learning should be inculcated from a young include these four new schools in 2010, we age. The schools which we are supporting are: will be reporting the academic results at these schools in the year 2011. • Sekolah Kebangsaan (SK) Bagan Jermal, Penang The focus areas for our school sponsorship • SK La Salle 1 and 2, KL programme was to seek improvements in three • SK Tebrau Bakar Batu, Johor Baru study areas: • Mathematics • English • Science MRCB Laporan Tahunan 2010 21 making time for our communities UPSR Passing Rate for The results for the schools are as follows: English (2008-2009) English Ujian Penilaian Sekolah Rendah (UPSR) examination results from 2008 to 2010 for 83.8 60.5 English for the 4 schools under our sponsorship 83.5 62.1 were satisfactory, with all school exceeding 68.4 65.7 68.4 79.5 last year’s results. The schools that have been 58.5 55.2 51.8 57.1 under our programme are SK Bagan Jermal, Penang; SK La Salle 1 and 2, KL; and SK Tebrau Bakar Batu, Johor Baru. The improvements are excellent with each school experiencing a 15.4%, 11.1%, 5.2% and 10.3% increase in passing rates SK La Salles 2 SK Terbrau Bakar respectively from 2009 to 2010. SK La Salle 1 Baru SK Bagan Jermal School UPSR Passing Rate for Mathematics (2008-2009) Mathematics UPSR examination results for the schools from 81.2 88.8 84.6 2008 to 2010 for mathematics showed an overall 77.2 85.7 90.3 improvement of 6%. SK Bagan Jermal, Penang 80.4 78.9 79.2 89.1 89.1 improved by 8.4% in 2010 as compared to 64.9 2009 while SK Tebrau Bakar Batu, Johor Baru improved marginally by 1.2% over the same year. SK La Salle 1 and 2, KL, improved by 7.4% and 6.8% respectively from 2009 to 2010. SK Terbrau Bakar SK La Salles 2 Baru SK La Salle 1 SK Bagan Jermal School UPSR Passing Rate for Science (2008-2009) Science 87.1 92.5 87.2 UPSR examination results from 2008 to 2010 66.7 91.4 88.4 for science showed satisfactory improvement 90.1 78.9 73.6 74.7 82.7 of 10.25% for all schools. SK Bagan Jermal, 61.0 Penang improved by 2.4% in 2010 as compared to 2009 while SK Tebrau Bakar Batu, Johor Baru improved marginally by 5.6% over the same year. SK La Salle 1 and 2, KL, improved by 20.5% and 12.5% respectively from 2009 to 2010. SK Terbrau Bakar SK La Salles 2 Baru SK La Salle 1 SK Bagan Jermal School 22 MRCB Annual Report 2010 Measuring What We are Doing We aim to continue to measure our Social Return on Investment (SROI) on our PINTAR programme to ensure that our contributions are used effectively for the best results. With the change of schools, the baselines for our previous SROI have changed; and as a result, we will only report on our SROI in 2011 to enable adequate time for data collection. In measuring our SROI, we believe that we are one of the first government-linked companies (GLCs) in Malaysia to measure the value of our community contributions. This measure allows us to evaluate the impact of our community activities on our stakeholders, identify ways to improve performance, and enhance the PINTAR at UKM performance of investments. Providing Additional Support Inclusion To ensure that our PINTAR programmes are We support a range of charities and community maximised, we aim to take the results of our groups which address issues of social deprivation, PINTAR impact analysis further by developing health and the environment. several projects to ensure that our students are best supported by the school and their families. In 2010, our major activity here was the “Little In 2009, our PINTAR impact analysis raised India Project”. ‘Little India’ covers the area weaknesses in our students’ lives resulting in from Jalan Travers to Jalan Tun Sambanthan poor academic performance: and involves the development of new business premises, a parking complex, and road 1. Lack of access to adequate academic resources improvements with cultural affinity to reflect 2. Lack of motivation to excel due to the lack of the ethnic Indian community in Malaysia. The awareness of potential employment avenues Little India project is part of the Government all 3. Lack of parental support inclusive plan which was put under the purview of the Federal Territories and Urban Wellbeing We developed several programmes to assist our Ministry. An allocation of RM110 million was students for the first two weaknesses through also provided to improve the traffic conditions intensive classes, motivational trips, exposure in Brickfields and KL Sentral; as a mean to of the students to the various employment complement the Little India project by facilitating avenues available, organisation seminars and tourist arrivals to Little India, Brickfields. To workshops on academic-related topics and commemorate the occasion, we organised an lessons on attitudes and behaviour. However, official launch ceremony for Little India on 27 we were not able to develop any programmes October 2010. Dignitaries invited were the Prime to gain the support of parents to get involved in Minister of Malaysia, YAB Dato’ Sri Mohd Najib their children’s academic life. Tun Abdul Razak, the Prime Minister of India, The Honorable Manmohan Singh, several ministers This is an area in which we will be working on to and personnel from the Prime Minister’s Office, gain parental support to incentivise and motivate KL City Hall (Dewan Bandaraya KL, DBKL), our students to perform better, thereby ensuring Ministry of Federal Territories and Urban a better future for themselves and family. We Wellbeing and most importantly members of the will measure our efforts in the level of parental Brickfields community as well as the media. participation through future Parents Teachers meetings in our schools on a two yearly basis to ensure that our efforts are in good effect. MRCB Laporan Tahunan 2010 23 making time for our communities We are also heavily involved in other community activities in the Brickfields area, participating in activities organised by the Brickfields Community and people with disabilities (orang kurang upaya, OKU) at the Karnival Brickfields. This was an event organised by the Rukun Tetangga Brickfields involving exhibitions by our Royal Police Force (Polis DiRaja Malaysia), fire department (Jabatan Bomba), Information Ministry (Jabatan Penerangan), Association of the Blind Malaysia and Malaysian Federation of the Deaf. We participate in these activities and organisations as it is our firm belief that with our support, they are better able to raise awareness on current social issues affecting the disadvantaged in our community. That being said, we further recognise that we could better focus our community activities and for 2011, we will be drawing up an action plan of our activities to ensure that our support is best utilised where required. Apart from that we were also involved in various other stakeholder activities as detailed below: xxxxxxx Date Event Stakeholders involved 14 January Groundbreaking Ceremony for DBKL, Brickfields community, Federal 2010 Package 2 of the Traffic Dispersal Territories (FT) Ministry, MRCB System 08 April 2010 Chinese delegates visit MRCB ‘s KL MRCB Sentral development 07 May 2010 Brickfields Community dialogue at DBKL, Brickfields community, MRCB 03 June 2010 DBKL Sports Club, Brickfields 23 June 2010 MRCB’s Annual General Meeting Shareholders, Media, MRCB (AGM) at Sime Darby Convention Centre 26 June 2010 Safety simulation exercise at SSKL MRCB, Keretapi Tanah Melayu (KTM), Medical Personnel, Police Department 01 July 2010 Launch of the Breakwater and Local community, MRCB Fishermen Jetty Projects at Bagan Ajam, Butterworth, Penang 01 July 2010 Media interview – MRCB’s CEO with Business Times (Singapore) 06 August 2010 MRCB rewards employees’ children MRCB Employees and their families for academic excellence 23 August 2010 Official handover of Jalan Travers Brickfields & Bukit Persekutuan Jalan Bangsar Project (Stimulus communities, DBKL, FT Ministry, package) MRCB 27 August 2010 Media interview – MRCB’s CEO with Utusan Malaysia on stimulus package 23 September Radio interview – MRCB’s CEO 2010 interview with Radio station (which station?) 10 October Ministry of Transport (Transport MRCB, KTM, Ministry of Transport 2010 Minister, YB Dato’ Seri Kong Cho Ha) visits Lot G & SSKL 27 October2010 Gotong-royong to clean streets of DBKL, FT Ministry, Brickfields Brickfields community 24 MRCB Annual Report 2010 in Brickfields Date Event Stakeholders involved 04 Nov 2010 Launch of Little India at Brickfields MRCB, Prime Minister’s Office, DBKL, FT Ministry, Brickfields community, Media 04 Nov 2010 PINTAR Kuantan 3 new schools, school authorities in Kuantan 10 Nov 2010 PINTAR KL 2 schools and school authorities 13 Nov 2010 PINTAR Penang 2 schools and school authorities 24 Nov 2010 PINTAR Johor 1 school and school authorities 20 Dec 2010 Media interview – MRCB’s CEO with the Malaysian Reserve on stimulus package MRCB Laporan Tahunan 2010 25 case study Little india development Puncak Iskandar is We were requested by the Federal Territories The efforts to upgrade conditions at the area and Urban Wellbeing Ministry to be the primary were unfortunately misconstrued by the local the latest offering developer as we have a strong presence in residents and entrepreneurs who have been in Bandar Seri Brickfields; as our headquarters are located at operating in the area for many years. Many KL Sentral and we were already involved in the of the grouses relate to the perceived lack of Iskandar, a selfdevelopment of the Jalan Tun Sambanthan road information provided by KL City Hall as many sustained township extension project. Work at ‘Little India’ included of the hawkers located in the affected area were that is ideally the building of a temporary hawker centre, installation of new street lamps, upgrading the required to move to a temporary site while their existing area of business was being upgraded positioned by pedestrian walk, construction of welcome arch, prior being moved to their designated business MRCB one of the largest fountains in the country, site which was still under construction. Local cultural arches, multi-storey Indian bazaar and residents were also unhappy with the proposed cultural stalls. road reflow plan and the perception that the proposed road reflow would lead to greater congestion. 26 MRCB Annual Report 2010 It is unfortunate that we were involved in this dispute between the local residents and entrepreneurs with the local government. Our intention was to provide our expertise and support to Government initiatives to improve the quality of life to all residents. Nonetheless, our approach to the redevelopment works of Little India involved consultations with the residents and business community, religious and cultural groups, transport operators, public authorities – police and fire department, and Non-Government Organisations (NGOs) from and around Brickfields. To date we have invested around RM 35 million on the Little India project. Little India at night Work in progress MRCB Laporan Tahunan 2010 27 working with our customers (PR1-9) We work in partnership with our customers to We adhere to the principle of best practice when deliver quality projects on time, safely and with it comes to delivering quality in our work. due regard to the environment and communities. We aim to develop sustainable solutions which Developing Strong Partnerships meet and exceed their aspirations. Strong partnerships are catalysts for successful projects. We have developed a strong relationship Our projects are mainly residential and with our customers through our Customer commercial properties; sold as built-up property. Relationship Management (CRM) programmes; There are many stages that a project has to go and have consistently achieved high customer through before it is approved for construction, as ratings through our CRM survey. well as extensive and strict external regulations that must also be fulfilled in order to ensure that In the survey, we asked respondents to rank their the proper approvals and licenses are obtained. satisfaction level from 0 (dissatisfied) to 3 (very satisfied) on various categories, namely on: 28 MRCB Annual Report 2010 Customer Service Chiller room • Facility Management Service performance is positively correlated with services provided by our mechanical and the building age especially with mushrooming engineering department, cleaning, customer number of new projects within the vicinity. Type service, parking operation, landscaping, of tenants and surrounding environment also security and safety play important roles which sometimes cause frequent breakdowns and misuse by others. • Retail Management services related to our tenant mix, promotion We conducted post hand-over surveys after and market positioning completion of new projects; where projects are evaluated in terms of design and specifications; • Newly completed projects workmanship and customer service. The design and specifications delivered to our feedback received on design and specifications customers, our quality of workmanship are satisfactory. Nonetheless, we will keep and customer service provided by our improving our supervision and monitoring plans maintenance and sales teams to improve the level of workmanship. On average, the satisfaction level of MRCB Group During the operations/management of our performance increased slightly from 84.5% in buildings and facilities, we constantly seek year 2009 to 87.3% in year 2010. feedback from our tenants and customers through direct engagement. Our facilities management team holds regular feedback sessions with our tenants and customers to ensure that we are able to focus our resources on the issues that are important to our customers and tenants by providing an efficient, user-defined service. MRCB Laporan Tahunan 2010 29 working with our customers Customer Serivce Delivering End-to-End Value Assuring our Marketplace Plaza Alam All our projects begin with ways in which we At MRCB we understand our social responsibility Sentral remains are able to bring added value to our customers. This may be achieved through cost reduction, in relation to the collection and handling of customer data. We have put in place measures Shah Alam’s improving quality and ensuring that the to protect our customers’ privacy and to date favourite shopping principles of sustainable development have been we have had no case of breaches of customer integrated throughout our approach. privacy nor any incidences of loss of customer destination information. We work with our contractors to ensure that our projects are kept within our principles to bring We undertake extensive marketing in a variety of added value to our customers; as well as ensuring forms both within Malaysia and internationally. that all our projects are safe and protection of All our marketing campaigns have the necessary the natural environment is second nature to our approvals from the relevant authorities and contractors. we ensure that all our marketing material complies with the relevant laws, standards, and We have implemented supplier procurement voluntary codes that are related to marketing criteria in 2010 at the corporate level but these communications. This includes the consideration criteria have yet to be standardised across our of placing, timing and content. Group. While we do not have a policy as yet to purchase local materials, we do source our During 2010, we had no instances of inappropriate suppliers locally where possible; given the fact marketing and were fully compliant with that it is not possible to purchase all materials all applicable laws and standards related to locally. marketing communications. 30 MRCB Annual Report 2010 Managing Corruption All our employees are aware of the anticorruption and anti-bribery policies set in place by our company through the Code of Business Ethics provided to our employees. This code is applicable to all our stakeholders, customers, suppliers and other external parties. In 2010, we continue monitoring for incidences of corruption amongst our employees, suppliers and contractors; and to date we are pleased to report that no such occurrences have been reported nor identified. MRCB Laporan Tahunan 2010 31 case study semasa sentral The architecture Designed by the late Dr Kisho Kurukawa, in another subsidiary of MRCB, it clearly displays association with Malaysian consultants, SSKL the future of transportation in Malaysia. design of the is an epitome of a dream well brought to life. station while being The architecture design of the station while Overall, customers were very pleased with the being very contemporary and international, services provided by Building Services Division very contemporary also incorporates traditional Islamic motives of of MRCB at SSKL, and other sites within KL and international, a multi-pointed star, which can be seen on the Sentral as well as sites belonging to external also incorporates dome and the floor tiles. clients. traditional Islamic The building was developed by KL Sentral Sdn Though initial issues encountered were designmotives of a multiBhd, a subsidiary of MRCB, which has built a name related or inherited from poor workmanship, for itself in “Shaping the Nation’s Landscape”, customers were basically happy with the way the pointed star via property development and management. personnel attending to them in terms of response Currently managed by Semasa Sentral Sdn Bhd time, courtesy and friendliness. All companies 32 MRCB Annual Report 2010 are taking their initiatives to gather feedbacks and suggestions from customers annually for product and service improvements. Most issues are being attended immediately, for example in terms of cleanliness, maintenance, safety and security, parking operation and customer service. Others could be too costly and involve other departments and external parties but the companies acknowledged and escalated the feedbacks for future improvements Those in the retail management also have taken the customers’ grievances and suggestions seriously. Focus was not merely on facility management but also on project assessment after certain events or promotional programmes. Hence, the participating tenants or promoters can ensure their investments paid off and will continue coming back to us. Basically, the customer satisfaction surveys conducted encompassed tenant mix and effectiveness of promotional activities. Semasa Sentral MRCB Laporan Tahunan 2010 33 delivering sustainable design PINTAR programme We have committed to ensure that our • Enhancing and synergising government developments contribute to Malaysia’s Green transportation mode and connectivity issues Objectives: Removing the perception of building construction activity as a public nuisance • Increasing control of building thermal comfort and utilising daylight • Minimising and structuring energy use and consumption • Reducing the contribution of buildings to the heat island effect • Educating and promoting waste management and green materials 34 MRCB Annual Report 2010 xxxxxxx In meeting these commitments, we embarked (SCC) framework. The SCC is a business on obtaining two international Green Building model that works by creating IT solutions certifications for our property developments in for what MRCB describes as a sustainable, 2009; namely the LEED certification and the BCA green and smart urban development Green Mark Certification from Singapore. We practice. One of the SCC’s many features chose these two certification schemes as they involves the ease of tenants moving into were the most established schemes operating the KL Sentral Park lots as IT infrastructure in our region, thereby being able to provide will be provided as the fourth utility besides assessment of our buildings suited to our local electricity, water and gas. These prospective environment. Apart from that we are also seeking tenants will not have to worry about signing to achieve certification through the Malaysian up for their own separate phone service, as GBI. these services will be provided by CISCO. Lot E will also feature a multi-service Internet These schemes were applied to three buildings, Protocol (IP platform for easy Information & namely Lot G, Lot E and 348 Sentral. Communication Technology (ICT) integration and building automation networks, as well as • Lot E (also known as KL Sentral Park) is the availability of free Wi-Fi for all its tenants scheduled for completion by the end of and patrons. 2011, and will be in the forefront of our development strategies, as this is seen as • Lot G (also known as Nu Sentral) is a RM1.4 the next generation of Malaysian urban billion integrated development comprising a centres. It will be our first project to utilise seven storey retail mall and 27-storey office CISCO’s Smart and Connected Communities tower. MRCB Laporan Tahunan 2010 35 delivering sustainable design xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx • 348 Sentral is a new development, built on the approach for all our developments in future to green concept and is slated to be completed ensure that we deliver the best cost options for by 2012. 348 Sentral is looking to pursue our customers. the GBI Malaysia Gold rating and the LEED Platinum rating Accreditation. We further recognise that there are opportunities available for us to bring better value to our We recognise that the adoption of these green customers in our building designs such as building certification systems represent the first incorporating renewable energy technologies step on a long journey in delivering sustainable into our building designs and the design of buildings to our customers. Our aim is to zero-emission buildings. These are long term ultimately plan and construct developments that goals which we are currently working on to fulfil the principles of sustainable development incorporate into our building planning and in the long term. design departments. Detailed below are some of the initiatives Our targets for the achievement of these which we are undertaking within our Group of objectives are: Companies. Objective Target Integrating Sustainable Designs and Use of Adoption of Life Cycle Thinking in Renewable Technologies our Future Developments We face a unique challenge to meet demands for new and renovated facilities that are accessible, Use of Life-cycle Costing in secure, healthy, and productive while minimising delivering better products to our their impact on the environment. We recognise customers that in order to meet the needs of our customers Incorporation of renewable in future, we will need to consider the life cycle of energy technologies in our a building to ensure that we are able to improve future building designs and the environmental performance of each building developments from the design through to end-of-life stage. As mentioned in our last report, we already have While we have undertaken a cost impact our Green Building Governance Structure and analysis for the development of our three Green this unit will be looking into these issues. buildings, we will be seeking to implement this 36 MRCB Annual Report 2010 bringing value (EC1-E9) xxxxxxxx As a public-listed company, we understand that MRCB is one of the founding members of the our stakeholders demand accountability and Malaysian chapter for the United Nations Global transparency of our economic performance. Compact (UNGC). As such we uphold all of UNGC Our central financial strategy will remain; to principles including those on human and labour finance growth in the most optimal, flexible and rights. We made no significant investments that sustainable manner possible in this challenging included clauses on human rights. global financial environment. Highlights of our economic performance are As a responsible corporation we fully recognise presented below and full details of our financial the effect our activities can have on the local performance are published in our 2010 Annual economy and as such, we are committed Report, released in the first quarter of 2011. Our to delivering sustainable growth to benefit annual report may be downloaded from our our shareholders, customers and the wider website. community. Economic Performance In 2010, we recorded our strongest financial performance to date. Our Group revenue was over RM1.1 Billion, up 14.5% as compared to the 2009 financial year. Our pre-tax profit was RM97.6 million, an increase of 109.9% as compared to 2009. We did not receive any financial contributions or assistance from the government nor were we involved in public policy development and lobbying for public projects. MRCB Laporan Tahunan 2010 37 Corporate Governance Amount Component Our corporate governance structures have not 2009 2010 changed since our last report and we remain Revenue 968,523 1,108,604 committed to applying international standards Operating costs 814,626 904,689 in maintaining our corporate governance programmes. Employee wages & 67,534 73,892 benefits We continue to maintain a clear separation Payments to 38,570 31,449 between the Board and Executive to ensure providers of capital that there is appropriate balance of power and Payments to 9,009 23,781 authority in managing the company. Committees government (e.g. reviewing our operations are: Tax) • Audit Community 1,301 999 • Executive Investments • Nomination • Remuneration Key points to note on our financial performance • Employee Share Option Scheme are: We are focused still on financial risk management 1. Community investments decreased by 23.2% for the Group, as we need to ensure that we create in 2010; most of our community work was value to our shareholders at all times. Our risk focused on Little India. management approach is focused on minimising 2. Employee wages and benefits increased potential adverse effects on the financial 9.4% despite having a smaller workforce. performance of the Group. As such, issues such Employee benefits and rewards per employee as climate change are seen very much as part of increased 10.7% from 2009 to 2010. this process. 3. We were more efficient as revenue per employee increased 15.8% as compared to The impact of climate change particularly on 2009. the choice of developmental areas in future for us would be a critical factor, as purchasing developmental locations in high risk areas such as flood prone areas and water deficient areas would increase developmental cost for us. Thus, we are in the process of formalising climate change risk into our management process. 38 MRCB Annual Report 2010 transforming our work environment MRCB Laporan Tahunan 2010 39 health, safety and well being PINTAR programme We strive to make MRCB a place where which details all aspects of our employees work employees and subcontractors can develop and safe and stay healthy assurance programme. grow in a safe and inspiring team environment. This manual also provides for the safe activities We are committed to providing an incident-free of our contractors. and zero harm environment as well as promoting the well-being of our people. We conducted All our property developments are autonomous health training for our employees to brief them in terms of site management, with the on serious diseases such as…(information to be project management team on site having full inserted later on). responsibility in ensuring health and safety on site. Arising from this, we are able only report on Health and Safety on Site (LA7) selected sites as we have not as yet developed As a property developer, it is our aim to ensure a platform to collect and collate this information that our work sites are safe to all who work on site. on a corporate level. We have a Group level Safety and Health Manual 40 MRCB Annual Report 2010 There were a total of 19 accidents resulting in injury at our construction sites. The details of the incidents are presented below: Project Total Man MRCB Staff Contract Staff Work Description of Incident Hours on Stoppage Injury Death Injury Death Project Hours Lot G Integrated 217,980 NIL NIL 7 NIL NIL Deep cut from sharp object Development – between index and middle finger Parcel A & B Laceration and puncture wounds due to hand, caught between an object Fracture on left arm due to fall Abrasion on the head and shoulder due to falling object Fingernail detached as it was caught between object Dislocated shoulder due to fall from height of 3m Scratch wound due to improper lifting of material Lot G Integrated 228,056 NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL N/A Development – Parcel C & D Lot E – 1,134,030 NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL N/A KL Sentral Park Lot A 620,638 NIL NIL 10 NIL NIL All injured given first aid treatment (CIMB Towers) 348 Sentral 624,976 NIL NIL 2 NIL 14 Hot water splashed onto the worker’s right hand from the air compressor causing small burns Worker’s index finger caught in between steel bars causing injury Jalan Tun 273,456 NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL N/A Sambanthan Road – 4 ramps across Sg. Kelang Stimulus Package 477,632 NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL N/A – Bangsar & Brickfields EDL, Expressway 1,577,008 NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL N/A Johor Permai Psychiatric 5,066,430 NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL N/A Hospital Project Our Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) in 2009 was reported at 0.44 as compared to our 2010 result of xxxx. MRCB Laporan Tahunan 2010 41 Creating a Great Workplace (LA1-LA14, HR1-HR9) At MRCB, we believe that having a culture where Career Progression and Evaluation our employees feel valued with the right skills and We have a structured management programme knowledge to contribute effectively to the business for staff identified as having high potential for is a vital component to creating a great workplace. development coupled with a structured promotion We believe that it is essential to grow talent with the policy. We have developed a structured programme company and to equip our staff with the necessary to put this policy into practice as well. skills to enable them to develop, personally and professionally. All our senior management and those ranked higher undergo structured developmental coaching Ensuring Continual Development to ensure that they have all the necessary tools We ensure that our employees are able to work – management and otherwise – to conduct their competently, safely and in a responsible manner, responsibilities effectively and efficiently. providing professional services that our customers expect of us. In 2010, we invested approximately We have a performance based reward system RM2,300 per employee to ensure that our objectives to differentiate performing and non-performing are met. This represents approximately 6 hours employees. Our management have set Key of training for each employee in our business. We Performance Indicators (KPIs) for all employees to also provide ongoing support for professional monitor their progress and the performance of each development. We encourage our staff to demonstrate employee against his or her own KPI will determine their professionalism and continuing development salary and career progression. We conduct through membership of relevant professional performance appraisals annually and in 2010, 90% bodies. of our employees went through this process. Based on this is this a decrease or increase from To ensure that we have continuity in business 2009? management, we have a policy and have developed procedures to ensure succession planning. Relevant training identified by our Human Resources (HR) Department together with our managers Apart from that, we conduct continuous assessment comprise of both in-house and external training. We of salary levels to ensure that we remain competitive. utilise the skills of our internal resources to ensure Our HR Department also conduct continuous surveys that all training remains relevant to our employees, to ensure that our benefit packages to our employees where necessary, we use external trainers or our remain competitive. We do not discriminate between employees attend external training courses. We genders with regards to salaries of those within the emphasise development of both hard and soft skills same job category. to ensure that our employees remain up-to-date with the latest techniques/technologies or knowledge For our long term employees we have a generous required to do their jobs. Employee Share Option Scheme as well as a gratuity programme for those who were in service before 2004. We also offer reimbursement of expenses for those of our employees pursuing higher qualifications. We have a Caring Employer Relations policy and practices which include an annual overseas trip provided the company as a whole perform well financially. Managing our Employees In 2010, our total number of employees was 1,136, all stationed within Malaysia; representing a decrease of approximately 1.0% as compared to 2009. Of this, approximately 59.0% of our employees are at the executive level and above, with 41% comprising LOT j in Kuala Lumpur Sentral non-executive level employees. Our employees also work under different contract terms; with 42 MRCB Annual Report 2010 Plaza Alam Sentral approximately 44.0% employed as permanent staff with the remaining 55.0% working as contract staff. This difference is primarily due to the nature of our business, which comprises primarily of construction and development works. In Malaysia, it is not a norm to have unions in the work place except for specific industries. As such, there are no unions at MRCB but we do not prevent our employees from joining such organisations. In terms of gender breakdown, 71.0% of our staff comprised of male employees while 29.0% were females. While we try to decrease this perceived gender bias, we still have an overwhelming number Overall, our turnover rates decreased from 2009, by of male job applicants as compared to females approximately 13.0% in 2010. We attribute this to due to the nature of business we are in. We are an overall improvement in our staff management working to correct this imbalance in our employee programmes and underlying economic conditions. gender numbers; however, while we practice equal Nonetheless, we have found that our turnover rates opportunity in our hiring programme, we cannot for males are much higher as compared to that for influence job applications. females; at 15.0% for females and approximately 85.0% for males. For our business continuity, we see it as an advantage for us to increase our pool of female employees as it adds stability and continuity to our activities. MRCB Laporan Tahunan 2010 43 The ethnic mix of our employees is a reflection of our multi-ethnic society. In 2010, we have seen a We do not hire child labour nor forced labour in our slight increase in the number of Chinese employees operations. We are pleased to report that in 2010 by approximately 0.4% while our Malay employees that there were no incidences of discrimination decreased by 1.0%. The number of Indian employees reported and no incidences related to freedom of and employees of other ethnicities has stayed nearly association and collective bargaining was reported. the same. Our developments are located mainly in urban areas and therefore do not infringe upon the rights of Breakdown of Employees indigenous people. Ethnicity % Employed by Ethinicity Malay 88.4% A risk area from which human rights abuses may Chinese 6.1% occur is through our security personnel, which are Indian 3.7% third party service providers to our Group. We manage this risk by ensuring that all our security Others 1.8% needs – on site and otherwise – is provided by one service provider. We have worked with our security contractor for many years now and have encouraged We wholly support the vision of our Prime Minister their management to take our requirements in promoting the concept of 1Malaysia and practice seriously. As a result, they provide training to all a system of meritocracy in our career development their security employees on all material aspects of and employee benefit programme. As a company the law including individual and collective rights. 1.8% involved in a diverse business activities, we want Their employees are also trained on basic human 6.1% to attract the best and brightest of young people to rights, especially when dealing with visitors/ 3.1% join us. We provide merit based remuneration for 88.4% intruders through a formal training programme and our employees and we do not discriminate between a performance appraisal for all their employees is genders. Malay conducted annually. On our part, we evaluate the Chinese performance of our security service provider and Our Company Executive Handbook lists out our Indian their personnel annually. Grievance Policy and Procedures in detail for all Others our employees. Fundamental to this procedure is Whistle Blower Policy the belief that we need to listen to our employees MRCB has established a whistle blower policy aimed to ensure that they are well taken care of so that we at preventing any fraud involving its stakeholders. Age Group of Employees continue to grow as a business. This is of particular The policy is established to encourage both importance to us given that majority of our employees internal and external stakeholders in reporting are below the age of 30. Any changes in operations or misappropriation of the Group’s business activities organisation are conducted in consultation with our without fear of being victimised, discriminated or managerial and supervisory employees. We reach disadvantaged. out to our employees through our internal newsletter and our Employee Communication Programme The head of Corporate Governance and the (ECP) which is conducted quarterly. This is the forum Audit Committee will be solely responsible in the through which any matter pertaining to the Group is investigating and managing any report derived from conveyed to our employees; while giving them the whistle blowers. opportunity to air their views. Participants in this forum generally comprises of senior management 1.8% and employees. 6.1% 3.1% Human Rights 88.4% Our business brings us into close contact with building contractors and a multitude of companies who supply the necessary materials. Each of these <30 companies have employees, both of permanent and 30 to 40 contract, which all have rights as human beings. 40 to 50 Our policy of managing the issue of human rights > 50 as a Group is institutionalised through our HR Policy which extends on internal and external matters. 44 MRCB Annual Report 2010 MRCB Laporan Tahunan 2010 45
