2010 Communication on Progress From the President’s Desk iii TABLE OF CONTENTS Report Overview iv NAC Company Snapshot v Performance Highlights vi vii Future Goals viii Report Breakdown ix Human Rights 1 Safety & Health 2 Professional Growth 3 Product & Service Quality 4 Green Value 5 Sustainable Mail Products 6 Water Stewardship 7 Climate Protection 8 Supply Chain Engagement 9 Global Community 10 Global Community Impact 11 NAC Commitments 12 Corporate Overview 13 GRI Reporting Index 14 UN Global Compact Principles 15 ii 2010 Communication on Progress From the PRESIDENT’S DESK Dear fellow stakeholders, The world around us has seen a number of changes in recent years as we continue to deal with the aftermath of the economic struggle of 2008. Over the past two years we have experienced both hardships and triumphs as we begin to rebuild our companies, families and homes. As a result, it has become increasingly important to work together in order to make the world a better, safer and more productive place to live. As a corporation, we hold the responsibility to lead the way to a stronger more sustainable tomorrow. NAC is proud to remain committed to the UN Global Compact and continue acting according to its guidelines. We hold the notions of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption at the forefront of our minds in every corporate interaction and business endeavor we make. In the following pages, we outline our sustainability, goals, progress and areas for improvement. Moving into the future we will continue to support the UN Global Compact and promote socially-responsible business practices. Sincerely, Rob Herman President & COO 2010 Communication on Progress iii Report Overview Scope The 2010 Communication on Progress encompasses company performance, initiatives and statements for North American Communications (NAC), and its partner company, North American Mailing Services (NAMS). The boundary of the report is limited to January 2010 through December 2010. This is NACʼs second CSR report. Reports for previous years can be viewed at http://www.unglobalcompact.org/COPs/detail/ 8271 Company statistics are calculated per calendar year, and represent all U.S. and Mexico locations. Unless otherwise noted, statistics referenced in this report represent combined averages of data sets from all NAC and NAMS facilities. Company References & Statements Reference to “NAC” within the scope of this report shall mean “NAC and its partner company, NAMS”. Unless otherwise stated references to “NAC facilities, operations, systems and locations” shall mean “NAC and NAMS facilities, operations, systems, and locations.” Use of the words “we” and “our” within the scope of this report shall mean of, belonging to, or on behalf of “NAC and its partner company, NAMS”. Metrics NAC is currently in the process of improving its systems for data collection and metrics analyses. Indicators describing corporate performance can be found on pp. vi-vii. To maximize the quality of company data in the future, NAC is exploring options for obtaining third-party assurance for upcoming reports. iv 2010 Communication on Progress COMPANY ! ! ! ! ! SNAPSHOT Founded in 1934, North American Communications, expansive range of direct mail services to its loyal Inc. (NAC) has grown impressively from its roots in customers found all across North America. Boasting envelope manufacturing, now proudly calling itself 100% in-house production and mailing services, the largest, bi-national direct mail manufacturer in NAC allows companies the security of knowing that the United States. NAC offers regionalized reaching their customers efficiently and effectively is production from its locations in the United States the number one priority, always. and Mexico. Such locations allow NAC to provide an 2010 Communication on Progress v 2010 Performance Highlights PERFORMANCE 2009 2010 Progress Total NAC and NAMS locations and facilities1 3 3 n/a Average total workforce (non-hourly employees) 1,147 1,064 Workplace Human Rights & Well-being Percentage of employees receiving training on human rights & Open-Door 100% 100% 0 Policy2 Percentage of security personnel receiving training on upholding human 100% 100% 0 rights while providing security3 Percentage of senior management positions occupied by women 26% 36% 10% Percentage of senior management positions occupied by minorities 50% 35% -15% Percentage of total workforce comprised of women 34% 40% 6% Percentage of total workforce comprised of minorities 55% 68% 13% Safety & Health Total number of formal health and safety training programs provided to 13 58 45 employees4 Percentage of employees receiving general health and safety training3 100% 100% 0 Number of patient visits at on-site NAC health clinic 12,689 25,008 12,319 Professional Growth Percentage of corporate locations employing KSA tool sets for career 100% 100% 0 development in production departments5 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 67.0% 69.0% 2.0% development reviews Marketplace Value Product & Service Quality Total number of mail units produced 532,153,731 712,802,458 180,648,727 Percentage of mail units produced with no errors 99.6% 98.5% -1.10% Number of customer complaints warranting actions 70 6 64 Number of customer complaints due to loss of data or breach in privacy6 0 0 0 Percentage of customer complaints warranting action that received action6 100% 100% 0 Value Creation Number of value-added services offering carbon reduction benefits 5 5 0 vi 2010 Communication on Progress PERFORMANCE 2009 2010 Progress Sustainable Mail Products Percentage of corporate production facilities with FSC 100% 100% 0 Chain-of-Custody Certification Percentage of corporate production facilities with SFI 100% 100% 0 Chain-of-Custody Certification Environment Water Stewardship Reductions in water consumption due to company-wide efficiency 28,225,212 47,015,203 18,789,991 initiatives (gallons) Paper Savings Pounds of paper recycled 8,090,122 17,071,718 8,981,596 Number of trees saved due to company-wide efficiency initiatives 68,766 125,347 56,581 Climate Protection Reductions in landfill space use due to company-wide efficiency 12,282 24,030 11,748 initiatives (cubic yards) Reductions in air pollutant emissions due to company-wide efficiency 2,374,452 4,627,092 2,252,640 initiatives (pounds) Reductions in energy consumption due to company-wide efficiency 176,968,725 413,379,503 236,410,778 initiatives (KWH) Supply Chain Engagement Number of supplier-practice assessment surveys conducted 0 N/A 0 Percentage of suppliers engaged through supplier-practice N/A N/A assessment surveys 0 Global Community Total charitable contributions for social development $77,000 $42,000 -$35,000 Percentage of charitable contributions by category Economic Development 79% 56% -23% Health & Social Services 12% 25% 13% Education 7% 7% 0% Culture & the Arts 2% 10% 8% 1 Inclusive of all NAC and NAMS locations in the U.S. and Mexico. 2 Human rights initiatives are company-wide, but quantitative information represents U.S. facilities only. 3 Statistics are available for U.S. facilities only. 4 Health & Safety initiatives are company-wide, but quantitative information represents U.S. facilities only. 5 Refers to the adaptation of the NAC KSA model for company locations in Mexico. 6 “Complaints” are defined as subjective complaints pertaining to issues such as color match. 2010 Communication on Progress vii FUTURE GOALS ! ! ! ! ! Workplace • Re-release the NAC Statement on Human Rights and improve human rights training protocols for security personnel • Improve and expand corporate employee assessment, development and evaluation programs • Identify and implement location-appropriate employee incentive strategies • Add benefit opportunities, trainings and adult education Marketplace • Integrate customer satisfaction survey and client-job performance evaluations into the NAC QMS-CS • Identify and implement methods to calculate environmental and financial benefits of value-added services • Increase the total percentage of product labeled under the chain of custody certification programs Environment • Revise the NAC Environmental Policy to incorporate internationally-supported environmental initiatives Supply-Chain Engagement • Create and publish corporate Supplier Guiding Principles and disseminate to stakeholders along the supply chain for voluntary endorsement • Develop primary sourcing options for all NAC purchased paper to be sourced through vendors holding one or more certifications Global Community • Create a formal budget for investment in Global Community projects. viii 2010 Communication on Progress Report Breakdown Workplace Marketplace Environment Supply Chain Global Community 2010 Communication on Progress ix HUMAN RIGHTS WORKPLACE NAC believes it is a direct responsibility to do business ethically, with integrity and to uphold human rights in all business activities. We support the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and have incorporated these into our own workplace policies. We are committed to providing an equal employment opportunity, freedom of association, elimination of forced labor, child labor, employee discrimination, harassment and workplace violence, which is confirmed in our NAC Associate Handbook. In addition, we continue to provide human rights training to 100% of our employees, maintain our New Hire Orientation Program and an Open-Door Policy. DIVERSITY NAC understands the importance of a diverse workforce. The combination of unique skill sets, knowledge and experience allow us to capitalize on ever-changing opportunities in the direct marketing arena. In 2010, NACʼs total workforce comprised of minorities increased from 13% to 68%. As we move into 2011, we will continue to look for ways to improve our operations to create the best possible working environment for our associates. 1 2010 Communication on Progress SAFETY &HEALTH Our employees are the force behind the success of our business. It is essential that the environment in which they work is safe, healthy, clean and friendly. In addition to the annual safety trainings provided to all associates and & adhering to strict OSHA regulations, NAC has expanded its safety and health initiatives. In 2010, NAC expanded its associate garden providing space for 10 additional associates to grow and harvest fresh produce. Not only do associates get to enjoy the satisfaction of consuming a product grown from seed solely by own, but the risk of eating vegetables or fruits containing harmful chemicals has been drastically reduced. NAC continues to offer comprehensive family medical benefits to hourly and full-time U.S. employees. Free flu shots were made available to all associates in the Pennsylvania facility. These vaccines help safeguard our workforce against possible illness, keeping them happy and healthy. We maintain a full-service on-site medical clinic for our associates working in Mexico. In 2010, eye examinations were offered to all members of our team. As a preventative measure, medical examinations were given to those associates working with moving equipment. Auditive testing was performed on 92% of the personnel to NAC is committed to determine if hearing had been affected in the workplace. providing a safe and healthy To ensure not just physical health, but also environment for our emotional health, we do our best to make sure employees. each employee is on track to building the life they desire. NAC restructured its attendance and punctuality bonuses in 2010, to help dedicated employees excel. In addition, we implemented a Savings Fund program, in which a portion of the associateʼs salary and an equally matched sum from the company is put into a savings account. This program teaches practical money-saving skills that will help build a bright future for themselves and their family. 2010 Communication on Progress 2 PROFESSIONAL GROWTH In 2010, NAC broadened the scope of the management team. The LTP was designed to professional growth and enrichment not only address the skill sets needed for opportunities available for all of our transitional mid-level management, but to associates. foster growth for the senior and executive management teams, as well. NAC has always been a company dedicated to innovation and achievement. Throughout Through the implementation of multi-level the past thirty years, one of the central management teams, senior and executive elements to success has been the ability to management took an active role in providing develop the most competent, experienced mentorship to mid-level and supervisory level and engaged staff. As weʼve evolved, so too, management. The teams focused on skill have our methods for cultivating our work building and participated in workshop force. exercises designed to enhance critical thinking, analysis, and implementation skills. With our Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities As the LTP progressed, results were seen on (KSA) Training and Evaluation process, each not only the individual, but on a departmental of the skilled production positions has clarity level. The effectiveness of the management of purpose, path, and performance standards. team grew, as individual leaders not only met In 2010, NAC introduced its Leadership their key objectives, but inspired and Training Program to provide the framework motivated their staff. for continual growth and enrichment for our 3 2010 Communication on Progress PRODUCT SERVICE QUALITY & Exceeding customer expectations. N ACʼs proprietary Quality Management System (QMS) emphasizes maintaining the highest product quality standards throughout each production process and service. In 2010, we extended this system by implementing our Quality at the Source (QAS) initiative. With an emphasis on providing continuous education to all NAC associates, the QAS initiative was structured to reinforce each of the primary quality objectives for all processes and products. Through classroom training, workshops, and hands-on activities, associates participated in the program, with the ultimate goal of achieving QAS certification. The QAS focused on best practices, fundamental concepts, and compliance with established standards, increasing the proficiency with which each associate performs their job duties. By extending the focus to emphasize producing products with the highest efficiency and least amount of waste, our associates were able to understand the correlation between product & performance excellence. Participation in the QAS program resulted in a heightened level of empowerment for each of our associates, setting the foundation for other quality initiatives, such as the participation in continuous improvement teams, and strengthening the proactive quality culture. In addition to the QAS Initiative, NAC began the development of an electronic QC inspection repository, allowing certain inspection point results to be cataloged and communicated in real-time. This is the first phase of a system that allows quality concerns and results to be instantly communicated from the production floor to management. 2010 Communication on Progress 4 GREEN VALUE Vertically-Integrated Solutions these steps, time and energy to produce the plate are reduced, in turn reducing the impact Vertical integration doesnʼt just make sense for on the environment while improving image our company, but for our clients, the industry at quality. These systems are approximately 50% large and more importantly the environment. more energy efficient than others. This practice reduces the amount of paper consumed and the From manufacturing to distribution, we provide a usage of chemicals required to maintain the one source solution at each of our facilities for typical film-to-plate technologies. all of your direct mail needs. Vertical integration reduces our carbon footprint as well as that of NAC has also incorporated the use of low VOC the mail campaign by concentrating our and no VOC chemistry, ink, solvents and press manufacturing operations into two regionalized wash into its printing operations. We consider facilities. This means we arenʼt shipping whether chemistry used in printing contains unnecessary components across the world. In Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAPS) or EPAturn, we are not only minimizing our regulated chemicals. consumption of oil and petroleum products, but additional packaging is cut dramatically. Usable Though our printing presses yield a very low products are no longer lost due to waste or amount, a rigorous protocol has been damaged from shipping. established for handling wastewater as well as ink. All waste ink is recaptured and recycled through a company that converts the waste ink Printing Services to fuel source. As testing and exploration of products NAC has continued to utilize and promote Computer-to-Plate (CTP) as a cornerstone of progresses, NAC factors in cost and efficiency, our printing operations. effectiveness, time consumed and effects on press parts. Our continued goal is to find and utilize products that are safe for the environment As the name suggests, the image is transferred and our associates, while yielding quality results directly from the computer to the plate without film-making and imaging steps. By eliminating and value for our customers. 5 2010 Communication on Progress SUSTAINABLE MAIL PRODUCTS The worldʼs forests belong to all of us, and as a large company we recognize our share of the responsibility in protecting them. Deforestation is often the catalyst of more serious environmental problems such as habitat destruction, water pollution, displacement of indigenous people and conflict over logging land. NAC understands that the primary element of our products is paper made from trees. Because of this fact, practicing responsible forest stewardship is always one of our top priorities. We know that it is critical to do our part in protecting the environment and promoting a sustainable future. We achieve our environmental goals through the use of company-wide recycling programs and Chain-of-Custody (CoC) certifications. NAC begins the process of protecting the environment with its system-integrated recycling programs. Our largest recycling initiative is centered around paper, but branches out to include plastic, glass, metal and aluminum as well. NAC also has its very own environmental resource team, which goes out into the community, promoting and providing education on the benefits of recycling. NAC furthers its “green” value by packaging 75% of all in-house products in reusable containers. Aside from recycling, NAC has been given CoC certification from the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) for the third consecutive year as of 2010. This certification allowed NAC to use 659,501 pounds of FSC responsibly-produced certified paper. An additional 6.5% of NAC produced paper was also certifiable under FSC regulations. Similarly, in 2010 NAC was CoC certified by the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) for the second consecutive year. Through this program, NAC was able to print and mail 52.6% of mail on SFI certified paper. Our consistency in being re-certified within these prestigious organizations provides proof that we are steadfast in our dedication to achieving our goals and complying with the standards set before us. We are determined to increase our use of certified paper and our reuse of recyclable materials in the future. 2010 Communication on Progress 6 WATER STEWARDSHIP At NAC, taking action to educate ourselves NAC is currently in the process of and promote the sustainability of critical developing and implementing a water water supplies is a vital business concern. resource management project in expansion We understand that water is a scarce to our system-integrated recycling resource and by continuing to find ways to programs. We have joined the Alliance for minimize our water use, we are actively Water Stewardship and are building a better promoting long term economic and social understanding of the impact of not only benefits for our communities and the planet. internal water usage but our productsʼ and suppliersʼ total water footprint. From 2009 to 2010 NAC reduced water consumption by 24 million gallons. As we continue into 2011 our goal remains The water conservation program instituted consistent, seeking new projects and in our Mexican facility in 2009 alone saved opportunities to reduce our water impact 21,000 gallons of water. and grow as a sustainable corporation. 7 2010 Communication on Progress CLIMATE PROTECTION The crisis of global warming is one that continues to installed throughout the plant, which allowed us to cut plague the planet we live on. That is why it is imperative our energy consumption in half. that we educate both others and ourselves on how we can take action against this global catastrophe. The NAC has seen both significant direct and indirect time is now to start implementing strategies to reduce savings between 2009 and 2010 as a result of our energy use, air pollutant emissions and solid waste energy saving initiatives. The indirect savings achieved output throughout our operations. in 2010 include: In order to do our part in protecting the environment, we • 231 million KWH of electricity began strictly regulating the air conditioning system in • 1.6 million pounds of air pollutants the Lettershop, Bindery & Imaging departments of NAC. • 8,379 cubic yards of landfill space By not allowing the air conditioning to run during the evening hours, this new regulation policy was able to cut air conditioning use in half. In addition, NAC further cut energy usage by installing more energy efficient lighting. A total of 75 fixtures were 2010 Communication on Progress 8 SUPPLY CHAIN ENGAGEMENT In 2010, we had the opportunity to engage our stakeholders and vendors through a forum designed to educate all parties on the paper supply chain. The forum was specifically focused on environmentally sustainable practices such as the use of certified products. The engagement with two of our largest stakeholders was introduced to improve and understand their environmental objectives and highlight NACʼs environmental stewardship and participation in the SFI and FSC Chain-of-Custody programs. A meeting/tour was held at the Team Ten American Eagle Mill in Tyrone, PA. NAC sales staff, CoC Compliance team, and customers learned additional information on the supply-chain, including the paper mill process, certified sourcing and recycled paper manufacturing. Participants also took part in a round table discussion comprised of paper sourcing/manufacturers, paper merchants, direct mail manufacturers and customer representatives from one of the largest direct mail marketing programs in the United States. The process from forest to paper was brought into perspective and opportunities were generated to share how we can achieve common sustainability goals. It emphasized the role of each party in our supply-chain and increased transparency. In 2011, NAC plans to see increases in the total percentage of product labeled under the Chain-of-Custody certification programs. We aim to develop primary sourcing options for all NAC purchased paper to be sourced through vendors who hold one or more certifications. As a part of our continued goal, we plan to release our Supplier Guiding Principles (SGP). Through our SGP, we will ask our vendors to sign a voluntary commitment to uphold the core principles of our Statement of Human Rights and Environmental Policy. 9 2010 Communication on Progress GLOBAL COMMUNITY Through the collective power of our corporation, suppliers and customers, NAC has created a Global Community to effect positive social change. Working in partnership with charitable and non-profit organizations, we invest our time, energy and resources in efforts aligned with the UN Millennium Development Goals to eradicate poverty and in celebration of our global heritage. At Home Abroad NAC is committed to making a difference to the Although our main focus for 2010 was in the local communities we live and work in. Our associates put community, we still did our part to devote time to other the same passion and dedication into volunteering as countries. NAC continues to support Bead For Life they do their job. We participate in a variety of (BFL), a nonprofit organization that works to eradicate programs that support various causes. Our biggest extreme poverty by creating bridges of understanding philanthropies include Blair County Respiratory between impoverished Africans and concerned world Disease Societyʼs Annual WallyBall Tournament, Big citizens. NAC makes a difference through fundraising, Brothers Big Sistersʼ signature fundraiser, Bowl For business mentorship and by donating printing services Kidsʼ Sake, and Easter Sealsʼ Softball Marathon. for marketing materials. 2010 Communication on Progress 10 Global Community Impact 2010 Giving 11% •• Economic Development Health & Social Services 8% •• Education Culture & the Arts 56% 25% Partners for Change The NAC Global Community includes many partners for change partners we are proud to support in their efforts to create a better world: ABCD Corp. Hollidaysburg Area Junior High BeadforLife Katonah Museum of Art Bishop Guilfoyle Athletics Keystone County Ride Blair County Arts Foundation Millbrook School Blair County Respiratory Disease Society Nason Hospital Blair Senior Services Pennʼs Woods Council Community Blood Services Professional Insurance Marketing Association Direct Marketing Association of Washington Penn State University Easter Seals Rippowam Cisqua School Equine Advocates St. Vincent DePaul Soup Kitchen Gary Deem Annual Thanksgiving Dinner Toys for Tots Greater Altoona Economic Development Corp. 11 2010 Communication on Progress NAC Commitments UN Global Compact As a signatory to the UN Global Compact since April 2008, NAC has made a voluntary commitment to align its corporate practices with values of sustainability and social responsibility. To uphold our commitment to the UN Global Compact, we strive to promote human rights, labor rights, environmental stewardship and anti-corruption through our actions and strategic planning. Universal Declaration of Human Rights NAC supports the UN General Assembly Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We believe in the alienable rights of all people to enjoy freedom, dignity, equality, justice and peace, and are committed to upholding these rights through our corporate operations and practices. Equal Opportunity NAC endorses equal opportunity for employment and promotion in the workplace, without distinction of race, religion, sex, or disability status. Our commitment as Equal Opportunity Employers is documented in the NAC Associate Handbook. Business Memberships & Associations ! ! ! ! ! 2010 Communication on Progress 12 Corporate Overview Corporate Structure & Governance Company Headquarters NAC is a privately-owned U.S. company operating in North American Communications North America. The NAC Board of Directors is 20 Maple Avenue comprised of current and former senior-level Armonk, NY 10504 executives. The Board of Directors provides the overall vision and guidance of the company, and promote its strategic growth. Other Corporate Locations North American Communications East 141 NAC Drive Code of Ethics & Anti-Corruption Duncansville, PA 16635 NAC operates under a Code of Ethics which promotes honesty, integrity and ethical practices throughout North American Communications Texas every level of corporate operations, and through all 9660 Joe Rodriguez Drive, Suite 1-2 interactions with stakeholders. El Paso, TX 79927 In 2006, NAC became certified by the Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) and in 2007 Contact began participating in BASC (Business Alliance for Secure Commerce). NAC became part of these Questions regarding the content of this report may be programs to promote anti-corruption and transparency directed to: marketing@nacmail.com in all cross-border operations in the U.S. and Mexico. Disclaimer Awards & Recognitions “This report is correct to the best of our knowledge, Professional Insurance Marketing Association (PIMA) information and belief. The data contained herein is Marketing Methods Competition – Bronze Award for for informational purposes only, not represented to be ʻCommitment to Excellence in Marketingʼ. July 2010. error-free, and subject to change.” Direct Marketing Association of Washington (DMAW) Bridge Conference ʻBest Boothʼ Award. August 2010. 13 2010 Communication on Progress GRI Reporting Index Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The index below outlines NAC reporting against the GRI G3 Guidelines, and indicates where GRI information can be found within the content of this 2010 Communication on Progress. Sector/Indicator Page # Sector/Indicator Page # Strategy & Analysis Economic Management 1.1 iii EC2 Organizational Profile EC3 2 2.1 iv EC8 2 2.2 v Environmental Management 2.3 13 EN5 8, vii 2.4 13 EN6 5, vii 2.5 iv, 13 EN7 8, vii 2.6 13 EN18 8, vii 2.7 v EN26 8, 5-6, vii 2.8 v, vi EN28 13 2.10 13 Labor Practices Reporting Parameters LA3 2 3.1 iv LA8 2 3.2 iv LA11 3, vi 3.3 iv LA12 vi 3.4 13 Human Rights 3.6 iv HR8 vi 3.12 14 Social Disclosure 3.13 iv SO7 13 Governance, Commitment, & SO8 13 Engagement 4.1 iv Public Relations 4.12 12 PR2 13 4.13 12 PR8 vi PR9 13 2010 Communication on Progress 14 UN Global Compact Principles This 2010 Communication on Progress reports on the 10 universally-accepted Principles embodied by the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor rights, the environment and anti-corruption. Below is an index indicating our reporting against the 10 Principles, and their location within this report. Principle Page Principle 1 Protection of Human Rights vi, vii, 1, 17 Principle 2 Complicity in Human Rights Abuses vi, 1, 17 Principle 3 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 1 Principle 4 Forced and Compulsory Labor 1 Principle 5 Child Labor 1 Principle 6 Discrimination 1 Principle 7 Precautionary Approach vii, 5-8 Principle 8 Environmental Responsibility vii, 5-8 Principle 9 Environmentally Friendly Technologies vii, 5-8 Principle 10 Anti-Corruption 13 15 2010 Communication on Progress www.nacmail.com
