Building communication lines in friendly coexistence with nature, using environmentally friendly hi-tech wireless technologies. www.danimex.com Global responsibility Communication on Progress June 2012 Statement by the CEO by Hans Becker, Managing Director of Danimex Communication A/S: Danimex Communication A/S has now been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2008 and this year’s COP will be our third report stating the continued support of the Global Compact principles of human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Our report reflects our improvements on all four principle columns and our report will offer the UN as well as our clients an update on the practical actions, targets and outcomes from our work with the implementation of the principles in our daily work. Continued support of the UN Global Compact as part of our commitment to the United Nations reflects the goals and values already set and followed at Danimex Commu2 nication: We take responsibility for our work and our actions, and will conduct our business in a socially responsible and ethical manner. One of the major actions of 2011/2012 was the implementation of the ISO standard 9001 and making sure to implement the ten principles of the Global Compact as CSR throughout the whole company structure, not only company-internally, but also in regards to supply-chain management. For 2012 we will focus on the improvement of the CRS approaches set by the ISO 9001 as well as finding new initiatives and activities to support and promote the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. I would like to invite you to read our Communication on Progress 2012, explaining our approach to issues in focus, our progress and our way ahead. As we say at Danimex: We take responsibility for our work and our actions, and will conduct our business in a socially responsible and ethical manner. Hans Becker Managing Director Danimex Communication A/S Contents Page 2 Statement by the CEO Page 4 Danimex Communication in brief Page 6 UN Global Compact the 10 principles Page 7 About “Coomunication in Progress Page 7 Danimex core values Page 8 Danimex code of conduct Page 9 Principles 6 Labour and Human rights Page 11 Principles 10 Anti Corruption Page 14 Overview: Actions implemented or planned for the next year Page 15 EPPBN Eastern Africa Professionals Business Network Page 23 Principle 7 Environment Page 28 Future Focus Areas 3 Page 29 Humanitarian award Danimex a multicultural company Danimex Communication in brief Danimex Communication A/S is a global distributor of communications solutions and equipment with more than 30 years of experience in deliveries to humanitarian organizations, NGOs, defence, security and government organizations as well as modern industry. The head office is located in Denmark, with subsidiaries in UAE, Afghanistan, Iraq, Nigeria and USA. Radio based communication The core expertise of Danimex is to set up local, radio based networks. Analog or digital. Mobile, handheld or fixed installations. Anything from small and nimble to extensive networks, serving all communication needs. Danimex delivers basic hardware as well as customised, integrated systems for special purposes. Danimex is a certified Motorola distributor, but handles other brands as well, such as Vertex, Damm and Thrane & Thrane. Satellite based and high capacity communication solutions Satellite phones from Iridium, Thuraya and Inmarsat are available along with BGAN and VSAT solutions. Where high capacity over medium ranges is called for, mobile troposcatter solutions are at hand. A partner to be trusted 4 Danimex has years of experience working in the developing part of the world, where people trust us to deliver communication solutions tailored to local needs, funding and infrastructure. We are committed to building good and lasting partnerships with our customers. Good ethics, cultural insight and skilled employees are the tools of our trade. Resources • Customer service – educated, forthcoming and responsive • Large stock – rapid deliveries worldwide • Dedicated emergency stock equipment reserved for LTA holders for instant deployment • Full cycle solutions are conceived, designed, built, implemented and serviced worldwide • Skilled technicians – manufacturer-approved, combine theory and experience • On-site support, delivered by field engineers via local offices under the label DanimexSupport™ • Technical training in the field or at one of our offices Your partner in times of need Danimex responds quickly and effectively when sudden demands develop as disasters erupt. Both temporary setups and permanent solutions are handled. There is a firm focus on instant priorities. Hot fixes are presented instantly, but a strategic decision involving durability, serviceability and ease of continued operation is always made in the process. Ready for action Danimex has the capability to make a difference and is a dynamic and flexible partner trusted by our customers worldwide. We work with empathy and passion, and know our business to the core. Our organisation has a flat structure, allowing skilled personnel to take action in places and situations, where speed and decisiveness can be a life saving factor. A long-time humanitarian partner Danimex holds Frame Agreements regarding delivery of communications equipment with four major UN organizations and has price agreements with the largest NGOs. Memberships Danimex Communication is a member of The UN Global Compact, and the IASC Sub-Working Group on Emergency Telecommunications (WGET). Furthermore, Danimex has signed a MoA with the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) with the aim of creating a partnership agreement from which all UN organisations, can benefit. 5 UN Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Launched in July 2000, the UN Global Compact is a both a policy platform and a practical framework for companies that are committed to sustainability and responsible business practices. The 10 Principles Human Rights ___________________________________________________________ Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 6 ___________________________________________________________ Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment ___________________________________________________________ Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmen tal challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption ____________________________________ Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. About “Communication on Progress” Since Danimex Communcation A/S joined the UN Global Compact in 2008 we have carried out many approaches and initiatives to enforce the commitment towards the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect to human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Our annual COP demonstrates our commitment to the UN Global Compact and it’s principles, as well as reflects our transparency and openness towards our stakeholders regarding our activities within the ten principles. Core Values of Danimex Communication Danimex received its ISO 9001 certification in 2012. The core, ethical values are stated within the ISO documentation. These values are appreciated by all staff within our company, and we demand they are practiced by our offices and dealers worldwide. We take responsibility for our work and our actions, and conduct our business in a socially responsible and ethical manner. Customers We are committed to being a good partner, focused on delivering the expertise and solutions that support our promise of enabling people to communicate without 7 limits, and strive to build collaborative, trusting relationships with institutions and customers. Communication and Learning There are two great equalizers in Danimex: Communication and learning. Our employees have the knowledge and skills critical to achieving our goals and providing customer solutions. We are committed to constant learning and communicating new ideas about communication for the benefit of customers. Diversity We work around the world and often in underdeveloped countries where people trust us to deliver sound communications solutions. One of our most important values is respecting the diversity of cultures in which we work and the way in which they enrich our lives professionally and personally. Accountability We are accountable as individuals and as a company for our work and our actions. We will be transparent, develop clear, measurable objectives and be responsible for the results we set out to achieve. Growth Through constant innovation and by delivering the best customer support in the markets we serve, Danimex will meet its goals for growth and competitive advantage. Code of Conduct for Danimex Communication Equal rights of women and men It is the responsibility of Danimex Communication to work for equal rights to women and men. Valuing multicultural influence Danimex Communication values the every day influence we get from other cultures and respects the rights of all individuals regardless of ethnic, cultural, religious or sexual background. Child labour Danimex Communication do not use, nor approve of the use of child labour. Environment Danimex Communication is committed to work in a way that does not harm the environment. International laws Danimex Communication is committed to fulfill our obligations to local as well as international laws, regardless where we operate. Working against fraud and corruption Danimex Communication is committed to avert fraud and corruption. 8 Freedom of association and protection of the right to organise Danimex Communication is committed to respect the individual right of labour protection. Occupational health and safety Danimex Communication is committed to avoid risks on occupational health and safety. Working against forced labour Danimex Communication will work against forced labour and slavery of all kinds. Human rights Danimex Communication is committed to work in accordance with the UN Human Rights Declaration. Being different is never shameful, but an asset to all. Labour/Human rights Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation With offices in the Middle East, Africa, USA and Europe, Danimex is working in a multicultural environment. For us the competences required for the specific positions matter more than for example nationality and sex. This is reflected in the first two rules in our Code of Conduct which are also part of this report. Equal rights of women and men: It is the responsibility of Danimex Communication to work for equal rights to women and men. Valuing multicultural influence: Danimex Communication values the everyday influence we get from other cultures and respects the rights of all individuals regardless of ethnic, cultural, religious or sexual background. Danimex is thus committed to work for elimination of discrimination that is founded on race, colour, sex, age, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. The commitment applies to hiring, employment opportunities and promotion decisions. Policies, programmes and management systems to 9 support our commitment Danimex’ company policy in regards to non-discrimination is clearly stated in our code of conduct. All managers are instructed to focus on the applicants’ competences during job interviews, and not the applicants’ race, colour, sex, age, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. All employees have minimum one yearly formal meeting with their managers. At this meeting notes are taken on performance and competences. All managers are instructed to base all promotion decisions on the stated outcome of these formal meetings and not on the employees’ race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. If a case of discrimination is identified, complaints will be handled by the top management. Furthermore, Danimex complies with the laws and regulations in the country of the local office. The latest approach towards our commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact is the implementation of the Code of Conduct and the Danimex core values into the ISO 9001 certification, thus imprinting the principles throughout the whole value chain. The latest approach towards our commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact is the implementation of the Code of Conduct and the Danimex core values into the ISO 9001 certification, thus imprinting the principles throughout the whole value chain. Actions implemented in the last year and planned for the next year Until now we have implemented the following in regards to principle 6: • Policies implemented into ISO 9001 certification (as stated in our code of conduct). • Instructed our managers to follow the policy • Yearly formal meetings between employees and their managers in our offices in Europe, USA, Africa and the Middle East. • Evaluated the policies by the board of directors at board meetings. For 2012/2013 we continue our work in: • Continued instruction of our leadership team to follow the policy • Identify and support organizations in the area where our offices are located, that support the elimination of discrimination that is founded on race, colour, sex, age, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. • Continued evaluation by the board of directors at board meetings. 10 Performance indicators 2011/2012 The table below is a summary of our activities and steps in regards to principle 6 – The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Performance indicators Achieved Goal in 2011 for 2012 1 Number of incidents of discrimination zero zero 2 Continued instruction of superiors yes yes 3 Implementation of yearly formal meetings between emyes yes ployees and their superiors with focus on performance and competences at the offices in Europe, USA, Africa and the Middle East 4 Identify and support organisations in the area where our No No offices are located, that support the elimination of discrimination that is founded on race, colour, sex, age, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. 5 Evaluation by the board of directors at board meetings. yes yes Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Working against fraud and corruption Danimex Communication is committed to avert fraud and corruption. As stated in Danimex Code of Conduct rule no. 6, Danimex works against fraud and corruption: Danimex complies with all applicable laws and regulations all the places we do business. Furthermore, Danimex complies with the anti-corruption treaties and laws of the countries in which we do business. Corruption is unfortunately more common in some of the areas, where Danimex is working, and thus it is consequently even more important for us to have focus on anti-corruption. Danimex is thus committed to work for elimination corruption in all its forms. Policies, programmes and management systems to support our commit11 ment: Danimex’ company policy in regards to corruption is clearly stated in our code of conduct. Work in Progress All employees in the head office in Denmark have signed an anti-corruption clause in connection with their employment contract. This clause has been added to all employment contracts, including those for our local offices. Starting in the year 2010, all employees in Danimex subsidiaries worldwide have signed an anti-corruption clause. From January 2011 all Danimex certified dealers had to sign an anti-bribery pledge in order to become a certified Danimex channel partner. Each certification is valid for a year, where after the dealer has to renew the anti-bribery pledge. Performance indicators 2012/2012 The table below is a summary of our activities and steps in regards to principle 6, which deals with the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Performance indicators Achieved Goal in 2011 for 2012 1 Number of incidents relating to corruption. zero zero 2 All employees at the Danish HQ have signed an antiyes yes corruption clause in connection with their employment contract. 3 All employees at Danimex’ offices have signed an yes yes anti-corruption clause in connection with their employment contract. 4 Number of Danimex dealers who have signed the anti34 40 bribery pledge. 5 Evaluation of policies and results at the annual board yes yes meeting. 12 Actions implemented Until now Danimex have implemented the following: • Policies, as stated in our code of conduct. • All employees at the Danimex offices worldwide have signed an anti-corruption clause in connection with their employment contract. • All new employees of Danimex have signed an anti-corruption clause in connection with their employment contract. • Evaluated the policies by the board of directors at the annual board meeting. • All Danimex certified dealers have signed an anti-bribery pledge which has to be renewed once a year. • New Danimex certified dealers must sign an anti-bribery pledge before the co-operation is started. • Identify and support organisations in the area where our offices are located, that support the work against corruption. • Co-operate with our suppliers on their work against corruption. General actions planned for next year: • Policies (as stated in our code of conduct. • All new employees at the Danimex offices worldwide have to sign an anticorruption clause in connection with their employment contract. • Evaluated the policies by the board of directors at the annual board meeting. • Increase the number of dealers who sign the anti-bribery pledge. • Identify and support organisations in the area where our offices are located, that support the work against corruption. • Co-operate with our suppliers on their work against corruption. 13 Danimex is a high-tech company, creating complex communication solutions. Nature has inspired us to apply barcodes wherever possible. Overview: Specific actions planned for next year Implementation of Responsible Sourcing Careful selection of our suppliers is one of the best ways to ensure continuity and long-term efficiency of the global supply chain as well as enduring brand support. When choosing our suppliers, in addition to making a final determination on cost, we often need to evaluate a range of supply chain issues: product quality and safety, continuity of supply and speed of delivery, and intellectual property protection. Criteria such as working conditions, environmental practices, safety standards, and human rights policies will now also be factored into the selection process. In 2012-2014 Danimex will work on preparing a Key Supplier Code of Conduct considering the major principles of the United Nations Global Compact: Human Rights and Labor Environment Anti-Corruption 1. Forced labour 15. Material toxicity 23. Conflict of interest and chemicals 2. Child labour 24. Gifts, meals and 16. Raw material use entertainment 3. Working hours 17. Recyclability and 25. Bribery and kickbacks 14 4. Wages and benefits end of life of products 26. Accounting and 5. Humane treatment business records 18. Greenhouse gas 6. Nondiscrimination emissions 27. Protecting information 7. Freedom of association 19. Energy use 28. Reporting misconduct and collective bargaining 20. Water use and 8. Occupational safety waste water treatment 9. Emergency preparedness 21. Air pollution 10. Occupational injury and illness 22. Biodiversity 11. Fire safety 12. Industrial hygiene 13. Physically demanding work 14. Machine safeguarding Environment Promoting the Eastern Africa Professionals Business Network (EAPBN) to African companies and the UN by Sanctus Mtsimbe EAPBN was founded by Danimex East Africa EAPBN is a newly established Eastern Africa Network for Professionals & Businesses which recruits only recommended members who are positive minded in terms of Regional Development and who believes in EAPBN Phi15 losophy of “Giving than Receiving” and hence making a difference. Currently the EAPBN has few but committed and effective members. EAPBN has been established after verbal advisory consultation with the EAC (East African Community) and encouragement. Members can join the EAPBN from among these countries: Tanzania; Kenya and Uganda; Rwanda; Burundi; Ethiopia; South Sudan; Sudan; Eritrea; Zambia; Malawi; and Mozambique. Founder Members of the Eastern Africa Professionals & Business Network are “Positive Minded people who believe: “Africa is Rich” and “can change for better” and that we make Eastern Africa Rich by using “Power of our brains”. We believe that East Afrikaners needs a strong and grassroots business and social networking which can bring the true integration of East African Community at the grassroots level. We also believe we can work together with EAC and be the source of positive development in the region by being inspired by our core philosophy of “Giving out than Receiving”. East Africa has a lot to do and must utilize all resources for Developments and for the benefit of the region. EAPBN is geared to help our fellow Africans and will make an impact and hence a difference in their lives. Code of Ethical Principles and Standards THE PREAMBLE Eastern Africa Professionals & Business Network are “Positive Minded who believe: 1 Africa Rich by using “Power of brains” 2 In “Creation of strong and positive business and social network”. 3 The true Integration of East African Community and African Union will only happen when Integration has already taken place at Professional Business, Social & Grass Roots Level. 4 Can be the source of positive development 5 Can make a difference by GIVING OUT other than RECEIVING. 6 Africa has a lot to do and must utilize all resources for Developments and for the benefit of Africa. 7 There is power in giving. Some Professionals & Businesses in Eastern Africa: 16 CONSIDERING the present environment in which we can integrate, relate and operate, lack of formal forum where we can contribute our expertise, air our views, exchange our experience and relate socially: HAVING REGARD to the Eastern Africa advantage to be derived from the effective and continuous coordination of activities and exchange of information on our professions and businesses and social networking: AWARE of the need for a forum for professionals and businesses to encourage the carrying out of studies, research and dialogue with other stakeholders on Eastern Africa problems and common interests and concerns to foster integration and closer relationship between them: CONVINCED that the establishment of an Association would best serve these purposes: AFFIRMING that the commitment and capacity of Eastern African Professionals and Business Network must be strengthened. WANTING: a) To initially Network eastern Africa Professionals, Busineses. Later Africa so that Grass Root & Social Network can also be achieved. b) To establish Business and Professional Contacts for Professional and Business use and to help each other to develop in terms of Businesses, Careers, etc. c) To maintain a database and website for Business, Professional & Social use. d) To influence the masses that changes are possible and should begin with an individual. e) The Network to play an Advocacy role all in Professional, Business and Social matters in East(ern) African Community and later African Union. That means we can network it with EAC and AU RESOLVED to form the Eastern Africa Professionals and Business Network as a tool for providing a forum of professionals and entrepreneurs and people that will influence change in the social and economic growth in Eastern Africa and later in Africa. The East African Professionals & Business Network (EAPBN) therefore exists to foster the development and growth of Professionals & Businesses, the professions, to promote high ethical behavior in the professions and to preserve and enhance philanthropy and volunteerism. Members of EAPBN are motivated by an inner drive and Spirit of “Giving than Receiving” which is the core Philosophy to improve the quality of life through the causes they serve. They serve the ideal of philanthropy, are committed to the preservation and enhancement of volunteerism; and hold stewardship of these concepts as the overriding direction of their professional life. EAPBN business members strive to promote and protect the work and mission of their organizations. They recognize their responsibility to ensure that needed resources are vigorously and ethically sought and that the intent of the donor is honestly fulfilled. To these ends, EAPBN members, both individual and business, embrace certain values that they strive to uphold in performing their responsibilities for generating philanthropic 17 support. EAPBN members both individual and business aspire to: 1. Practice their profession with integrity, honesty, truthfulness and adherenceto the absolute obligation to safeguard the public trust. 2. Act according to the highest goals and visions of their organizations, Professions, clients and consciences 3. Put philanthropic mission above personal gain; 4. Inspire others through their own sense of dedication and high purpose 5. Improve their professional knowledge and skillsso that their performance will better serve others 6. Demonstrate concern for the interests and well¬being of individuals affected by their actions 7. Value the privacy, freedom of choice and interests of all those affected by their actions 8. Foster cultural diversity and pluralistic values and treat all people with dignity and respect 9. Affirm, through personal giving, a commitment to philanthropy and its role in society 10. Adhere to the spirit of Giving other than Receiving while abiding to applicable laws and regulations 11. Advocate within their organizations adherence to all applicable laws and regulations 12. Avoid even the appearance of any criminal offense or professional misconduct 13. Bring credit to the EAPBN Network by their public demeanor 14. Encourage colleagues to embrace and practice these ethical principles and standards 15. Be aware of the codes of ethics promulgated by other professiona organizations that serve philanthropy ETHICAL STANDARDS While striving to act according to the above values, EAPBN members, both individual and business, agree to abide (and to ensure, to the best of their ability, that all members of their staff abide) by the EAPBN standards. Violation of the standards may subject the member to disciplinary sanctions, including expulsion, as provided in the EAPBN Governing Documents & Bylaws. MEMBER OBLIGATIONS 18 1. Members shall not engage in activities that harm the members’ organizations, clients or profession. 2. Members shall not engage in activities that conflict with their fiduciary, ethical and legal obligations to their organizations, clients or profession. 3. Members shall effectively disclose all potential and actual conflicts of interest; such disclosure does not preclude or imply ethical impropriety. 4. Members shall not exploit any relationship with a donor, prospect, volunteer, client or employee for the benefit of the members or the members’ organizations. 5. Members shall comply with all applicable local, national, regional and later federal civil and criminal laws. 6. Members recognize their individual boundaries of competence and are forthcoming and truthful about their professional experience and qualifications and will represent their achievements accurately and without exaggeration. 7. Members shall present and supply products and/or services honestly and without misrepresentation and will clearly identify the details of those products, such as availability of the products and/or services and other factors that may affect the suitability of the products and/or services for donors, clients or nonprofit organizations. 8. Members shall establish the nature and purpose of any contractual relationship at the outset and will be responsive and available to organizations and their employing organizations before, during and after any sale of materials and/or services. Members will comply with all fair and reasonable obligations created by the contract. 9. Members shall refrain from knowingly infringing the intellectual property rights of other parties at all times. Members shall address and rectify any inadvertent infringement that may occur. 10. Members shall protect the confidentiality of all privileged information relating to the provider/client relationships. 11. Members shall refrain from any activity designed to disparage competitors untruthfully. SOLICITATION AND USE OF FUNDS 1. Members shall take care to ensure that all solicitation and communication materials are accurate and correctly reflect their organizations’ mission and use of solicited funds. 2. Members shall take care to ensure that donors receive informed, accurate and ethical advice about the value and tax implications of contributions. 3. Members shall take care to ensure that contributions are used in accordance with donors’ intentions. 4. Members shall take care to ensure proper stewardship of all revenue sources, including timely reports on the use and Management of such funds. 5. Members shall obtain explicit consent by donors before altering the 19 conditions of financial transactions. PRESENTATION OF INFORMATION 1. Members shall not disclose privileged or confidential information to unauthorized parties. 2. Members shall adhere to the principle that all donor and prospect information created by, or on behalf of, an organization or a client is the property of that organization or client and shall not be transferred or utilized except on behalf of that organization or client. 3. Members shall give donors and clients the opportunity to have their names removed from lists that are sold to, rented to or exchanged with other organizations. 4. Members shall, when stating fundraising results, use accurate and consistent accounting methods that conform to the appropriate guidelines adopted by the Certified Public Accountants bodies for the type of organization involved COMPENSATION AND CONTRACTS 1. Members shall not accept compensation or enter into a contract that is based on a percentage of contributions; nor shall members accept finder’s fees or contingent fees. Business members must refrain from receiving compensation from third parties derived from products or services for a client without disclosing that third¬party compensation to the client (for example, volume rebates from vendors to business members). 2. Members may accept performance¬based compensation, such as bonuses, provided such bonuses are in accord with prevailing practices within the members’ own organizations and are not based on a percentage of contributions. 3. Members shall neither offer nor accept payments or special considerations for the purpose of influencing the selection of products or services. 4. Members shall not pay finder’s fees, commissions or percentage compensation based on contributions, and shall take care to discourage their organizations from making such payments. 5. Any member receiving funds on behalf of a donor or client must meet the legal requirements for the disbursement of those funds. Any interest or income earned on the funds should be fully disclosed EAPBN Anti-Bribery Policy East African Professionals & Business Network is committed to countering bribery and has zero tolerance of bribery. Integrity values are made clear as fundamental and non¬negotiable. 20 East African Professionals & Business Network prohibits bribery and will not tolerate its members, staff, or third parties in their relationship with the EAPBN being involved in bribery, whether by offering, promising, soliciting, demanding, giving or accepting bribes or behaving corruptly in the expectation of a bribe or an advantage. This policy provides details of current policy; makes clear what is expected of members, employees and business partners/stakeholders; assigns responsibilities and provides a structure on reporting. The Bribery Act The Bribery Act by the Prevention of Corruption Bureaus simplifies the law on bribery to allow the courts to deal with it more effectively. The EAPBN following the Acts sets out the following offences: • Offering, promising or giving a bribe; • Requesting, agreeing to receive or accepting a bribe; • Bribing a public official • Failure of an organization to prevent bribery The fourth is a corporate offence and requires organisations including EAPBN Members to review procedures and practices in light of this legislation. The EAPBN and its Members must be able to demonstrate that it has in place ‘adequate procedures’ designed to prevent bribery: that is have a clear and comprehensive anti-bribery framework and strong up to date and effective anti-bribery policies and systems. The draft guidance sets out the following six principles relating to ‘adequate procedures’: • risk assessment and mitigation • top level commitment to bribery prevention • due diligence • clear, practical and accessible policies and procedures • effective implementation, monitoring and review The Act provides that an offence committed by the Member is punishable. An individual guilty of an offence would be liable on conviction on indictment to imprisonment. Roles and Responsibilities In accordance with the Act, it is the responsibility of the EAPBN and Corporate Members to establish a culture within the organizations in which bribery is never acceptable. The Corporation via the Audit Committee will be responsible for oversight of the anti-bribery systems and shall receive regular reports as specified in the cycle of business. Managers, staff, members and other relevant external stakeholders must be aware of this policy and the EAPBN commitment to zero tolerance of bribery. Staff and Members are required to comply with the terms of this policy. This policy must be signed and made available to all staff and members. Also the policy is available on EAPBN website. 21 Risk Assessment The risk of failure to prevent bribery is incorporated into the risk register and provides reasonable assurance that the EAPBN no bribes policy and any specific objectives for countering bribery are achieved. The risk register will be compiled annually with in-year reviews linked to updates of functional plans. The action plan emerging from the register review shall be monitored by the EAPBN Audit Committee. Reporting a Concern Should any member or staff have a concern that bribery is occurring they should in the first instance report this to EAPBN Secretary General and Treasurer. However, if this is not appropriate the matter should be reported to the President. All matters raised must be in good faith and with reasonable belief that bribery has occurred or is likely to occur. Anyone making a vexatious allegation may be subject to investigation which may lead to disciplinary action. Should a supplier or similar attempt to bribe a member or staff this should be reported immediately to the Secretary General or Treasurer. Investigation Genuine concerns will be acted upon in a timely manner by key personnel. Investigation will be in accordance with relevant EAPBN policies • Governing Document (Memarats) • Code of Conduct/Ethics • Financial By-Laws Action concerning an employee or member will be in accordance with the Disciplinary Policy. Any concerns about a supplier or external stakeholder will be reported in accordance with the legislative framework. The Secretary General will consult with the Treasurer/President. Criminal activities will be reported to the relevant authorities and the police on Anti-Corruption Bureau. Appendix A provides a more detailed framework for areas with a higher risk of bribery. The policy will be reviewed annually with any significant change reported to the Audit Committee. Anti-Bribery Policy Appendix A High Risk Areas i] Recruitment East African Professionals & Business Network shall conduct its recruitment practices in a way that is fair and transparent untainted by bribery, favouritism or nepotism. Objective criteria shall be applied for advertising and interviewing with the whole process documented. Shortlisting shall be conducted by a minimum of two people and interviews carried out by a panel. New members and staff induction shall include communication of the EAPBN Anti-Bribery Policy. ii] Procurement East African Professionals & Business Network shall demonstrate that all purchasing 22 and procurement processes are carried out using objective business criteria. There is a detailed Procurement Policy and a scheme of delegation specified in Standing Orders Relating to Contracts: Tender procedures are very detailed with unsuccessful bidders notified of decisions and the basis for selecting winning contracts. Equal notice is given to all potential bidders so not to ‘tip-off’ suppliers. There is excellent security for handling bids and all tenders are open and recorded by a panel at least one of whom is totally independent from the tender process. The EAPBN systems of invoice authorisation ensure that goods and services are actually provided and that these match the order/specification. iii] Joint Ventures The company shall conduct appropriate checks and obtain necessary permissions in accordance with Financial Regulations before entering into a joint venture or consortium. Any joint ventures and consortia over which the company maintains effective control must have an adequate anti-bribery framework similar to that of . (EAPBN). Where the company is unable to ensure that a joint venture or consortium has adequate arrangements then it should exit from the arrangement if bribery occurs or it is reasonably thought to have occurred. Due diligence should be conducted as appropriate. iv] Gifts and Hospitality East African Professionals & Business Network will have clear guidance and standards and code of conduct. This is also reiterated within Financial Regulations Gifts other than items of nominal value shall not usually be accepted. All gifts and hospitality must be declared and declined as appropriate Any gifts or hospitality offered by the EAPBN must be modest and appropriately authorised. Care should be taken to ensure that no gifts are accepted from Members, Staff or their families that may be construed as a bribe or lead the giver to expect preferential treatment. Global Compact Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Our previous report contained the focus area Danimex and Environment. We are, as a trade company in Sønderborg city, part of the ProjectZero on an overall level. About Project Zero in general Vision and Goal ProjectZero is the vision of creating economic growth in the Sønderborg region, based on a CO2 neutral development. The goal is to reduce the region’s domestic electricity consumption by half and the CO2-emission by 75 percent before 2020. By 2029, our ambition is to fully eliminate the region’s CO2-emission. The project’s primary focus is energy intelligent management of energy consumption and converting energy production to sustainable sources. Subsequently, we will focus on the related environmental aspects. The project consists of 9 main points: 1. Creating a CO2 baseline for Sønderborg through global benchmarking. 23 2. Changing our values, opinions and behaviour – from primary school to PhD. 3. Developing a sustainable city plan for Sønderborg – regarding both energy and other environmental aspects. 4. Developing new, sustainable housing concepts with integrated energy/environmental projects. 5. Designing the Gehry Harbour project in a sustainable way. 6. Supporting sustainable transport solutions. 7. Developing agriculture in a sustainable way. 8. Supporting economic growth for company clusters, focusing on intelligent energyand environmental management and creating 5,000 new jobs . 9. Presenting results and experiences to the rest of the world. The realization of the project is based on a close cooperation between the companies, the citizens, the educational institutions and the local authorities of the Sønderborg region. Project Zero A/S has been established in summer 2007 to secure the legal and organizational manifestation of the ProjectZero vision. The ProjectZero Fund is the core of the process. The fund has been established with an overall asset of app. 20 million DKK (app. 2.7 million EURO). Because of the broad range of investors, (SydEnergi, DONG Energy, Danfoss, Nordea Danmark Fonden and the Council of Sønderborg), the organization has to be regarded as a PPP – a public-private partnership. ProjectZero and Trade & Service Saving energy and using energy efficiently are important methods to reduce costs. Consuming less energy means saving the total energy costs, including production fee, network charge, VAT and other taxes etc. Most businesses in the trade and services sector can save more money through energy saving measure. Decreasing energy consumption also means reducing the risk connected to increasing energy prices and ensuring a greater security of supply. According to the EU Green Paper on security of supply, saving energy is the cheapest and most effective way to reduce dependence on energy imports. It is also, of course, an important step towards ProjectZero’s vision to reduce CO2 emission. ProjectZero is hoping to bring into life a number of energy saving projects in the trade and services sector, as this sector has a great potential for saving energy. 24 As a testing ground, Project Zero has built and maintains a house, as a reference of energy efficiency. It has zero consumption, and the goal is to draw the outlines for private housing actually generating a surplus of energy. We may gain new knowledge from this project and partially implement it in our corporate building. Work in Progress on Project Zero: Adapting the ProjectZERO’s principles and goals for “Bright Green Business”, Danimex has undertaken several measures to follow the ProjectZERO principles: Power saving 2) Installed timers on most electrical equipment like copying machines, printers, coffee-makers, the PCs, screens and printers of the warehouse. 3) Installed lamp sensors in the warehouse at workshop: by this, one can omit switching on all lights in the warehouse when entering or exiting the workshop which is connected to the warehouse. 4) Installation of a light contact for switching on/off the last row of lights in the warehouse which are unnecessary for the daily work of the warehouse assistance. 5) Outdoor lighting: the operation time of the outdoor lighting was reduced by three hours and a light sensor was installed. Performance indicator Performance Achieved 2010 Achieved 2011 Goal for 2012 25 indicator Power consumption 87061 kWh 80029 kWh 76028 kWh (238,52 kWh/day) (218,66 kWh/day) (210 kWh/day) Recycling 2. Our warehouse recycles and re-uses almost all packaging which we receive from our suppliers. Additional packaging materials are environmentally friendly and made of recycled materials. 3. We use and purchase only ECO-labeled printing paper (http://www.eco-label.com/default.htm). For the next years we have planned to reduce the amount of prints and copies, thus reducing the amount of paper used. A corresponding KPI is now established below. 4. We only use ecological cleaning agents (http://www.cleancare.dk/Miljoe/Svane-produkter.aspx) 5. For 2012 and onward we work on a reduction of paper and copies made. A corresponding KPI has been set up below for measuring purposes. Performance Achieved 2011 Goal for 2012 indicator Consumption of white 200,000 sheets 190,000 sheets paper, A4 Consumption of let20.000 sheets 19,000 sheets terhead paper, A4 26 Waste Management In Denmark we have a close interplay between EU regulation and national regulations on waste. EU regulations lay down overall frameworks and principles, whereas the Danish Parliament decides on organization and legislation in the area of waste. In contrast to many other countries – we have chosen to manage industrial and commercial waste in a comprehensive waste management system, covering both packaging waste and hazardous waste. The principle of source separation at Danimex is a key element of the Danish model. For some types of waste, e.g. paper, cardboard, glass, metal, wood, etc. we have collection systems with source separation. This method enjoys widespread acceptance and is used extensively, also by our employees. New approach in 2012: All offices are equipped with paper baskets where only paper must be placed. All other waste (food, plastic, etc.) must be placed in centrally-positioned extra wastebins. This measure will help us separate the recyclable waste from the non-recyclable waste. In January 2012 Danimex had a voluntary inspection by one of the city’s waste management consultants and the results were as follows: Cardboard Used as packaging material for new shipments. Paper To be recycled (see new approach below) Confidential papers To be destroyed and removed according to regulation Plastic foil To be recycled Iron and Metal To be recycled Glass To be recycled Wood Mainly for pallets – used for new shipments IT equipment To be recycled on local recycling center Bulbs, batteries To be recycled on local recycling center Organic waste Collected for municipal waste treatment New approach in 2012 All offices are equipped with paper baskets where only paper must be placed. All other waste (food, plastic, etc.) must be placed in centrally positioned extra waste-bins. This measure will help us separate the recyclable waste from the non27 recyclable waste. Future Focus Areas within the ten principles Also in the next year, Danimex will have strong focus on the following areas: Human rights/Labour • Continued instruction of our leadership team to follow the policy. • Identify and support organizations in the area where our offices are located, that support the elimination of discrimination that is founded on race, colour, sex, age, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. • Continued evaluation by the board of directors at board meetings. • Work on a Code of Conduct for Suppliers. Environment • Implementation on KPI for Power Consumption • Work on a Code of Conduct for Suppliers The performance goals “Zerocompany” being a too ambitious goal for us for the next years, we will rather focus on implementing small environmental approaches 28 and improvements, both at the headquarters in Sønderborg, as well as our subsidiaries in other countries. As this is an on-going process we will after some years evaluate the possibility to join the very ambitious programme of “Zerocompany”. Having set KPI’s on the different approaches referring to principle 7 we will continuously work on improvement on the figures. Anti-Bribery/Corruption For next year we have planned: • Continued instruction of our leadership team to follow the policy. • Implement yearly formal meetings between employees and their managers in our offices in the Middle East and Africa. • Increase the number of Danimex certified dealers who sign the anti-bribery agreement. • Work on a Code of Conduct for Suppliers. • Identify and support organisations in the area where our offices are located, that support the elimination of discrimination that is founded on race, colour, sex, age, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. Recent awards Award: Best Humanitarian Partner 2012 29 Humanitarian effort awarded by Motorola At the Motorola Solutions Executive Partner Conference 2012, held in Dublin, Ireland in March 2012, Danimex Communication was proud to be awarded the Best Humanitarian Partner 2012 The award was given in appreciation of a dedicated and wholehearted effort to serve the humanitarian community, thereby promoting Motorola’s quality products and renowned brand in a positive and ethical manner. Danimex is prepared and ready to serve when crisis strikes Facts This report was published on June 14th, 2012 by Danimex Communication A/S Elholm 4 DK-6400 Sonderborg Denmark www.danimex.com Contact: Hans Becker, Managing Director Phone: +45 73 42 56 00 Editor: Tina Lund, UN Partnership Manager UN Global Compact membership date: 18 July 2008 Number of employees: 70 Sector: Telecommunication Distribution: www.danimex.com, UN Global Compact, Danimex board of directors, financial partners, Danimex offices ao.
