UN GLOBAL COMPACT INITIATIVES 2011 COMMUNICATIONS ON PROGRESS REPORT Mabuhay Vinyl Corporation (MVC), continues to affirm its commitment to support initiatives of the UN Global Compact. As one of the pioneer signatories in the Philippines, MVC confirms its adherence to the UN GCI principles. Mr. Edwin Ll. Umali, MVC President and Chief Operating Officer, reiterates the company’s support to further reinforce the UN Global principles through the company’s various programs and activities, as contained in the following Progress Reports / Updates for 2011 : Principles Policies, Actions and Performance Indicators HUMAN RIGHTS For faithful adherence to regulatory requirements, Mabuhay Vinyl Corporation (MVC) was among the pioneering eight establishments in Region 10 to be nomiPrinciple 1: nated to the Department of Labor and Employment’s (DOLE) Recognition Program Support and respect the profor Compliant Establishments on Labor Standards, Occupational Safety and Health tection of International Human Standards, Child Friendly Establishment and Good Business Practices. MVC signed Rights within MVC’s sphere of the Memorandum of Agreement for this program and enrolled in the Incentivizing influence Compliance Program of the Department of Labor and Employment. In keeping with this principle, activities undertaken and / or sustained were the following:  Tree Parenting and Go Green at Work  Solid Waste Management Refresher Course for Barangay Maria Cristina.  Livelihood Training for the Women of Tonggo and Timoga Buruun, Iligan City  Scholarship to (7) indigent elementary beneficiaries  Summer Integrated Arts Workshop  Repair and renovation of dilapidated classrooms at Mimbalot Elementary School  Donation of food, personal hygiene needs and plastic drums used as water reservoirs for the evacuation centers of Typhoon Sendong survivors.  Donation of and construction materials for the rebuilding of homes for Typhood Sendong survivors at Digkillan, Iligan City. Principle 2: MVC received “Kadugo Pagbulig” Award from the Philippine Red Cross-Iligan City Make sure MVC is not complicit for being one of the “Top Most Number of Mobile Blood Donation” organized in in human rights abuses their respective organization. As part of continuous involvement in the development of the Youth in the community, MVC conducted Basic Disaster Management Training, Leadership and Team Building Seminar Workshop to 31 youth leaders from Barangay Ma. Cristina and Barangay Buruun. A new Red Cross Youth organization was created to sustain youth activities. MVC sustained and scaled up child-friendly programs and activities such as Medical Mission, Summer Arts Workshop, Flores de Mayo, Indigent School Program beneficiaries, Brigada Eskwela and Pamaskong Handog sa Kabataan. LABOR MVC continuously builds a harmonious labor-management relationship through the Industrial Peace Council and the Plant Central Safety Council. The Rank and File Principle 3: Union, Supervisors’ Union and Management take pride in undertaking its yearly Uphold the freedom of associaStrategic Planning Session. tion and the effective recognition of the right to collective Through the Industrial Peace Council and the Plant Central Safety Council, MVC bargaining management and unions address issues and concerns, and collaborate in forging solutions. A monthly regular meeting of these two Councils provide a venue for employees and management to discuss health and over-all plant safety concerns, employee and family welfare, suggest solutions to work problems, and present means towards possible improvement. In preparation for its CBA negotiations, Union officials and management representatives attended pre-CBA meetings and a Seminar on Collective Bargaining Negotiation Techniques facilitated by the National Conciliation and Mediation Board (NCMB) Region 10 Director. The Supervisory and the Rank and File Unions negotiated cordially with Management the renewal of the 3-year economic and 5 year non-economic provisions of their respective CBAs. Principle 4: MVC ensures transparency in conducting business with contractors. Outsourced Elimination of all forms of service contractors are required to submit quarterly their regulatory compliance forced and compulsory labor certificates or records, especially on workers benefits and compliance to labor standards. Principle 5: Inspects and ensures that company personnel and contractors do not employ or Effective abolition of child labor hire minor workers. Principle 6: MVC went through a SEDEX (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) Standards Audit, Elimination of discrimination in conducted by auditors from SGS Philippines. SEDEX is a membership organization respect of employment and ocfor businesses committed to continuous improvement of the ethical performance of cupation their supply chains in the areas of Labor Standards, Health & Safety, Environment and Business Integrity. MVC’s yearly Women’s Month program was adjudged as Best Practice for giving importance to and consistently celebrating the role of women in the industry sector. ENVIRONMENT The SIGAsiPia (Small Improvement Group Activity – Productivity in Action), a program empowering the employees to take initiatives, regardless of their positions Principle 7: in order to attain the company’s objectives in productivity and continual improveSupport a precautionary apment in the areas of Quality, Productivity, Safety and Health and Environment . proach to environmental chalThe program has produced 48 documented improvements, half of which were enlenges vironment related improvements in the production process/manufacturing. MVC ‘s Environmental Management System (EMS) was affirmed to have complied with standards during the EMS surveillance audit (ISO14oo1:2004) conducted by a third party certifying body, TUV-SUD. Principle 8: MVC contracts and purchase orders contain an environmental clause wherein supUndertake initiatives to propliers shall package and deliver goods that are environment friendly. mote greater environmental responsibility “Lakbay Linis” (Clean-up Campaign) was launched in MVC plant. The program was implemented to promote environmental responsibility among employees and contractors’ workers in order to sustain an environmentally friendly organization. Principle 9: MVC initiated fostering and building an industry-academe linkage through joint and Encourage the development collaborative efforts on engineering and development. Areas of research identified and diffusion of environmenwas on the design and evaluation of pico hydro power generation turbines and systally friendly technology tems, energy and heat generation using stratified concentrations of brine solution and use of waste calcium hypochlorite for production of calcium based ceramic boards. The IEM1 Plant Flemion membranes after reaching its lifespan of four years was replaced with Naflon membranes for better performance and low voltage drops. MVC embarked on a joint project with Tosoh of Japan on the recovery of waste hydrogen gas as boiler fuel. The project which was found to be economically viable is expected to be completed and operational by 2012. ANTI-CORRUPTION Suppliers and contractors warrant that no consideration or compensation was offered to any MVC employees, nor did he/she exert any corrupt or unlawful influPrinciple 10: ence to secure the purchase order or contract with the Company. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery
