Sustainability Report 2011 This is Handelsbanken Handelsbanken is a full-service bank for both private and corporate customers with a nationwide branch network in Sweden, the UK, Denmark, Norway and Finland. The Bank regards these countries as its home markets. Handelsbanken was founded in 1871 and currently has just over 11,000 employees working in 22 countries. 40 years running with higher proﬁtability than our competitors. 746 branches in 22 countries. 11,184 employees. 140 years of availability. Handelsbanken Group 2011 2010 Proﬁt before loan losses, SEK m 17,345 16,278 Net loan losses, SEK m -816 -1,507 Operating proﬁt, SEK m 16,536 14,770 Return on equity total operations 13.5% 12.9% Loan loss ratio 0.05% 0.10% Loans to the public, SEK bn 1,591 1,514 Average number of employees 11,184 10,850 No. of branches in Sweden 461 461 No. of branches in rest of Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Corporate identity no: 502007-7862 Nordic region 149 147 Registered ofﬁce: Stockholm No. of branches in the UK 104 83 www.handelsbanken.com No. of branches outside This Sustainability Report is also available in Swedish. home markets 32 32 Contents INTRODUCTION THE COMMUNITY – CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate social responsibility 18 Sustainability at Handelsbanken 4 Handelsbanken in the community 19 Financial value creation 20 THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S High ethical standards engender trust 21 COMMENTS Responsible investments 22 Corporate social responsibility – part of our corporate culture 5 Responsible lending 24 The Bank’s environmental activities 26 OVERVIEW INITIATIVES AND AWARDS Key figures for sustainability activities 6 Initiatives and awards 28 CONCEPT AND ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE ABOUT THIS REPORT Handelsbanken’s stakeholders 8 Contents and restrictions in this report 30 Handelsbanken’s concept and organisational structure 9 GRI INDEX Index according to the OUR CUSTOMERS Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 31 23 Satisfied customers 10 AUDIT REPORT OUR EMPLOYEES Combined assurance report 34 years with the most Skilled staff 11 satisﬁed customers CONTACT according to Swedish OUR SHAREHOLDERS Contact 35 Quality Index Corporate governance at Handelsbanken 15 Important dates 35 (SKI) *. Corporate governance structure 16 ABOUT THIS REPORT This report describes how the Bank works with its most important sustainability issues, in relation to the main stakeholders. It has been prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initiatives’ (GRI) reporting guidelines. On page 30 we describe how Handelsbanken has worked with the guidelines to produce this report, as well as the limitations. In Handelsbanken’s assessment, the report fulﬁls level C+, based on the applicability levels produced by the Global Reporting Initiative, and this has also been conﬁrmed by the external auditors. * According to SKI (Swedish Quality There is a comprehensive index according to GRI Index), since surveys started in 1989, principles on pages 31–33. This report constitutes Handelsbanken has had the most Handelsbanken’s Communication on Progress for satisﬁed private customers among the major Swedish banks – Handelsbanken, the UN Global Compact. Nordea, SEB and Swedbank. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2011 3 INT RO D U C T I O N – C O R PO R ATE R E SPO NSI B I L I TY Sustainability at Handelsbanken One of Handelsbanken’s most important assets is the conﬁdence of customers, public authorities and the general public. A condition for this conﬁdence is that the Bank’s operations are subject to high ethical standards and responsible actions, and that employees of the Bank conduct themselves in a manner that upholds conﬁdence. Handelsbanken is a bank that is stable over For Handelsbanken, sustainability means being Every day more than 11,100 employees of the the long term – a bank which, regardless of the an attractive employer and a stable market Bank work to ensure that our customers are situation in the world around us, is there for its player that makes a positive contribution to the satisﬁed, that our income is increasing more customers. community and its development. rapidly than our expenses, and that there is Handelsbanken has an organic growth model Different sectors have larger or smaller good administrative order in our operations. that has proved successful in an increasing impacts within different areas of responsibility. A Handelsbanken takes responsibility by mannumber of locations and an increasing number bank’s direct environmental impact is fairly limaging risks in such a way that as few customers of countries. ited, even though Handelsbanken endeavours as possible have difﬁculties in making payments, The Bank has nationwide branch networks to minimise the carbon dioxide emissions, etc. and we can therefore remain a bank with stable in its ﬁve home markets of Sweden, Norway, generated by its operations. ﬁnances that makes a positive contribution to its Denmark, Finland and the UK, and is also openExternal analysts often highlight banks’ customers, its shareholders, and the community ing new branches in other markets. indirect environmental impact, i.e. their ability to in general. Handelsbanken is currently the only bank in inﬂuence customers’ actions in environmental Handelsbanken is a major taxpayer in almost 50 towns – and it looks as if that number matters, etc. when credit is granted. Although Sweden. This means that the Bank’s costmay rise. Handelsbanken carries out an environmental effectiveness also beneﬁts society as a whole, Handelsbanken’s growth model creates high review when granting credit, the Bank’s assesssince it leads to lower cost pressure on banking availability and satisﬁed customers, and means ment is that its ability to inﬂuence customers’ services in general. that the Bank can achieve growth, coupled with actions is usually fairly limited. low risk and good cost control. This, together A bank has greater opportunities to make THE MOST FUNDAMENTAL CRITERION with the Bank’s cautious view of risk and its a difference when it comes to social and civic FOR SUSTAINABILITY tradition of prudent ﬁnancial reserves, makes it a responsibility, particularly in its role as a lender. The global ﬁnancial crisis has clearly shown stable, responsible bank over the long term. A loan loss often conceals a personal tragedy that, for a bank, the most fundamental criterion for a customer. Therefore, it is important that for sustainability is survival. A bank must be run OUR DEFINITION OF SUSTAINABILITY the Bank’s lending is responsible, based on a in such a way that it is always able to fund its Handelsbanken’s corporate goal is to have close assessment of the customer’s repayoperations, so that it can survive unaided. higher proﬁtability than comparable peers on our ment capacity. A weak repayment capacity can This means that a bank’s top priority must be home markets. In addition, Handelsbanken aims never be accepted with the argument that the to maintain the conﬁdence of its customers, its to act as a responsible institution in society. customer is prepared to pay a high interest rate. bond investors, the supervisory authorities and It is therefore natural for the Bank to work The aim of short-term proﬁts for the Bank must its shareholders. Such conﬁdence is based on with the questions of sustainability that often take second place to what can be considered the assumption that the bank’s operations are come within the concept of Corporate Social sustainable in the long term. sound. It is therefore vital that corporate social Responsibility (CSR). This is one reason why Handelsbanken responsibility is an integral part of all HandelsFor Handelsbanken, this involves a voluntary does not apply performanceor volume-based banken’s operations. responsibility for how the Bank’s operations bonuses, or other forms of variable compensaaffect the community from an economic, social, tion, either for the Bank’s senior management or SUSTAINABILITY – A COMPETITIVE ethical and environmental perspective. for any other employee who takes decisions on ADVANTAGE credits, or who can affect the Bank’s risk proﬁle In a time of ﬁnancial turbulence, it has become OUR OBJECTIVE in any other way. even clearer that banks which have acted reTaking responsibility is a vital element of a sponsibly have a competitive edge, for example successful, sustainable banking operation. OUR LONG TRADITION OF in terms of their ability to fund themselves on Handelsbanken has a major ﬁnancial responsiSUSTAINABILITY WORK the international capital market and to attract bility for the funds that the Bank is entrusted to Sustainability has long been a well-integrated talented staff. manage. In addition, in the Bank’s view, it has a part of the Handelsbanken concept of how sucPrivate customers, too, attach great imporresponsibility for the environment, taking a social cessful banking operations should be run. tance to the fact that a bank has acted responresponsibility and acting ethically in relation to all Handelsbanken is an international Group with sibly. During the current ﬁnancial crisis, having its stakeholders. operations in 22 countries. No matter where funds in an account with a secure bank is seen Handelsbanken aims to meet customers’ in the world we work, Handelsbanken always as an increasingly attractive option. needs for ﬁnancial products and services in a puts the customer ﬁrst, focusing on long-term responsible manner, providing its shareholders sustainable customer relationships. with a good return. 4 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2011 T H E GROU P C H IEF EXEC U T IVE’S C OM M EN TS Corporate social responsibility – part of our corporate culture Sustainability and corporate social responsibility (CSR) are deeply rooted in Handelsbanken’s culture and method of working. Indeed, for several years we have reported on these issues in our annual report and on our website. In addition to our internal steering documents and guidelines that govern Handelsbanken’s actions, we are also a member of the voluntary initiatives Global Compact and Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI), which are both UN initiatives aimed at companies. These principles are totally in keeping with the values and principles that already apply at Handelsbanken. In recent years, there has been a growing interest in issues relating to CSR from our customers and the world at large. In response to this, we have prepared this separate Sustainability Report to provide a more detailed account of how Handelsbanken views corporate social responsibility. Pär Boman, President and Group Chief Executive Stockholm, 18 September 2012 H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2011 5 OVERV I E W Key ﬁgures for sustainability activities In addition to its ﬁnancial goal of having higher proﬁtability than its competitors, Handelsbanken aims to act in a socially responsible manner. To follow up the sustainability work, the Bank has identiﬁed relevant and measurable indicators for how our sustainability activities perform over time, and compared them with those of peer companies with similar conditions. FINANCIAL ASPECTS ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE • Every year since the early 1970s, Handelsbanken has had higher proﬁt• Handelsbanken’s carbon dioxide emissions from electric power consumpability than the average of peer banks on our home markets. tion in the Nordic region decreased by 47 per cent from 2010 to 2011. • Over a long period the Bank has grown organically, and on no occasion • In order to encourage the selection of green cars as company cars, the during the recent ﬁnancial crisis did it need to ask for capital contribuBank has decided to subsidise these. Some 83 per cent of company tions, either from the state or in the form of a new share issue. cars are classiﬁed as green cars, according to the deﬁnition under the • Handelsbanken has paid a dividend to its shareholders for many years in Swedish Road Trafﬁc Tax Act. succession, including every year during the recent period of turbulence • The proportion of electricity of guaranteed origin is 81 per cent for the on the ﬁnancial markets. Nordic region as a whole and 93 per cent for Swedish operations. • By virtue of its proﬁt level over many years, Handelsbanken has been • In Autumn 2011, the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) presented its annual one of the largest payers of corporation tax in Sweden. report on how the world’s 500 largest companies report their emissions, as well as how they manage their impact on climate. Handelsbanken SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY improved its performance signiﬁcantly from the previous year, gaining • In 2011, Handelsbanken’s loan losses corresponded to 0.05 per cent 76 points (36) out of a possible 100. The average value was 64 points. (0.10) of lending. Over the past ﬁve years, the Bank’s loan loss ratio has averaged 0.09 per cent. This can be compared with the average ﬁgure for the other major Nordic banks over the same period: 0.42 per cent. • In 2011, Handelsbanken had the most satisﬁed customers of the four major banks in Sweden, according to SKI (Swedish Quality Index). This MAJOR AWARD DURING THE YEAR applied to both private and corporate customers. On Handelsbanken’s In the Index for Corporate Social Responsibility published other home markets, too, the Bank was top-ranked for customer satisby the Folksam insurance company, one of the largest infaction. stitutional owners on the Swedish stock market, Handels• Total absence due to sickness for staff in Sweden is low, and decreased banken was awarded “Best in the sector” in the Human for the ﬁfth year running to 2.6 per cent (2.8); 0.9 percentage points of Rights category. In the same category, the Bank achieved fourth place out of all 245 Swedish listed companies. In the this ﬁgure was long-term sick leave (1.1). Environment category, Handelsbanken achieved second • At Handelsbanken, 97 per cent (98) of all managers were recruited interplace in the ﬁnancial sector. For more details, see page 29. nally; for the Group as a whole, the equivalent ﬁgure was 94 per cent (90). OVERALL GOALS Return on equity, 1973–2011 Corporate goal % 30 Handelsbanken’s goal is to have a higher return on equity than the average of peer Nordic and British banks. 25 20 Goal achievement 15 Handelsbanken’s return on equity for total operations was 13.5 per cent (12.9). Adjusted for non-recurring items, the figure was 13.5 per cent (12.7). The 10 corresponding figure for a weighted average of other major Nordic banks was 5 9.7 per cent (8.7). This meant that for the 40th successive year, Handelsbanken 0 achieved its corporate goal. -73 -75 -77 -79 -81 -83 -85 -87 -89 -91 -93 -95 -97 -99 -01 -03 -05 -07 -09 -11 -5 -10 Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* * For the period until 2002 inclusive, only Swedish banks are included. 6 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2011 OVERVI EW LOWER LOAN LOSSES Loan losses as a percentage of lending 1999–2011 Handelsbanken has a low risk tolerance. This means that the quality of credits must % never be neglected in favour of achieving higher volume or a higher margin. 1.2 Outcome 1.0 Loan losses fell to SEK -816 million (-1,507). Loan losses as a proportion of lending 0.8 were 0.05 per cent (0.10). The corresponding figure for an average of other major 0.6 Nordic banks was 0.27 per cent (0.38). 0.4 0.2 0.0 -0.2 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* * For the period until 2000 inclusive, only Swedish banks are included. MOST SATISFIED CUSTOMERS Customer satisfaction index, private customers in Sweden 1989–2011 Handelsbanken aims to achieve its profitability goal by having more satisfied custoIndex mers than its competitors. Quality and service must therefore at least meet customer 80 expectations, and preferably exceed them. Outcome 70 Handelsbanken continued to have the most satisfied customers of the major banks in Sweden, both private and corporate. The Bank tops these lists in all the 60 Nordic countries and in the UK. Satisfied customers are proof of the viability of Handelsbanken’s method of working. 50 40 -89 -90 -91 -92 -93 -94 -95 -96 -97 -98–99-00 -01 -02 -03 -04 -05 -06 -07 -08 -09 -10 -11 Handelsbanken Nordea, SEB and Swedbank REDUCED SICKNESS ABSENCE Sickness absence in Sweden 2007-2011* All employees should enjoy good health, develop on a personal level and function % in an optimal way. This is a long-term goal that includes factors such as balance in 5 life, clear and honest communication, having the skills and competence needed to perform tasks and deal with work-related situations, having pride and confidence in 4 one’s work, respecting others and being respected oneself. 3 Outcome Total absence due to sickness for staff in Sweden remained low, and decreased for 2 the fifth year running to 2.6 per cent (2.8); 0.9 percentage points of this figure was 1 long-term sick leave (1.1). 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 * Sickness absence is stated as a percentage of total normal working hours. LOW STAFF TURNOVER Staff turnover 2007-2011* The Bank takes a long-term approach to customer relations and to its employees, % and sees each employment as an important investment. Employees with long experi10 ence and with broad knowledge from the whole Bank make a vital contribution to the Bank having satisfied customers. 8 Outcome 6 Staff turnover remained low and, excluding retirements, was 5 per cent (3). The 4 rise compared to the previous year is due to the proportion of employees outside Sweden increasing as a result of the Bank’s international expansion. Staff turnover 2 is slightly higher in these markets than in Sweden. 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 * Staff turnover is stated as the number of persons who have left the Bank, excluding retirements and deaths, as a percentage of the average number of employees in the Group. REDUCED CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS Outcome To clarify Handelsbanken’s impact on the climate and its environmental activities, Carbon dioxide emissions from electric power consumption in Sweden have the Bank has decided to report carbon dioxide emissions from electric power decreased over the past five years. This has been mainly due to reduced electricity consumption in Sweden in relation to income for the years 2007 – 2011. consumption, but also to the decision to purchase a higher proportion of electricity of guaranteed origin (100 per cent hydroelectric). Carbon dioxide emissions from energy consumption in Sweden ELECTRICITY 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Electricity consumption (kWh) 42,642,223 42,948,681 44,977,450 48 297,216 46,804,972 Origin-labelled electricity, % 93% 77% 59% 37% 42% Emissions CO2 (tonnes) 261 867 1,945 2,258 1,647 Emissions CO2 /income (kg/SEK m) 15 52 109 132 83 SWEDEN 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 No. of employees in Sweden 7,648 7,549 7,502 7,715 7,543 Income, SEK m 17,364 16,653 17,839 17,088 19,738 H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2011 7 CO NC E P T A N D O R G A N I SATI O NAL STR UCTUR E Handelsbanken’s stakeholders For Handelsbanken, corporate social responsibility means that we act in such a way that our stakeholders’ conﬁdence in the Bank is maintained. THE BANK’S STAKEHOLDERS dialogue with customers, staff, shareholders is followed by the individual planning dialogues Many private individuals, organisations and and investors, and also authorities and other and performance reviews which are the link becompanies are affected by Handelsbanken’s public organisations. tween the goals of the business operations and actions in various matters. The Bank must live the employee’s goals The result is an action plan up to the reasonable expectations of these Customers which is followed up regularly during the year stakeholders and act in such a way that their The most important dialogue occurs at the and then forms the basis of an annual salary conﬁdence in the Bank is maintained. thousands of meetings with customers that review between employee and manager. Handelsbanken’s principal stakeholders take place at the Bank’s 740+ branches, or by are its customers, employees, shareholders phone. In Sweden, we also offer our customers Shareholders and bond investors, as well as the community personal service 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Handelsbanken’s shareholders ultimately decide at large, mainly in the form of the ﬁnancial By being sensitive to customers’ requests about the Bank’s governance. The shareholdsupervisory authorities in Sweden and the other and questions, Handelsbanken can provide ers exercise their right to decide on matters countries where the Bank operates. responses and meet the customers’ expectarelating to the company at general meetings of tions. Read more about Handelsbanken and our shareholders where individual shareholders have CONTINUOUS DIALOGUE customers on page 10. the opportunity to put questions to the Bank’s It is important that the Bank keeps itself upboard and senior management. Information in to-date with the wishes and requirements that Employees preparation for meetings and minutes can be various stakeholders have regarding HanAll employees participate and are active in their viewed on the Bank’s website. delsbanken. The Bank thus has a continuous own unit’s business planning every year. This Shareholders show great interest in participating at the company’s AGMs. In the past three years, shareholders representing around 50 per The table, which is laid out according to GRI’s principles, shows how the income generated by the Bank’s operations is cent of the votes in the Bank have participated. allocated over various groups of stakeholders. The data comes from the Group’s income statement and balance sheet. The Investor Relations unit provides investors, Direct economic value generated and distributed (according to analysts and other capital market players with GRI) Economic ﬂows to and from various groups of stakeholders information on Handelsbanken’s share, its ﬁnanSEK bn 2011 2010 2009 2008 cial performance and other activities. DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED Customers Public authorities and society at large Handelsbanken has a continuous dialogue with Income after loan losses and before fees to the Stabilisation fund, deposit guarantee etc. 33.1 30.4 29.5 28.4 supervisory authorities, central banks and reguValue created by serving customers 33.1 30.4 29.5 28.4 latory bodies, as well as with governments and parliaments. The Bank also has a dialogue with ALLOCATED ECONOMIC VALUE non-governmental organisations (NGOs). Employees The Bank’s decentralised organisational Salaries 6.7 6.4 6.7 6.1 structure means that Handelsbanken is ﬁrmly Provision to proﬁt-sharing foundation 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.0 established in the local community. Payroll charges and other staff costs 2.4 2.3 2.6 2.1 Cost for employees 9.9 9.5 10.0 8.2 RS Public authorities and society at large TO CU ES ST Suppliers, incl. non-deductible VAT* 5.5 5.5 5.2 5.1 NV OWN S ER Tax costs** 4.4 0.6 0.6 0.1 ER M S/ O Fees to the Stabilisation fund, deposit guarantee etc. 1.1 4.0 3.5 3.4 I Government bank support received Participation in government guarantee programmes To society 11.0 10.1 9.3 8.6 ES SO YE Shareholders CI ET O Dividends (refers to the year dividends were paid) 5.6 5.0 4.4 8.4 Y PL EM New share issue Transactions with the shareholders 5.6 5.0 4.4 8.4 All stakeholders have expectations of Handelsbanken. Reinvested economic value (“remaining in the Bank”) 6.6 5.8 5.8 3.3 What they have in common is that they all wish the Bank * Refers to Other administrative expenses and depreciation to be stable, and responsive to their wishes. How well the ** Refers to Tax costs according to the income statement Bank manages to live up to these expectations has an impact on the continued success of Handelsbanken. 8 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2011 C ON C EPT AN D ORGAN ISAT ION AL ST R U C TU R E Handelsbanken’s concept and organisational structure Handelsbanken is a full-service bank with a decentralised way of working, a strong local presence due to nationwide branch networks and a long-term approach to customer relations. Handelsbanken grows primarily by opening new branches in locations where the Bank has not previously had operations. THE HANDELSBANKEN CONCEPT the UK, where the Bank continues to grow. convinced that those who work closest to the A major component in Handelsbanken’s method We have also opened several new branches customer make the most sensible decisions from of banking is the amount of effort put into being in the Netherlands, and now have ten branches. the customer’s and the Bank’s point of view. available for customers at all our branches, Handelsbanken has a nationwide branch This mandate to make important business online, and at new digital meeting-places such network on its ﬁve home markets, organised decisions on the spot with the customer is a as services for smartphones and tablets. Haninto one or more regional banks in each country. sound basis for successful customer meetings. delsbanken has conducted banking operations Each regional bank has joint administrative Our customers meet the person who makes the since 1871 and the Handelsbanken share is resources, regional expertise and specialists to decision, not a messenger. the oldest listed share on the Stockholm stock support the branches’ business. The branches’ independence gives them exchange. We are a full-service bank with a Handelsbanken currently has more than 740 a very strong local presence, with long-term decentralised approach, a strong local presbranches in 22 countries, including more than customer relations. No one has better knowledge ence through nationwide branch networks and 700 branches on our ﬁve home markets. of the speciﬁc demands that apply in the local a long-term approach to customer relations. market than the local branch. This is why the Our goal is to have higher proﬁtability than the GROWTH MODEL Bank seldom uses central marketing plans or average of peer banks in home markets. This is For Handelsbanken to achieve and retain high advertising campaigns. achieved by the Bank having lower costs and proﬁtability, growth is also necessary. HanHandelsbanken has consistently and successmore satisﬁed customers than its competitors. delsbanken grows primarily by opening new fully applied this decentralised working method branches in locations where it has not previously for many years. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES had operations. In this way, Handelsbanken Some customer requirements may require Handelsbanken has a full range of products and grows customer by customer, branch by specialist expertise, in which case the branch services to meet the ﬁnancial needs of custombranch. This method of working and of achievmay delegate the business responsibility to a ers. Responsible for this range are specialists ing growth has proved successful in an increasregional unit or a central business area. The in the Bank’s business areas (Handelsbanken ing number of locations and in an increasing interplay between the branches, central business Capital Markets, Stadshypotek, Forestry and number of countries. This organic growth model areas and units creates a dynamic organisation, Farming, Handelsbanken Direkt, and Handelsmeans that Handelsbanken can achieve growth, which beneﬁts customers. banken International), who produce and develop coupled with low risk and good cost control. solutions and services in close collaboration with On average, a newly opened branch starts ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE FOR the branch operations in each country. These making a proﬁt within 24 months. Nevertheless, SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES specialists are called product owners and are Handelsbanken may also make small, add-on Handelsbanken’s Board has decided on a numresponsible for the functionality, packaging and acquisitions, provided that these can easily be ber of policies for the Bank’s central sustainability ﬁnancial aspects of the product. They have global incorporated into the Bank’s working methods. issues. One member of the Group management responsibility and are also responsible for designteam has overall responsibility for ensuring that ing various types of sales support in their area. DECENTRALISED ORGANISATION Handelsbanken identiﬁes and addresses the susEach product owner markets the product, while FOCUSING ON THE CUSTOMER tainability issues that are relevant to the Bank. the branch takes responsibility for the individual All business decisions affecting the individual In 2010, a Committee for Corporate Social customer being offered the right mix of products, customer’s relationship with the Bank are based Responsibility was set up, with the aim of pursuadapted to that customer’s needs and circumon the customer’s requirements and are made ing and co-ordinating the Bank’s CSR work. stances. As well as delivering ﬁnancial services, by the local branch. The committee consists of representatives from the Bank’s task, together with other banks, is to Every Handelsbanken branch is led by a branches and the central functions for Adminismaintain a functioning, efﬁcient payments system. manager who is solely responsible for all operatration, Corporate Governance, Group Finance, tions in the branch’s geographical area. Branch Corporate Communications, Investor Relations, MARKETS managers staff and organise their branches Asset Management, Credits and Personnel. The Handelsbanken offers a full range of ﬁnancial according to the business that the branch committee has met regularly since it was set up. products and services on its ﬁve home markets: chooses to do on its market. Information regarding corporate governance Sweden, UK, Denmark, Norway and Finland. Handelsbanken branch managers have a and control systems in Handelsbanken may be In 2011, the Bank opened its 100th branch in very high degree of independence, as we are found on pages 15–17 of this report. Central Central business departments and Regional areas and Branches CUSTOMER administrative head ofﬁces product owners functions H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2011 9 OUR C U S T O M E R S Satisﬁed customers Banking is about long-term security and relationships which create trust. For Handelsbanken, the starting point is always meeting the individual customers’ requirements, rather than selling individual products and services. Handelsbanken’s corporate goal is higher proﬁtbanken has had a higher average increase in Customer satisfaction private customers 2011 ability than the average of peer banks in home customer satisfaction than any of its peers. This markets. One way of achieving this is to have result is proof that Handelsbanken’s consistent Index more satisﬁed customers than competitors. and continuous work with long-term customer 100 The Bank creates, maintains and develops relationships works. strong, long-term customer relationships in 80 successful meetings with customers. The cusTHE RIGHT ADVICE TO THE RIGHT tomer’s trust is built up over the long term, but is PERSON 60 won and nurtured at every meeting. When providing ﬁnancial advice, an overall Handelsbanken’s constant aim is that all approach to the customer’s circumstances and 40 important business decisions should be taken ﬁnancial situation is at the core of Handelsbankas close to the customer as possible. This en’s way of working – regardless of whether the 20 contributes to better meetings with customers, customer is a private individual or a company. better decisions and more satisﬁed customers. Based on this, the adviser and the Bank can 0 Sweden Denmark Finland Norway UK By winning its customers’ trust, Handelsprovide customers with guidance on ﬁnancing, banken becomes their natural choice. Therefore, payments or investments that is adapted to Handelsbanken Sector average meetings with customers are key to Handelseach customer’s requirements. Average of Nordea, SEB and Swedbank banken’s operations. In everything it does, the Advice about savings and investments is Bank aims, directly or indirectly, to create the adapted to the customer’s goals, savings best possible conditions for successful meethorizon, attitude to risk, and knowledge and Customer satisfaction corporate customers 2011 ings with customers. understanding of the speciﬁc risks related to each type of ﬁnancial instrument. Index ALWAYS INCREASE AVAILABILITY The Bank’s advice always prioritises the cus100 Having the most satisﬁed customers requires tomer’s interests and is professional, observes long-term, determined efforts. An important high ethical standards and is executed in ac80 starting point is that the Bank must always be cordance with the current laws and regulations. available when the customer needs help and The Bank’s customer information must be 60 advice or wants to do business. clear, factual and easy to understand. Terms Vital ingredients in this are longer opening and conditions for the Bank’s services must be 40 hours at branches, electronic services online, on clear and not arbitrarily changed. smartphones and tablets, and personal advice 20 by phone, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. MANAGING CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS This is why we continuously work on increasPart of our work of achieving and keeping satis0 Sweden Denmark Finland Norway UK ing our availability, to be there for our customﬁed customers involves handling the complaints ers, whenever and wherever they need us. This that come in to the Bank in a manner which Handelsbanken Sector average is also why Handelsbanken does not close any inspires conﬁdence. Handelsbanken takes cusAverage of Nordea, SEB and Swedbank branches. Handelsbanken is currently the only tomer complaints very seriously and we regard bank in almost 50 locations. them as a stage in developing our operations, together with our customers. Handelsbanken Customer satisfaction index, TOP IN ALL HOME MARKETS has well-developed procedures for handling private customers, Sweden 2011 2010 Handelsbanken considers customer satisfaction customer complaints. They must be dealt with Handelsbanken 77.8 78.3 surveys to be very important. Every year, Swedish in the ﬁrst place by the branch responsible for Nordea 70.7 71.3 Quality Index (SKI) and its associated company the customer in question, quickly and correctly, SEB 69.5 70.0 EPSI carry out independent customer satisfaction with the attention that each case requires. Swedbank 70.2 70.3 surveys based on a European standard. Every If the customer wishes to pursue the matter, year since the survey started in 1989, Handelsthere is a designated complaints ofﬁcer in each banken has been unchallenged in the No.1 posiregional bank and subsidiary who continuously Customer satisfaction index, corporate customers, tion for both private and corporate customers. follows up complaints made to the Bank. There Sweden 2011 2010 The 2011 results showed that Handelsare also two complaints ofﬁcers at the Group Handelsbanken 73.3 73.0 banken achieved top positions in all the Nordic level who regularly report to senior bank mancountries and the UK, among both private and agement, regional banks and product owners. Nordea 65.3 67.0 corporate customers. The survey in Sweden Information about complaints management at the SEB 69.5 67.5 also shows that in the past decade, HandelsBank is easily available on the Bank’s website. Swedbank 66.7 67.6 10 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2011 OU R EM P LOY EES Skilled staff Irrespective of where in the world Handelsbanken opens branches, the Bank strives for its decentralised work method and belief in the individual to permeate its operations. HANDELSBANKEN RECRUITS PEOPLE vital contribution to the Bank gaining satisﬁed sion of the Bank’s aim to decentralise responsiWHO SHARE THE BANK’S BASIC VALUES customers. bility and authority. The individual salary reviews In 2011, Handelsbanken had 11,184 employIn 2011, external employee turnover was are based on the collective agreement and the ees, working in 22 countries. Just over 30 per 5 per cent (3). salary principles applying at Handelsbanken. cent of them were employed outside Sweden. All employees, irrespective of where they work STAFF DEVELOPMENT INTERNAL LABOUR MARKET at Handelsbanken, have a joint responsibility for The Bank’s strength is derived from the comCorporate culture and values are very important the satisfaction of Handelsbanken’s customers. bined expertise of its employees. All employees at Handelsbanken. This means that internal Handelsbanken’s decentralised method of are responsible for their own skills and comperecruitment is particularly important to the Bank. working and the Bank’s concept of how to run tence development, and also for sharing their Managers must be exemplary ambassadors for a successful business are essentially based on competence with others in the Handelsbanken the Bank’s corporate culture, which explains trust and respect for the individual. This gives Group. Handelsbanken deﬁnes competence why most managers are recruited internally. employees a considerable degree of freedom, it as the ability to solve the tasks that employees In 2011, 97 per cent (98) of all managers in creates a sense of involvement and gives everyencounter at work, now and in the future. Sweden were recruited internally. For the Group one the opportunity to make a difference. The most important source of increased proas a whole, the corresponding ﬁgure was 94 per Therefore, when recruiting, the Bank confessionalism is learning. This makes demands cent (90), including the markets where the Bank stantly seeks people who share its basic values. on well-functioning business skills and system established operations relatively recently. The Bank wants its employees to be driven by support. putting the customer ﬁrst, to enjoy taking a large All employees should take part in their unit’s LOCAL LINKS amount of individual responsibility, and to want annual business/operational planning process, On the bank’s four home markets outside to take their own initiatives. to create a sense of involvement and comSweden – with few exceptions – managers and Above all, working at Handelsbanken is mitment to reach set targets. Guided by the employees are locally employed. It is important about relationships with other people. Without business/operational plan, employees meet their that those who work at branches have natural the right staff, it does not matter how good the immediate superior every year for a planned, links to and good knowledge of the local town products or services are. The Bank takes a structured personal development dialogue, and market. Some 80 per cent of senior manlong-term approach to customer relations and known as PLUS. This involves a discussion agers in these four home markets are locally to its employees, and sees each employment of the employee’s contribution to operational employed. as an important investment. In order to retain an goals and the conditions required to deal with employee, there must be the right conditions for speciﬁc tasks. The discussion is the foundation MANAGEMENT SUCCESSION development in their work, as well as a variety of an individual action plan which is continuOne of the most important tasks for managof career opportunities – and consideration ously followed up. The plan is used in and forms ers at the Bank is to identify, encourage and must be taken of the stage of life that he or she the basis of the annual salary review between develop new managers. To further improve is in. Employees with long experience and with employee and manager. management succession in the Handelsbanken broad knowledge from the whole Bank make a Individual salary reviews are another expresGroup, a common structure has been worked The Wheel – the relationship between the Bank’s Age and gender distribution 2011 operations and the employee’s development. Age Men Women 65– 60–64 Business plan process 55–59 50–54 Business planning 45–49 Salary 40–44 dialogue PLUS review CUSTOMER 35–39 30–34 25–29 20–24 Individual Action follow-up planning –19 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 Number of employees H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2011 11 OUR E M P L O Y E E S out during the year. Every regional bank and At year-end, 38 per cent (38) of managers in enjoy good health, develop on a personal level business area must each year produce a plan the Handelsbanken Group were women. The and function in an optimal way. This is a long-term for management succession which is then inproportion of women among the total number of goal that includes factors such as balance in life, tegrated into that unit’s own business planning. employees was 52 per cent (53). clear and honest communication, having the skills The purpose of this is to guarantee competent Active equality work leads to a higher level and competence needed to perform tasks and managers in all managerial roles and to analyse of equality and better use of the employees’ deal with work-related situations, having pride and deﬁne activities and measures to be taken competencies. The Bank’s equality work is a and conﬁdence in one’s work, respecting others based on the current and future situations. continual process and is essential if the Bank is and being respected oneself. All employees are The gap between the current and desired to be able to attract and retain skilled employresponsible for creating a positive working envisituations forms the basis for planned activities ees. The work is based on Handelsbanken’s ronment at Handelsbanken. and is also the foundation of a action plan to fundamental values and the laws and guidelines In Sweden, managers who have been assigned apply throughout the Group. applying in each country. It is vital that all emresponsibility for the work environment must, in During the year, work started on supplementployees are involved in breaking down traditional collaboration with work environment representaing and clarifying the Bank’s support to managviews of gender-based professional roles. tives and other staff, compile a work environment ers in the form of local/Group activities. A high priority element of the Bank’s work status report at least once a year. This includes related to equality is therefore to increase both the physical and the psychosocial environFOR GENDER EQUALITY – AGAINST awareness of how social and cultural norms afment. The results are discussed within the unit, DISCRIMINATION fect us in our daily lives. As part of this process, and any measures decided upon are integrated Regardless of background, the Bank’s staff more than 300 managers have participated in into the business plan/operational plan. are individuals with their own characteristics courses on gender equality. This includes the In connection with crisis situations, for many and strengths and their own way of expressing senior management of the Bank and heads of years, Handelsbanken has offered a support prothemselves. At Handelsbanken, there must be personnel. gramme with the help of external partners. no discrimination on grounds such as gender, In Sweden, the Bank took another step in Health promotion activities are considered gender identity or expression, ethnicity, religion its gender equality work by focusing during the very important. Employees of Handelsbanken or other beliefs, functional impairment, sexual year on correcting unjustiﬁed salary differences are offered a wide choice and large number of orientation or age. between women and men. In their salary reviews subsidised group and individual health promotion Handelsbanken aims to be an equal comwith employees, salary-setting managers were activities. The aim is to reach all employees and to pany, in which women and men must have the given greater responsibility and a mandate to even strengthen the sense of community at the Bank. same opportunities for professional developout salary differences between women and men. Health promotion and work environment activities ment. For each country where the Bank operThe work of promoting equality aims to make are components of the long-term process to creates, an activity plan must be drawn up with it easier for both men and women at the Bank ate the conditions for good physical and mental the purpose of promoting the Bank as an equal to combine their work with parenthood. health in the workplace. company. During 2012, the Bank has started a health The Bank’s goal is for the proportion of WORK ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH promotion project called “Sustainable Health”. female and male managers to correspond to The overall objectives regarding the work The purpose of this is to increase employees’ the overall gender distribution in the Group. environment focus on health. Employees should awareness of the importance of health and physiAverage number of employees 2007–2011 12 000 11 000 Sickness absence rate in Sweden 2011 2010 10 000 % Men Women Total Men Women Total 9 000 8 000 Aged 29 or younger 1.2 2.6 2.0 1.3 2.1 1.7 7 000 Aged 30–49 1.4 2.9 2.2 1.3 3.2 2.4 6 000 5 000 Aged 50 or older 2.1 5.0 3.7 2.3 5.3 3.9 4 000 Total sickness absence 1.6 3.5 2.6 1.6 3.7 2.8 3 000 of which long-term absence 0.3 1.5 0.9 0.4 1.7 1.1 2 000 1 000 0 Sickness absence is stated as a percentage of total normal working hours. Long-term absence is a period of absence of 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 60 days or more. Sweden Denmark UK Norway Finland Other countries 12 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2011 OU R EM P LOY EES cal stamina. This is important for work and for OKTOGONEN – THE BANK’S PROFITextra proﬁts to which the staff of Handelsbanken leisure, both now and in the future. SHARING SCHEME jointly contribute. If this criterion is satisﬁed, an Handelsbanken also has its own sports assoIn 2011, Handelsbanken again reached its allocation corresponding to one-third of the ciation. Dating back to 1919, with around 3,600 corporate goal of reporting higher proﬁtability extra proﬁts is made to employees. The amount members, the association is one of the largest than the average reported by peer banks in its is limited to 15 per cent of the dividends to of its kind in Sweden. To stimulate interest in art home markets This means that, for the third shareholders. and crafts the Bank also has an art association consecutive year, there was a full allocation to All employees receive an equal part of the with 3,500 members. It is one of largest and Oktogonen. allocated amount and the scheme includes all best-reputed art associations in Sweden. Every year since the Oktogonen Foundation employees in the Bank’s home markets, i.e. the was established in 1973, with the exception four Nordic countries and the UK. WORKING CONDITIONS AND UNION of two years, Handelsbanken has allocated In recent years, employees in the NetherRIGHTS part of the Bank’s proﬁts to Oktogonen. The lands, Hong Kong, Luxembourg, Switzerland All employees of Handelsbanken have the right underlying idea when the scheme started 39 and Taipei have also been included in Oktogonto organise and join a union or employee oryears ago was that the Bank’s results are largely en. Payments to the unit-holder can be made ganisation. One component of Handelsbanken’s determined by the efforts of its employees. once an employee has reached the age of 60. culture is the traditionally good relationship with Major banks operate in similar conditions and One of the fundamental concepts in managthe trade unions. All employees in Denmark, offer relatively similar products. So the efforts of ing the foundation is that a considerable part Finland, Norway, Luxembourg and Sweden, the staff offer an important explanation for differof the funds are invested in shares in Handelscomprising 88 per cent of the Bank’s employences in the results achieved by the banks. banken. The Oktogonen Foundation appoints ees, are covered by collective bargaining agreeThis view still applies today. It is therefore two representatives as members of Handelsments. In these countries, employees who are reasonable that all employees beneﬁt from the banken’s Board. not members of a union are also covered by the terms of the collective agreement. There is an ongoing dialogue between union representatives and managers concerning changes and new services to be launched – and this takes place at the very early stages. In addition to the matters which are dealt with in a dialogue with the union organisations in each country, there is also a European Work Council which functions as a forum for joint and crossborder questions at Handelsbanken. BENEFITS Handelsbanken aims to be an attractive employer. Thus the Bank offers various types of beneﬁts, partly as a result of the collective agreements. For example, Handelsbanken in Sweden offers several beneﬁts to both permanent and temporary staff. WORKING HOURS Working hours are decided by agreement between the manager and employee. The requirements of the business operations are the starting point for how working hours are planned. The employee’s inﬂuence over his/her working hours is an signiﬁcant work environment factor, and it is important that the manager takes the employee’s needs and interests into account. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2011 13 T HE O W N E R S 14 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | HÅL L B AR HE TSR E DO V I SNI NG 2011 OU R SH ARE H OLD ER S Corporate governance at Handelsbanken The strong corporate culture is of major importance in the governance of the Bank. The operations of Swedish banks are regulated Bank. Pages 16–17 give an overview of the A SELECTION OF POLICY DOCUMENTS by law, and banking operations may only be structure of the Bank’s corporate governance. ESTABLISHED BY THE BOARD run with a licence from the Swedish Financial More information on Handelsbanken’s policies • Credit policy Supervisory Authority. Handelsbanken applies can be found in the Bank’s 2011 Annual Report, • Policy for operational risks Swedish regulations in its operations, both in and the ethical guidelines are published on the • Capital policy and outside Sweden. The host country’s regulaBank’s website, www.handelsbanken.se/ireng. • Financial policy tions are also applied, when these have stricter • Financial risk policy • Information policy requirements. Internal control • Ethical guidelines Every year, the Bank publishes a Corporate The responsibility for internal control and • Compensation policy Governance Report from the perspective of compliance is an integral part of managers’ • Policy for the Bank’s use of the external the shareholders. The Sustainability Report has responsibility at all levels in the Bank. This auditors’ services (established by the audit a broader approach, and also includes other responsibility means that appropriate instruccommittee) stakeholders that are usually covered by the tions and procedures for the operation must be • Policy for independent risk control • Policy for compliance concept of corporate governance, such as emin place, and compliance with these procedures • Policy for agreements relating to the engageployees, customers in general, but particularly must be monitored regularly. Sustainability ment of third parties deposit customers, bond investors and superviissues, too, are part of the responsibility of all • Policy on measures against money laundering sory authorities, on whose conﬁdence the Bank managers within the Group. According to the and ﬁnancing of terrorism is dependent. Bank’s procedures, planning and personal de• Policy for responsible investment (established by the asset management unit) velopment dialogues (PLUS) must also be held • Policy for conﬂicts of interest and measures PRINCIPLES FOR CORPORATE with managers and in these discussions, the against bribery and improper inﬂuence GOVERNANCE AT HANDELSBANKEN manager’s work with sustainability matters is fol• Policy for handling customer complaints Handelsbanken has developed a strong value lowed up. The compliance function offers advice base for how banking work should be carried and support in regulatory matters and follows A SELECTION OF CODES OF CONDUCT IN out. This corporate culture is described in detail up compliance within the Bank. Internal control THE PERSONNEL AREA in an internal document called Our Way. The and compliance work are subject to internal and • Personnel policy • Alcohol and drug policy document describes the Bank’s goals, ideas external risk-based auditing. • Guidelines for the prevention of victimisation and way of working, and is read and discussed at work by all employees of the Bank. Thus it has Information and dialogue • Guidelines for the prevention of sexual become the Group’s most important policy Providing regular information about the Bank’s harassment instrument. This is not, however, sufﬁcient from work and results, as well as providing informa• Guidelines regarding gifts and beneﬁts (to a corporate governance perspective. tion on sustainability, is a basic responsibility combat corruption, and the giving and taking of bribes) with respect to the Bank’s various stakeholders. • Environmental policy Policy Handelsbanken endeavours to meet these The strong corporate culture is of major imporinformation requirements by open communicatance in the governance of the Bank; it works tions regarding the Bank’s work in the relevant in parallel with the principles, strategies, limits areas. READ MORE ON OUR WEBSITE and target ﬁgures established by the Board in a More information about Handelsbanken’s series of policy documents and instructions. An corporate governance is available at www. overview of the Bank’s policies and guidelines is handelsbanken.se/ireng. The site includes set out on the right-hand side of this page. The the following information: • Previous corporate governance reports policies adopted by the Board include certain from 2007 onwards sustainability issues which are central to the • The articles of association • Information about the nomination committee • Information from past annual general meetings from 2004 onwards H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2011 15 OUR S H A R E H O L D E R S Corporate governance structure Handelsbanken’s shareholders are the ones who ultimately make decisions about the Bank’s governance. At the annual general meeting (AGM), the shareholders appoint the Board, the Chairman of the Board and auditors, and decide how the nomination committee will be appointed. The Board is responsible to the owners for the Bank’s organisation and management of the Bank’s affairs. The auditors report their ﬁndings to the AGM. The diagram below provides a summary of how governance and control are organised at Handelsbanken. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE – AN OVERVIEW 1. Shareholders and 2. Nomination committee 3. External auditors shareholders’ meeting 4. Board 5. Credit committee 6. Remuneration committee 7. Audit committee 9. President and Group 8. Internal Audit Chief Executive 10. Central Credit 11. CFO 13. Compliance 14. Corporate governance Department Group Finance 12. Risk Control Elects/appoints/initiates Informs/reports 1. SHAREHOLDERS AND the next AGM regarding the appointment of the 4. THE BOARD SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING Chairman and other members of the Board, and The Board is responsible for the Bank’s organiShareholders exercise their right to decide on fees to the Chairman and other members of the sation and manages the Bank’s affairs on behalf matters concerning Handelsbanken at the shareBoard. The committee’s task also includes evaluatof its shareholders. The Board is to continuholders’ meetings, which are Handelsbanken’s ing the work of the Board, primarily based on the ously assess the Bank’s ﬁnancial situation and highest decision-making body. For example, a report that the Chairman of the Board submits to ensure that the Bank is organised such that the shareholders’ meeting decides on any changes the committee. The committee also proposes the accounting records, management of funds and to the Bank’s articles of association, which is the appointment of the auditors, and their fees. other aspects of the Bank’s ﬁnancial circummost fundamental governing document for the stances are satisfactorily controlled. The Board Bank. The annual general meeting decides on 3. EXTERNAL AUDITORS establishes policies and instructions on how this matters such as adoption of the income stateThe auditors are appointed by the AGM for the should be performed, and establishes a work ment and balance sheet, discharge from liability period from one year’s AGM until the end of the procedure for the Board and also instructions for the Board, the new Board, new auditors, following year’s AGM. The auditors are accountfor the Group Chief Executive. These central and compensation for the Chairman and other able to the shareholders at the AGM and submit policy documents state how responsibilities and members of the Board, as well as for the audian audit report covering matters such as the powers of authority are distributed among the tors. The AGM also decides on guidelines for annual report and the Board’s administration. Board as a whole and the committees, and also compensation paid to senior management. The auditors report regularly, orally and in writbetween the Chairman of the Board and the ing, to the audit committee how their audit was Group Chief Executive. The Board appoints and 2. NOMINATION COMMITTEE conducted and their assessment of the Bank’s stipulates the employment terms for the Group The AGM decides how the nomination committee administrative order and internal control. The Chief Executive, Executive Vice Presidents and will be appointed. The nomination committee’s auditors also submit a summary report of their the ofﬁcers with main responsibility for Complitask is to prepare and submit proposals to audit to the Board as a whole. ance, Internal Audit and Risk Control. The Chair16 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2011 OU R SH ARE H OLD ER S man is responsible for evaluating the Board’s 8. INTERNAL AUDIT 12. RISK CONTROL work and informs the nomination committee of Internal Audit performs an independent, imparThe Risk Control unit is responsible for the the result of this evaluation. tial audit of the operations and ﬁnancial reportoverall internal reporting of all the Group’s mateing of the Handelsbanken Group. A key task for rial risks at an aggregate level. This responsibility 5. CREDIT COMMITTEE Internal Audit is to assess and verify processes comprises credit, counterparty and market risks The credit committee decides on credit cases for risk management, internal governance and (interest rate, exchange rate, equity price and where the amount exceeds the decision limit control. The Head of Internal Audit reports commodity price risk), operational, liquidity and applying to the regional bank boards and to regularly to the audit committee, orally and in insurance risks, and also risks related to the Handelsbanken International. Cases of major writing, and also submits an annual summary Bank’s compensation system. The task of risk importance are referred to the full Board for a report to the full Board. control is to identify, measure and monitor the decision. The credit committee comprises the Group’s risks, inform the Group Management Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairmen, the 9. PRESIDENT AND GROUP CHIEF and – via the ofﬁcer with main responsibility for Group Chief Executive, the chairman of the auEXECUTIVE risk control – the Board about these risks, and dit committee, three Board members appointed The Group Chief Executive is appointed by the also analyse development of the risks. The manby the Board to circulate on the committee Board to lead the operations of the Handelsagement of the individual risks is, however, the with two-year mandates, and the Head of the banken Group. In addition to instructions from task of the operating unit that is responsible for Central Credit Department. The heads of the the Board, the Group Chief Executive is obliged the customer or counterparty (account manager) regional banks and the Head of Handelsbanken to comply with the provisions of the Swedish or responsible for conducting a certain transacInternational are responsible for reporting to the Companies Act and a number of other statutes tion (business manager). The Head of Risk Concredit committee. concerning the Bank’s accounting, management trol reports to the CFO. In addition, the Head of funds and operational control. of Risk Control makes regular reports of his/her 6. REMUNERATION COMMITTEE observations to the Group Chief Executive. The remuneration committee regularly evalu10. CENTRAL CREDIT ates the employment conditions for the Bank’s DEPARTMENT 13. COMPLIANCE senior management in the light of prevailing The Central Credit Department is responsible The compliance function is responsible for enmarket terms for their peers in other compafor maintaining the Bank’s credit policy, primarily suring that laws, regulations and internal rules, nies. The committee’s tasks include preparing by preparing every major credit case that the as well as accepted business practices or norms, the Board’s proposals to the AGM concerning Board’s credit committee or the whole Board are complied within the operations conducted guidelines for compensation to senior managedecides on. The Head of Credits presents all by the Handelsbanken Group that are subject ment. It also prepares the Board’s decisions on cases to the Group Chief Executive before they to a licence. The function must follow up the conditions for senior managers and the ofﬁcers are submitted for a decision by the Credit Comapplication of and check the current regulations. with main responsibility for Compliance, Internal mittee or Board. The Head of Credits reports to It must also inform the units concerned about Audit and Risk Control. The remuneration comthe Group Chief Executive and is a member of risks that may arise in the operations as a result mittee consists of the Chairman of the Board the Board’s credit committee. of inadequate compliance, assist in identifying and two members appointed by the Board. and assessing such risks and assist in drafting 11. GROUP FINANCE internal regulations. Compliance ofﬁcers have 7. AUDIT COMMITTEE Group Finance is responsible for control systems, been appointed in all business areas, regional The audit committee monitors the Bank’s ﬁnanreporting, control, book-keeping, accounting and banks and central departments, and also in all cial reporting by examining all crucial accounttaxes. It is also responsible for the Group’s liquidity, countries where the Bank operates. Central ing matters and other factors that may affect funding and capital, and for the Group’s overall Compliance has functional responsibility for the qualitative content of the ﬁnancial reports. risk management of all risks except credit risk and compliance. Central Compliance regularly reports The committee also monitors the effectiveness compliance risk. For a detailed description of this to the Group Chief Executive and the audit comof the Bank’s and Group’s internal control, risk management, see note G2 on pages 80–97 mittee in matters concerning compliance. internal audit and risk management as well as of the Bank’s Annual Report. The Head of Group the external auditors’ impartiality and independFinance, the CFO, also has the main responsibil14. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ence. It evaluates the audit work and assists the ity for independent risk control (section 12) and The unit ensures that decisions made at the nomination committee in appointing auditors. reports on all the Group’s risks, including credit shareholders’ meeting and by the Board, as well The audit committee comprises the Chairman risks at the aggregate level, to the Group Chief as changes in legislation, regulations and the of the Board and two other members appointed Executive, the Board’s audit committee and the corporate governance code, are implemented by the Board. One of these two members is the Board as a whole. in policies, guidelines and instructions, with the committee’s chairman. aim of stipulating responsibilities and authorities internally at the Bank. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2011 17 T HE C O M M U N I T Y Corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility at Handelsbanken is manifested in responsible lending and advisory services, as well as our efforts to have satisﬁed customers and be a good employer. The expression ‘corporate social responsibilRESPONSIBLE SALES AND ADVISORY each local unit prepares a working environment ity’ (CSR) reﬂects the strong social and ethical SERVICES plan. Gender equality plans are also set up locally. aspects of a responsibly run banking operation. For the Bank’s ﬁnancial advisory services, taking The policies and agreements relating to social While the Bank’s environmental impact – both an overall approach to the customer’s circumresponsibility can be found on Handelsbanken’s direct and indirect – is relatively small, the stances and ﬁnancial situation is at the very core intranet, to which all employees of the Bank Bank’s actions as a lender can make a large of the Handelsbanken way of working. This aphave access. difference. Unless the Bank acts in a responsiplies to both private and corporate customers. ble manner, customers, the Bank and taxpayers Based on this, the advisor and the Bank can EXTERNAL DIALOGUE CONCERNING will be negatively affected. Over-aggressive provide customers with proposals and guidance SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY selling of credits which leads to an unhealthy on ﬁnancing, payments or investments that are Handelsbanken has a representative on the level of household and corporate debt always adapted to each customer’s requirements. For central gender equality committee where both hits the customer hardest. For banks, there investments, it is also important that the advice the union organisations and the Employers’ is often a functioning safety net in the form of is adapted to the customer’s goals, savings Association of the Swedish Banking Institutions capital support from shareholders or, ultimately, horizon, attitude to risk, and knowledge and participate. government guarantees from taxpayers. But for understanding of the speciﬁc risks related to the individual customer, the debt trap may have each type of ﬁnancial instrument. HUMAN RIGHTS serious negative social consequences. The regulations require that all employees Handelsbanken endorses the principles set who work with providing customers with out in the UN Universal Declaration of Human LOW LOAN LOSSES ﬁnancial advice concerning investments and Rights. This means that the Bank strives to For those who wish to evaluate a bank in terms insurance have the relevant knowledge. At the support and respect the protection of universal of sustainability, one method is to study the last year-end, Handelsbanken had just over human rights within the area which the Bank bank’s risk tolerance. Handelsbanken has a low 4,200 certiﬁed employees in Sweden for advican inﬂuence. It also means that the Bank risk tolerance. Handelsbanken’s strict approach sory services concerning ﬁnancial instruments ensures that it is not involved in any breach of to risk means that the Bank deliberately avoids and insurance. These employees take an annual human rights. When granting credits, the Bank high-risk transactions, even if the customer is knowledge update test in the area of investtakes account of its customers’ attitudes to willing to pay a high interest rate. The low risk ments and insurance. human rights. tolerance is maintained through a strong risk culture that is sustainable in the long term and INTERNAL WORK CONCERNING SOCIAL COLLABORATION WITH ECPAT applies to all areas of the Group. RESPONSIBILITY Together with the Swedish Bankers’ AssociaFor many years, Handelsbanken has had Responsibility for matters concerning social retion, Handelsbanken has started cooperatmuch lower loan losses than peer banks. During sponsibility relating to the Bank as an employer ing with ECPAT. The overall objective of the the 1998–2011 period, the average loan loss lies with the Head of Central Personnel, who is cooperation is to prevent commercial exploitaratio at Handelsbanken was 0.04 per cent, as also an Executive Vice President and a member tion of children by preventing and obstructing compared to 0.19 per cent for the average of of the senior management team. monetary transactions made as payment for the other three major Swedish banks. In connection with the business planning, child pornography. Loan losses as a percentage of lending 1999–2011 % 1.2 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.0 -0.2 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* * For the period until 2000 inclusive, only Swedish banks are included. Handelsbanken has a low tolerance of risk. One manifestation of this is that for many years the Bank has had far lower loan losses than the rest of the sector. 18 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2011 T H E C OM M U N I TY Handelsbanken in the community Long-term and stable operations that focus on customer needs – this is Handelsbanken’s basic formula for contributing to economic development in the community. HANDELSBANKEN IN THE COMMUNITY week, and receive assistance and advice from handling cash at their branches. However, all The banking system is principally a support experienced bank staff in Sweden. Handelsbanken’s branches in Sweden offer their function for the real economy. What essentially Our aim is that customers should be able customers the opportunity to deposit and withlegitimises a bank’s operations is its ability to to move freely between our various meetingdraw cash, and to exchange the most common manage the savings of those who wish to postplaces – but have the same ability to take care foreign currencies. pone their spending and lend these savings to of their business, regardless of whether this is at companies and households that wish to spend a branch or in a smartphone. FINANCING PROPERTY and invest now. By being a bank with stable We like to say that we endeavour to give Almost 70 per cent of Swedish households ﬁnances and a stable presence, Handelsbanken customers “the Keys to the Bank”. Therefore, we own their own home. Over 80 per cent of these fulﬁls its role as a responsible institution. are constantly working to develop and improve ﬁnance their property with a mortgage loan. Handelsbanken has 461 branch ofﬁces in these meeting-places outside the branch – to Denmark, Norway and Finland have similar ﬁgSweden. Thus the Bank has by far the largsimply increase the level of availability all the ures. Banks and mortgage institutions therefore est branch network in Sweden and a wider time, to be there for our customers, whenever play an important role in ﬁnancing housing in the geographical spread than any other player and wherever they need us. Nordic countries. on the Swedish banking market. On its other Handelsbanken is one of the main players for home markets in the UK, Denmark, Norway and ACCESSIBLE LOCAL BRANCHES mortgage ﬁnancing in Sweden. In the HandelsFinland, the Bank also has nationwide branch Handelsbanken aims for areas at the Bank’s banken Group, the ﬁnancing of residential propernetworks. Handelsbanken has a total of 740 local branches which are intended for customer ties and other real estate is conducted principally branches in 22 countries around the world. meetings to also be accessible to customers via the wholly owned subsidiary Stadshypotek. with reduced mobility or sense of direction. The Handelsbanken Group ﬁnances one quarter of HANDELSBANKEN IN THE LOCAL Most of the Bank’s 461 branches in Sweden all mortgage loans in the private property market. COMMUNITY meet with these requirements. In cases where Handelsbanken is convinced that a local presthese requirements are not met, it is usually due HANDELSBANKEN AS A TAXPAYER ence is necessary. The basic concept of the to restrictions regarding alterations to the exteBy virtue of its proﬁt level over many years, Bank’s way of operating is that decisions are rior of the building or the street environment. Handelsbanken has been one of the largest made as close to the customer as possible, payers of corporation tax in Sweden. VAT is including decisions to grant loans. SERVICES FOR THE PUBLIC GOOD also a major cost for Handelsbanken. To a In concrete terms, this means that credit reBy delivering ﬁnancial services, Handelsbanken, large extent, VAT is not payable on the Bank’s quests are processed and – with few exceptions together with other players in the ﬁnancial secoperations, which means that the Bank cannot – decided by the local branch where knowledge tor, comprises an important component in the deduct input VAT which it pays when buying of the customer’s circumstances is the best. basic infrastructure of society. external services and products. For 2011, it is This approach means that Handelsbanken has The most important tasks for banks are to estimated that Handelsbanken’s total taxes and close ties with the local community. accept savings, offer loans to companies and state fees amount to over SEK 7 billion. High cost-effectiveness allows the Bank to households with investment requirements, retain a local presence and thus continue to maintain a functioning, efﬁcient payment system POLITICALLY INDEPENDENT fulﬁl an important function in local communities, and manage risks. Handelsbanken is not allied to any political including places where other banks have closed All private individuals who live in Sweden are parties. In 2011, the Bank did not provide any their local branches. In almost 50 towns, Hanwelcome to open an account with Handelsﬁnancial support to any political parties, or in delsbanken is now the only bank with a branch. banken, free of charge. Other basic services, any other way make political donations. such as the Bank’s online service, are free of THE KEYS TO THE BANK charge for private individuals. CONTRIBUTIONS TO RESEARCH AND Many customers – both corporate and private In collaboration with a number of other banks HIGHER EDUCATION – appreciate having a bank branch in the town in Sweden, Handelsbanken has developed Since 1961, Handelsbanken has on a number where they live or operate. For Handelsbanken, BankID. This is an e-identiﬁcation which allows of occasions awarded grants for economic it is therefore important to offer customers the public authorities, organisations, companies and research through allocations to two independbest availability on the market. banks to identify and enter into agreements with ent research foundations: the Tore Browaldh Although evening and Saturday opening private individuals online. Foundation, and the Jan Wallander and Tom hours are increasingly common at HandelsbankUsing this, the person can then prove their Hedelius Foundation. en, there are times of the day when branches identity in contacts with public authorities, such Together, these foundations are one of the are not open. Therefore, a few years ago, we as the Swedish Tax Authority in connection with most important sources of funding for economic started Handelsbanken Direkt Personal Service, income tax returns or the Social Insurance Ofresearch in Sweden, and their ﬁnancing includes where both private and corporate customers ﬁce when applying for parental leave beneﬁts. two professorships. In 2011, 156 (140) grants can call the service 24 hours a day, 7 days a In recent years, many banks have stopped were awarded totalling SEK 128 million (133). H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2011 19 T HE C O M M U N I T Y Financial value creation Handelsbanken’s higher proﬁtability beneﬁts society at large, as well as the Bank’s shareholders. The Bank is one of the largest payers of corporation tax in Sweden. In the past few years’ turbulence on the ﬁnancial markets, Handelsbanken has neither received government aid, nor participated in any state guarantee programme, nor asked its shareholders for capital contributions. VALUE CREATION DURING 2011 should be run. Handelsbanken aims to accomplish the Bank has paid dividends to its shareholders For 2011, Handelsbanken’s proﬁt before taxes its goal by having more satisﬁed customers than every year, while remaining one of the largest and government fees was just over SEK 19 other banks, while keeping costs lower. payers of corporation tax in Sweden. billion. This created value was distributed as follows: over SEK 7 billion was delivered to the STABLE IN THE FINANCIAL CRISIS INDIRECT ECONOMIC EFFECTS state in the form of taxes and government fees, During the ﬁnancial crisis, Handelsbanken has Opportunities… SEK 6 billion was paid as a dividend to the received neither the Swedish government’s A well-run bank, which acts sustainably and shareholders, and the remaining SEK 6 billion capital support or guarantee programmes nor responsibly, has a substantial positive impact was reinvested in operations. any central bank support. On the contrary, the on the economy in general. This applies not Bank has been a net lender to the Swedish only to direct economic effects such as paying CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY government. Nor has Handelsbanken needed corporation tax, but perhaps even more to the CREATES ECONOMIC VALUE to ask its shareholders for a capital contribution indirect economic effects. Examples of these are Handelsbanken’s ﬁnancial goal is higher proﬁtduring the current crisis. when the Bank ﬁnances growth and increased ability than the average of peer banks operating employment in companies or, by granting a on the Bank’s home markets. The Bank has DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE mortgage, enables a family to move to a new achieved this goal every year since 1972. One Handelsbanken’s higher proﬁtability beneﬁts town where the employment situation is better. condition for attaining the goal year after year is society at large, as well as the Bank’s shareHandelsbanken is the largest ﬁnancer of to have a sustainable concept of how the Bank holders. During the most recent business cycle, companies in Sweden, and it ﬁnances one in four Swedish mortgage loans. … and risks The table, which is laid out according to GRI’s principles, shows how the income generated by the Bank’s operations is allocated over various groups of stakeholders. The data comes from the Group’s income statement and balance sheet. Banks and the ﬁnancial system are vital to the economy as a whole. If there is a crisis in the Direct economic value generated and distributed (according to GRI) Economic ﬂows to and from various groups of stakeholders ﬁnancial system, there is a risk of widespread SEK bn 2011 2010 2009 2008 negative social and economic effects. On several occasions in the past few decades, the DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED state in Sweden and in many other countries Customers has been compelled to intervene and support Income after loan losses and before fees to the individual banks ﬁnancially, in order to avoid Stabilisation fund, deposit guarantee etc. 33.1 30.4 29.5 28.4 bankruptcy and untold consequences for Value created by serving customers 33.1 30.4 29.5 28.4 customers, investors and employees, as well ALLOCATED ECONOMIC VALUE as taxpayers and society at large. Employees Even if the situation is not as serious as a Salaries 6.7 6.4 6.7 6.1 bank having to receive state ﬁnancial aid, banks’ Provision to proﬁt-sharing foundation 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.0 actions are vital for the stability of the ﬁnancial Payroll charges and other staff costs 2.4 2.3 2.6 2.1 system. A fundamental condition for stability is Cost of employees 9.9 9.5 10.0 8.2 that banks act in a sound, responsible manner, Public authorities and society at large so that conﬁdence in them is maintained. Suppliers, incl. non-deductible VAT* 5.5 5.5 5.2 5.1 The table of created and delivered direct ecoTax costs** 4.4 0.6 0.6 0.1 nomic value shows how the income generated Fees to the Stabilisation fund, deposit guarantee etc. 1.1 4.0 3.5 3.4 during the year by Handelsbanken’s operations is Government bank support received allocated over various stakeholders. The calculation is based on ﬁgures in the income statement Participation in government guarantee programmes and in accordance with GRI’s guidelines. The To society 11.0 10.1 9.3 8.6 items allocated in the table are based on broader Shareholders value created where salaries and other administrative costs (suppliers) are added to the operaDividends (refers to the year dividends were paid) 5.6 5.0 4.4 8.4 ting proﬁt. The purpose is to show in a basic way New share issue how Handelsbanken creates value for its stakeTransactions with the shareholders 5.6 5.0 4.4 8.4 holders and in the economic system in which Reinvested economic value (“remaining in the Bank”) 6.6 5.8 5.8 3.3 the organisation works. The table provides an overview of the direct measurable monetary value * Refers to Other administrative expenses and depreciation contributed by Handelsbanken to its stakehol** Refers to Tax costs according to the income statement ders, and thus to development in the community. 20 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2011 T H E C OM M U N I TY High ethical standards engender trust Handelsbanken’s business opportunities and success on the market derive from the trust it enjoys from customers and ﬁnanciers, as well as the general public, public authorities and its employees. A decentralised organisation must have common ideas on how the operations should be run. The basic guidelines for every employee’s actions are formulated in the Bank’s ethical guidelines. ETHICAL GUIDELINES AT By knowing the customer – how and why the cupations and certain posts in clubs, societies HANDELSBANKEN customer is using the Bank’s products and and the like. Remuneration for being a member Handelsbanken’s ethical guidelines have been services – the Bank can react to behaviour that of a board on behalf of the Bank must be paid adopted by the Board of the Bank; these state deviates from the norm. Instructions, proceto the Bank. that operations must be characterised by high dures and systems have therefore been develethical standards. Employees must conduct oped to achieve good knowledge of customers THE BANK AS CUSTOMER themselves in a manner that upholds conﬁdence and their transactions. In addition, all employees Handelsbanken purchases goods and services in the Bank. A fundamental, self-evident rule is who handle customer transactions participate in from Swedish and international suppliers. Ethithat the Bank and its employees must comply a training course which explains all aspects of cal considerations are just as important for the with the laws and regulations that govern the these matters. Bank in its role as customer as when it supplies Bank’s operations in various ways. If local services and products. To avoid incurring obligalaws and regulations offer the individual poorer BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION tions in relation to suppliers, the Bank also has protection than Swedish laws, regulations and To avoid being in a position of dependence in rules regarding receiving and giving personal principles, Handelsbanken applies the latter. relation to the Bank’s customers, employees gifts, and for business entertaining. The guidelines are reviewed every year by the must observe the Bank’s rules as regards giving Environmental considerations are included in Board, based on changes in legislation and the and receiving personal gifts. These rules must all decisions on purchases. The Bank mainbusiness world’s expectations, as well as the also be observed when entertaining. Business tains an ongoing dialogue with its suppliers to Bank’s experience of regular internal work and trips must always be paid for by the Bank. promote and develop environmental consideraobservations from the Bank’s comprehensive Bonus points and similar discounts which emtions. To facilitate the drafting of speciﬁcations internal control. ployees have obtained in connection with work there is a template for supplier agreements, with Employees who are in doubt when applying for the Bank (e.g. business trips) may only be examples of how environmental requirements the Bank’s ethical guidelines and dealing with used for business purposes. should be speciﬁed. related issues must contact their immediate The Bank’s ethical guidelines are also comsuperior to ﬁnd out what is ethically acceptable. CONDUCT OF EMPLOYEES plied with when the Bank itself is a customer. As a guide, employees are encouraged to ask It is important that the Bank’s employees are themselves: “Can I account for my actions to not suspected of taking improper advantage of the other employees of the Bank, to the public knowledge about the ﬁnancial markets which authorities, the media and the general public they obtain in the course of their work. All without having the slightest doubt as to whether employees must be familiar with the local insider my conduct has been ethically acceptable?” trading laws and observe the Bank’s own rules for employees’ securities and currency transacMEASURES AGAINST MONEY tions. HANDELSBANKEN’S ETHICAL LAUNDERING, FINANCING OF TERRORISM In their work at the Bank and in their private GUIDELINES COVER AND ECONOMIC CRIME affairs, employees must refrain from business • High ethical standards Money laundering means actions taken in order transactions that violate the Bank’s rules or • Laws, regulations and guiding principles to hide or transform gains from criminal activicurrent legislation. Handelsbanken’s employees • Economic crime • Customer relations ties. Financing of terrorism means the collection, must also refrain from transactions or other • Conﬂicts of interest provision or receipt of funds for the purposes of commitments that may seriously jeopardise their • The UN Global Compact terrorism. own ﬁnancial position. • Conduct of employees The Bank must not participate in transacEmployees of Handelsbanken are not permit• Conﬁdentiality tions which may be suspected of being linked to ted to process transactions in which they, or • Environmental matters criminal activities, the ﬁnancing of terrorism, or persons closely related to them, have a personal transactions of which the employees do not uninterest. The same applies to companies that derstand the implications. To prevent Handelsthese employees or persons closely related READ MORE banken being exploited for money laundering to them have a signiﬁcant connection with or More information on Handelsbanken’s ethical and ﬁnancing of terrorism, good knowledge of personal commitment to. guidelines can be found in the Bank’s 2011 customers is of key importance. Employees must also notify the Bank of Annual Report, as well as on the Bank’s website The Bank should not participate in transacassignments outside the Bank and obtain apwww.handelsbanken.se/ireng tions implying assistance in tax evasion. proval. These rules also apply to secondary ocH AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2011 21 T HE C O M M U N I T Y Responsible investments Handelsbanken is continuing its work of integrating sustainability matters with investment decisions made on behalf of customers. This is a condition for creating long-term value growth. Our work is based on the UN Principles of Responsible Investment. Handelsbanken’s view is that a responsible atPOLICY FOR RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT banken offers several options for investing titude is essential to long-term value creation in Handelsbanken’s policy for responsible in ﬁnancial trading in commodities, such as a company. Investing our customers’ assets in a investment is an integral part of its corporate Handelsbanken’s Commodities Fund and comresponsible manner is therefore a vital prerequigovernance policy and is based on international modities bonds. site for achieving our goal of generating a strong standards concerning the environment, human Handelsbanken does not offer trading in aclong-term return on customers’ investments. rights and working conditions, corruption and tual raw materials, only the opportunity to trade There is great interest in sustainability issues controversial weapons. All the managed funds in the price of various commodities: ﬁnancial among institutional and private investors alike and portfolios are analysed on a regular basis commodities trading. – and also in these issues being integrated into with the purpose of identifying companies Financial commodities trading is principally a the Bank’s asset management. whose operations violate the fundamental valmethod for companies that are dependent on On Handelsbanken’s ﬁve home markets, and ues which are established in Handelsbanken’s the prices of raw materials to reduce their risk. also in other countries worldwide where we policy for responsible investment. One method of this is price hedging, but inveshave operations, the UN Principles of ResponThis analysis is part of the fund management tors may also have the opportunity to beneﬁt sible Investment (PRI) have come to guide how and is carried out with the help of Ethix SRI from the price trend for commodities. asset managers and capital owners work with Advisors, who are experts on responsible inIn pace with the increase in demand for sustainability issues. vestment. Thus, the Bank as an asset manager investments in commodities, questions arise as Handelsbanken became a signatory to these is able to act regarding deviations from internato how far these investments can be considered principles in 2009. In addition to being a comtional standards and conventions, for example to be responsible. mitment to integrate sustainability issues into by entering into a dialogue with the company. In 2011, Handelsbanken in collaboration with the Bank’s investment research and investment Depending on how this dialogue evolves, we Ethix SRI Advisors surveyed the challenges decisions, signing these principles means that decide on possible future action. This work may entailed in investing in commodities in a responwe will also aim for more transparency relating also involve collaborating with other owners or sible way. The Bank focused particularly on how to environmental, social and corporate governvoting at AGMs. trading in commodity derivatives affects volatility ance matters in the companies we invest in In 2011, Handelsbanken Fonder speciﬁcally in agricultural commodity prices. We have also and also for increased co-operation between, broached the subject of deviations from internasurveyed the few initiatives that have been for example, investors and asset managers tional norms and conventions with around ten taken in this area among investors and asset concerning these issues. companies where we have initiated a dialogue in managers. During the year, Handelsbanken has Read more about PRI on page 28. our role as owners. conducted a dialogue with various stakeholders We also discuss sustainability issues in the in order to extend knowledge in this ﬁeld. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN ongoing dialogue we have with the companies For commodities investments, the principles HANDELSBANKEN’S FUNDS that we invest in. This is in the form of regular regarding responsible investment are not as well Handelsbanken Fonder’s ownership role in meetings with company management and other developed as for equity and ﬁxed income investthe companies in which the mutual funds own representatives of the companies. ments. Handelsbanken intends to continue shares on behalf of the unit-holders and the Handelsbanken Fonder does not invest in working to expand its knowledge and that of mutual funds, is based on its corporate governcompanies which are involved in manufacturing other market players in the ﬁeld of commodities ance policy. The ownership role is exercised in or selling prohibited weapons as deﬁned acas responsible investments. such a manner that the value of the companies cording to international legislation. This applies, and thus the value of the funds has optimal for example, to cluster weapons and landmines. HANDELSBANKEN PARTICIPATES IN performance in the long term. Thus, all funds in Handelsbanken’s range SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION This is managed, for example, in matters invest in compliance with this general policy Since 2009, Handelsbanken Asset Management, concerning the composition of the compaconcerning responsible investment. We also together with other major Swedish investors, nies’ boards and the procedure prior to and at offer funds which pay special attention in their has taken part in the Sustainable Value Creation shareholders’ meetings. Handelsbanken Fonder investment strategy by excluding companies project. For the participants, the aim of the project was to highlight the importance of Swedish also regularly follows the performance of the which operate in certain sectors. companies working with sustainability issues companies in the funds’ portfolios, including This means that our funds fulﬁl fundamental in a structured manner, since this is regarded direct contact with the company in question. requirements for responsible investment, acas a condition for long-term value creation in Ahead of annual general meetings in 2011, cording to international norms and agreements. a company, and therefore also a condition for Handelsbanken Fonder participated in six nomilong-term ﬁnancial returns. In 2011, Sustainable nation committees. In addition, Handelsbanken INVESTMENTS IN COMMODITIES Value Creation followed up previous surveys with a questionnaire on how the 100 companies with Fonder voted at around ﬁfty annual general More recently, interest in commodities as a the largest market capitalisation on NASDAQ meetings. ﬁnancial investment has increased. HandelsOMX Stockholm work with sustainability matters. 22 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2011 T H E C OM M U N I TY H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2011 23 T HE C O M M U N I T Y Responsible lending Financial advice in conjunction with lending must always be based on the customer’s needs and ﬁnancial position. Responsible lending means that the Bank does customers and their operations. This knowledge responsible for its operation and how it is run, not grant credit to customers who are not in is signiﬁcant, not least when it comes to assessbut that a fundamental condition for Handelsa position to repay their loans. When credit is ing customers from an ethical or environmental banken’s lending is that the operation fulﬁls all granted, great importance is therefore attached point of view. requirements from public authorities in terms of to customers’ ability to fulﬁl their commitments. environmental questions and other sustainability Responsible lending such as this protects the ETHICAL MATTERS RELATED TO LENDING matters. The Bank’s additional responsibility in individual customer from running into ﬁnancial An important matter in terms of ethics and these examples is limited to an assessment of difﬁculties due to excessive indebtedness. It principle is the extent to which the Bank should the credit risk – i.e. the risk that the customer’s also beneﬁts both the Bank and society at large. bear the responsibility for what its customers product cannot be sold, or that more stringent Deﬁciencies in a customer’s repayment capacity do. This could, for example, apply to a borrower environmental requirements for the customer’s can never be ignored on the grounds that the that manufactures products that are dangerous manufacturing process will cause the comBank is being offered good collateral or high to health, has a manufacturing process that pany’s repayment capacity to deteriorate. margins. affects the environment adversely, or refuses This principle is normally applicable in the The Bank’s fundamental principle of developto allow its employees to exercise their union Bank’s home markets, which are countries with ing good, long-term customer relationships rights. Handelsbanken’s view is based on the advanced legislation regarding health protecenables it to have an in-depth knowledge of its principle that it is the customer that is fully tion, the environment and union rights, and 24 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2011 T H E C OM M U N I TY where there are public authorities that monitor ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENTS WHEN compliance with laws and directives. LENDING In countries where legislation and superviFor many years, credit assessments carried out sion by public authorities are less developed, by Handelsbanken have taken into account how the principle should be applied with caution. environmental risks affect the customer’s repayAlthough the Bank runs its own operations only ment capacity. This is particularly important in to a small extent in such countries, international the case of customers engaged in environmencompanies on the Bank’s home markets may tally hazardous activities or selling products do so. In this respect, international agreements that involve environmental or health risks. For and standards (e.g. the UN Universal Declaraproperty-related lending, it is important to take tion of Human Rights, the UN Global Compact into account whether environmentally harmful and the OECD guidelines for multinational activities are or have been conducted in the companies) may play an important part in guidproperty, or whether the property itself has a ing the ethical assessment. If a company can harmful effect on the environment. Environmendemonstrate that it applies these international tal factors in the vicinity of the property are also agreements, this would tend to indicate that the taken into consideration as much as possible. Bank’s principle can also be maintained in these In the Bank’s decentralised structure, the cases. branch that is responsible for the customer Ethical matters are manifested, among other carries out the credit risk assessment. Thus, things, in the Bank’s credit policy, which states the branch also carries out the assessment of that, in its lending operations, the Bank must how environmental risks affect the customer’s maintain sound ethical standards. This means repayment capacity. The credit risk assessment that the Bank always aims to respect human is part of the business assessment, which is the rights and fundamental principles of working Bank’s method of assessing a customer, and conditions and environmental considerations, the business relationship with the said customer. regardless of where in the world the operations A business evaluation is always drawn up for are pursued. High ethical standards in lending new credit decisions and for annual monitoring mean that in its credit risk assessment, the of credits and customer relations. The structure Bank endeavours to take into consideration the and methodology of the business assessment customer’s attitude to these standards. are a good aid for the branches when it comes to identifying and assessing risks. The business PROJECT FINANCE assessment is also the documentation basis for The Bank only participates in project ﬁnance evaluation of the credit risk at higher levels in the to a limited extent. Infrastructure projects may Bank, and for the branches’ follow-up of envisometimes be associated with environmenronmental issues in the credit risk assessment. Loans to the public, geographical distribution tal risks, for example. When the Bank does For a long time, the Bank has taken a restricparticipate in the ﬁnancing of such projects, tive approach to risk in its lending – including they are normally projects with clear links to environmental risk. This culture and expertise on Handelsbanken’s home markets, and often with the part of the staff is best maintained and depublic sector links. A typical example of project veloped in day-to-day work at the branches. In ﬁnance in which the Bank can participate is an addition, there are special business assessment infrastructure project in the Nordic region, where training programmes at regional level. a large contracting ﬁrm – which would be a wellknown customer of the Bank – is responsible FINANCING OF ENVIRONMENTALLY for building and maintenance. When the project RELATED INVESTMENTS is complete, a public authority pays rent, which Based on a long-term personal relationship covers the interest and amortisation on the prowith the customer, the Bank aims to offer ject ﬁnance. As with other credit assessments, ﬁnancial services adapted to the customer’s decisions regarding participation in project requirements. Customers that require ﬁnancing Sweden 71% Denmark 4% ﬁnance are subject to Handelsbanken’s ethical of environmentally related investments will be Netherlands 0.5% Norway 11.5% guidelines and restrictive approach to risk. granted this within the framework of the standUK 6% Germany 0.5% ard customer relationship. Finland 5% Other countries 1.5% H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2011 25 T HE C O M M U N I T Y The Bank’s environmental activities The Bank aims to minimise its negative impact on the environment. Consistent and long-term improvements will often generate dual beneﬁts: not just environmental gains but also cost savings. As far as it is technically and ﬁnancially compatHANDELSBANKEN’S DIRECT Impact on climate ible with the Bank’s undertakings, HandelsENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT During the year, the Bank purchased electricity banken aims to promote long-term sustainable Handelsbanken’s direct environmental impact of guaranteed origin, which derives largely from development. Handelsbanken has signed and largely concerns its consumption of energy, mahydroelectric sources. For 2011, the proportion complies with a number of voluntary agreeterials, equipment, business travel and transport. of electricity of guaranteed origin purchased for ments, such as the ICC Business Charter for For several years, the Bank has measured operations in Sweden was 93 per cent, and for Sustainable Development, the UN Environment and reported the carbon dioxide emissions the whole of the Nordic region, 81 per cent. Programme – Banks and the Environment generated by its own operations in Sweden as Deep water source cooling is used from (UNEP FI), and the UN’s voluntary initiative, the result of travel, electricity and heat energy. In December to May for the properties of the head Global Compact. 2011, these emissions went down by around 16 ofﬁce as a complement to the use of cooling per cent compared with 2010. machines and district cooling solutions. Deep DECENTRALISED For the rest of the Nordic region, we have rewater source cooling involves taking coldness ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVITIES ported energy consumption in terms of electricity from Baltic Sea water using heat exchangers. In practice, environmental work often involves consumption, and starting in 2011 we are also reA long-term maintenance plan has been taking many small steps which, together, porting electricity consumption for UK operations. drawn up for the properties owned by the contribute to a better environment. Thriftiness, The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is Bank, to reduce the properties’ overall energy renewal, sorting and recycling are key to Hana global project where investors have joined consumption. In 2011, among other things, a delsbanken’s internal environmental activities. together to urge listed companies worldwide to district cooling solution was installed in one of The Bank endeavours to include environmental report their emissions, and how they are dealing the properties. considerations in decisions on investments and with their impact on the climate. The initiators of purchases. the CDP include 500 major banks, institutional More efﬁcient equipment and As with other areas of responsibility at investors and insurance companies. The report utilisation of resources Handelsbanken, responsibility for the practical has been published since 2000. Throughout the Bank, changes are constantly side of environmental activities is decentralised. In the CDP report for 2010, which was being made which, together, are reducing All managers have ultimate responsibility for presented in late 2011, Handelsbanken received climatic impact. environmental matters at their units. 76 (36) points out of a possible 100. The averIn 2011, the number of video conferences At each regional bank and subsidiary, as age value for 2010 was 64 points. The year’s was up by 18 per cent from 2010. This saved well as at the central head ofﬁce, there are 18 results put Handelsbanken in 34th place out of time, money and travel. designated environmental co-ordinators. a total of 143 companies reporting in the Nordic Electronic processing of supplier invoices is countries. gradually being increased, which reduces the Centrally distributed information, Group Carbon dioxide emissions tonnes 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 No. million No. of customers thous. 70 1 200 1 Electricity consumption, Nordics and UK 2,027 Of which Electricity consumption, Nordics1 781 1,464 2,482 2,585 2,131 2,373 60 960 Electricity consumption, Sweden 261 867 1,945 2,258 1,647 1,850 50 Heating own properties, Sweden 1,466 1,569 1,181 1,344 1,266 1,284 720 40 Transport of valuables, Sweden 125 128 289 209 Business travel, Sweden 2,171 2,216 2,417 2,945 3,371 2,895 30 480 1 Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland. 20 240 10 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Sheets Envelopes Active online customers* * Private customers who have been active in the Bank’s online services at least once in the last six months of 2011. Corporate customers who have been active in the Bank’s online services at least once in the last six months of 2011. 26 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2011 T H E C OM M U N I TY use of paper and transport. The Bank continues HANDELSBANKEN’S INDIRECT tal reporting and follow-up of environmental to develop digital services for branches and ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT requirements in the Bank’s agreements with its internal units, so as to further reduce paper By joining Global Compact, Handelsbanken suppliers. consumption. undertakes to describe in its corporate social Handelsbanken took part in the WWF’s In 2011, the computer rooms’ system for unresponsibility reporting how the Bank is working Earth Hour in 2010, 2011 and 2012. For us it is interrupted electric power supply was replaced, with environmental matters, etc. In addition important to help increase awareness of global reducing power consumption for electricity and to the Bank’s own consumption of resources, climate issues and the challenges that we face. cooling by 800,000 kWh. this mainly concerns the indirect environmental As an alternative to business travel, HandelsIn the Bank’s properties, older ventilation sysimpact via lending and asset management. banken will actively work to increase the number tems have been modernised, to reduce energy For many years, credit assessments carried of its video installations, so as to facilitate video consumption. out by Handelsbanken have taken into account conferences. For the same reason, old printers, fax how environmental risks affect the customer’s An overhaul of ventilation control systems in machines and scanners are being replaced by repayment capacity. several of the Bank’s properties began last year, multi-function machines, including environmenOne of the goals of Handelsbanken Asset in order to make the systems more efﬁcient, retally certiﬁed machines with environmentally Management is to help create economically, duce power consumption and achieve a better friendly toner. A further long-term aim is to ecologically and socially sustainable developworking environment. reduce paper consumption. ment by means of involvement in and a dialogue The Bank also plans to increase the proporWhen old equipment is to be scrapped, the with companies. Guidelines have already been tion of green electricity that it buys in 2012 and Bank ensures that it is recycled in an environintroduced for responsible investments. These also increase the amount of refuse which is mentally friendly manner. guidelines are based on international standards recycled. for the environment, human rights and working TRAVEL conditions, and against corruption and controThe breakdown between car, train and air travel for versial weapons. business purposes was more or less unchanged There are more details about this on page 22 from 2010 to 2011. Video conferencing is increasand pages 24–25. ingly used by more and more of the Bank’s units to reduce the amount of business travel. THE FUTURE In order to encourage the selection of green An important element in the environmental work cars as company vehicles, the Bank has deis to raise awareness within the Bank of its cided to subsidise these cars. The proportion of direct impact on climate. In 2012 we will have green company cars in 2011 was 83 per cent. even more stringent demands for environmenBusiness travel, Sweden Electricity consumption, Sweden Km million CO2 tonnes GWh CO2 tonnes 25 3,500 60 3,000 3,000 50 20 2,500 2,500 40 2,000 15 2,000 30 1,500 10 1,500 20 1,000 1,000 5 10 500 500 0 0 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Air Rail Car Electricity consumption (kWh) CO2 emissions Of which green electricity % CO2 emissions (tonnes) H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2011 27 INITIAT I V E S A N D AWA RDS Initiatives and awards Handelsbanken collaborates within and outside the ﬁnancial sector in initiatives designed to increase awareness of sustainability and corporate social responsibility. INITIATIVES ICC children the opportunity to develop into strong, Global Compact The International Chamber of conﬁdent, responsible people. In 2009, Handelsbanken signed Commerce (ICC) has The aim of the World Childhood Foundation the UN’s Global Compact, developed a business is to protect children’s rights to a childhood, and cementing the support the Bank charter, with the aim of guiding the world’s particularly to work for better living conditions has expressed for universal companies in their efforts to fulﬁl their environfor children in marginalised environments all over human rights and corporate mental commitments. These commitments are the world. The Foundation supports projects social responsibility. Global Compact is an in compliance with national and international that focus on children in institutions, homeless initiative aimed at companies and advocates ten guidelines and standards for environmentally children, young parents and sexually abused principles based on international conventions. aware governance. Handelsbanken has signed children. The World Childhood Foundation was These principles, which were established in the charter and complied with it since the 1990s. formed in 1999 by H.M. Queen Silvia of Sweden. 2000, include human rights, labour laws, the environment and anti-corruption. The Sea Rescue Society in Sweden ECPAT In collaboration In 2009, Handelsbanken, together UNEP FI with the Sea with the Swedish Bankers’ The UN Environmental Rescue Society Association, started co-operating Programme has a special in Sweden, Handelsbanken has made possible with ECPAT. The overall objective organisation that works with how the launch of two rescue boats. The Sea Rescue of the co-operation is to prevent the capital markets can promote Society was started more than 100 years ago commercial sexual exploitation of children by the adoption of best environmenand today has 1,800 volunteers and 67 rescue preventing and obstructing monetary transactal and sustainability practice. Almost 200 stations with 160 boats ready to turn out 24 hours tions made as payment for child pornography. ﬁnancial institutions support the initiative and a day, 365 days a year. Together they make up ECPAT Sweden is part of ECPAT Internacontribute to research into and knowledge of 70 per cent of all sea rescue efforts in Sweden, tional, which has member organisations in how sustainability issues can be integrated into and this is done with no state subsidies. more than 70 countries. ECPAT is working to ﬁnancial decisions. Handelsbanken has been a Operations are entirely based on membership, prevent and stop all forms of commercial sexual member of UNEP FI since the mid-1990s. donations, gifts and volunteer efforts. exploitation of children, child pornography and The Sea Rescue Society focuses on always child sex tourism. PRI saving lives at sea. Its vision is zero deaths at sea PRI (the United Nationsand it also works on a preventative basis and with Professorship at the Stockholm School backed Principles for research and development. This is achieved using of Economics Responsible Investnew, state-of-the-art boats built for sea rescue, In collaboration with the Stockholm School of ment Initiative) was launched in 2006. It is a more stations to enable quicker rescue and Economics, Handelsbanken has enabled the network of investors that work together with the increased training for volunteer sea rescuers. creation of a professorial chair. The chair focuses UN to implement principles for responsible on external accounting and ﬁnancial analysis. investment. Its aim is to promote responsible World Childhood Foundation Good accounting is one of the cornerstones of actions among institutional investors and to work Since 2010, a sound economy. The opportunity and ability to for increased openness and awareness of Handelsbanken analyse companies’ ﬁnancial positions in a fair environmental, social and corporate governance has supported the manner is fundamental to well-functioning proviissues in the companies in which these players World Childhood Foundation in its work to sion of credit and capital in society. invest. In 2009, Handelsbanken signed the protect children’s rights to a secure childhood. principles, and more than 900 capital owners, In this way, based on Handelsbanken’s Personal ﬁnances for young people asset managers and other stakeholders have fundamental idea of trust and respect for the Handelsbanken backs initiatives that improve done likewise. individual, the Bank aims to contribute to giving young people’s knowledge of personal ﬁnance by supporting information campaigns and contributing know-how. Ung Privatekonomi (“Young PerPRI: 1. Incorporate environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) issues into investment analysis and sonal Finances”) is a school information project decision-making processes. that teaches Swedish upper secondary school 2. Be active owners and incorporate ESG issues into our ownership policies and practices. students and teachers about personal ﬁnances 3. Seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by the entities in which we invest. and savings. 4. Promote acceptance and implementation of the Principles within the investment industry. 5. Work together to enhance our effectiveness in implementing the Principles. 6. Each report on our activities and progress towards implementing the Principles. 28 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2011 IN IT IAT IVES AN D AWA R D S AWARDS qualiﬁed for the OMX GES Sustainability Sweden Satisﬁed customers Index for Corporate Social Responsibility index, as well as the OMX GES Sustainability Of the major banks in In the 2011 publication of the insurance company Nordic index. Sweden, HandelsFolksam’s Index for Corporate Social ResponsibilBoth indexes are based on a ranking of how banken has the most ity, Handelsbanken was assessed as occupying a well companies are working with environmental, satisﬁed customers. This applies to both private high position in the ﬁnancial sector. This social and governance (ESG) issues. The comand corporate customers. The Bank tops these assessment was based on how much listed panies that receive the highest scores qualify for lists in all the Nordic countries and in the UK. Swedish companies have achieved in their the indexes. Svenskt Kvalitetsindex (SKI) is a system for sustainability activities, and how the companies compiling, analysing and distributing information report their work with human rights (CSR) and FTSE4Good about customers’ expectations, perceived environmental matters. Handelsbanken received Handelsbanken has been quality and evaluation of goods and services. the “Best in sector” award in the Human Rights selected to be included in the Helping to run SKI is the international organisacategory and achieved fourth place among all international FTSE4Good Index. tion EPSI Rating (European Performance 245 Swedish listed companies. The report states The research analysis is Satisfaction Index), which conducts comparable that “due to its management systems and its provided by EIRIS, one of the leading research surveys in almost 20 countries. Research and regular CSR reporting, Handelsbanken is well houses for analysis of corporate social development related to the surveys is prepared to avoid becoming complicit in human responsibility. Investors and owners use the conducted regularly at SIQ (the Swedish rights abuses. There are policies in all the FTSE4Goods index to identify companies that Institute for Quality) and the Stockholm School essential areas relating to health and safety, fulﬁl globally recognised standards for corporate of Economics. gender equality, ethnic diversity and rights of social responsibility. The index is independent association. The company is a UN Global and based on analyses of companies’ work with Sustainable Value Creation Compact signatory.” In the Environment category, environmental matters, human rights and the Together with a number of major Swedish Handelsbanken achieved second place in the other areas that come under corporate social institutional investors, Handelsbanken took ﬁnancial sector. responsibility. Handelsbanken has been part in the Sustainable Value Creation initiative included in the index since 2001. in 2011. In a survey, the 100 companies with INDEXES AND SURVEYS the highest market capitalisation on NASDAQ Handelsbanken is scrutinised and assessed by Ethibel Sustainability Index OMX Stockholm were asked a series of quesboth customers and ﬁnancial market players. The Brussels-based Ethibel tions regarding guidelines, implementation and The outcome, and the assessment of the Bank provides the ﬁnancial governance of sustainability issues. The aim that results from this, shows how well Handelsmarket with information on was to provide the companies with a better banken is living up to their expectations. companies’ CSR work. Its analyses are carried understanding of the issues that are relevant out by the Vigeo research company, and based to investors, and to provide support for the OMX GES Sustainability on these results, Ethibel creates a universe that development of communications and reporting. Together with the GES forms a platform for sustainability products and The project members will, in various ways, Investment Services responsible investments. The Svenska each use the companies’ survey responses research company, OMX Handelsbanken class A share has been as a basis for their dialogues and investment has launched a number included in the Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investdecisions as owners. of sustainability indexes ment Register since 2004, and is also included In its capacity as one of the 100 largest that provide investors in the ESI EXCELLENCE index, which is based listed Swedish companies, Handelsbanken with a universe of companies that are fulﬁlling on this universe. has itself responded to the survey on its work. sustainability requirements. Handelsbanken has H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2011 29 ABOU T T H I S R E P O RT Contents and restrictions in this report For greater transparency, Handelsbanken has pooled information on the Bank’s sustainability activities in a separate sustainability report, in accordance with guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative, GRI. For many years, in annual reports and on the Bank’s website, we have reported relationships with our main stakeholders – customers, employees, investors and the community at large – and how the Bank’s operations affect the environment. THE WORK OF PRODUCING THE REPORT premises for bank branches, or suppliers of most important indications, and reports to a Handelsbanken’s Internal Committee for Corofﬁce material. In these cases, the risks relating higher degree than the C level requires. porate Social Responsibility has worked with to social issues and working conditions among To complement the general framework, GRI deﬁning Handelsbanken’s sustainability activities providers are deemed to be limited. has developed sector supplements (e.g. the more clearly, from a broader stakeholder perIn addition to the information provided in Financial Services Sector Supplement, FSSS), spective. By “stakeholders,” the Bank is referHandelsbanken’s separate sustainability report which focus on particularly relevant sustainability ring to groups that are affected to a large extent of the GRI index, there is also a separate appenissues in the ﬁnancial sector. The Supplement by the Bank’s actions and/or groups that affect dix for sustainability information at Handelsapplies to banks, insurance companies, asset the Bank. Following a continuous dialogue with banken’s website handelsbanken.se/csreng. management companies and other investment various stakeholders, and an internal analysis houses. of the Bank’s operations and their impact, the WHAT IS THE GLOBAL REPORTING Handelsbanken has opted to complement most important aspects of sustainability have INITIATIVE – GRI? the general framework and report on a number been identiﬁed. Ahead of this report, the special Some 2,000 companies worldwide report acof indicators from the FSSS (the FS indicators in dialogues conducted were mainly with internal cording to the GRI guidelines for sustainability the GRI table). stakeholders. reporting, and in the past few years the ﬁgure has grown steadily. The aim of GRI is to create DATA COLLECTION AND LIMITATIONS RELEVANCE FOR A BANK IN THE NORDIC conditions for comparing companies’ sustainAt present, Handelsbanken has joint group REGION AND THE UK ability activities to a greater extent, within the data in the personnel area (LA), which is fully Relevance and materiality are key GRI concepts. same sector or region. reported. For the environmental performance The sustainability issues have been analysed The main components of the reporting framearea (EN), data is limited to the UK and Nordic based on their relevance to our stakeholders work are standard details of the company’s operations, with the focus being on Swedand to the Bank’s ability as regards long-term operations – a ‘proﬁle’ – as well as reporting of ish operations. Limitations are reported when value creation. We have prioritised the informagovernance and results indicators in three areas relevant. The information in the report covers tion that has been deemed to be particularly of responsibility: economic (the EC indicators in the largest and most important parts of the relevant to the operations, which results in Hanthe GRI table), environmental responsibility (the operations, with the focus being on banking delsbanken also applying indicators from GRI’s EN indicators in the GRI table) and social perforoperations. No corrections or amendments with Financial Services Sector Supplement. Banking mance (the LA, HR, SO and PR indicators in the reference to previous information included in operations have a limited direct environmenGRI table). These indicators reﬂect issues that annual reports have been made. tal impact, and therefore, based on internal are broadly established in international principles Handelsbanken reports the Group’s sustainresearch, a number of GRI environmental indicaand initiatives for corporate social responsibility. ability activities annually. This is Handelsbanktors have been deemed to have less relevance A company can choose the extent to which it en’s second Sustainability Report in accordance for our sector. Handelsbanken’s providers are reports, according to the application levels A, B with GRI, and relates to the 2011 calendar year. located in the regions where Handelsbanken and C. In this report, Handelsbanken has opted The ﬁrst and most recent report was submitted operates, e.g. real estate owners that provide to apply level C+. The Bank has focused on the in March 2011, relating to 2009/2010. Proﬁle: Company information Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on Report on all criteria listed Same as requirement for 1.1 for Level C plus: Level B 2.1–2.10 1.2 OUTPUT Indicators: Indicators: Indicators: G3 Proﬁle Disclosures 3.1–3.8, 3.10–3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1–4.4, 4.14–4.15 4.5–4.13, 4.16–4.17 Economic Environmental Social Performance (EC) Performance (EN) (LA, HR, SO, PR) Standard Disclosures Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Not Required Management Approach Management Approach Disclosures for each Disclosures for each Sector supplement: Indicator Category Indicator Category OUTPUT G3 Management FINANCIAL SERVICE SECTOR SUPPLEMENT Approach Disclosures (FSSS) Report on a minimum of 10 Report on a minimum of 20 Report on each core G3 Performance Indicators, at Performance Indicators, at and Sector Supplement* G3 Performance least one from each of least one from each of Indicator with due regard to OUTPUT Indicators & Economic, Socal and Economic, Environmental, the Materiality principle. Sector Supplement Environmental. Human rights, Labor, Society, Performance Indicators Product responsibility. *Sector supplement in ﬁnal version 30 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2011 G R I I N D EX Index according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) This is Handelsbanken’s second separate FSS Final Version, which Handelsbanken has rights, labour laws, the environment and antiSustainability Report, produced according to opted to report. The symbols in the table show corruption. This report presents some of the the GRI guidelines for reporting sustainability the relevance that each indicator is deemed to activities and results achieved by Handelsbankactivities, version 3.0. In Handelsbanken’s have in relation to Handelsbanken’s operations, en within these areas in 2011, and constitutes assessment, the information in the report corand to what extent Handelsbanken reports on Handelsbanken’s Communication on Progress responds to GRI application level C+. The table the indicator. (CoP), the formal reporting commitment for below contains the core indicators and the members of Global Compact. supplementary indicators which are assessed to GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION be relevant to Handelsbanken’s operations and ON PROGRESS results indicators from the GRI Financial SerIn its day-to-day work, Handelsbanken complies vices Sector Supplement (FS), RG Version 3.0/ with Global Compact’s principles for human PROFILE: COMPANY INFORMATION Page CSR Page AR/www Scope 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Comments from the Group Chief Executive 4–7  1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 4, 6–8, 18–22, 24–27  2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation 2  2.2 Primary brands, products, and services 2, 9 2, 16–19  2.3 Operational structure of the organisation 2, 9 16–17  2.4 Location of the organisation’s headquarters 2 5  2.5 Countries where the organisation operates 2, 3 2, 30–37, 168–175  2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 16–17 40–41, 50–65  2.7 Markets 2–3, 9 2, 30–37  2.8 Scale of the organisation 2–3 2–3  2.9 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period 22–23  2.10 Awards received during the reporting period 29  3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period 30  3.2 Date of most recent previous report 30  3.3 Reporting cycle 30  3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 35  3.5 Process for deﬁning report content 30  3.6 Boundary of the report 30  3.7 Speciﬁc limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 30  3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. 30 72–73  3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports 30  3.11 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods regarding scope, boundaries, etc. 26, 30 www  3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 31–33  3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 31, 34  Key to symbols AR Refers to the 2011 Annual Report. Relevant to a Nordic bank. Reported. CSR Refers to the 2011 Sustainability Report. Partly relevant to a Nordic bank. Partly reported. www Refers to the GRI supplement at www.handelsbanken.se/csreng Not relevant to a Nordic bank. Not reported. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2011 31 GRI IN D E X PROFILE: COMPANY INFORMATION Page CSR Page AR/www Scope 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS & ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure 9, 15–17 50–55, 58–59 4.2 The Chairman of the Board's role 16–17 54–55, 58–59, 62 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board members 54, 62–63 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to the Board 8, 16 50, 53, 62 4.5 Principles for compensation to senior executives 56–57,62–63 100–103 4.6 Processes for avoiding conﬂicts of interests in the Board 53–55 4.7 Processes for determining the qualiﬁcations of Board members 54 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. 5, 9, 15, 18, 21–22 42 4.9 The Board’s monitoring of the sustainability work 9, 15–17 50–55, 58–59 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s own performance 15–17 59–61 4.12 Endorsement of external voluntary codes, principles or other initiatives 28 4.13 Memberships in associations 28 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 8, 19, 28–29 42 4.15 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 8 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 8 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 8, 15 INDICATORS Page CSR Page AR/www Relevance Scope 5. ECONOMIC INDICATORS (EC) Disclosure on management approach/economic 4, 9, 19–21, 24–25 11–15 EC1. Direct economic value generated and distributed 8, 20 EC2. Financial impact, and risks and opportunities for the organisation due to climate changes 4, 22, 24–27 EC3. Coverage of the organisation’s deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations 100–103 EC4. Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance received from government 6, 20 EC7. Local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community 11 EC8. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public beneﬁt through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement 19, 28 EC9. Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 4, 18–20 6. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (EN) Disclosure on management approach/Environment 8–9, 21–22, 24–27 EN1. Materials used by weight or volume www EN4. Indirect energy consumption by primary source 6–7, 26–27 www EN5. Energy saved due to conservation and efﬁciency improvements 26–27 EN6. Initiatives to provide energy-efﬁcient or renewable energy based products/services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 6, 26–27 EN7. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and results 6, 26–27 EN16. Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 6–7, 26 www EN17. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions www EN18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 26–27 EN26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services and extent of impact mitigation 22, 24–27 EN29. Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce 26–27 www Key to symbols AR Refers to the 2011 Annual Report. Relevant to a Nordic bank. Reported. CSR Refers to the 2011 Sustainability Report. Partly relevant to a Nordic bank. Partly reported. www Refers to the GRI supplement at www.handelsbanken.se/csreng Not relevant to a Nordic bank. Not reported. 32 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2011 G R I I N D EX INDICATORS Page CSR Page AR/www Relevance Scope 7. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (LA, HR, SO, PR) Disclosure on management approach/social employment and working conditions 4, 8–9, 18–21 LA1. Total workforce by employment type, contract and region 11–12 100   LA2. Rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region 6, 11   LA3. Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations 13  LA4. Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 12  LA5. Minimum notice period(s) regarding major operational changes and whether this is speciﬁed in the collective agreement 12–13 www LA7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, total work related fatalities per region 6–7, 12 LA9. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 12  LA12. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 11   LA13. Composition of governance bodies and employees according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity 11–12 62–65, 100  LA14. Ratio of basic salary of men to women per employee category 12  Human rights (HR) HR1. Proportion and number of Investment agreements that include human rights clauses, or that have been examined on the basis of human rights 21–22, 24–25  HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken www   Society (SO) SO2. Business units analysed for risks related to corruption 59–61, 95   SO3. Employees trained in the organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 18, 21  SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption  SO5. Participation in public policy development and lobbying 19  Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws SO8. and regulations No signiﬁcant incidents in 2011   Product responsibility (PR) Type of products and service information required by procedures, and percentage of products subject to such PR3. information requirements 10, 22, 24–25  PR5. Results related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 6–8, 10, 29   PR6. Programs for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes for marketing communications 10, 18   PR9. Monetary value of ﬁnes for non-compliance with regulations concerning the use of products and services No signiﬁcant incidents in 2011   FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR SUPPLEMENT Page CSR Page AR/www Relevance Scope FS. PRODUCT AND SERVICE IMPACT SECTION FS1. Policies with speciﬁc environmental and social components applied to business lines 9, 22, 24–25   FS2. Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines 18, 22, 24–25   Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with environmental and social requirements FS3. included in agreements or transactions 24–25   FS5. Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities 22, 24–25   Percentage and number of companies held in the institution's portfolio with which the reporting organisation has FS10. interacted on environmental or social issues 22  FS11. Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental screening 22   Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting organisation holds FS12. the right to vote shares or advises on voting 22  FS13. Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type 19   FS15. Policies for the fair design and sale of ﬁnancial products and services 4, 10, 18, 24–25   FS16. Initiative to enhance ﬁnancial literacy by type of beneﬁciary 28   Key to symbols AR Refers to the 2011 Annual Report. Relevant to a Nordic bank. Reported. CSR Refers to the 2011 Sustainability Report. Partly relevant to a Nordic bank. Partly reported. www Refers to the GRI supplement at www.handelsbanken.se/csreng Not relevant to a Nordic bank. Not reported. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2011 33 AUD IT R E P O RT Auditor’s Combined Assurance Report on Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Sustainability Report To the readers of Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Sustainability Report INTRODUCTION b. Financial indicators – tables “HandelsAUDIT PROCEDURES We have been engaged by the executive banken Group”, “Return on equity, 1973 Our audit has included the following procedures: management of Svenska Handelsbanken AB – 2011”, “Loan losses as percentage of a. reconciliation of reported information with (publ) to perform an examination on Svenska lending 1999-2011”, “Customer satisfacinternal and external source documents, Handelsbanken AB (publ) Sustainability Report tion index, private customers in Sweden and performing detailed tests of the selected for the year 2011. The examination does not 1989-2011” and “Direct economic value indicators in the tables “Carbon dioxide include sustainability data from earlier years. generated and distributed”, on pages 2, emissions”, “Centrally distributed informaThe Executive Management are responsible for 6-8 and 20. tion, Group”, ”Business travel, Sweden”, ongoing activities regarding the environment, c. Skilled staff – tables ”Age and gender ”Electricity Consumption, Sweden”, Age and health & safety, quality, social responsibility and distribution, 2011”, “Average number of gender distribution” and “Average number of sustainable development, and for the preparaemployees 2007-2011” on pages 11-12. employees” on pages 11-12 and 26-27 in the tion and presentation of the Sustainability Report Our assurance, reasonable or limited, does Sustainability Report, and in accordance with the applicable criteria. Our not comprise the assumptions used by the b. reconciliation of ﬁnancial indicators on pages responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Company or whether or not it is possible for 2, 6-8 and 20 with Handelsbanken Annual Sustainability Report based on our examination. the Company to reach certain future targets Report for the ﬁnancial year 2011. described in the report (e.g. goals, expectaWe consider the evidence collected during our THE SCOPE OF THE EXAMINATION tions and ambitions). examination to be sufﬁcient and appropriate in We have performed the assurance engagement The criteria on which our review are based order to support our conclusions listed below. in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Susare the parts of the Sustainability Reporting tainability Reports issued by Far. The objective Guidelines G3, published by The Global ReportCONCLUSION of an audit is to obtain reasonable assurance ing Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the Our conclusion based on our review that the information in the Sustainability Report Sustainability Report. We consider these criteria Based on our procedures performed, nothing is free of material misstatements. An audit suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability has come to our attention that causes us to includes examining, on a test basis, evidence Report. believe that the information in the Sustainability supporting the quantitative and qualitative Report which has been subject to our review has information in the Sustainability Report. A review REVIEW PROCEDURES not, in all material respects, been prepared in is mainly limited to making inquiries of personnel The main procedures of our review have inaccordance with the above stated criteria. responsible for sustainability issues, and apcluded the following: plying analytical and other review procedures. a. an update of our knowledge and understanding Our conclusion based on our audit Hence, the conclusion based on our review of Handelsbanken organization and activities, In our opinion, the information in the Sustainprocedures does not comprise the same level of b. an assessment of suitability and application ability Report which has been subject to assurance as the conclusion of our audit. Since of the criteria regarding the stakeholders’ our audit has, in all material respects, been this assurance engagement is combined, our need for information, prepared in accordance with the above stated conclusions regarding the audit and the review c. interviews with the responsible management criteria. will be presented in separate sections. During in order to assess if the qualitative and quanthe year, the Bank’s internal audit department titative information stated in the Sustainability has continuously examined the internal control Report is complete, accurate and sufﬁcient, and the Sustainability Report. We have received d. shared internal and external documents in the reports that have been prepared. Our asorder to assess if the information stated in the surance engagement includes examination of Sustainability Report is complete, accurate the following areas, with the purpose of either and sufﬁcient, providing reasonable assurance (hereafter ree. analytical procedures of the information ferred to as audit) or limited assurance (hereafter stated in the Sustainability Report, referred to as review): f. an assessment of the Company’s declared 1. Our review has included the Sustainability application level according to GRI guidelines, Stockholm, 20 September 2012 Report. g. an assessment of the overall impression of 2. Our audit is limited to the following information: the Sustainability Report, and its format, takKPMG AB a. The Bank’s environmental work – tables ing into consideration the consistency of the ”Carbon dioxide emissions”, “Centrally stated information with applicable criteria, and distributed information, Group”, ”Business h. a reconciliation of the reviewed information with Stefan Holmström Åse Bäckström travel, Sweden” and ”Electricity Consumpthe sustainability information in the Company’s Authorised Public Expert Member of FAR tion, Sweden” on pages 26-27. Annual Report for the ﬁnancial year 2011. Accountant 34 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2011 Contact CONTACT If you have comments or questions regarding this report, please contact Handelsbanken’s Corporate Governance unit, email: csr@handelsbanken.se. FINANCIAL INFORMATION The following reports can be downloaded or ordered from Handelsbanken’s website: www.handelsbanken.se/ireng. • annual reports • interim reports • risk reports • corporate governance reports • fact books • sustainability reports IMPORTANT DATES 2012 15 February Annual accounts 2011 28 March Annual General Meeting 26 April Interim report January–March 2012 17 July Interim report January–June 2012 22 October Interim report January–September 2012 www.handelsbanken.com +46 8-701 10 00 SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden
