Contact: The Yokohama Rubber Co., Ltd. Corporate Communications Department 36-11, Shimbashi 5-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8685, Japan Tel. +81-3-5400-4531 CSR & Environmental Affairs Department 2-1 Oiwake, Hiratsuka City, Kanagawa Prefecture 254-8601, Japan Tel. +81-463-35-9512 Yokohama Rubber is participating in Challenge 25, a program initiated by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment to help prevent global warming. To Build a Trusted Identity as a Contributing Member of the Global Community Making “globalization” and MESSAGE FROM THE We will aspire to be a company PRESIDENT and every employee thinks takes the initiative. More than one year has passed since the massive market, with a focus on core technologies covering the earthquake and tsunami struck Eastern Japan in March three key words of transport, connect and cushion in 2011. which we maintain a competitive advantage. Already we Immediately after the disaster, employees at our Mie have begun product development on components used Plant quickly took the initiative and arranged for a truck in photovoltaic and wind power systems as well as nursing to transport relief supplies to the area most affected by care products. Going forward, I would like us to focus on the quake and tsunami. I was very happy to see that cultivating our ability to propose solutions that include our frontlines quickly took the initiative without first new products and performance qualities, taking into confirming what to do with our corporate head office. account the end user and all of society, and not just our This also made me realize once again that the role of direct customer. senior management is to help foster a culture where such We have also made a significant change in our human initiative is not only possible, but a daily occurrence. resource policy for cultivating the people that will help Following this, Yokohama Rubber continually sent relief make these initiatives a reality. I believe the key to this supplies and donations to the affected areas, while urged will be enabling people from different business sites to employees to take part in the relief effort as volunteers. learn about each otherʼs strengths, instead of training At the same time, we also revised our business continuity employees at a single mother factory of our choosing. plan to include tsunami drills at each of our plants. As the Of course, to accomplish this we need leaders that will next phase of our assistance, we will be actively involved gather information on each business site and lead the in the construction of ”Forest That Protect Lives” along the way forward for all of our training programs. I believe the seashore of the affected areas by leveraging the know-how synergistic effect of developing such leaders and providing we have gained from the Yokohama Forever Forest Project advanced training across our plants will help us to build up to fill in land and plant forests. a solid foundation for the entire company. Aspiring to be a Global Company with a Promoting Initiatives Under Our 7 Pillars of Distinctive Presence Critical Issues 2012 marks the first year of the Phase III in our mediumLast year we considered our acquisition of ISO26000 term management plan, the Grand Design 100 (GD100). certification as a license for obtaining credibility as a As part of our efforts, we will once again make the GD100 corporation in global society, and implemented CSR vision, evoke a distinctive global identity in building programs under the seven pillars of critical issues that are corporate value and in building a strong market presence, based on this philosophy. This year we became a signatory known to our employees and continually push forward to the United Nations Global Compact, and as such, no with new initiatives. matter what country or region our employees may work As for our Tire Group, first we will build a sufficient in I fully expect them to recognize and abide by this set of mass production system and strive to fix tire supply behavioral principles. shortage around the world. Following this, we will focus As for our environmental initiatives, we began on developing products that fulfill the needs of differing investigating the ecosystem surrounding our Mie, Mishima countries and regions around the world. No matter how and Shinshiro plants in an attempt to help conserve high performance it may be, we cannot call a product biological diversity. We have started a preliminary study a good tire if not bought by customers. In this regard, for a similar initiative in Thailand and we plan to expand we will revisit our global concept BluEarth and pursue the scope of this study to other regions going forward. technical development that results in “Gentle for the Communication with our stakeholders will form an environment, people and the society”. important part of these activities with local communities. In addition, from the perspective of reducing our We are building solid relationships of trust with our dependence on fossil fuels, we believe one long-term stakeholders through plant visits organized for people challenge will be ensuring a stable supply of natural rubber living in the local community and the Yokohama Forever to be used as a raw material alternative to synthetic rubber. Forest Project. These efforts will greatly change the way In this regard, going forward, I believe tire manufacturers our company is viewed by the surrounding community, around the world will need to consider working together as what once were complaints will now take the form of to help support rubber farmers. feedback provided from members of the local community. As for our Multiple-Business Group, we will promote its In terms of production, we have changed the focus of global expansion further and aggressively expand into new our plant operations from QCD to SEQDCH. This acronym fields to become a leading company in each respective indicates that safety is of the utmost importance, and only 2 “diversity” the new normal. like no other in the world where each for themselves and T N E D I S with safety can we improve our environmental impact, E R quality, delivery and cost. We have established company P rules based on this philosophy and by making these E H rules known to employees we will be able to cultivate the T human resources that will form the heart of our operations. M As for human rights, everything starts with the O R acceptance of diversity. How do we communicate with F people from different cultural and religious backgrounds E G with totally different values? How do we recognize and A accept each otherʼs differences? This will undoubtedly S S become an even more important issue as globalization E M advances. I also recognize that going forward we will need to expand our vision and take measures to improve human rights throughout our entire supply chain. We have begun implementing measures based on specific targets set for each of the seven critical issues. This is because by doing so we will be able to more clearly see pressing issues that need to be addressed to achieve these targets. During this process we may need to reform or innovate, rather than simply make improvements, and I believe continually pursuing this process will be critical to the future of the company. Enhancing Our Frontline Strengths to Make Strides Toward Becoming an Irreplaceable Company to the World The year 2017 stands as the final year of GD100. Yet, looking further into the future we find that the words “globalization” and “diversity” will have become the new normal for companies around the world. At the same time, I would like us to make strides toward becoming an irreplaceable company to the world where Yokohama Rubber products have become indispensable to both customers and consumers alike. Each and every one of our employees thinking and taking action aimed at this future vision will become our frontline strength and enhance the corporate value of Yokohama Rubber in the process. In turn, I believe this will provide new value to society as a whole. I would greatly appreciate if you could reach through this report, which introduces our progress and challenges, and I welcome your frank feedback so that we may improve the content of future reports. Hikomitsu Noji President and Representative Director 3 CSR REPORT 2012 Editorial Policy Yokohama Rubber's CSR vision is to build a trusted identity as a contributing member of the global community. We issue a CSR Report every year to let our stakeholders know our stance towards CSR as a company and what kind of CSR activities we conduct. We fully launched activities from a global perspective during FY 2011 based on the Seven Pillars of Critical Issues that were set out in FY 2010. In addition, as a new initiative, we established KPIs (key performance indicators) in order to visualize the progress of our CSR activities. In the future, we will implement activities aimed at the continual improvement of these KPIs and revise these KPIs as required in line with the expectations and demands of society. Note that because the end of our fiscal year was changed to December 31 during FY 2011, this report will focus on reporting the activities conducted from April to December 2011. We will also introduce some of the activities we have planned for the future. In order to achieve our CSR vision we would like to incorporate the opinions of all stakeholders in our future activities and accordingly we look forward to hearing from you from our online questionnaire. Yokohama Rubber Group at a Glance (as of December 31, 2011) Company Name The Yokohama Rubber Co., Ltd. Number of Employees 19,272 (consolidated) Establishment October 13, 1917 Number of Shareholders 15,171 Number of Shares Issued and Paid-in Capital JPY 38,909 million 342,598,162 Outstanding Net Sales JPY 465,133 million (consolidated) Number of Consolidated 120 Subsidiaries Fiscal Year End December 31* Number of Affiliates Accounted 2 Chairman and CEO and for by the Equity Method Tadanobu Nagumo Representative Director Stock Exchange Listings Tokyo, Osaka, and Nagoya President and Japan, the USA, Canada, Australia, Hikomitsu Noji Representative Director Our Worldwide Locations Germany, the Philippines, Vietnam, China, Thailand, Russia, etc. 36-11 Shimbashi 5-chome, Minato-ku, Head Office Tokyo, Japan 105-8685 Website http://www.yrc.co.jp/english/ *In order to be consistent with our overseas subsidiaries for consolidated accounting, we decided to shift our financial closing date from March 31 to December 31 as of the fiscal year of 2011. Net Sales and Net Income Total Assets and Equity Ratio Number of Employees (consolidated) (consolidated) (consolidated) Net Sales Net Income of the Period Total Assets Equity Ratio Net sales Net Income of the Period Total Assets Equity Ratio (JPY billion) (JPY billion) (JPY billion) (%) (Persons) 33.5 34.1 34.2 600 25 600 32.3 35 20,000 19,272 551.4 18,465 519.7 526.2 29.6 17,566 21.1 517.3 501.8 16,772 500 500 478.9 30 16,099 466.4 465.1 20 473.4 467.0 15,000 25 400 400 13.9 15 20 300 11.5 11.6 300 10,000 10 15 200 200 10 5,000 5 100 100 5 0 0 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) -5.7 -5 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 4 CONTENTS Introduction of Online Edition 02 Message from the President Reflecting GRI Guidelines, this online edition provides 04 Editorial Policy / Yokohama Rubber Group at a Glance / Contents comprehensive information. We also provide some detailed data not included in the printed edition 06 Corporate Philosophy and Yokohama Rubber Groupʼs s t herein for your additional reference. Approach to CSR n e t n http://www.yrc.co.jp/csr/en/ 08 Special Features o C Up Close 1 / e c 08 –11 The Great East Japan Earthquake n a l Our Contributions to the Recovery Effort G a Up Close 2 t a 12-13 Initiatives of Overseas Group Companies in p u Response to Critical Issues. o r Yokohama Tire Philippines G r e Up Close 3 b b u 14-16 Protecting Aquatic Environments Near Production R Bases a m a h o 17 Next-Generation Products Handled by Yokohama k o Rubber Group Y / y 18 Seven Pillars of Critical Issues for Yokohama Rubber c i l o to Address P l a i r 20 –21 Advancement of Environmentally Friendly o Management t i d E 21–23 Safe and Healthy Workplace Environment 24 –25 Safety and Quality of our Products and Services Contents of 26 Human Rights and Labor Practices Printed Edition 27 Credibility with our Business Partners Online Edition contents 28-29 Stakeholder Communication ● Fiscal Year 2011 Activity Report • Corporate Governance and Compliance • Environmental Protection 30 Corporate Governance and Compliance • Together with our Employees • Together with our Society 31 Third-Party Opinion / Upon Acknowledgment of • Together with our Business Partners Third-Party Opinion • Together with our Shareholders and Investors • Together with our Customers ● Plants and Affiliates CSR Report Notes Concerning Forward-Looking Statements, etc. ● Company Overview and CSR Management This report contains projections, statements regarding plans and objectives, ● Related Information on CSR Report and other forward-looking statements. All such statements are made based on assumptions and judgments derived from information available as of July 2012, and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance to differ, including not only the business activities of the Yokohama Rubber Group but also global and economic trends and changes Issued Date November 2012 in the global environment. This report is a translation of “CSR REPORT 2012 (Japanese version)”, and its content is identical to the Japanese version. We Editorial Responsibility CSR Report Editorial Group hope for your understanding on this point. 5 Corporate Philosophy and Yokohama Rubber Corporate and CSR Philosophies Yokohama Rubber established its corporate philosophy culture as our first priority by respecting higher standards in 1990. It consists of the Basic Philosophy, Management of corporate ethics. In 2008, we reformed our corporate Policies, Action Guidelines, and Corporate Slogan. structure by establishing the CSR Division, followed by The Basic Philosophy embodies the types of business announcing our vision of CSR management both internally where Yokohama Rubber commits itself in all activities. and externally. Our vision, to build a trusted identity The Management Policies outline basic administrative as a contributing member of the global community, principles for upper-level management to commitment incorporates our desire to change the letter “R” in CSR themselves to. The Action Guidelines are the code of to “Reliability”, instead of the original “Responsibility.” conduct for each employee to comply with. By doing so, we are hoping to make the concept more In 2006, we drew up a medium-term management accessible and practical in our daily operations. plan, the Grand Design 100 (GD100), and set a clear target Incidentally, Yokohama Rubber still maintains the of becoming a global company with one trillion yen in cautionary tale by Suekichi Nakagawa, who was president net sales by FY2017. Also, since our Basic Philosophy has at the time of the inauguration of our Yokohama Plant been compiled based on the strong awareness of the (located in Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama-shi) in 1929 as our expectations and needs arising from the international Founding Spirit*. This tale comprises the balancing of both community, the plan places a strong emphasis on CSR by sociality and economic efficiency; it still greatly relates to adopting these two basic points; to become a top level todayʼs notion of CSR management. corporation in terms of our contribution towards the * Further details about our Founding Spirit are available on our environment, and fostering a customer-oriented corporate website : URL : http://www.yrc.co.jp/csr/en/outline/group.html Corporate Philosophy (Launched in 1990) Basic Philosophy To enrich people’s lives and contribute to their greater happiness and well-being by devoting our wholehearted energies and advanced technology to the creation of beneficial products. Management Policies ● Take on the challenge of new technologies to produce new value. ● Develop proprietary business fields to expand the scope of business. ● Create a workplace that values, improves and energizes people. ● Deal fairly with society and value harmony with the environment. Action Guidelines Corporate Slogan ● Develop ourselves so that we may give our personal best. ● Trust, challenge and improve one another. Excellence by nature ● Nurture a welcoming, open spirit. CSR Management Vision (Launched in 2008) To build a trusted identity as a contributing member of the global community. CSR Action Guidelines ● Identify continually changing social trends. ● Spot ways of contributing. ● Act swiftly to earn affirm trust. ● Practice CSR in one’s own work. GD100 Medium-range Management Plan GD100 and Our Approach to the Environment GD100 Vision and Basic Policy Basic Policy To mark the Yokohama Centennial in FY2017, we will evoke a distinctive global identity in building corporate value and in building a strong market presence. Following the principle of dealing fairly with society and valuing harmony with the environment, we shall assert our world-class Long-Term Financial Targets (FY2017) Net sales: ¥1 trillion, operating income: ¥100 billion, strengths in technologies for protecting the environment. operating return on sales: 10% ● Continued improvement of environmental management. Basic Policy Deliver the best products at competitive prices and on time. ● Action to combat global warming. Assert world-class strengths in technologies for protecting the environment. ● Contributing to the creation of a sustainable recycling society. Foster a customer-oriented corporate culture that honors rigorous standards of corporate ethics. Established in 2006 Established in 2006 6 Group's Approach to CSR Our Stakeholders CSR and Environmental Promotion Framework Following the establishment of our CSR Division in 2008, Twice a year, we hold a CSR Council where our company we have organized the social responsibility issues we need Chairman and CEO serves as a chairperson, and an to address in our day-to-day and future activities, and also Environmental Council where our company President we have appointed our stakeholders as listed below. serves as a chairperson. These councils are part of an During our selection process, we consulted the GRI organizational framework that was set up to discuss and R S C Guidelines, ISO26000, and Nippon Keidanrenʼs Charter of develop plans for addressing the social responsibility o t Corporate Behavior, and other descriptions thereto. issues currently Yokohama Rubber Group is facing, with the h c a ultimate goal to build a trusted identity as a contributing o r p member of the global community. We have three task p forces, five committees, and two sub-councils who A Customers s ' promote environmental activities as sub-bodies within p u We will enrich peopleʼs lives and contribute to their the Environmental Council. Every year the CSR Council o r G greater happiness and well-being by devoting our and Environmental Council evaluate the performance of r e wholehearted energies and advanced technologies; this CSR activities carried out by the Group in accordance with b b basic philosophy is our declaration to put our customers the Seven Pillars of Critical Issues and develop plans for u R first. We seek to develop a corporate culture where the improvement in the subsequent fiscal year. a m customerʼs interests are the top priority. To pursue our effort on practicing consistent and higha h level environmental management in all our operations o k worldwide, we also annually hold a Global Environment o Y Council, which is a gathering by managers from all of our d Employees n a overseas production operations. The council for FY2011 was y h We believe that being considerate to the rights and held on December 15 to engage in discussions focusing p o safety of the workers and providing an environment to on environmental policies and initiatives at the overseas s o l i maximize their potential are the greatest driving forces production operations and core distribution subsidiaries. h P for a corporation with sustainable growth. This is clearly In FY2012, the Council will push forward such efforts to e t stated in our management policies that reads, “create a promote CSR activities and put into practice consistent and a r o workplace that values, improves, and energizes people”. high-level environmental management. p r o C Business Partners and Suppliers Divisions by Business Segments Tire Production Environmental Task Force We are expanding our businesses by working together Chairperson: Chairman and CEO Head: General Manager,Tire Global Production Division with a variety of suppliers and partners who procure raw materials, parts, equipment, etc. By practicing fair MB Production Environmental Task Force and free trade with business partners, we will continue Head: General Manager, Industrial Products Production Division CSR Council to build relationships of mutual sustainment and being beneficial to each other. Head Office and Sales Subsidiary CSR & Environmental Task Force Head: General Manager, Corporate Social Responsibility Division Shareholders and Investors Manufacturing Subsidiary Environmental Task Force Environment Council By taking on any challenges to develop innovative Chairperson: General Manager, CSR & Environmental Affairs Dept. Chairperson: President Representative Director technologies to generate new value, we will realize our sustainable growth and return of reasonable profits. Global Environmental Council Also, we will be happy to provide any information in an Chairperson: General Manager, Corporate Social Responsibility Division appropriate manner to meet the expectations of all of our stakeholders and investors. Divisions by Functional Segments Chemical Material Committee Chair: General Manager, Industrial Products Technical Division Corporate Social Responsibility Division Local Communities CSR & Environmental Affairs Dept. Waste Tire 3Rs Committee As a globally active business, we relate to local Chair: in charge of Tire Domestic Replacement Market Business communities in a number of domains – the natural environment, law, culture, customs and the economy. Global Warming Countermeasures Committee We will strive to build a healthy relationship for various Chair: General Manger, Tire Global Production Division local communities together with our both domestic and overseas offices. Environmentally Friendly Product Committee Chair: General Manager, Tire Global Technical Division Yokohama Forever Forest Committee Chair: General Manager, Corporate Social Responsibility Division ■ CSR and environmental management and promotion framework (as of March 29, 2012) 7 The Great East Japan Earthquake 1 Our Contributions to the Recovery Effort YOKOHAMA RUBBER CSR REPORT 2012 Up Close A tree planting event was held on April 30, 2012 on a Leveraging Our Know-how from the Yokohama mound created onsite at the Otsuchi Water Treatment Forever Forest Project for a Coastal Levee Project Center to serve as a model for the actual coastal levee. in Otsuchi Town As an advocate of the ”Forest That Protect Lives” project being implemented by Otsuchi Town, located in the Kamihei District of Iwate Prefecture, we will support a project that will serve as a model for future activities. Supporting strong and beautiful urban development for the future Yokohama Rubber is an advocate of the ”Forest That Protect Lives” being implemented by Otsuchi Town as part Tree planting event attended by many in the local community of the vision in its earthquake recovery plan to” our beautiful town, looking out on the sea, inspiring people to take a walk”. As the first step, we will support a tree planting project that will serve as a model for future activities. A”Forest That Protect Lives” is a concept first created by botanist Dr. Akira Miyawaki, who is currently serving as an advisor to the Yokohama Forever Forest Project. Essentially, trees are planted atop a coastal levee using the Miyawaki method, which involves planting native tree species to create a forest that is as natural as possible. This same method has been used for the Yokohama Forever Forest Project since its inception in 2007. A forest consisting of native tree species that support one another will form a solid forest floor that cannot be uprooted. This will help mitigate damage from tsunami and tidal surges. The lush green forest will also provide a beautiful landscape as well as give a sense of peace and serenity to the people living in the local community. We hope to utilize the know-how gained from the Yokohama Forever Forest Project for the recovery and revitalization of Otsuchi Town. With this commitment in mind, we will actively implement and support tree planting activities together with members of the local community. On April 30, 2012, we held a tree planting event that included volunteers from the community and Yokohama Rubber. Regional and Local Map of Otsuchi Town 8 Creating a safer, more secure coastal levee by effectively utilizing rubble and debris from the Message to Yokohama Rubber disaster Yokohama Rubber has helped to create A unique feature of the ”Forest That Protect Lives” concept valuable forest by planting some 500,000 is that rubble and debris still remaining from the disaster trees of potential natural vegetation both will be effectively used in the foundation. First, rubble and in Japan and overseas under the aim of debris will be sorted and buried in the ground. On top of this coexistence with leading technologies. a mound will be formed on which trees will be planted. This Using this knowledge, Yokohama Rubber will create a layer of air between the rubble and soil, which has taken the first-ever approach of creating a forest for mitigating disaster damage will enable the roots of the newly planted trees to dig deeper and conserving the environment from into the ground. The tree roots will envelope the rubble, earthquake rubble and debris in Otsuchi t r making the forest above stronger and more stable. Town, which suffered serious humanitarian o f Building up the mound will ensure it serves as a safety f E and infrastructure damage due to the Dr. Akira Miyawaki y net against future tsunami, while the act of tree planting Great East Japan Earthquake. I am deeply r e Plant Ecologist v will help heighten everyoneʼs awareness toward disaster appreciative of Yokohama Rubber Chairman o c preparedness. Nagumo and President Noji as well as everyone involved in this e R project for taking the initiative to create a genuine furusato e (hometown) forest that coexists with the local economy, helps h t Coastal Levee Plan safeguard members of the local community and protects the entire o t community from inevitable disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunami s n o i or fires. I look forward to the future development and activities of t u Yokohama Rubber. b i r t 10 years n o later C r u Conventional tide-water control forest (Japanese red and/or black pine) O e k [During a tsunami] Pine tree roots reach deep into the a ground depending on conditions, u but in overly damp sandy areas q along the coast pine tree roots h t Energy Energy extend outward, instead of downr a ward, which weakens their stability. E Houses, Schools, Fields Swept away trees pose a threat to n a people and buildings. p [When receding] a J Conventionally, pine trees, which grow quickly and are t s a E tolerant of salt water environments, have been the tree of Receding t choice for tide-water control forests. However, research water a e People and property are swept out r G conducted on areas affected by the disaster showed that Houses, Schools, Fields to sea by receding water e pine trees were weaker in terms of soil retention and more h T prone to falling. This demonstrated that pine trees would Future tide-water control forest (greenery that safeguards lives and property) 1 not function effectively in a tide-water control forest in these L A I areas. [During a tsunami] C E Native tree species planted using the Miyawaki method The multilayered forest will act as a P wall that will break up a tsunami and S are ideal for creating a strong underground root system that Energy Energy mitigate its energy. This will reduce water levels and flow speed, providprovides stability. This will help mitigate tsunami damage ing people with more time to SPECIAL and provide additional time to evacuate. At the same time, evacuate. 1 the forest will also help prevent people from being swept [When receding] out to sea when a tsunami recedes. Receding water Yokohama Rubber is committed to supporting this ”Forest That Protect Lives”because it will help safeguard the lives of People and property will not be swept out to sea. everyone in the local community. Source: Website of the Tohoku Council for ”Forest That Protect Lives” Message from the Mayor of Otsuchi Feedback from a Participant The rubble and debris from the The Sanriku area suffered extensive tsunami symbolizes a part of the lives damage from the tsunami and took and in a sense something left behind by countless lives. Among these were our those that lost their lives in this disaster. daily business partners, suppliers and A forest created atop this rubble and the family members of employees. debris stands as a final resting place of Dealing with such loss has been painful souls. In this regard, this initiative will for us all. Since then, I have continually be a reminder of this disaster and that thought of how I, as a local from Iwate, we must prevent future occurrences. can help restore the once scenic beauty Reconstructing a town that has lost of the Sanriku area. I feel proud of the everything starts from scratch, and in fact that I was able to take the first this sense, this forest created atop the step toward this goal by planting trees Mr. Yutaka Ikarigawa ocean in Otsuchi Town will serve as a ” Taku Sasaki together with the people of Otsuchi Mayor General manager Otsuchi Town, Kamihei District, Forest That Protect Lives” that helps the Iwate Branch Head Town. Going forward, I will be closely Iwate Prefecture entire community drive the recovery Yokohama Tire Japan Labor following the progress of this coastal effort forward. I am deeply grateful for Union levee. the extensive assistance being provided by Yokohama Rubber. 9 Up Close 1 The Great East Japan Earthquake Our Contributions to the Recovery Effort Fenders thanks to their solid reputation internationally. This Helping to mitigate damages caused by reputation has helped our pneumatic fenders capture the a disaster leading share in markets around the world. The advantage in our fenders can be found in the fact that we use the compressive elasticity of air from inside the The potential of pneumatic fenders rubber itself. This means that the recovery force gradually Capitalizing on its long-standing automotive tire increases and the amount of compression is large. Fenders technologies, in 1958 Yokohama Rubber became the first use this softening force to absorb the energy of vessel company in the world to manufacture a floating pneumatic movements and from mooring cables when berthed. fender. Since then, our floating pneumatic fenders have Based on this, Yokohama Rubber has been researching the been used around the world alongside berthing vessels potential use of and on docks. If a fender is mistakenly damaged, it could fenders to help lead to environmental degradation from an oil spill or result mitigate tsunami in the injury or death of dock workers. This is why floating damage. pneumatic fenders have helped improve the safety of boarding at sea and also enhanced efficiency. Many types of fenders are sold today, including solid (made from thick-walled rubber) and pneumatic types. Yet, our pneumatic fenders have come to be known as Yokohama Floating pneumatic Fixed pneumatic fender fender Message from a I have been engaged exclusively in fender research since joining the company in 1989. Since 2005, Researcher I have been working alongside researchers at Kobe University to conduct repeated simulations on pneumatic fenders behave when used on a berthed ship during a tsunami strike. Our research has shown that compared to solid fenders pneumatic fenders soften the impact on a vessel as well as effectively reduce vessel movement and mitigate the force placed on mooring cables used to secure the vessel in place. Simulations indicated that even when a 2-meter high tsunami strikes the superior spring performance of pneumatic fenders can potentially reduce vessel movements like rolling, especially when used on LNG carriers. Depending on the height of the wave, pneumatic fenders may also help enhance survival mooring capabilities, such as preventing vessels from being swept out to sea. Today, we have are examining ways of how best to respond depending on the height of the tsunami wave. I hope to share just how hard crew members work to safeguard their ship by showing the force that a vessel receives during a tsunami and its movements quantitatively and in an easy to understand manner. In this regard, I believe my mission is to help reduce damages from disasters. I have always had a Shigeki Sakakibara strong interest in ships and the ocean, and felt I was very lucky to be able to research both through Dr. of Engineering, Senior Engineer, my work. My commitment to my work has become even stronger after seeing the misery caused by Industrial Products Technical Dept. the Great East Japan Earthquake. Going forward, I hope to find even greater possibilities in fenders. Industrial Products Technical Division tsunami unless youʼre actually there at ground zero. Thereʼre Looking back on the post-quake response for a lot of things that volunteers can provide, so I felt it was hints about future assistance measures important to get out there and see what I could do to help.” Participants provided many unique ideas in terms of how the company can assist. This included potentially selling Roundtable talks led by volunteer participants locally made produce and products at the coop, providing We held a roundtable talks on the type of assistance that Yokohama Rubber fenders to help restore rafts used by local should be provided to the affected areas and how individuals oyster farmers, and planting trees in a similar fashion as the should get involved with the reconstruction effort. This talk Yokohama Forever Forest Project, among others. was led by employees that participated in the earthquake Roundtable talk participants also shared some of the recovery effort, including eight from the Yokohama Rubber problems that took place as well. These included the head office, eight from the Hiratsuka Factory, two from the fact that solicitations for volunteers did not reach certain Onomichi Plant, and seven from the Mie Plant. employees, that volunteering is not firmly rooted in the Roundtable talks held at each business site saw active companyʼs culture, and that no leave was provided to new debate and received many unique ideas because employees hires to take part in volunteer activities. We plan to examine took part as volunteers. Employees volunteered in the each of these issues and make improvements going forward. recovery effort for a variety of reasons, with more than one individual sharing, “I was hesitant about taking part as an individual, but the company encouraged me to join in and also helped defray the cost,” and “I wanted to participate since I had a positive experience volunteering in the wake of the Great Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake.” Many of the employee volunteers felt firsthand the tragedy of the earthquake and tsunami, which was much different than watching events unfold on the news. One employee volunteer noted, “You canʼt really get a sense of the terror caused by this Roundtable talks in which employees participated as volunteers 10 In response to the roundtable talks For Yokohama Rubber, 2011 was a year in which it began dispatching employee volunteers to the disasteraffected area and initiated corporate volunteer work. These initiatives helped raise awareness within the company, sprouting a culture where each organization proactively dispatches employee volunteers, and we hope to capitalize on this momentum going forward. Between March 2011 and March 2012 a total of 125 employees volunteered in the Kesennuma Oshima, Higashi Matsushima and Onagawa areas. Activities in Kesennuma Oshima organized by Global Compact Japan Network, which accounted for about one-quarter of all Yokohama Rubber employee volunteers, involved the cleanup of rubble and debris. Through these roundtable talks, we were moved by our employeesʼ awareness and passion to help. This included their awareness that something needed to be done, even by individual people, in the face of unprecedented damages and the fact that some employees had already been involved in volunteer activities prior t r to the disaster. The volunteer work of our employees was nothing short of amazing. o f Yokohama Rubber became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in 2012. f E Atsushi Kanazawa y As part of this, we launched a cross-divisional workshop that oversees not only volunteer activities, but all General Manager, r e of our philanthropic activities as well. Through this workshop, we have also started revising and reviewing our v CSR & Environmental Affairs Dept. o c definition of corporate volunteering as well as related programs. The workshop also consists of members that e have experience volunteering. Going forward, we will continue to actively take part in aid activities, while clarifying R e the purpose of pursuing these activities as a corporate entity. h t o t s n Innovations made and matters to review following our earthquake reconstruction assistance programs o i t u b i We fostered an environment that encourages employees to participate by sharing specific volunteer activity program r t details such as dates, how to get there and accommodations. n Innovations made o We decided to fund the cost of transportation to the affected area and local accommodations for employees C r u participating in volunteer activities that assist the Great East Japan Earthquake reconstruction effort. O ・Employees with less service time at the company are not granted leave for taking part in volunteer activities, making e k a their participation difficult. u q ・Activities for which the company encourages employees to volunteer in should be made more widely known. h t Matters to review r a ・The company needs to be aware of safety issues regarding the volunteer activities that it encourages employees to E take part in (from a Mie Plant employee that helped deliver relief supplies to Onagawa Town on March 19, a little over n a one week after the earthquake). p a J t s a E t a Held tsunami evacuation drills Details of the tsunami evacuation drills e r (at two manufacturing sites and 23 offices) 1. Date of drills: Thursday, November 24, 2011 G e 10:00 am Major earthquakes strike in the Tokai, Tonankai h Yokohama Rubber held tsunami evacuation and Nankai areas (scenario) T drills at business sites located inside an either an 10:05 am The Japan Meteorological Agency issues an 1 L area where measures against a Tokai earthquake advisory for a large tsunami advisory (scenario) A I are to be intensified or an area requiring disaster 2. Purpose: (1) To make the evacuation site and route known to C E preparedness measures for a Tonankai or Nankai employees in the case an advisory for a large tsunami P is used and to practice using this route S earthquake. These sites are believed to be at (2) To confirm the communication system for contacting risk of damage based on their position on the the Central Disaster Handling Division from the Up Close tsunami hazard map. Onsite disaster handling evacuation site divisions communicated with Central Disaster 1 Production sites: Mie Plant and Onomichi Plant Response Headquarters at the head office using Sales offices: 2 YMJ offices, 12 YTJ offices, 9 directly-owned tire three separate modes, including satellite phone, distributors internal line using an IP mobile phone, and public pay phones located inside plants. This training exercise enabled us to confirm the space and time needed to complete evacuations as well as the distance of the evacuation site to each respective business site. As there were several changes we needed to make concerning the response of each business site, we plan to hold a second tsunami evacuation drill sometime after September 2012. Mie Plant employees help assist Kiho Town after it was damaged by Typhoon Talas Mie Plant employees, who were among from flooding and landslides as a result. the first to collect relief supplies such as The 23 employees that volunteered food and daily essentials for the victims their time helped to cleanup homes that of the Great East Japan Earthquake, also had been inundated with flood waters, actively participated in volunteer activities carryout furniture from these homes as in Kiho Town, located in the Minamimuro well as help remove rubble and debris. District of Mie Prefecture, after it suffered The Mie Plant employed a workforce of damage from Typhoon Talas. This is 1,120 as of December 2011. The plant is because as a contributing member of the known for its high level of team work in local community the Mie Plant wanted to the local community where it often takes quickly help out those in need. part in cleanup activities along the Futami Typhoon Talas brought record-breaking Coast, around the plant, and on local rainfall to the Kii Peninsula, which caused rivers. Based on this experience, the plant damage in Mie, Wakayama and Nara voluntary takes part in relief aid whenever prefectures, in particular. Kiho Town, which a disaster strikes. The plantʼs call for oneis located along the lower reach of the coin donations to benefit the Tohoku Kumano River, suffered serious damages region continues today. 11 Overseas Group Companies Tackling Critical Issues 2 Yokohama Tire Philippines, Inc. YOKOHAMA RUBBER CSR REPORT 2012 Up Close The Yokohama Rubber Group is involved, as part of its In FY2011, a total of 101 female employees received the global expansion, in a variety of activities in each region vaccinations. In addition, we are also putting our efforts in regarding critical issues, such as environmental protection raising awareness and understanding among employees on and improvement of employee workplace environment. the causes and ways to lessen the risk cervical cancer. Here we will give examples of these using the Yokohama Tire These vaccination programs we intend to continue in the Philippines, Inc. (YTPI), located in Pampanga Province, in the future to avoid various diseases impacting the health of our central region of Luzon Island in the Philippines. employees and their families. Creating safe and healthy workplace environments Maintaining a secure and healthy workplace environment where our employees can work safely raises our employeesʼ sense of belongingness to the company and ultimately leads to improvement of the quality of the products and services we provide to society. In recognition of this, YTPI provides support in a variety of ways to ensure the healthy life of its employees and their families both physically and mentally. A YTPI employee receiving an Noticing that the rate of occurrence of influenza is higher influenza vaccination in Asia than other regions, YTPI began giving influenza vaccinations to its employees in FY 2010. In FY2011, these vaccinations were given to 1,830 employees and their Aid to typhoon-struck regions dependents. This prevented influenza from spreading amongst our employees and reduced the number of lost A large typhoon called Sendong hit Mindanao in the workdays due to illness. Southern Philippines in December 2011. It caused great We also began program to provide female employees damage, with serious flood and landslides, leaving over 1,500 with vaccinations for the prevention of cervical cancer from people dead or still missing. In response to this, employees FY2011. Cervical cancer puts a high risk amongst young took the lead at YTPI to give donations for the disaster-struck females, but the vaccinations can be used to lessen the risks. region. 12 Previously, YTPI have been involved in efforts such as In FY2011 we gave an running a regional contribution program with employee orientation for a total participation using the funds collected from employees of 200 students from under the title of Show you care, give a share, raising the local Malabanias employee involvement in CSR activities. This time, shocked Elementary School by the scale of the typhoon damage in Mindanao, our and Sapang Bato High employees themselves suggested gathering donations for School. Garbage aid to the affected areas. Cash, medicine, clothing and more containers that are were donated by 573 out of 1,948 of our employees. A booth manufactured in . c n I for raising donations was also set up at the YTPI-sponsored YTPI from recycled Handbag created from label mounting paper , s e n Christmas party. packaging materials i p Ultimately, 17,000 pieces of medicine were given through were given so that the knowledge on garbage sorting could p i l i the local governments to the citizens of Iligan which had be immediately put to practical use. Believing that the h P suffered some of the worst damage. In addition, 27 bags participating students will share the newly gained skills and e r i T of employees used clothing were distributed throughout knowledge on returning to their schools, having a positive a Mindanao in cooperation with the local Clark Development impact on the entire community, we intend to continue such m a h Corporation.Cash donations reached 106,040 pesos (about activities in the future. o k 200,000 yen), given to the local NGO Gawad Kalinga, o Y whose programs include building homes and sustainable s e communities for poverty stricken Filipinos. Going forward, u s s I the fund will be used to help building peoplesʼ homes which l a were lost due to the typhoon. c i t i r C g n i l k c a T s e i n Malabanias Elementary School Sapang Bato High School a p m o C We have also made strong efforts in environmental p u protection through tree planting, and are aiming to o r G spread these activities outside, not limiting them to the s a communities of our offices. In May 2011 teachers and pupils e s r e of Siñura Elementary School together with YTPI volunteers v O planted 100 saplings. In July we planted 600 saplings at 2 Arayat National Park in cooperation with the Philippine e s Helping assist those in need following the major typhoon o Armed Forces, while in October we planted 100 saplings in l C with the help of pupils of Sto. Rosario Elementary School. p U EMS team works to reduce impact on the These saplings were grown through the Yokohama Rubber Group's Forever Forest Project, active both in and out of environment Japan. We hope to increase our tree planting activities to a wider sphere in the future, further contributing to We are also pursuing various efforts primarily through our environmental conservation. Up Close EMS (Environmental Management Section) team to reduce 2 environmental impact, a major issue which we must involve ourselves in as a part of our business activities. We are making serious efforts to recycle and reuse waste, currently doing so for 88% of what would otherwise be thrown out as garbage is recycled or reused. For example, we have donated scrap tires to local citizen's group (since November 2011). These are being used to make slippers, pots, fences, etc. Aside from that, we also donate label mounting paper to a local women's group for it to be folded up to make bags or photo frames. In addition, we supplied spent lead batteries to ABS-CBN Foundation, Inc. (AFI), a fund set up by the Philippines largest media organization. AFI sells these batteries into cash through a recycling company. The subsequent profit is used to run a program aimed to raise awareness on environmental protection. We have also extended efforts for environmental education at local schools to contribute to greater awareness amongst the people for sustainable development and environmental protection. We do this by offering an environmental-themed orientation to give children the necessary knowledge and skills for environmental protection so that they can help sustainable development in their communities and society overall. Tree planting activity 13 Safeguarding at least the same amount of water used by our factories Yokohama Rubber products are made using natural resources such as natural rubber and mineral ores, while its manufacturing factories are able to operate thanks to Protecting water their access to large amounts of water. As a result, we have recognized that we need to find a way to give back to nature. environments near our Based on this belief, we began full-scale efforts to conserve biological diversity starting in 2010. We are committed to 3 engaging in long-term efforts on a worldwide scale in order production sites for Yokohama Rubber to coexist with local communities and so that we can mitigate the unavoidable impacts on the environment caused by our business activities. Our activities in Japan were initially launched at the Mie YOKOHAMA RUBBER Plant, and our focus from the start has been on protecting CSR REPORT 2012 the environment by continually monitoring the natural surroundings and the organisms that live there. The goal of Up Close our activities has been to conserve and generate an equal amount of water resources as the amount consumed by our plants. Overviews of the study ● Preliminary study conducted June 2010 on the natural environment in areas around business sites. Sites ranked in order of priority for implementation of future activities. Preliminary study ● Based on the results of the at 15 sites in Japan preliminary study, it was determined that the study and and 15 sites overseas activities would be implemented starting first with the Mie Plant. ● Examined what type of study would be required in the future for November and areas surrounding the plant that are rich in biodiversity and have a December 2010 capacity to retain large amounts of water, such as wetlands and Field study onsite grasslands. ● Based on the results of the field at the Mie Plant study, it was determined that a study plan would be formulated. ● In consideration of environmental April to November changes with each season, 2011 the study was conducted on four occasions, once in May, August, October and November, Study respectively. implementation Employee workshop December 2011 ● The results of the study were shared and activities examined Employee workshop Briefing for local communities ● The action plan was shared and Briefing for local feedback received communities 2012 ● Scope to be expanded to the Mishima, Shinshiro, Nagano and Y. T. Rubber Co., Ltd (Thailand) Expand scope of sites conducting the study 14 The Yokohama Rubber Way Together with employees and with local communities With this study, Yokohama Rubber emphasized its employees should think for themselves and take the initiative in implementing activities. That is, employees are to conduct the study, formulate plans and implement activities, while receiving advice from experts. Our goal is to foster manufacturing plants that always take the initiative in s e t i protecting the surrounding environment and that are s n beloved by the local community. o i t c First, the Mie Plant conducted a study on how much u their business activities were impacting the surrounding d o r environment. This study provided results from the natural p r u organism health diagnosis program to safeguard the natural o environment, which found that many organisms were living r a e in the two rivers close to the plant and that effluent from the n s t Mie Plant was helping to maintain the water quality of the n e Hinokijiri River. m The Miya River watershed is home to dragonflies and n Employee workshop at the Mie Plant o r mayflies as well as many bird species such as grey-headed i v n lapwings, bull-headed shrikes, and great weed warblers. e r e Although parts of it have been polluted by sewage, the Based on the results of employee discussions, the next step t a Hinokijiri River still is a habitat for killifish, carp, mullet and was to reach a consensus with the local government, media w and NPO officials about a plan for conservation activities for g damselflies as well as larger birds such as the gray heron and n i both the intake and discharge of water in order to conserve t c great cormorant that fly in to eat the small fish. e In December 2011, the Mie Plantʼs 41 employees were split the ecosystem of the Miya River watershed. t o r P into seven groups to discuss some of the actions they could A number of meetings were held with the local community 3 take based on the results of studies conducted to date. to build up a consensus on a plan of action. At these L A I One of these teams named themselves Team Bakkon and meetings, the head of a local government happily noted, C E worked to thin invasive foreign plant species such as cutleaf “Until now I held the misconception that Yokohama Rubber P S evening primrose, while also protecting native species, as was discharging large amounts of polluted water. At the well as to protect the rare bird species the streaked fantail last briefing I found that I this was a misunderstanding. warbler, which is an environmental indicator species for Therefore, I went back home and explained this to local the ecosystem. Another team aspired to make the Hinokijiri residents. Going forward, our residents and I will be avid River an ideal habitat for fireflies. Each team presented their supporters of Yokohama Rubber.” ideas on how individuals could help protect nature in the This relationship of trust created and nurtured through surrounding community, which included monitoring, picking dialog represents exactly what we are striving to achieve. up garbage, exterminating invasive foreign species, cutting grass and protecting killifish. Plant Manager Toru Nakamura, who participated in the workshop, noted, “I was very proud to see the active dialog held between the teams. This area is home to Ise Shrine, mountains, the ocean, and vibrant rivers, so I felt a real sense that everyone wants to do their part to help protect this land in unique ways developed in the local community.” Up Close Aquatic organism study on 3 the Hinokijiri River Plant life study conducted in the coastal grasslands of Futami Town Briefing for local residents 15 Up Close 3 Protecting water environments near our production sites Expanding this initiative to other sites in The Yokohama Rubber Groupʼs activities have only just Japan and overseas begun. Although these activities will not yield concrete results immediately, we recognize the importance of carefully Using the initiative launched at the Mie Plant as a model, monitoring the progress of each. In this regard, going similar activities were started at the Mishima and Shinshiro forward, our focus will continue to be on working together plants in 2012.Regardless of which site, all of our employees with our employees and with our local communities. are eager to learn and study firsthand about the impact that our production activities have on the natural environment as well as what they can do to help protect it. We will continue to formulate the most ideal activity plan for each site, based on previous activities conducted at each site as well as requests received through dialog with the local community. We have also initiated studies in Thailand, which represents an important country in terms of the Yokohama Rubber Groupʼs raw materials procurement, development production and sales processes. Here, we also plan to launch Conducting an interview at activities that include a focus on sustainable raw materials a rubber plantation on how procurement. rubber trees are cultivated Receiving a briefing at Khao Sok National Park, which is the source of the Water quality survey at the water used by the Thailand Plant discharge point (Noda River) for the Shinshiro Plant Summary of conservation activities at select locations Took part in conservation activities at Shinshiro the rice paddies of Yotsuya Senmaida at the foot of Mt. Kuragake. Installed Plant biotope for aquatic organisms living onsite. Mishima Participated in clean-up activities on the Plant Sakura River and local spring waters. The terraced rice paddies of Yotsuya Visit our corporate website to learn more about Senmaida located along the upper the results of the Mie Plant study as well as view reaches of the Toyo River from an overview of the activity plan and feedback for where the Shinshiro Plant sources stakeholders. its water Feedback from a Member of the Local Community I am pleased to see that Yokohama Rubber is actively engaged in these initiatives, while also having fun at the same time.Mie Prefectural Government would like to assist in this effort by introducing Yokohama Rubberʼs initiatives on its website. Science is fast evolving, so I ask that the company continually keep abreast of new information and always reflect back on whether it is taking the right action. By doing so, I am convinced that Yokohama Rubberʼs initiatives can become models for the world. I expect nothing else. I believe there is no right answer when it comes to how to conserve biological diversity. Mr. Kunio Yanagita In this regard, I would like the company to share its findings with society and incorporate feedback in future Department of Environment activities. and Forestry Mie Prefectural Government 16 Product information for Yokohama Rubber Next Generation Products Offered by the Yokohama Rubber Group Yokohama Rubber offers an extensive lineup of products that span from its core tire products to multi-business products that play an important role in society and the lives of people. The following section introduces a selection of our next generation products that will help us to build a trusted identity as a contributing member of the global community. p u BluEarth-1 AAA spec o Highest AAA rating for reduced r G r rolling resistance e b b u R A new flagship tire a m with the highest fuel Winner of a MEMO environmental h o efficient grade rating award in France k o Y BlueEarth-1 is a fuel efficient tire that e In February 2012, Yokohama Rubber h t has been given the highest AAA rating was announced as the winner of the y b for rolling resistance, which serves as environmental category for the Pneu Expo d an indicator for the environmental e r Innovations Trophy at the PNEU EXPO, an e f performance of a tire. This tire features exclusive trade show for tire companies held f O Yokohama Rubberʼs proprietary nanoin France. s t blend rubber featuring a golden ratio of c u Yokohama Rubber was presented with this d differing performances, AIRTEX, which honor because BluEarth-1 was recognized for o r prevents air leaks, a dimpled wall design its excellent fuel economy performance and P n that reduces air resistance, and a silent its ability to reduce impacts on people and o i t a ring that reduces road noise when society, while the company was recognized r for its long-standing development of fuel e driving. These features ensure the tire is n efficient tires. e both people and society friendly, a goal G t x Yokohama Rubber aspires to achieve. e N A cushion helping to make wheelchair users more comfortable Medi-Air Sky The Medi-Air series is a to automatically adjust air chance to manually adjust air wheelchair cushion lineup volume to distribute the volume by using a manual that was the first in the air pressure and partially pump. Medi-Air Sky was world to use a built-in release pressure on the mainly developed to help bottoming out detective posterior after detecting the manual wheelchair users to sensor. Conventional model, bottoming out. In contrast, more easily and freely enjoy Medi-Air 1, was designed Medi-Air Sky offers users the outings. Pneumatic fender monitoring system and Worldʼs First! cargo handling support system Fenders are used between Please see page 10 to learn vessels for cargo transportation more about pneumatic Support system for cargo (Ship to Ship operation) and fenders. handling at sea as a cushioning material when a vessel berths at a pier The second of these (Ship to Terminal operation). Integrated pneumatic systems is the dual vessel Yokohama Rubber has fender monitoring system operation and mooring utilized its pneumatic fender monitoring system, which design technologies and The first of these two uses pneumatic fender vessel movement analysis systems is the fender design technologies and technologies to develop two monitoring system, which vessel movement analysis different monitoring systems. comprehensively monitors technologies. This system These two systems, both the status of pneumatic simultaneously monitors the world firsts, are able to fenders. This system collects status of pneumatic fenders prevent damage to vessels, data on the internal air used as a cushioning material Pneumatic fenders deployed piers and cargo handling pressure of pneumatic between two vessels and the between two vessels equipment, which in turn fenders wirelessly, making it status of vessel operations helps to prevent serious possible to monitor internal when two oil tankers are maritime accidents such as air pressure from a remote moored together to transfer oil spills. location. crude oil or LNG offshore. 17 7 Guidelines 1 Following the principle of dealing fairly with society and valuing harmony with the environment, we shall assert our world-class strengths in technologies for protecting the environment. • Continued improvement of environmental management. • Action to combat global warming. Pillars of Advancement of Environmentally • Contributing to the creation of a sustainable recycling society. Critical Issues Friendly Management for Yokohama Rubber to Address 2 Safety and sanitation are the basis of all our activities. We aim to prevent any occupational injuries, create a pleasant workplace and overall health for our workers under the strong leadership of our managers and supervisors, along with our entire groupʼs employeesʼ cooperation of this matter. Safe and Healthy Workplace Environment Yokohama Rubber Group has 3 We will contribute to society by planning, designing, producing, and selling attractive products for the satisfaction of our customers while maintaining a quality assurance system in all of our processes, including service. decided to facilitate all of our To this end, we will conduct systematic activities to ensure that all the basic steps in our quality assurance activities activities based on our seven critical Safety and Quality of our function properly. issues in order to go about our CSR Products and Services activities in a desirable manner. We will create an environment in accordance with our 4 management policy of creating a workplace to value, The seven pillars of critical issues improve, and energize people, where each of our everdiversifying personnel can equip themselves with the have been set out through internal necessary skills and perform by utilizing their capabilities discussion based on the concept of to the fullest. Also, we aim to create a workplace where our employees can realize a work-life balance. We will continue ISO26000 issued in November 2010, to raise the awareness of our personnel so that they can Human Rights and perform on the global stage and are capable to deliver the in the light of considering what Labor Practices business strategy of GD100 and various technical strategies. are the crucial items for Yokohama 5 In order to realize GD100, we will conduct our procurement Rubber Group and what we should activities in accordance with the below-mentioned guidelines: focus on regarding the effect on • Procure optimum raw materials, equipment, and construction. the society. • Trading with fairness and impartiality • Reasonable selection of our partners From now on, in order to • Partnership strengthen every action of those Credibility with our Business • Compliance • Harmony with the environment Partners pillars, we will continue to facilitate 6 the supervision by our entire group and the strategizing of relevant We will continue to enhance mutual understandings and credibility by reflecting our stakeholdersʼ feedback action plans. onto our corporate activities by conducting two-way communication with both of our internal and external stakeholders while providing information in a timely manner. Stakeholder Communication 7 Yokohama Rubber Group is making every effort to fortify and improve the support system for corporate governance to be established in order to realize management with transparency and fairness under our Corporate Philosophy. Thereby, this is becoming the management body to maintain our ever evolving corporate value in order for our management to continue to win un-shakeable credibility. Corporate Governance and Compliance 18 Our Activities Our Goals (by FY2017) FY 2011 target Evaluation 1. We will contribute to the realization We will turn all our products into All our newly developed products are given of a low-carbon society through the environmentally friendly ones 100% environmental consideration and will development and marketing of our products to contribute towards the We will try to achieve a 25% reduction of be maintained as such. Passed environment. greenhouse gases 2. We will realize a society with resource We will achieve and maintain total zeroWe will increase the number of total zeroemissions plants among both our domestic In Progress recycling by utilizing natural resources emissions in both in our domestic and (maintain and overseas offices and intend to keep this up. and overseas groupʼs production plants. to the fullest and minimizing industrial continue) waste. We will enhance the environmental 3. We will continue to enhance our activities preservation activities in the surrounding We will commence observation of the surrounding natural environment of both Passed related to biodiversity both at our areas of both of our domestic and overseas domestic and overseas business locations. business locations. our domestic and overseas offices. p.20 Seven Pillars of Critical Issues for Yokohama Rubber to Address 1. We will establish a platform of safety sanitation based on the Occupational Health Safety Management System (OSHMS). 2. We will nurture people with overall safety.. We will establish a safety culture aiming for We will obtain OSHMS certification at all 3. We will ensure the safety of all of our facilities. zero risks. domestic production plants by 2011. In Progress 4. We will create a pleasant workplace. 5. We will prioritize both the physical and mental health of our human resources. 6. We will prevent any traffic accidents. p.22 1. We will establish a system to reflect in our next product development by gathering We will improve our support system for We will strengthen the training of service and analyzing customer feedback and market evaluation. various global services. engineers both in Japan and overseas (for Passed tire sectors). 2. We will improve the level of quality at all our plants by conducting education and We will establish our global training facilities We will conduct quality training at domestic training by focusing on quality at every (for tire sectors). production plants (for tire sectors) Passed hierarchy of our plant workers. 3. We will make every effort to improve We will improve our customer credibility by our product quality at every step; We will commence product improvement continuing to provide quality products all meetings based on market information (MB). Passed p.24 from product planning, design, and production. the time (for MB sectors). 1. Steady number of employees. We will establish a special subsidiary that 2. Framework to facilitate the growth of our human resources. Our workplace is structured so that all our promotes the employment of people with Passed disabilities. 3. Realization of work-life balance. diversified personnel can perform to the 4. Creation of a workplace so that all our fullest regardless of age, gender, nationality, We will newly establish vacation periods diversified personnel will be utilized. etc. 5. Respect for the human rights with zero for male employees so that they can offer support when their spouses give birth. Passed tolerance for harassment. p.26 We will establish a purchasing code of 1. Co-development of CSR activities with business partners using CSR guidelines. conduct to be complied with by purchasing Passed Our company is able to enhance various CSR managers. 2. Promotion of green procurement in activities on the global stage by working cooperation with our partners. hand-in-hand with our partners. We will hold meetings with business partners 3. Thorough compliance of various for studying and exchanging information In Progress procurement activities. related to CSR. p.27 We will conduct dialogs with volunteer A system is in place to apply what stake participants. Passed 1. Conducting dialogs with our stakeholders. holders have to say. 2. Reduction of any environmental risks such as complaints over the environment We will reduce environmental accidents to from local communities. Five hundred thousand trees have already zero. Passed 3. Facilitation of the YOKOHAMA Forever been planted at both domestic and overseas Forest Project. offices. We will foster seedlings and provide them external parties. Passed p.28 Good ethics values based on ISO26000 compliance are well-known throughout our 1. Internal enhancement of CSR guidelines. offices. We will expand compliance systems at 2. Development of this compliance system overseas group companies. Passed at our overseas offices. The entire company can visualize the 3. Establishment of BCP system and applicable legislations. We will conduct tsunami evacuation drills. reorganization. Passed BCP support system is being developed as a group unit. p.30 19 7 Pillars of Critical Issues for Yokohama Rubber to Address 1/7 Promoting energy savings through steady improvements on-site Advancement of Environmentally Friendly Management Following the principle of dealing fairly with society and valuing harmony with the environment, we Domestic group companies shall assert our world-class strengths in technologies for protecting the environment. Stance and (1000 t CO ) 2 Overseas production bases Continued improvement of environmental management. policy Action to combat global warming. 700 573 570 631 661 600 Contributing to the creation of a sustainable recycling society. 500 41% 46% 47% 49% 400 300 200 59% 54% 53% 51% 100 Ratio of 89 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) environmentally By FY2017, we aim to ensure that all of tire and maker friendly products to brand products are environmentally friendly products. ％ all products handled (million m3) Domestic production bases 11 Overseas production bases KPI 10 10.27 9.56 9.18 13% 8.97 At our domestic group companies, we are 9 15% working Ratio of greenhouse 16% 17% 86.8 towards reducing the ratio8 of greenhouse gas emissions gas emissions by 25% compared to base7year by FY2020. compared to base 6 year (domestic group ％ * Although in principle the base year is 1990, the base 5 year for PFC, HFC, and SF6 is 1995 in accordance with the companies) 4 87% 85% 84% 83% Kyoto Protocol. 3 2 1 0 Environmentally friendly products 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) In terms of the level of environmental impact (CO2 emissions) for each stage of the Ratio of environmentally friendly product life cycle from production to disposal, in the case of tires, CO2 emissions at the products to all products handled use stage account for 80 to 90% of the entire life cycle. For this reason, at the Yokohama 0 20 40 60 80 100 (%) Rubber Group we focus on creating environmentally friendly products that allow for low fuel consumption. FY2006 47% The Yokohama Rubber Group defines environmentally friendly products as products FY2007 60% for which the average score of the four items of global warming prevention, resource recycling, resource conservation, and safety and comfort exceeds 5%; and for which the FY2008 75% score for any of these items has not deteriorated. By FY2017, we aim to ensure that all tire FY2009 83% and maker brand products are environmentally friendly products. For FY2011, a ratio of 100% was maintained for the ratio of environmentally friendly FY2010 84% products to all new products. In terms of the ratio of environmentally friendly products to FY2011 89% all products handled, the ratio was 89%, a 5% improvement over the previous fiscal year. 20 Reducing the environmental impact of business activities Global warming countermeasures The Group considers global warming countermeasures to be an extremely important issue, Greenhouse gas emissions and in response conducts activities aimed at achieving a low-carbon society. The Group's Domestic group companies approach to carbon management include the establishment of a dedicated committee for (1000 t CO2) Overseas production bases the adoption of cogeneration systems (CGS), a shift to clean fuels, and the implementation 700 631 661 573 570 Advancement of Environmentally Friendly Management of thorough energy-saving activities. 600 500 41% 46% 47% 49% Environmental action targets 400 300 ● Short-term reduction target 200 Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by an average of 12% compared to the base year at 59% 54% 53% 51% domestic group companies for the five year period from FY2008 to FY2012 100 0 ● Medium-term target for FY2020 2008 2009 2010 group Domestic 2011 (FY) companies Overseas production bases At our domestic group companies, we are working towards reducing the ratio of (1000 t CO2) The 700number of overseas production661 bases greenhouse gas emissions by 25% compared to base year by FY2020. increased573 by one with 631 570 the addition of a natural 600 During FY2011, greenhouse gas emissions at domestic group companies and overseas rubber processing plant from FY2010. 500 production bases were 661,000 tons CO2, with domestic group companies accounting (million m3) 41% 46% Domestic 47%production 49%bases 400 11 Overseas production bases for 51% of emissions, and overseas production bases accounting for 49% of emissions. 10.27 300 10 9.56 9.18 * Although in principle the base year is 1990, the base year for PFC, HFC, and SF6 is 1995 200 9 13% 8.97 59% 15% 54% 53% 51% in accordance with the Kyoto Protocol. 100 8 16% 17% 70 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) Effective use of resources 6 5 The Yokohama Rubber Group promotes the effective use of the resources that are used in Water 4 intake 87% 85% 84% 83% its business activities. 3 To reduce water intake in production activities, the Group recycles and reuses equipment (million m3) Domestic production bases 11 2 Overseas production bases cooling water, collects vulcanization condensate, implements measures to prevent 10.27 10 1 9.56 the overflow of water storage tanks, implements measures to prevent the leakage of 13% 9.18 8.97 09 15% underground piping, and thoroughly conducts daily checks and patrols. As a result, the 2008 2009 16% 2010 2011 17% (FY) 8 total water intake from water sources at domestic and overseas production bases for FY2011 7 was 8.97 million cubic meters. Domestic production bases accounted for 7.44 million cubic 6 meters, and overseas production bases accounted for 1.53 million cubic meters. 5 In order to reduce the quantity of waste matter, all domestic and overseas production 0 20 40 60 80 100 (%) bases are working to achieve zero emissions. Currently, we have achieved zero emissions at 4 87% 85% 84% 83% five production bases in the Asian region. Although there were no plants that achieved zero 3 FY2006 47% emissions for the first time during FY2011, we will promote initiatives to achieve this goal by 2 FY2007 60% studying the issues that remain, particularly at US production bases. We will continue with 1 efforts to increase the number of zero emission plants during FY2012. FY2008 0 2008 2009 2010 75% 2011 (FY) FY2009 83% FY2010 84% FY2011 0 20 40 60 80 89% 100 (%) FY2012 issues and targets FY2006 47% Environmentally friendly products Effective use of resources FY2007 60% During FY2012, we will implement measures including ・Water intake FY2008 75% increasing the adoption of fuel efficient tires and products During FY2012, we will continue with efforts to reduce the using recycled raw materials, and ensuring that our maker total water intake from water sources. The target for FY2012 FY2009 83% brand products are energy-saving. We will also maintain is to achieve a total water intake from water sources of 9.55 FY2010 84% a ratio of 100% for the ratio of environmentally friendly million cubic meters at domestic and overseas production products to all new products. bases (7.66 million cubic meters FY2011at domestic production 89% bases, 1.89 million cubic meters at overseas production Global warming countermeasures bases). Although product volume will increase for FY2012 We will respond to issues through the deployment of over FY2011, we expect to achieve a per-unit reduction of energy-saving activities and the adoption of energy-saving 1% as a result of various initiatives. equipment based on the actual place, actual thing principle ・Waste matter (genchi genbutsu) as we aim to reduce greenhouse gas We will continue with efforts to increase the number of emissions by an average of 12% compared to the base year zero emission plants during FY2012. (1990) at domestic group companies for the five year period from FY2008 to FY2012. 21 7 Pillars of Critical Issues for Yokohama Rubber to Address Safe and Healthy Workplace Environment Stance and policy Safety and sanitation are the basis of all our activities. 2/7 We aim to prevent any occupational injuries, create a pleasant workplace and overall health for our workers under the strong leadership of our managers and supervisors, along with our entire groupʼs employeesʼ cooperation of this matter. It has been determined that new initiatives are required 0.36 because the rate has remained nearly the same as the rate Domestic disabling of 0.30 from 2009 and 0.36 for 2010 injury frequency rate * Disabling injury frequency rate = (number of workrelated injuries / total working hours) x 1,000,000 hours KPI During FY2011, two plants acquired OSHMS certification, 7 Number of OSHMSmeaning that seven of our eight domestic business certified business locations are certified. Although the field survey for locations (domestic) Onomichi Plant was completed in December 2011, OSHMS (cumulative total) certification was acquired in January 2012. Working to acquire Occupational Safety and Health Management System (OSHMS) certification The Group promotes the acquisition of Occupational Safety and Health Management System (OSHMS) certification as we strive for the strong commitment of management, the establishment of organizational frameworks and management systems to ensure this commitment is fully instilled at the work site, and the elimination of risks. During FY2011, OSHMS certification was acquired for the Shinshiro production site (for the 2plants). In addition, in order to assess the strengths and weaknesses of each business location OSHMS certification ceremony for the Shinshiro and promote improvements, we have established common inspection items, and Plant and Shinshiro-Minami Plant implemented internal safety audits both in Japan and overseas. Equipment safety Using risk assessment methods to serve as a form of preemptive control in response to disasters, we identify and evaluate potential risks associated with existing equipment in order to prioritize the required countermeasures. In addition, in an aim to develop safe and secure equipment, we also use ideas from workers for the production of tools and automation of equipment that will allow problems to be handled without requiring On-site inspections Holding a review physical interference. 22 Nurturing people with overall safety We aim to develop sensitive human resources that recognize risky situations as being dangerous. For this reason all employees conduct KYT (kiken yochi training, or hazard prediction activities) on a daily basis, improvement activities on a voluntary basis in response to potentially dangerous incidents that have been pointed out, and handson safety drills. In addition, plant supervisors implement communication-focused safety training on a one-on-one basis with workers to enable workers to understand Safe and Healthy Workplace Environment the meaning of individual work process so that they can perform safer operations independently. Through these initiatives, we aim to share and stimulate disaster prevention activities for all workers at our business locations. Creating a pleasant workplace We improved equipment and promoted the improvement, maintenance, and Improvement of local ventilation systems management of working methods aimed at using working environment measurements The entire work unit is covered so that the smoke in order to maintain a pleasant workplace. In addition, based on the 5S (seiri, seiton, emitted is ventilated seiso, seiketsu, and shitsuke, or sorting, straightening, systematic cleaning, standardizing, and sustaining) methodology, we promote manufacturing so that the things you need are available when you need them. Prioritizing both physical and mental health To prevent health problems from arising due to overwork and excessive stress, we strive to remain aware of employee working hours and provide guidance and work improvement suggestions in response to workers that work for long hours. Moreover, we provide care in response to mental health issues through preventive management at work sites and the provision of contact points for consultations. We have also started conducting specific medical examinations and providing health guidance for employees in need of specific health guidance. Preventing traffic accidents We will expand the systems, function, and activities of traffic accident prevention Motorcycle operations workshop organizations at each business location. In particular, we will employ traffic guards holding placards during commuting hours as we continue to conduct accident prevention activities. In addition, we will conduct educational activities in cooperation with local police stations and other traffic safety-related organizations. FY2012 issues and targets An issue that remains is raising the awareness of our preparing manuals so that everybody can safely conduct the employees towards safety and lowering the risk levels same work. Moreover, at plants overseas, we will establish associated with equipment. and deploy management systems based on OSHMS. Accordingly, we aim to increase the sensitivity of employees Because the number of accidents are comparatively high towards risk through activities aimed at preventing physical for new employees with less than three years of experience interference with operating equipment and KYT (kiken and we believe that allowing for the safe conduct of work yochi training, or hazard prediction activities ). At the same regardless of experience to be an appropriate means of time, we will strengthen our follow-up system in response measuring the completeness of work manuals, we will work to equipment risk assessments in order to reduce risk levels. towards the goal of not allowing new employees with less We will conduct open work observation for the purpose of than three years of experience to be injured. Activities at Yokohama Rubber Group companies SAS Rubber Companyʼs initiatives SAS Rubber Company, which manufactures train and bus window seal materials, various rubber cover materials, and automotive hoses, is actively involved in safety activities, including internal safety audits, hands-on safety drills, countermeasures in response to major disasters at other plants, and the adoption of risk assessment programs. SAS Rubber Company also actively conducts 2S actives (seiri and seiton, or sorting and straightening) in the same manner as in Japan to promote the efficient and safe use of space within plants. On site, these activities are implemented under SAS Rubber Company employees and their families the name of 3S (safety-first, seiri, seiton) + 3P (promise, profit, persistent). 23 7 Pillars of Critical Issues for Yokohama Rubber to Address Safety and Quality of our Products and Services Stance and policy 3/7 We contribute to society by planning, designing, producing, and selling attractive products for the satisfaction of our customers while maintaining a quality assurance system in all of our processes, including service. To this end, we will conduct systematic activities to ensure that all the basic steps in our quality assurance activities function properly. Number of graduates We aim to improve the skills of our employees by holding from quality training New for FY2011 hierarchal quality training programs for executives at 73 programs at domestic production plants. The framework requires employees production plants assigned to new posts to receive training.(Domestic (Tire sectors) production plants) KPI We aim to improve the skills of service engineers New for FY2011 through a three-rank certification program. The ranks are Number of certified 111 beginner for engineers without hands-on experience, service engineers intermediate for engineers with the ability to assess (Tire sectors) complaints made, and advanced for engineers with the ability to independently conduct all the work required. Ensuring that only high-quality products are provided to customers Employee training to ingrain quality management for the establishment of a quality assurance systeme The Yokohama Rubber Group places much importance on quality training. In particular, we aim to improve the skills of engineers through hierarchical quality training at production bases focused on management positions that involve quality control. This training aims to create awareness towards quality and provide the required skills based on the applicable work role. During FY2011, there were 73 new graduates from quality training programs at four domestic production bases. In the future these training programs will be incorporated at our business locations overseas while taking into consideration various local cultures and corporate climates as we strive to instill a standardized approach to quality management throughout our global operations so that we can provide higher-quality products to customers around Confirming issues at the workplace through training the world. 24 Ensuring that the customer's perspective is always considered in the provision of high-quality service Implementing and improving Yokohama service engineer training throughout the world By constantly providing service in consideration of the customer's perspective, the Yokohama Rubber Group aims to become a company with extremely high customer Safety and Quality of our Products and Services satisfaction levels and market presence. To this end, we are implementing and improving service engineer training throughout the world. During FY2011, there were 111 new graduates from quality training programs. As part of this program, at the Tire Service Training Center that was established in Thailand in October 2011, a test course program using actual vehicles was added to the previous training program to provide a hands -on experience of tire and vehicle Hands-on training with actual vehicles at the Tire Service Training Center characteristics so that more practical service in line with the customer's perspective can be provided. In the future, we will increase the number of training programs as we take steps towards developing Yokohama service engineers throughout the world. A training program participant I am sure that it is important to ensure appropriate resolution of all tire related technical inquiry with respect to customer satisfaction and the commercial goals of the company. In fact, I attended Advanced Technical Training Course in Thailand. Through the technical training, I realized that the program gave us a chance not only for learning all aspects of tire technology and manufacturing process, but also for obtaining practical tire service knowledge with damage tire inspection and test driving. The experience of technical training programs helps to provide good quality service for our customers as well as to support sales activities for internal staffs. Besides the technical aspects, it was a rich experience sharing experiences with our colleagues in other markets. These experiences will help us to understand many other Andres Antonio Castro aspects, reaching the most important goal for us: “the satisfaction of our customers Product Manager and high quality service”. Yokohama Iberia, S.A. (Spain, Portugal) Conducting workshops for dealers and construction companies that handle multi-business products Because the Group's multi-business products are industrial products, many of them require special skills and knowledge for proper handling. For this reason, regular training is provided on the characteristics and handling methods of these products for the employees of dealers and construction companies that handle them. In this manner, we aim to facilitate the selection of the products that meet the customer's requirements and the provision of prompt and adequate support in the event of defects. In the future, we will speed up the establishment of our technical service system overseas to support the globalization of our business as we implement product improvements based on an accurate understanding or market conditions and feedback High-pressure hose fitting assembly instruction to the relevant departments. Through these initiatives we aim to become a company workshop capable of continuously providing products that satisfy our customers. FY2012 issues and targets From FY2012, we have revised out CSR and environmental common benchmark to evaluate activities in the process of promotion framework, and accordingly the CSR Council is planning, design, production, and marketing of attractive to conduct overall reviews of quality insurance throughout products that will satisfy our customers. In addition, we will the Group. We will implement uniform activities throughout constantly strive to improve our quality assurance system in the Group through the establishment of a quality assurance all processes, including service provision. system for all processes. To achieve this, we will use a 25 Human Rights and Labor Practices 7 Pillars of Critical Issues for Yokohama Rubber to Address 4/7 We will create an environment in accordance with our management policy of creating a workplace to value, improve, and energize people, where each of our ever-diversifying personnel can equip themselves with the Stance and necessary skills and perform by utilizing their capabilities to the fullest. policy Also, we aim to create a workplace where our employees can realize a Human Rights and Labor Practices work-life balance. We will continue to raise the awareness of our personnel so that they can perform on the global stage and are capable to deliver the business strategy of GD100 and various technical strategies. From April 2011 to March 2012, the total employment rate of people with disabilities was 1.77%. Afterwards, six new employees with 1.77 Employment rate disabilities were hired on April 1, 2012, resulting in an employment rate of people with of people with disabilities of 1.94% for April 2012. With the recognition disabilities ％ of Yokohama Peer Support Co., Ltd. as a special subsidiary for promoting the employment of people with disabilities, a rate of at least 2% is KPI expected to be achieved for FY2012. Total of The Group allows the taking of up to 10 days of maternity leave when 615 Days of maternity an employee or the spouse gives birth, up until the child reaches the leave taken age of one. Between April 1, 2011 when this system was established and days March 2012, 120 employees took maternity leave, for a total of 615 days. Promoting the employment of people with disabilities Up until now new employees with disabilities have been hired on a regular basis for mainly work within our existing operations that could be conducted regardless of their handicaps. In addition, we have now begun to develop new forms of work to increase the employment of people with disabilities. From 2011, we started accepting interns from special support high schools on the assumption of future employment. Two out of seven of these interns that were accepted between April 2011 and March 2012 were employed in April 2012. Supporting the development of the next generation In the past, male employees were able to take two days of paid maternity leave and up to one year of unpaid maternity leave upon the birth of a child. On April 1, 2011, rules regarding maternity leave were changed to allow 10 days of maternity leave to be taken until the child reaches the age of one. This change resulted in an increase in the number of days of maternity leave taken as well as the number of employees that took maternity leave (for FY2010 104 employees took a total of 193 days of maternity leave). FY2012 issues and targets Securing stable employment for people with Supporting the development of the next disabilities generation Although we did not reach the legally required rate of The increase in the number of days of paid maternity 1.8% during FY2011, we plan to secure an employment rate leave is an improvement that was conducted faithfully of people with disabilities of at least 1.8% for Yokohama in response to the needs of employees. We believe that Rubber (non-consolidated) for FY2012. By constantly it is important to develop systems based on a proper working in activities such as the operations of Yokohama understanding of employee needs in this manner. Peer Support Co., Ltd., we will strive to create a workplace so that all our diversified personnel can perform to the fullest. Establishment of Yokohama Peer Support Co., Ltd. at the Hiratsuka Factory The special subsidiary Yokohama Peer Support Co., Ltd. was established on December 9, 2011. Operations commenced from March 2012 and on May 30, it was recognized as a special subsidiary for promoting the employment of people with disabilities. Fifteen disabled employees, mainly with mental disabilities, conduct beautification work, such as cleaning and planting, and mailing and shipping work at the factory. In addition, as a catering service for employees, the sale of coffee and bread made at the Hiratsuka Disabled Persons Community Center is planned. The subsidiary also provides cleaning services at our headquarters. In the future, there are plans for the subsidiary to increase the number of employees to 30 and expand its operations to include cleaning and beautification work at Yokohama Rubber plants throughout the country, the delivery of tire sales promotion tools, and the preparation of business cards for all Group companies. 26 Credibility with our Business Partners 7 Pillars of Critical Issues for Yokohama Rubber to Address 5/7 In order to realize GD100, we will conduct our procurement activities in accordance with the belowmentioned guidelines: ● Procure optimum raw materials, equipment, and construction. Stance and ● Trading with fairness and impartiality policy ● Reasonable selection of our partners Credibility with our Business Partners ● Partnership ● Compliance ● Harmony with the environment 70 In addition to the benefits of cost-effectiveness and risk Local raw materials avoidance, we promote local production for local consumption use rate in % by procuring raw materials from the regions where our plants are located as we aim to coexist and prosper with local industries. （ ） overseas plants According to our proprietary benchmark Because the ASEAN region forms one economic zone, we view that takes into consideration the number of items and weight the region as one country. By holding regular committees attended by the CSR Division KPI 6 and Procurement Division, we aim to study and promote future activities. Number of CSR Gathering information and assessing trends related to leading CSR companies Procurement Assessing and responding to supply chain conditions during earthquakes Committee per year Ensuring the purchasing code of conduct is complied with by (Held once every two months) departments involved with domestic and overseas procurement Improving compliance among business partners by holding CSR study meetings Localizing on a global scale: promoting local production for local consumption With the globalization of the Yokohama Rubber Group's business, we promote local procurement of raw materials while taking into consideration quality and costs in our aim to establish good relationships with local business partners. At Suzhou Yokohama Tire Co., Ltd. and Hangzhou Yokohama Tire Co., Ltd. in China, the local purchasing division, technical division, and procurement division have worked together to improve the local procurement rate through increased business partner adoption. As a result, even after the Great East Japan Earthquake, the supply chain was not interrupted and we were able to provide our products to customers. In the future, at our new business locations in Russia and India, we will promote surveys to develop local business partners in an aim to increase the local procurement rate. Establishing and deploying throughout the Group a purchasing code of conduct aimed at promoting equitable and fair trades The Yokohama Rubber Group is working to build relationships of trust based on equitable and fair trade with the business partners in its aim for co-existence, prosperity, and mutual development. For this reason, in addition to our previously-observed basic purchasing policy, from FY2011 we also established a system of purchasing ethics with the understanding of our purchasing managers. This system of purchasing ethics will be combined with our basic purchasing policy to form a purchasing code of conduct. We will ensure that the entire Group, including overseas subsidiaries, is aware of this purchasing code of conduct. We aim for this purchasing code of conduct to be an extremely practical code based on incidents that happened in the past at the Group and other related events that occurred at other companies. FY2012 issues and targets Promoting equitable and fair trade Localizing on a global scale: promoting local production for local consumption Up until now, we have conducted workshops for business partner liaison managers, business partners of domestic Ever since we are taking the promotion of our local business locations and CSR training for purchasing managers business partner development and local adoption activities. at overseas subsidiaries for the purpose of increasing During FY2012, in addition to activities that have been awareness of CSR both internally and externally. During conducted in the past, we will use the China Technology FY2011, a purchasing code of conduct was established as it Center within Suzhou Yokohama Tire Co., Ltd. in China, was recognized that such a code was needed for purchasing as well as an evaluation base in Japan as we promote the managers. During FY2012, we will hold workshops for the speedier adoption of local raw materials to increase the business partners of domestic business locations and ensure local raw materials use rate. In addition, we will promote the that all purchasing staffs are fully aware of the purchasing development and adoption of local business partners to code of conduct. So that the same business partner increase the local raw materials use rate at existing business workshops can also be held at overseas business locations, locations in Russia, where production was launched in during we will work to improve training activities and establish FY2012 and India, where we plan to launch business in the systems and frameworks to promote CSR activities at all of future. our business locations. 27 7 Pillars of Critical Issues for Yokohama Rubber to Address Stakeholder Communication Stance and policy 6/7 We will continue to enhance mutual understandings and credibility by reflecting our stakeholdersʼ feedback onto our corporate activities by conducting two-way communication with both of our internal and external stakeholders while providing information in a timely manner. The project aims to plant 500,000 seedlings mainly Yokohama Forever in both our domestic and overseas production sites Forest project Number of seedlings planted during the 48,980 trees by FY2017. During FY2011, we planted 136,776 trees at domestic business locations along with 96,167 trees at overseas business locations.Although we planned to year plant 45,000 trees during FY2011, we managed to plant more trees than planned. KPI The number of social gatherings held with local Number of social 2 citizens at production bases has been established as gatherings held a KPI for measuring the level of communication with with local citizens at citizens living in the areas near our production bases. production bases per year We believe that everyday communication with citizens (per year) living nearby is extremely important, particularly for production bases located in urban areas. Yokohama Forever Forest project Through this project, we hope to raise the awareness of the participants towards the environment, create fire prevention programs and forests to preserve the environment, contribute to global warming prevention, maintain biodiversity, and improve communication with the local community. One of the main characteristics of this project is that we are conducting it under the guidance of Dr. Akira Miyawaki, Plant Ecologist and Emeritus Professor of Yokohama National University.In addition to planting, most of the forest-building work is done by our own employees, their family members, and local residents, including the nurturing of soil, collection of acorns, and creation of seedlings in pots. This project was initiated in Japan in 2007 when our Hiratsuka Factory started planting trees, and the factory has now planted trees for approximately three to four years. Overseas, we plan to deploy this project on a global level, including Asian production bases in countries such as China, Thailand, the Philippines, and Vietnam; our production bases and headquarters in the US; and other business locations overseas and in Japan. We also provide seedlings to external organizations as a means of fulfilling our corporate social responsibility and have provided a cumulative total of 76,000 seedlings as of FY2011. To measure the effects of planting, we observe wild birds, conduct tests on the fixed quantity of CO2 absorption, and conduct temperature measurements at the Hiratsuka Factory. 28 Social gatherings with local residents and factory tours During FY2011, we worked to communicate regularly with local communities at each of our business locations through measures such as social gatherings with local residents and local clean-up activities. We plan to promptly respond to the requests and opinions provided by local residents at these social gatherings regarding dust, noise, odors and the idling of large-sized vehicles passing through. Stakeholder Communication The details of these activities are made available through reports from each of our business locations: URL http://www.yrc.co.jp/csr/en/data/index.html Working together with regions at business locations overseas and in Japan At business locations overseas and in Japan, we conduct activities aimed at resolving local issues, including biodiversity surveys near business location and working together with NGOs and NPOs, as well as relief activities in response to disasters. What do our stakeholders expect of us? Are we satisfying their expectations? By maintaining constant communication with all of our stakeholders, Yokohama Rubber Social gatherings with local residents Group is striving to live up to the expectations from our society. Through these initiatives, we hope to increase the vitality of local communities, our employees, and our company. FY2012 issues and targets Yokohama Forever Forest project communication with communities. In addition, we aim to We are working to prepare seedlings for the Tohoku conduct social contribution activities in 16 fields at all of Committee for Promoting Forest That Protect Lives. In this our production bases. project, the Committee has provided us with seedlings <16 fields of social contribution activities> from Tohoku, which we will act as a foster parent for two 1. Regional cleaning and beautification, 2. Blood donation, to three years and then provide to Committee-supervised 3. Social gatherings with local residents, 4. Allowing forests free of charge. facility visits, 5. Factory tours, 6. Hands-on internships, 7. In Otsuchicho, Iwate Prefecture, we are involved with the Regional disaster prevention, 8.Charity events for social gathering of acorns which we raise at our plant and use in welfare donations, 9. General solicitation of donations, the creation of Forest That Protect Lives. 10. Sponsoring regional events, 11.Working to receive commendations from regions, 12. Lifesaving classes, 13. Communication with local residents Holding local exchange events, 14.Planning environmental We aim to hold two social gatherings in a year with local events with external organizations, 15. Regional volunteer residents near our plants in order to establish regular work, 16. Cultural exchanges Activities at overseas group companies Y.T. Rubber Co., Ltd. (YTRC) initiatives Operation at YTRC in Thailand was commenced in May 2010. YTRC currently employs a total of 50 local residents. We strive to provide a reassuring workplace in aspects above and beyond the level of wages provided. There are many farms and fish and shrimp nurseries nearby YTRC, and for this reason there is a high level of interest related to the aquatic environment due to the strong impact it has on the livelihoods of local residents. As we aim for YTRC to be accepted by the region as a good corporate citizen, we thoroughly recycle wastewater from our plants and promote open exchanges with local residents by having resident representative observe our plants. The employees are on their way to conduct Some employees lost their homes following the heavy rains and floods in the late restoration activities in a boat.We are impressed at the ability of Thai people to smile even at summer of 2011. Thanks to the goodwill of a local elementary school, these workers were times like these. provided a place to live for approximately a month and a half. We would like to express our thanks for the goodwill of the local residents and construct a positive relationship with the region by providing it with the support that it needs in the future. 29 Corporate Governance and Compliance 7 Pillars of Critical Issues for Yokohama Rubber to Address 7/7 Yokohama Rubber Group is making every effort to fortify and improve the support system for corporate governance to be established in order to Stance and realize management with transparency and fairness under our Corporate Corporate Governance and Compliance policy Philosophy. Thereby, this is becoming the management body to maintain our ever evolving corporate value in order for our management to continue to win un-shakeable credibility. Number of Risk Management Committees 2 per year The Risk Management Committee is held regularly twice a year to conduct inspections on the risks held by the Group's various committees to identify new risks. KPI This new initiative was commenced in 2011. This meeting is held 1 Holding of the for compliance and legal staff members at overseas subsidiaries so Compliance that local staff can conduct compliance based on their own local laws and regulations. Although only four overseas production subsidiaries Manager Global participated on this occasion, we plan to expand the scope in the future Meeting per year to include sales companies. Holding of the Risk Management Committee At Yokohama Rubber Group, we work to remain aware of new risks and create preemptive control systems and countermeasures aimed at avoiding and preventing these types of risks. The Risk Management Committee, chaired by the Corporate Social Responsibility Division General Manager, was held twice during 2011 in May and November. We identified the risks that arose over the past half-year and verified countermeasures for the prevention of these risks in the future. Specifically, we assumed the tsunami damage that would be caused by major earthquakes strike in the Tokai, Tonankai and Nankai areas, and conducted tsunami evacuation drills at two production bases and 23 sales locations on November 24. A report was made on the risks that were confirmed and reminders relating to pertinent issues were issued throughout the Group. Initiatives aimed at strengthening our compliance system A Compliance Committee chaired by the President is held four times a year for listening to reports and holding discussions relating to compliance issues that occurred over the past three months. The contents of reports and consultations include various matters, such as suggestions relating to business operation and problems and dissatisfaction relating to human relationships, and we aim to respond sincerely to all matters in order to build up a structure worthy of the confidence of employees making inquiries. Initiatives aimed at strengthening our compliance system overseas In response to strong demands for global compliance in the conduct of everyday business operations, we have launched initiatives aimed at making homogeneous improvements to legal systems and compliance awareness at overseas subsidiaries. From 2011, the Global Compliance Meeting has been held with compliance and legal staff members at overseas subsidiaries for the purpose of sharing the Group's overall basis compliance policies and know-how on compliance activities. In the future, we plan to expand the scope of participating companies to include sales companies. FY2012 issues and targets Risk management Improving the global compliance system We will study and prepare countermeasures based We believe that it would be ideal to make homogeneous on the earthquake seismic distribution and tsunami improvements on a global level to the awareness of height assumptions that were released in March 2012. In employees towards compliance, the contents of training, addition, we will take the lessons learned from the tsunami the assessment of problems that occurred, and the ability evacuation drills that were conducted in fall 2011 and to respond. Meetings attended by compliance and legal conduct evacuation drills aimed at avoiding the newly staff members from each overseas subsidiary will be held discovered risks. continuously for the purpose of making improvements in these aspects. 30 Third-Party Opinion Continuing from the 2009 CSR Report, YRC received a third-party opinion from Mr. Hideto DeDe Kawakita, CEO of the International Institute for Human, Organization and the Earth (IIHOE). The description herein refers to the opinions based on this report, a related website (http://www.yrc.co.jp/csr/en/), and also interviews held with each personnel from YRCʼs Raw Material Procurement, Human Resources, General Affairs, and CSR division. Suffice to say, Hideto DeDe Kawakita YRCʼs various approaches toward CSR are steadily progressing with the CEO PDCA Management cycle, especially with regard to the reduction of IIHOE environmental burdens. International Institute for Human, Organization and the Earth n o i Truly Commendable Areas n i IIHOE: p ▶Regarding the Yokohama Forever Forest Project The International Institute for Human, Organization O and the Earth is a non-profit organization established y t (http://www.yrc.co.jp/csr/mori/index.html (Japanese language only)), in 1994 for the democratic and balanced development r a in only five years since the project was launched, YRC has planted more of all the lives on the earth. Although it mainly provides management support for citizensʼ groups and welfare P than 230,000 trees with sufficient consideration towards the preserving workers, the group is also heavily involved in providing d r CSR support to major companies. i h and improvement of biodiversity both in their domestic and overseas T http://blog.canpan.info/iihoe/(Japanese language only) offices. They nurtured the seedlings on their own, and not only were 78% supplied within the YRC Group in the fiscal year of 2011, but also in Japan, they have been providing more than 70,000 trees so far to municipal governments and other companies. In particular, I commend the company for playing a leading role in the strongly expect them to facilitate with that. Non-fixation of energy usage life-saving green coastal levee project planned for areas affected by the adjustable to the fluctuation of production quantity (Just-In-Time for Great East Japan Earthquake. I also truly commend this program for Energy) by going thoroughly about with the visualization of challenges contributing to society to preserve and improve forest ecosystems and and methods, and also sharing the same support system among their greeneries, without a doubt they deserve the highest standard of the divisions and overseas sites. world. Going forward, I hope that the Yokohama Forever Forest Project website will also evolve into a portal that also introduces many examples ▶As for CSR at Suppliers of similar initiatives being implemented by other companies. (http://www.yrc.co.jp/csr/en/report2012/partner/), I commend the ▶Regarding Conservation of Biological Diversity company for launching CSR workshops and developing a system by (http://www.yrc.co.jp/csr/en/report2012/environment/biodiversity.html), formulating purchasing rules. In order to more specifically and effectively I commend YRC for performing a study at its Mie Plant as well as hosting improve initiatives being undertaken by suppliers, from now on as well, employee-led workshops and briefings for the local community, based I strongly expect them to establish a supporting system to mingle with on the preliminary studies implemented at 30 of the companyʼs business them for sharing, appraisal, and problem solving of actual cases. sites both in Japan and overseas in the fiscal year of 2010. Through this ▶Regarding Improvement of Workplaces to Retain Employees (http:// initiative the company is helping to foster a correct understanding of www.yrc.co.jp/csr/en/report2012/employee/employee4.html), I ecosystems as well as the positives and negatives of the companyʼs commend the fact that 2.60% of YRC employees took the system for impact. Going forward, I hope that the company will steadily expand the paid vacation, leave of absence or shorter work hours in order to care for scope of this initiative to its other business sites. a child or family member in need thanks to the establishment of a new ▶Regarding CSR Promotion System paternity leave program. Going forward, I strongly urge the company (http://www.yrc.co.jp/csr/en/outline/group.html), while I commend the to establish an environment where employees can continue to work company for establishing interim targets up to 2017 and promoting while also taking leave, such as by introducing examples of people that initiatives using key performance indicators (KPI) based on core subjects have taken nursing care leave. In terms of mental health care, while from ISO26000, going forward I encourage the company to use targets commending the company for conducting stress screening for all of its and measures created using a bottom-up approach at its domestic and employees, going forward I hope the company will promote even more overseas sites. I also hope that the company will introduce in greater effective measures aimed at preventative care, such as establishing a detail initiatives being implemented by group companies both in hotline where employees can discuss personal problems. Japan and overseas as part of future reports. Much like the biological ▶As for the enhancement of a human resource portfolio required as diversity conservation program started at the Mie Plant, I encourage a global corporation in mid-term, I think it is good that the company greater stakeholder involvement required of ISO26000 by establishing started taking actions on the consistent evaluation process as a group opportunities for continuing dialog with NPOs and other organizations corporation for those who belong to managerial layer, meanwhile, located in communities where the company has important operations. going forward, I strongly encourage the company to accelerate its development of the next generation of executives at both its head office While Approving of Progression, Areas may need Improvement and overseas sites. ▶Regarding Reduction of Environmental Burden ▶Employment of Persons with Disabilities (http://www.yrc.co.jp/csr/ (http://www.yrc.co.jp/csr/en/report2012/environment/), while en/report2012/employee/employee5.html), I commend the company commending the company for making progress in reducing the impact for establishing Yokohama Peer Support Co., Ltd. and for establishing its products have on the environment, which includes increasing the use a system through receiving approval for special subsidiary company of recycled powdered rubber by some 40% compared to last year, at the status. I ask that the company work more proactively to achieve the same time, it is worrisome that the generation of waste material and the statutory employment rate of persons with disabilities and implement emission of greenhouse gasses have greatly increased due to recovery in measures to ensure that employees with disabilities are retained over the their production quantity compared to last year. From now on as well, I long term. Upon Acknowledgement of Third-Party Opinion We have received guidance from Mr. Hideto Kawakita, In addition, we are pushing forward with a shared CEO of IIHOE pertaining to a wide range of issues, system at our overseas sites to better visualize issues from reducing our impact on the environment to the and methods, such as Just-In-Time for Energy that social contribution activities we should implement as promotes the fluid use of energy to adapt to fluctuations a company and our assistance in the wake of the Great in production volume. East Japan Earthquake. As for improving workplaces to retain employees, With regards to reducing our impact on the we will establish an environment where employees environment, we are continuing to reduce the can continue to work while taking leave, a hotline to environmental impact of our products by among other provide more effective mental health care services, and Kinya Kawakami Director and Managing Corporate things further increasing the amount of recycled powder measures that ensure employees with disabilities are Officer, General Manager. rubber used in our tires and products. retained over the long term. Corporate Social Responsibility Division 31
