2011-2012 OAKRIDGE’S ANNUAL REPORT FOR GLOBAL COMPACT 2011-2012 In July 2011, Oakridge joined the United Nations Global Compact. The CEO has explained this Oakridge commitment to all the employees during the annual “Garden Party”, in March 2012. A voluntary employee has been then nominated “COP Manager”. We have already communicated to all our stakeholders and we communicate to our future customers. In accordance with our investigation perimeter and our international development, we have analysed all the principles and we have concluded that we can justify of future actions for 6 principles. The 4 others are, for the moment, out of our perimeter of intervention (cf. Table under). The first semester of 2013 will be dedicated to analyse these actions done during the end of 2012. OAKRIDGE’S ANNUAL REPORT FOR GLOBAL COMPACT 2011-2012 HUMAN RIGHTS Principles Actions Status/Deadline Principle 1 We will check which commercial Businesses should support and respect the partners have signed the UNGC or have September Discussed Decided PLANED On-going Done protection of internationally proclaimed undertaken others similar commitments 2012 human rights regarding principle 1. Principle 2 In our current perimeter of intervention, Make sure that they are not complicit in we are not concerned by this principle. human rights abuses. OAKRIDGE’S ANNUAL REPORT FOR GLOBAL COMPACT 2011-2012 4/7 LABOUR Principles Actions Status/ Deadline Practical actions : 1-Our employees got elected staff representatives. They make monthly meeting with the CEO to tackle any Principle 3 Discussed Decided Planed On-going DONE subjects that could improve their global Businesses should uphold the freedom of situation. During this meeting, staff association and the effective recognition of representatives speak in name of the the right to collective bargaining employees. 2Organize new election of staff December Discussed Decided PLANED On-going Done representatives 2012 Principle 4 In our current perimeter of intervention, The elimination of all forms of forced and we are not concerned by this principle. compulsory labour Principle 5 In our current perimeter of intervention, The effective abolition of child labour we are not concerned by this principle. Practical actions : Principle 6 We will check which commercial September The elimination of discrimination in respect partners have signed the UNGC or have Discussed Decided PLANED On-going Done 2012 of employment and occupation. undertaken others similar commitments regarding principle 6. OAKRIDGE’S ANNUAL REPORT FOR GLOBAL COMPACT 2011-2012 5/7 ENVIRONMENT Principles Actions Status/Deadline Practical actions : Principle 7 Apply a precautionary approach in the September Businesses should support a precautionary Discussed Decided PLANED On-going Done supply chain by including specific 2012 approach to environmental challenges criteria in the purchasing process Practical actions planed to take : 1Consider environmental impacts September when purchasing office items : including Discussed Decided PLANED On-going Done 2012 specific criteria in the purchasing process 2 Adapt heating system command to Discussed Decided Planed ONDone December working hours. GOING 2012 Principle 8 3 – Keep Wireless Antenna off while not December Undertake initiatives to promote greater DISCUSSED Decided Planed On-going Done environmental responsibility necessary 2012 4 – Ask our UNGC signatory clients to July authorize our employees using their Discussed Decided PLANED On-going Done 2012 company transportation network 5 – Instead of classic gifts vouchers for Christmas and new year holidays, assess December DISCUSSED Decided Planed On-going Done the possibility to offer our employees 2012 “green” gift vouchers. Principle 9 In our current perimeter of intervention, Encourage the development and diffusion we are not concerned by this principle. of environmentally friendly technologies. OAKRIDGE’S ANNUAL REPORT FOR GLOBAL COMPACT 2011-2012 6/7 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principles Actions Status/Deadline Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption Practical actions : December Discussed DECIDED Planed On-going Done in all its forms, including extortion and Write a charter 2012 bribery. OAKRIDGE’S ANNUAL REPORT FOR GLOBAL COMPACT 2011-2012 7/7
