Saita (Pakistan) Pte Ltd United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress for the Year 2012 Message from the Chief Executive Officer: We would like to take this opportunity to express our continued support for the world‟s largest corporate citizenship and sustainability initiative and its ten principals related to its four core areas: human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to the implementation, disclosure, and promotion of the ten universal principles and making it an integral part of business strategy, day-to-day operations and organizational culture; we have incorporated the Global Compact and its principles in the decision-making processes of the highest-level governance body (i.e. Board) and contribute to broad development objectives including the Millennium Development Goals. We have also integrated in our COP a description of the ways in which we have implemented the ten principles and will promote the Global Compact and the case for responsible business practices through advocacy and active outreach to peers, partners, clients, consumers and the public at large. Saita‟s code of conduct has been reviewed and updated and we have revised our HSE & CR policy, our HRM policy, our environment policy and anticorruption policy and incorporated each of the four issue areas in Saita‟s code of conduct. Furthermore, we would also like to express our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principals. ____________________________ Pirzada Mohammed Ajmal Farooqi Chief Executive Officer SAITA PAKISTAN PTE LTD Principle-1 Protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights. Actions  Implemented SA-8000 and other related international third party certifications.  The company has a procedure or process for receiving and responding to health and safety complaints, such as designating a health and safety representative or committee.  The company provides its staff with competitive remuneration packages according to the national policies and procedures.  The company ensures, by proper investigation, that it does not use labour from agencies or firms involved in trafficking, debt bondage, or kidnapping.  The code of ethics document is signed by all employees.  The company has a procedure or process for receiving and responding to health and safety complaints, such as designating a health and safety representative or committee.  We ensure our employees a safe and healthy working environment.  Risk assessments, fire drills and mock drills are conducted on regular basis.  The company ensures that employment contracts are fair, transparent, and understood by the workers.  All workers are allowed to leave company premises at the end of their shifts.  The company pays a living wage and does not compel workers to engage in a cycle of salary advancements in order to meet living expenses.  Trainings such as defensive driving, fire fighting, first aider, medivac and job specific trainings are conducted on regular basis.  All equipment being used are safe and third party certified.  Workers and managers are trained to respond to workplace emergencies and first aid kits are readily available. Outcome  Company has led to be an attractive employer in the job market.  Company has become more attractive as a client for contractors, suppliers and other business partners.  Maintaining a diverse workforce has made the company better equipped to compete in the global economy.  Employees have become more motivated, leading to increased productivity and higher retention rates External Measures  Protecting economic livelihoods of local communities.  Compliances with the international guidelines and standards while using security services for site operations.  Hiring labor from the local communities.  Preventing force able displacement of Individuals, group and communities.  Purchasing commodities from the local communities. Principle-2 Not complicit in human rights abuses. Ethics Actions  The company distributes a prevention policy on workplace violence and harassment, which notifies employees of their obligations to refrain from violent, threatening or abusive conduct toward others.  The company has a mechanism to receive reports of workplace violence, harassment and threats, which is specifically designed to competently address all types of workplace misconduct, including sexual harassment.  Saita pursues the highest standards in ethics, morals and values.  The code of ethics is reviewed and signed by all employees on yearly basis.  Managers are trained to use appropriate management techniques, including proper disciplinary measures, and instructed to refrain from harassing, violent, threatening and abusive conduct.  When there is sufficient evidence that an employee has engaged in an act of violence, the company reports the individual to the appropriate government authority.  The company promptly addresses stress and tensions (such as racial tensions) in the workplace which can later lead to abusive, violent or harassing conduct.  Human rights assessments are carried out.  Records show that the company systematically and objectively reviews any complaints filed and implements corrective action if necessary.  Human right policies are available for the protection of workers.  Monitoring system is available to make sure human rights policies are implemented.  Explicit policy is available for security arrangements to make sure human rights are not violated. External Measures: Actions:  Internal audits are conducted according to the standard operating procedures of human rights abuse.  We encourage our associates and business partners to comply with the ISO-9001, ISO14001, OHSAS-18001 and the SA-8000 certifications. Principle-3 Freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Actions  Management meets regularly with employee representatives to discuss work-related problems and any grievances employees may wish to raise.  The company believes in the freedom of opinion and expression of all stakeholders within the organization.  The company recognizes workers organizations for collective bargaining purposes.  The company does not discriminate or take adverse actions against employees in retaliation for exercising employee rights, participating in union activities, or reporting suspected legal violations.  The company engages in collective bargaining and holds regular consultations with authorized workers‟ representatives concerning working conditions, remuneration, dispute resolution, internal relations and matters of mutual concern.  The company allows worker representatives reasonable access to the company documentation needed to fulfill their duties; negotiate with the company, and ascertain the performance of the company regarding relevant matters.  The company provides reasonable notice of impending changes in operations that will affect employment at the company, such as anticipated mergers and layoffs.  The company does not use military actors to discourage strikes, intimidate workers, or interfere with the exercise of employee rights.  The company takes efforts to protect employees from union-related harassment by other workers. Principle-4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Workplace Actions  Either party can terminate employment contracts within the notice period.  Providing employment contracts to all employees in various languages stating the terms and conditions of service, the voluntary nature of employment and the freedom to leave.  The company has a policy prohibiting forced labour in its various forms, such as debt bondage, compelled involuntary overtime, forced prison labour and trafficked labour.  Forced labor and child labor is prohibited within the sphere of our influence.  All workers are allowed to leave the employ of the company after reasonable notice.  The company does not require workers to lodge money deposits with the company.  The company does not withhold wages or threaten to withhold wages to compel overtime (or work itself), but makes payments on a regular basis, and in a timely manner.  Company records demonstrate that the company immediately grants letters of release whenever the letter is needed for an employee to retain a job elsewhere.  Exit interviews are taken for feedback and necessary action are taken accordingly.  All workers are allowed to leave the employ of the company after reasonable notice.  The company provides a clear policy of national standards against forced labor.  Ensures all company officials have a full understanding of forced labor.  Prohibiting policies and procedures where workers launch financial deposits while being hired.  Company strongly prohibits forced labour, compelled overtime, human trafficking or debt bondage.  Closely monitoring supply chain and sub contracting arrangements. Community of operations Actions:  All associates and business partners are internally audited according to the International policies of forced labour.  Awareness program are conducted regarding all forms of Forced labour. Principle-5 Businesses should uphold the affective abolition of child labour. Workplace Actions  The company requires candidates to provide copies of birth certificates or other official forms of identification to verify their age before being hired.  The company is in compliance with SA-8000.  Hiring managers are aware of the forms of identification forgery commonly used in the country of operation and they are able to spot such forgeries.  Internal audits are done regularly in order to comply with the International child labour policies.  The company does not hire any person under the age of 18 to perform work that interferes with their education.  The company does not hire or contract workers under the age of 18 to perform work that exposes them to psychological, emotional or sexual abuse. (II 3(a), International Labour Organization Recommendation 190)  To tackle with fake documents (birth certificates) the company has a procedure for estimating the age of employment for young candidates, such as average height or knowledge of historic events.  Workers are subject to medical examinations to ensure their fitness for the form of employment they are to undertake.  Policies and procedures are followed according to International standards abiding to child labor.  The company does not hire or contract workers under the age of 18 to perform work in an environment which exposes them to “hazardous substances, agents or processes or to temperatures, noise levels, or vibrations damaging to their health.” (II 3 (d), International Labour Organization Recommendation 190).  The company does not hire or contract workers under the age of 18 to work underground, under water, at dangerous heights or in confined spaces.” (II 3 (b), International Labour Organization Recommendation 190)  Influencing measures are taken with sub-contractors, suppliers and another business affiliates to combat child labor.  The company does not hire or contract workers under the age of 18 to work with dangerous machinery, equipment and tools, or to manhandle or transport heavy loads. (II 3(c), International Labour Organization Recommendation 190).  Using adequate and verifiable mechanism for age verification in recruitment procedures.  Taking measures to ensure that wages paid are meeting the needs of their families. Community of operation Actions:  Awareness programs of international child labour are conducted regularly within the sphere of our influence. Principle-6 Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Equal Employment Opportunity: Actions:  Saita has policies in place to ensure that hiring, placement, remuneration, advancement, training, discipline, retirement and termination decisions within the company are based only on objective factors, and are not connected to the gender, age, nationality, ethnicity, race, colour, creed, caste, language, mental or physical disability, organizational membership, opinion, health status (including HIV/AIDS), marital status, sexual orientation, birth, or civic, social, or political characteristics of the worker.  Saita has a method for ensuring that company benefits and services, such as sick leave, holiday, housing, health care, transportation etc. are provided in a nondiscriminatory manner.  Saita provides equal opportunities for employment and discourages all forms of employee discrimination.  Employment advertisements do not reference irrelevant characteristics, such as race, unless listed as part of an equal opportunities promotion.  The company does not ask applicants questions regarding their marital status, intent to have children, or number of dependents, which is sometimes used as a method to avoid hiring women because of fear that their duties at home will interfere with their dedication to work.  Non discriminatory policies and procedures are available with workers.  Women are given equal opportunities within the organization at all levels.  All employees are given special holidays in accordance with their religious customs.  Hiring and promotions are done on merit and performance basis.  Employee evaluations are done on quarterly basis and are provided professional trainings accordingly.  Providing clear company-wide policies and procedures to guide equal employment practices.  Job descriptions are clearly defined, utilized by all hiring managers, and frequently updated to ensure that employees are hired and granted promotions by the company only on the basis of the skills, qualifications and experience required for the position.  Keeping up-to-date records on recruitment, training and promotion that provide a transparent view of opportunities for employees and their progression within the organization.  Developing Grievance procedures to identify discrimination and in order to address complaints handle appeals and provide recourse for employees.  Providing staff training on „non-discrimination policies and practices‟ including disability awareness.  Establishing programs to promote access to skills development training and to particular occupations.  The company does not require applicants or employees to take pregnancy tests, get abortions, or sign agreements not to become pregnant.  The company has a method for ensuring that pay is based on objective factors and is implemented in a non-discriminatory way.  The company makes reasonable accommodations to allow disabled workers job opportunities with the company.  The company has a training program in place, where instruction is made available, without discrimination, to help workers achieve the qualifications necessary to acquire positions at all levels within the company.  Hiring managers receive training regarding the company‟s non-discrimination policies. External Measures: Actions:  Developing occupational development programs such as adult education programs, health programs and child care services.  Accommodating cultural traditions by working with representatives of workers and governmental authorities to ensure equal access to employment by women and minorities. Principle-7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Health, Safety and Environment: Actions:  The management commitment to HSE policy is prominent in the company premises showing its commitment to health and safety of all its employees, contractors and visitors and ensuring conservation within the company‟s operations and sphere of influence.  The company policy has detailed emergency procedures, prevention plans, and training programs to protect against dangers and handle emergencies.  The company has a clearly audible/visible alarm system that warns nearby communities of potential emergencies, if necessary.  The company conducts regular trainings on HSE according to the international standards.  Regular HSE inspections are conducted within the company premises and site operations.  Company has achieved ISO 14001 certification and is in compliance with OHSAS 18001.  Ensuring adequate number of fire fighters and first aiders on company premises and at site operations.  Prohibiting uncertain activities effecting the environment and taking proactive measures for its safeguard.  Developing a code of conduct for its operations and products that confirms commitment to care for health and the environment.  Creating a managerial committee that oversees the company application of precautions, in particular risk management in sensitive issue areas.  Establishing a two way communication with stake holders in a proactive and transparent manner to ensure effective communication of information about uncertainties and potential risk and action measures to deal with related enquires and complains.  Join industry-wide collaborated efforts to share knowledge and deal with issues in particular production processes and products around with high-level of uncertainty, potential harm and sensitivity exist.  Sound pollutions and gas emissions are monitored regularly through internal auditors and third-party certification regulatory bodies.  Management site visits are made quarterly to show management commitment to HSE policies and procedures and in order to encourage the dedicated workforce.  Internal HSE audits are conducted regularly to strengthen the HSE culture within the organization. External Measures: Actions:  We encourage local communities, suppliers, contractors, government agencies, and other organizations to comply with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 policies and regulations.  If the site is located far away from a hospital, the company has adequate medical resources and competent staff to provide preliminary relief and treatment to people who might suffer the consequences of an industrial accident.  We provide HSE trainings to all external contacts before and during the execution of projects.  The company has developed emergency community evacuation plans with the appropriate local, regional, and national authorities, if necessary. Community residents are clearly informed about these plans and familiar with the evacuation procedures contained therein.  Monthly environmental monitoring is carried out through external certifying bodies.  Incidental spills are handled by trained staff with the help of spill control kits to safeguard the environment.  Records show that the company systematically and objectively reviews any complaints filed and implements corrective action if necessary. Principle-8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibilities. Environmental Responsibilities: Actions:  Our policies promote conservation of resources, waste management and minimization of the release of chemicals and gases in the environment.  The company‟s emergency response procedures comply with the highest level of industry standard, or exceed the standard when necessary.  Policies are implemented to preserve and protect the environment according to international standards.  Performing monthly environmental checks, audits and trainings throughout the entire business in order to comply with the policies and procedures.  The company has achieved ISO 14001 certification (Environmental Management System) in order to develop an environmental friendly culture within the organization.  Creating vision, policies and strategies in-line with economic prosperity, environmental quality and social equity in order to achieve sustainable development.  Establishing a sustainable production and consumption program with clear performance objectives to take the organization beyond compliance in the long run.  Working with suppliers to improve environmental performance, extending responsibility up the product chain and down the supply chain.  Ensure transparency and unbiased dialog with stakeholders.  Emission aspects are identified and environment management plan is developed accordingly.  Environmental friendly training programs are conducted on regular basis. External Measures: Actions:  Conducting the third-party audit on ISO 14001 certification within the organization.  Encouraging business partners to comply with EST (environmentally sound technologies) in their business processes.  Promoting a paperless filing system and electronic communication for official use.  Tree-plantation campaigns are undertaken at all sites operated by the company in order to off-set emissions and improve environmental ambiance. Principle-9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environment-Friendly Technologies: Actions:  Implementation of Energy Efficient Projects.  The company has achieved ISO 14001 certification (Environmental Management System) and implements all its policies and procedures.  We work closely and corporately with local communities, suppliers and contractors, Government agencies and other organizations engaged in improving the environment.  Improved environmental technology can be achieved by changing the process or manufacturing techniques, further changing input materials and by reusing materials on site.  Establishing a corporate or individual company policy on the use of environmentally sound technologies.  Making information available for stakeholders that illustrates the environmental performance and benefits of using such technologies.  Refocusing research and development towards „designed for sustainability ‟.  Use of life cycle assessment in the development of new technologies and products.  Employing environmental technologies assessments.  All products used are environmental friendly and certified under the environmental Law of the country.  Examining investment criteria and the sourcing policy for suppliers and contractors to ensure that tenders estipulate the minimum environmental criteria.  Co-operating with the industry partners to ensure that best available technology is available to other organization.  Use of natural sun-light at day time to reduce electricity consumption for lighting. External Measures: Actions:  We encourage local communities, suppliers, contractors, government agencies and other organizations to implement environment friendly technologies and waste management and emission control systems.  We encourage the use of EST (environmentally sound technologies) by including them in our tendering process.  We also encourage the use of ESTs in our sphere of influence. Principle-10 Working against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Actions: Code of Ethics  The company has a written policy against unjustly influencing and bribing public officials, or engaging in any other methods that subvert the representative process of government and/or the judiciary.  Saita has zero-tolerance for all forms of corruption, bribery or extortion.  All employees are required to sign the „statement of ethics of business practices‟ at the time of joining and it is to be renewed every year.  The company has guidelines instructing employees in how to deal with bribery and corruption issues and these are made available to all employees, particularly those who are involved in legal matters relating to company business.  All employees are forbidden to give or receive gifts or bribes in order to compromise on fare business decisions and developing relationship with the company.  All employees are required to declare their assets while joining and on yearly basis.  The company sends two or more people to meetings with government officials in order to discourage practices of bribery and corruption.  Confidentiality, honesty and accuracy of information in the course of business are required by the all employees of the company.  The company is transparent about facilitation payments and actively works to eliminate them. Corporate Governance:  Comply with regulations of security and Exchange Commission of Pakistan.  All funds, assets, receipts and disbursement properly recorded in the books of the company.  The company uses internationally acceptable accounting standards to maintain transparency.  Promotes fare business practices and ensures compliance with regulatory legal requirements.  Regular checks by internal audit department are carried out to ensure implementation of procedures in compliance with company policies. External Measures: Actions:  All financial reports are properly audited by external auditors.  Quarterly briefing for financial and security analysis is conducted.  The company ensures timely payment of taxes.  Board of directors meetings held quarterly.  Media / press briefings and interviews are given on demand.  Quarterly briefings on financial statements are given to management.
