SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IT'S IN OUR HANDS. BANK HAPOALIM 2-3 CONTENTs 4-33 Introduction, summary of sustainability and CSR activities, and profile of the bank 4-6 Messages from the Chairman of the Board and the CEO 7-19 Profile, scope and quality of the report 20-27 Social responsibility, then and now 28-33 Assimilating the bank's vision, adopting responsible initiatives and promoting corporate responsibility 34-181 Detailed presentation of sustainability and CSR activity 34-105 Resource management 34-69 Logistical resources and the environment Living with the environment 70-105 Employees Quality of life and well-being 106-181 Creating value 106-151 Customers, products, and services The best interests of the client 152-181 Creating value for society and for the economy – Empowering society and the community 182-183 Ethics and compliance 184-187 The bank's profile 188-196 Corporate Governance 197-207 GRI index and Global Compact Introduction 4-5 A Message from Chairman of the Board Mr. Yair Seroussi and CEO Mr. Zion Kenan Adopting corporate social responsibility as a strategic approach and absorbing its values into the core of our business have enabled us to attain significant achievements. Support for environmental causes continued this year, taking the form of financial advice for clients as well as financing solutions for projects that promote the use of renewable energy, water desalination, and the transition to natural gas. Concurrently, the gradual implementation of the environmental risk management methodology with respect to financing has proceeded. In 2011, the bank continued to invest resources in the reinforcement of its relationship with customers and understanding of their needs, through the development of services for the full range of our customers and expansion of the use of innovative multi-channel technologies. The process of accessibilization of products, services, and branches to disabled persons has also expanded and progressed. Thorough study and analysis of our customers' needs have led us to conclude that the path to financial freedom begins with financial education. We believe that basic financial knowledge and tools for the implementation of this knowledge should be made available to the general public, to create opportunities for better financial conduct. The more financially knowledgeable our customers become and the better they manage their finances, the greater our capability to help them grow and attain long-term financial security. Towards that end, this year, the bank expanded the assistance offered to its customers in the area of customized financial advice and education. This effort is aimed at providing tools for balanced account management, promotion of prudent consumerism, encouragement of mediumand long-term Bank Hapoalim, Israel's leading bank, has made the commitment to corporate social responsibility one savings, and increased knowledge regarding the core areas of the bank's activity. of the cornerstones of its strategy. This commitment is reflected in business and operational practices through which the bank prioritizes sustainability as a value of the utmost importance and recognizes In the area of employment, we have created a long-term system for the promotion of employment of the needs of the environment; cultivates its human capital, based on a philosophy of dialogue and population groups underrepresented in the Israeli labor market, while continuing to pursue multi-year partnership; manages its customer relationships on a foundation of trust; empowers its customers internal processes promoting environmental resource savings and efficiency. and promotes financial freedom in a variety of ways, including financial education; and encourages volunteering, investment, and contribution to the Israeli community, with an emphasis on education. Over recent years, we have strengthened areas with potential for local growth and adapted to the needs of the economy and to global and local developments. We believe that small businesses are one This is the fifth consecutive year in which Bank Hapoalim has published an annual report on of the most important growth drivers of the economy, and that the development of these businesses sustainability and corporate social responsibility. This publication, which has become an integral part has a highly positive economic and social impact. Accordingly, the bank launched a program offering of our organizational tradition, is designed to inform the stakeholders of the bank about the progress more than NIS 1 billion in credit to small businesses, offering preferred terms and a comprehensive of the continued implementation of Bank Hapoalim's strategy for the promotion of sustainability and range of services, including professional and financial guidance for optimal business management. CSR issues. The current report describes the bank's achievements in these areas during 2011, and its fulfillment of its commitment during a period saturated with momentous events in both the global and As a member of the community from which it draws its strength, Bank Hapoalim invests in Israel's local arenas. society and environment through a wide range of efforts and initiatives. The bank's social investment Introduction 6-7 Message from the Head of Corporate Social Responsibility focuses on education, a catalyst of the foremost importance for the promotion of growth and equal This is the fifth report to be published by Bank Hapoalim for its stakeholders. Each report in its turn opportunities. The bank sponsors and supports extensive activities in the area of education for children surveyed a full year of activity within our overall sustainability and corporate social responsibility plan. and adolescents, with an emphasis on geographically remote regions. This year, in line with the bank's The reports reflect varied, thorough, organized, systematic action. The sustainability and CSR reports vision, a decision was made to promote volunteering at the bank through integrative management released by Bank Hapoalim describe the bank’s journey, from the inception of the plan to the present in this area. A new organizational structure has been established, promoting volunteering as a core day, to assimilate corporate social responsibility. Each report focuses on different highlights, according activity of the bank and allowing management, absorption, measurement, control, and guidance of the to the key areas of activity in the preceding year: bank's volunteering system. In addition, in a pioneering program launched this year to promote both social and environmental values, electronic and metal waste has been collected from the public, in In 2007, we described the project of initiating this activity, including in-depth diagnosis, the formulation of collaboration with local government, while employing workers with disabilities and maintaining dialogue work plans by specialized committees, the creation of infrastructure for future action, and the description with the community. of many projects in this field. These initiatives and activities, along with the many others described in the report, have earned Bank In 2008, we focused on solidifying and developing a working infrastructure and on planning numerous Hapoalim international as well as local recognition for its commitment to the values of sustainability and activities in the areas of sustainability and CSR. corporate social responsibility. As in each of the last several years, the bank earned the top rank in the In 2009, we reported on the expansion and improvement of the specialized infrastructure for the highest rating categories of international and Israeli CSR indices this year. management of the plan, and on the development of a network of relationships with those involved in sustainability and CSR in Israel. Our commitment to the values of sustainability and CSR is rooted in the bank's vision and operational philosophy. We believe that this commitment benefits the bank, its employees, its customers, and all of In 2010, Bank Hapoalim took another step forward in the process of assimilating the values of CSR and its stakeholders; and we declare our commitment to continue to pursue the course of corporate social promoting the creation of shared value for the bank and its stakeholders, in all levels of its activity. responsibility in all areas of the bank's activity as we head into the future. SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009 È˙‡‰ „Â˜‰ ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ECONOMIC, SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUMMARY ‫חברה‬ ‫וקהילה‬ ‫לקוחות‬ ‫דו ח קיימות‬ ‫אחריות חברתית‬ ‫סביבתית וכלכלית‬ ‫סביבה‬ ‫עובדים‬ 2007 ‰·È·Ò ˙ÂÓÈÈ˜ Á“Â„ ÌÈ„·ÂÚ ˙ÂÁÂ˜Ï Ω ˙È˙¯·Á ˙ÂÈ¯Á‡ ˙ÈÏÎÏÎÂ ˙È˙·È·Ò ‰¯·ÁÂ ‰ÏÈ‰˜ ≤∞∞∏ ≥π Yair Seroussi Zion Kenan Chairman of the board of directors President and CEO Introduction 8-9 In 2011, the bank focused on expanding its sphere of influence in the core areas of social responsibility, Content and Scope of the Report through dialogue with its stakeholders and initiatives for the creation of a wide range of projects. This report on sustainability and corporate social responsibility refers to the calendar year 2011, and is current as of the end of the first quarter of 2012. The report also includes objectives and plans for the For example: coming years. We believe that this report is the best indicator of our actions and plans. ■■ Continued implementation of the Bank Hapoalim Vision, based on values including sustainability The bank continues to maintain its tradition of reports at the highest level of quality, meeting all of the and financial freedom, and promotion of a broad plan for the integration of this vision; requirements of the core metrics and most of the additional metrics in the newest, most advanced reporting framework of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), G3.1, as well as all of the supplementary ■■ Improvement and expansion of the database and system for collection of information on the bank's metrics for the financial sector. real-estate properties, and processing of environmental data; This report covers the full range of the bank's material impact in the area of CSR. However, the report does not address Isracard Ltd. Isracard is a subsidiary of the Bank Hapoalim Group. The company's ■■ Management of environmental activities through the implementation of the ISO 14001 system of operations may have some sustainability impact. The company operates in accordance with sound environmental management, in accordance with the requirements of Israeli and international standards; corporate governance rules, and is managed independently. At this stage, the board of directors and ■■ Expansion of appropriate environmental conduct beyond the employees of the bank, through management of the company have not yet reached a decision to file formal CSR reports. unique projects; The process of determining the content of the report involved an identification of the target audiences and stakeholders likely to make use of the report: Bank Hapoalim employees, suppliers, ■■ Development of a work plan for the promotion of diversity of human capital; customers, analysts, community organizations, regulators, policymakers, and more. The report extensively discusses matters deemed by the bank to be of special importance for one or more of ■■ Promotion of financial freedom for customers, through online household budget management the following reasons: tools, capital-market workshops for beginners, and the newly launched personal financial planning meetings; ■■ The bank has (or may have) substantial influence in a particular area; ■■ The stakeholders of the bank accord high importance to the issue; ■■ Promotion of the creation of environmental value for customers and for the economy by developing and offering banking products in the area of sustainability; ■■ Banks that are world leaders in the area of sustainability and CSR accord high importance to the issue. ■■ Pioneering infrastructure projects designed to enlarge the bank's sphere of influence through a The scope of discussion of subjects of secondary importance is therefore narrower than the scope of campaign for environmental efficiency, collection of electronic waste from the general public, and discussion on essential subjects. All areas described in the report contain full information and were the environmental transportation project, in which shuttles to and from the financial district are given full attention. provided for employees of the bank as well as others; This year's sustainability and CSR report is distributed in a new abridged version printed on recycled ■■ Continued investment in the community through educational and other projects, organized paper, as well as in a digital format available on the bank's website, for convenient environment-friendly employee volunteer work, and contributions to the Israeli economy as a whole; distribution and reading. As part of the drive for transparency and openness continuing from earlier reports, the quantitative data are accompanied by in-depth analyses, explanations of long-term trends, ■■ Development and expansion of the dialogue with our network of stakeholders on various issues. and detailed descriptions of key infrastructure projects. Introduction 10-11 Process Controls for Implementation of the CSR Plan at Bank Hapoalim Data in the Report: Methods of Measurement, Evaluation, and Assurance An external assurance process allows readers of this report to verify the bank's self-report based Most of the data in the report were generated by the existing information systems of the bank, in on an independent opinion from a professional examiner. This year, the bank decided to expand accordance with the GRI reporting requirements and the bank’s judgment of the matters relevant the assurance process with regard to the report on sustainability and CSR. The expansion of these to our stakeholders. This year, the database was improved and expanded, and the system for the processes and the involvement of additional sources of assurance enable the bank to learn from the feedback received from those conducting the process and provide verification of the reliability of the collection and processing of multi-year data on energy and water consumption and on emissions of report for stakeholders. air conditioners was upgraded. Some of the data were not measured continuously and routinely, or were not previously available to the bank. These data were generated specifically for this report; in The current report underwent four assurance processes, each focusing on a different aspect of a small number of cases, estimates and evaluations were used. Estimates and evaluations, where the report: used, were diligently checked and validated, and are clearly noted in the report. ■■ The CSR and sustainability group at BDO Ziv Haft performed routine process control and examined We recognize the importance of auditing and external assurance of our work and of the accuracy of the the CSR implementation process at the bank; data accumulated as the plan moves forward. Accordingly, we have decided to continue to maintain ■■ Good Vision examined the fairness of the repor t, in accordance with the GRI and external auditing of the fairness of our reporting, on four levels: the corporate social responsibility Accountability guidelines; implementation process; the fairness of the report pursuant to GRI guidelines; the completeness of ■ ■ The Good Energy Initiative examined the quality of the report with regard to the bank's the report on our carbon footprint; and compliance with GRI reporting standards. GRI examined this carbon footprint; report and assigned it the highest grade of A+ for completeness and scope of content. ■■ The report was examined by GRI and found to comply with the highest reporting standards, earning The readers of this report, our stakeholders, will use it to critique and judge our performance and the extent a score of A+. to which we have met their expectations. We are committed to making use of the comments and feedback we receive from our stakeholders in order to learn from them and continue to examine ourselves. BDO Ziv Haft: Process Controls for CSR Plan Implementation at Bank Hapoalim I would like to thank all of the employees and managers involved in every level of the bank’s work, General who contribute to these activities each day, and who helped create this report. This is the sixth year in which the Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Department of the BDO Consulting Group has accompanied Bank Hapoalim in implementing its sustainability and CSR program. The group’s activities focus on monitoring the process1 and progress of the program for sustainability and social, economic, and environmental responsibility. BDO consultants’ close work Avraham Bar-Ilan with the bank allows a professional opinion to be provided based on an examination of the processes Head of Corporate Social Responsibility performed by the bank throughout 2011 and up to the end of the first quarter of 2012. Direct e-mail: avraham.barilan@mailpoalim.co.il The bank has continued to implement and assimilate sustainability and CSR values, in accordance Comments and questions can also be sent through the CSR section with the trajectory formulated following the establishment of the plan in 2008 and implemented of the Bank Hapoalim website at www.bankhapoalim.co.il/csr. in the subsequent three years. The results achieved by these activities reflect this progress. 1 Consultants in the group collected the data processed for this report. This opinion therefore focuses on the work process at the bank. In order to maintain independence, the examination for the purposes of assurance of the report in compliance with GRI requirements was performed by an independent third party, Good Vision. Introduction 12-13 Our examination of processes and outcomes indicates that progress has been made in three key Findings, Conclusions, and Recommendations areas: (1) developing data infrastructures and reporting, (2) learning and assimilating processes and legislation, and (3) examining the results of these activities. This assurance process encompassed an examination of the bank’s conduct in the implementation and integration of its sustainability and CSR plan. The process controls allow the bank to receive Description of the Process feedback and evaluation of its practices and delineate future objectives accordingly. We found that progress was made in 2011 in the three areas described above, in accordance with the The group performed process control with regard to the areas of activity of the bank, designed to established trajectory. In addition, the measured results achieved by the activities reflect this ascertain that progress is being made in the implementation of the CSR and sustainability plan. This progress. However, we would suggest five vectors to be maintained and reinforced: examination monitored the bank's progress in three areas of activity, as the basis for feedback on the implementation of the plan: ■■ Achieving shared value The bank's CSR strategy is based on four elements: customers, employees, environment, and community. In each of these areas, we have found a series of activities bringing A. Development and maintenance of the information infrastructure and metrics for corporate progress both to the bank and to its stakeholders. This year, the bank continued to develop numerous social responsibility management Consultants in the department examined the CSR management initiatives in these content areas, demonstrating a leap forward in the process of assimilating CSR system at the bank, as an area in which integrative management is essential. As part of this process, values. The endeavor to create shared value ensures continued growth and strength in this area we examined the support provided by the CSR Administration at the bank to the various units, over the long term. This trend should be maintained and expanded into additional channels, with its interaction with the units, the summarization of results, collection of information, and process an emphasis on the core business activities of the bank; optimization. In addition, we reviewed the processes of deriving information and processing the information into current metrics for the examination of the performance of the bank in the various ■■ Strategic guidance As a result of intra-organizational changes, during 2011 CSR was brought areas and in comparison to the goals and objectives set by the bank; into the work of the board of directors, under the responsibility of the chairman of the board B. Assimilating CSR and sustainability values in core activities and in the various units In this of the bank, in addition to the responsibility of the head of marketing, service, and CSR in this area, we examined the process of organizational change emerging as part of the implementation of area. Despite this change, we believe that strategic management and implementation in this CSR at the bank. In that context, we examined the relevance and added value of the various issues area could be strengthened by the establishment of a CSR committee of the bank's board for the activity of the units. We also considered the way in which these issues were being integrated of directors; into the activity of the units of the bank, and whether an ongoing learning process was occurring as a result. The control process also encompassed an examination of the method of development and ■■ Learning and integration This year, we have seen a range of socially responsible initiatives implementation of new issues arising from reports by the various units; originating with the units of the bank, rather than the CSR unit. This demonstrates the success of the process of assimilating these ideas at the bank. In view of these learning achievements, C. Examination of the results of implementation of the program (effectiveness of absorption) progress in this direction should be encouraged further, expanded in units that have carried out At this stage, we examined the ways in which the bank had improved its performance on the the initial stages, and implemented in additional units. In the area of training and development of various metrics, led new initiatives at the various units for activity in this area, developed new CSR awareness, emphasis was placed on the connection between CSR and intra-organizational banking products, and created a dialogue with stakeholders, while broadening its influence. The dialogue, through extensive use of the organizational portal as a central platform for communication examination we conducted at this stage enables us to complete the circle of process controls, in with employees. In addition, a connection was identified between Poalim Campus, as the bank's that it examined the relevance of the information and metrics generated during the CSR program training center, and training content related to sustainability and CSR. Accordingly, we recommend to the various issues raised and implemented at the various units, as well as the effectiveness of expanding CSR and sustainability activities in this area and developing specialized training courses implementation relative to the goals set in advance. in this area for all employees; Introduction 14-15 ‫ ‏‬HIRD PARTY T ASSURANCE STATEMENT ■■ Strengthening dialogue with suppliers and with the general public The period covered by Background this report was a time of fluctuations and shifts in the Israeli public's demands with regard to activities that are part of the bank's core business. The bank has begun to respond to some of Good Vision Corporate Responsibility Consultancy Ltd. was asked by Bank Hapoalim to conduct these demands through innovative savings tools and through proactive efforts to promote financial an assurance examination of its sustainability report for 2011. The company was established in freedom. Further to these efforts, and in view of decisions made during the reported period, we 2002, and has carried out dozens of consultancy studies in all areas of corporate responsibility. recommend strengthening the dialogue with the bank's suppliers, its customers, and the general Good Vision is the Israeli representative of Good Business England. Good Vision is not involved in public through proactive outreach, in order to enhance the understanding of their needs and or dependent upon business activity with Bank Hapoalim, apart from the fact that it is a customer coordinate expectations. of the bank. This assurance examination was carried out for payment, in a manner as objective and professional as possible, on the basis of information supplied by Bank Hapoalim. Good Vision In conclusion, we see a systemic effort to assimilate corporate social responsibility in the activities of has performed assurance examinations for the bank over the last four years, affording it a broad the bank. The plan is backed by an organizational infrastructure designed to contribute to effective perspective on the process of writing the report at the bank. The company’s consultants participated integration and practical attainment of significant results. The foregoing review contains several points in this process, in the areas of ethics, corporate governance, the community, and the environment. which in our opinion should be maintained and reinforced in order to improve the implementation The findings of the assurance examination are intended for publication to all of Bank Hapoalim’s of the plan and preserve the bank’s leadership in this area. Our recommendation to the bank is internal and external stakeholders. therefore to continue to follow its current trajectory for these activities. ‫‏‬Methodology T ‫ ‏‬his assurance examination employed two methodologies in order to examine the extent to which the Dr. Jonathan Menuhin report conforms to the applicable reporting requirements: GRI reporting principles and guidelines for Director of the Corporate Social Responsibility Department reporting at Level A+, and assurance principles on the basis of the AccountAbility AA1000AS (2008) standard, at Type 1 Moderate level, designed to examine the credibility of the report. BDO Consulting Group ‫‏‬T he work process The assurance examination included in-depth reading of the draft of the report and comparison of the draft to earlier reports and to reports of other companies, and meetings with the authors of the report and with the head of CSR, as well as requests for clarification and follow-up questions. In this context, it is important to note that the work was carried out with cooperation and transparency on the part of the personnel of the bank; in addition, many of the findings of the assurance examination communicated to the bank were remedied during the writing process and appear in the report. The assurance examination of the Sustainability and CSR Report of Bank Hapoalim for 2011 included examination of the report’s adherence to principles including the following: Introduction 16-17 1. ‫‏‬Inclusivity Examination of the reporting on all indicators required for Level A reporting (full and is capable of faithfully reflecting information regarding the bank’s performance in the various reporting on managerial approaches with regard to all material issues and all core metrics areas of CSR during the reported period to its stakeholders. However, we believe that it would be contained in the GRI-G3.1 reporting guidelines), and examination of the extent to which the report appropriate to accompany the expanded details noted above with descriptions of gaps and flaws, provides comprehensive information to all stakeholders and enables them to respond; which are necessary in order to create a more balanced and credible presentation for readers. 2. Materiality ‫‏‬ Examination of the extent to which the report addresses material matters for the Accordingly, our recommendations for improvement of this report and for future reporting are: various stakeholders, and establishes priorities for resolving such material issues; ■ ■ Broader presentation of the effect of the economic and social events of the reported year on 3. Responsiveness and meeting past targets Examination of the 2010 sustainability report, the bank (such as the social protests of the summer of 2011). and comparison with the present report, for the purpose of examining the bank’s progress and responsiveness; ■ ■ Details of legal claims filed against the bank and sanctions imposed upon the bank during the reported year, even if not reported in the financial statements. 4. Comparability Examination of the ability for the reader to compare the report with the reports of other banks in Israel and abroad; ■ ■ Detailed current status of issues to be addressed noted in the preceding report. 5. Reliability Examination of whether the information contained in the report is supported by documents and sources that were used in preparing the report, including clarifications and discussion of findings. ‫‏‬Findings I‫ ‏‬vri Verbin CEO Good Vision Corporate Responsibility Consultancy Ltd. ‫ ‏‬n the basis of our assurance examination, it is possible to determine that Bank Hapoalim’s O May 2012 Sustainability and CSR Report for 2011 conforms to the GRI-G3.1 Level A+ reporting guidelines and requirements. In addition, the report conforms to AccountAbility reporting principles. In the course of the assurance examination, we found that the report addresses material matters, including the core metrics, as required in GRI-G3.1 Level A reporting, including the financial sector supplement. In our opinion, the report was written in a reliable manner, with reliance on relevant data and documents. It is also our impression that CSR activity at the bank is overseen in a professional manner and is unique in the context of the Israeli economy. The 2011 CSR Report T ‫ ‏‬This report demonstrates improvement in the presentation of data in many areas, such as the environment, the community, and human resources. In our opinion, the report is written lucidly, Introduction 18-19 Carbon Footprint The Good Energy Initiative (Registered Non-Profit Association) is a social initiative devoted Summary of Findings to climate change. The organization works towards minimization of greenhouse-gas emissions, ■■ The bank monitors and calculates greenhouse-gas emissions caused by electricity consumption, which accelerate climate change, while raising public awareness of this issue. The initiative plans use of the vehicle fleet, consumption of paper and ink, emission of coolant gases, purchases of and operates projects aimed at saving energy and integrating renewable-energy technologies, electronic equipment, sewage production, new construction, and water consumption in Tel Aviv; with a community orientation. In addition, it assists public and business organizations in reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by gaining an understanding of their carbon footprint, providing guidance ■ ■ The bank monitors and measures the reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions at source regarding measures to reduce this footprint at source, and performing carbon offsets. The initiative achieved by expanding customers’ use of online banking and by recycling paper, cardboard, was founded with the assistance of the Heschel Center for Environmental Learning and Leadership, ink, and electronics; motivated by the ongoing escalation of the climate and energy crises. ■■ The reduction of emissions at source through the use of online banking is difficult to quantify, Work Method due to the lack of thorough research on this subject and the inability to measure and assess Our work is based on prevalent principles for carbon calculation and marking, developed by the the true savings in paper consumption, movement of paper through the entire supply chain to technical work group of the British government. The data were adapted to Israel through the Israel the online-banking customer, emissions resulting from customers’ use of the internet, and in Greenhouse Gas Emission Recording System Operating Rules and Reporting Guidelines, issued particular the reduced number of visits to the bank using private vehicles. This report contains by the Samuel Neaman Institute and the Ministry of Environmental Protection in March 2011. basic assumptions regarding online banking from the Pay-it-Green Alliance, which encompasses all of the major banks in North America, led by the Federal Reserve; Emission coefficients used for these calculations are national figures published by professional ■■ It should be noted that extensive activities with environmental and social significance described in entities such as the Public Utility Authority Electricity, the Central Bureau of Statistics, and the Samuel Neaman Institute, which is linked to the Technion. Emission coefficients for imported this report are not reflected in quantitative terms in the calculation of the reduction of the bank’s products or products not specific to Israel are congruent with the directives of the World Resources carbon footprint. The collection of fluorescent light bulbs, including mercury removal and safe Institute and the Department for the Environment in the UK, through the professional organization disposal, as well as the separate collection and disposal of batteries, contribute to the reduction appointed on its behalf. of various pollutants and toxins in employees’ environment, in waste-disposal facilities, and in the environment in general, but do not reduce the emission of greenhouse gases; Consumption data were supplied by the bank, at its responsibility. ■■ At this stage, the bank does not measure the emission of greenhouse gases Calculation and Reporting of the Carbon Footprint of Bank Hapoalim caused by employees’ travel in private vehicles, production of solid waste, In 2011, the bank continued to improve its carbon monitoring and reporting, further to the transition renovation of buildings, advertising, vehicle maintenance, travel by suppliers to analysis of its carbon footprint according to the prevalent international standards, effected and customers, consumption of disposable plastic, lighting elements, beverage during 2008-2010, and the reports to the Israel Greenhouse Gas Emission Recording System, containers, gardening services, and cleaning services. beginning in 2010. GRI A+ Rating Assurance The total carbon footprint of Bank Hapoalim amounted to 106,593 tons CO2e in 2010. GreenhouseThis report on sustainability and CSR was submitted to the international organization GRI. GRI affirmed gas emissions from the bank's routine operations mainly derive from electricity consumption at that the report meets the criteria for A+ Level reporting, the highest grade. In 2011, for the first time, the the head-office buildings and branches (64%), coolant gases (10.5%), and the vehicle fleet (7.8%). bank's report met the newest, most advanced GRI standard, G3.1. All of the The moderate decrease of 164 tons CO2e in the carbon footprint from 2010 to 2011 resulted from data presented in the Sustainability and CSR Report of Bank Hapoalim for more efficient electricity consumption at the bank, alongside an increase in constructed area, 2011 were taken from the database monitoring factors with an environmental including construction, renovation, and air conditioning at new and renovated branches. impact, established by the bank as part of its sustainability and CSR plan. Introduction 20-21 Social Responsibility, Then and Now Sustainability management and corporate social responsibility constitute a strategic and social Assimilating CSR Values in All Levels of Activity philosophy that is continually evolving. From the beginning, Bank Hapoalim has devoted extensive attention and resources to the various areas of social responsibility, as part of its routine operations. The three years following the creation of the sustainability and CSR plan were dedicated to formalization and regularization of the plan, in five primary organizational areas: Identifying the Need: The Decision to Apply the CSR Approach Structure and authority The sustainability and CSR program is managed based on the matrix The bank’s decision to create a sustainability and CSR program followed many years in which a management approach. In accordance with this method, the CSR officer is the integrator for this area. range of activities in areas related to social responsibility were conducted by various units of the bank. The CSR officer works collaboratively with the heads of the various units; each unit administers its For example, far-reaching efforts were undertaken in the areas of community relationships, energy authority and resources with respect to the specific aspect of CSR that falls within its duties. savings, recycling, and more. Against this background, a decision was reached, in late 2006, to collect all of the initiatives and activities in the area of sustainability and CSR into a single structure, allowing The corporate CSR officer is the strategic leader in this area at the bank, coordinating with all of centralized and organized management, adding momentum to the bank’s CSR efforts, and creating the bank’s stakeholders. Activities of the CSR officer include integration of the totality of actions a powerful critical mass. The decision positioned the bank on a par with the leading banks globally in of the bank related to CSR, overseeing methodology, tools, and professional support, controls the area of sustainability and CSR projects and initiatives. and reporting; change management and communications in this area, and building an up-to-date knowledge base. The Launch Processes, metrics, and information Measurement is a fundamental element of management, In accordance with this decision, Bank Hapoalim prepared to create and implement its CSR program. allowing goals to be set, progress to be monitored, and performance to be compared. Improvement In order to realize this ambitious goal, the bank formulated a comprehensive CSR plan under the of the measurement infrastructure allows enhanced controls to be applied to the various activities, leadership of a senior-level corporate CSR officer. The first step was to build an original model for and is aimed at promoting efficient, effective management of the sustainability and CSR program at our approach, relying on international best practices and on a large number of specific performance Bank Hapoalim. metrics defined according to the bank’s needs. In the next stage, a thorough and comprehensive diagnosis of the existing situation at the bank was carried out. Specialized teams formed as part of this The sustainability and CSR plan is implemented at the bank based on a fundamental infrastructure process discussed and validated all metrics, addressing the metrics’ significance, scope, and content, including: whether the information necessary to examine the metrics existed at the bank, etc. In addition, the specialized teams collected the necessary information in the various areas. ■ ■ Processes that gradually transform new initiatives in this area into routine activities at the Based on the diagnostic process, the situation at the bank was analyzed and compared to the desired relevant units; situation according to optimal benchmarks. This gap analysis served as the point of origin for work plans designed to respond to the findings, aimed at bringing the bank to compliance with international ■■ Clear metrics for the various issues, allowing standardization of the plan and performance analysis standards in all aspects of its activity related to CSR. over time; This stage concluded with the bank’s first CSR report, in 2007, which was assigned the top grade ■■ Extensive information collected from existing organizational systems or produced directly for the of A+ by GRI. purposes of the plan. Introduction 22-23 Broad implementation In order to bridge the gaps between CSR in Israel and global developments, government agencies, entrepreneurs in areas related to the environment and society, academia, and the decision was made to proceed rapidly on all fronts, from the earliest stages of the plan. To meet more. This web of connections enables the bank to exchange information and create collaborations this ambitious goal, the plan was implemented and administered broadly, in a top-down process, with a range of partners, thereby expanding its sphere of influence and strengthening the nationwide with the participation of many units and encouragement for units to develop bottom-up initiatives. network of elements involved in this field. A large number of projects were developed in order to realize the objectives of the plan. Each As part of this process, the bank participated in a large number of conferences, and sponsored events new activity was first carried out as a pilot project. Following the pilot and the process of drawing related to business and community affairs or environmental issues. The bank also granted support to the necessary conclusions, the many projects were absorbed into routine work processes and various websites dealing with sustainability and CSR. procedures, with the aim of achieving ongoing administration comparable to other business processes of the organization. The activities described above were carried out during the period of 2007 to 2010. At the end of each year of activity, a detailed CSR report was produced, in compliance with a strict transparency Branding, communication, and awareness In order to support change management and standard, meeting the highest level of GRI requirements. Concurrently, prior to the current report, four differentiate the various initiatives undertaken within the plan, a logo was designed for the organizing CSR reports were published (the last two reports were also released in English) and presented to the model of the plan the CSR Flower accompanied by the slogan, “Social responsibility it’s in our stakeholders of Bank Hapoalim, in Israel and internationally. hands.” In the spirit of this logo and slogan, each initiative launched as part of the plan was branded and widely communicated to the various levels of managers and workers at the bank. Activity in 2011 Subsequently, an extensive series of training sessions and talks on the topics related to the plan Sustainability and CSR activities in 2011 were devoted to broadening spheres of influence, especially was developed, encompassing sustainability issues, healthy lifestyles, safe driving, CPR training, and in the core business and operational areas of the bank, continued development and improvement of workshops on caring for aging parents, parental authority, marital relationships, dangers to children on the infrastructure targeted to the management of the plan, initiation of new activities, and development the Internet, and additional content under the heading of whole-person wellbeing. and growth of activity involving the network of people engaged in sustainability and CSR activity in Israel. In addition, in recognition of the importance of this issue, Mr. Yair Seroussi, chairman of the In addition, in order to leverage the impact of the sustainability and CSR plan with employees’ board of directors of the bank, was appointed to head the strategic guidance and supervision of families and the general public, the bank formulated and later updated a guide to the protection sustainability and corporate social responsibility. of the environment, including an extensive section on energy efficiency, and promoted this issue through a large-scale advertising campaign. The guide contains practical, useful information on The bank invested extensive efforts in activities aimed at promoting shared value for the bank and environmental subjects, and is aimed at providing the general public with tools for cost savings and its stakeholders, who are its partners in these activities. Achieving shared value is a key goal of the protection of the environment. bank’s sustainability and CSR plan, aimed at genuine realization of the win-win principle, whereby all parties involved in this process benefit in their own ways from the results of the shared activity. Basing Dialogue and collaboration with stakeholders In order to extend the activities within its CSR plan, the planning of the activities on the shared-value principle has allowed us to focus on significant action the bank sought dialogue and collaboration with external stakeholders. In this context, a comprehensive that responds to essential needs arising in a changing environment. mapping process of community and environmental organizations that were potentially relevant stakeholders for dialogue and collaboration was performed. A wide-ranging network of collaborations Dialogue and expansion of the sphere of influence of the bank's activity are key means employed and connections was formed with environmental and social experts, non-profit organizations, by the bank's sustainability and CSR plan to understand the needs of the various stakeholders, Introduction 24-25 provide a precise solution tailored to these needs, and allow work processes to be optimized, in friendly carpets, (6) expansion of environmental operations of the various initiatives for collection order to influence diverse population groups in Israeli society and work for the common good. The by employees of electronic waste, fluorescent bulbs, expired medications, batteries, clothes, and perception of dialogue as a means of planning activities allows the bank to respond to essential ink and toner cartridges, separation of cardboard for recycling, and more, (7) air-conditioner water needs that arise within its changing environment. As part of this expansion of the bank's sphere of reclamation project, (8) completion of installation of command and control systems at all of the bank’s influence, a large-scale campaign was conducted to raise awareness of energy efficiency, based on properties, (9) deployment of additional virtual servers within the Green Computers process, (10) the environmental protection guide published by the bank for its customers. In addition, an initiative efficient innovative LED lighting pilot project, and more. was developed for direct transportation for employees of the bank and other organizations, between the train stations in Tel Aviv and the financial district in which the bank's head offices and many Employees Continuation of the organization-wide program for assimilating the bank's vision, branches are located. The initiative was developed in dialogue with employees, government agencies, through employee workshops include the following: (1) development of a work plan for the promotion and other banks and companies, with the aim of generating social and environmental value. Another of the diversity of human capital and formation of closer relationships with non-profit organizations key project launched this year is a pioneering drive for collection of electronic waste in the city of and societies specializing in diverse employment, (2) increased transparency through improvement of Holon. The project combines social and environmental values, with the involvement of workers with manpower data and analysis of multi-year trends, (3) increased number of hours invested in training disabilities in the process of recycling the waste. These and other projects are described in detail in and learning at the bank's campus, and financing of academic tuition for employees, (4) internal the Community section of this report. placement of employees at all units of the bank through the Human Capital Development Center, (5) creation of a comprehensive program for improving employees' health, (6) launch of employee wellAlongside the expansion and extension of existing activity and integration with all levels of activity being websites on coping with illness, caring for aging parents, and more, (7) workshops and lectures at the bank, new initiatives were also developed during 2011. These initiatives were conducted for employees on full life cycle and social responsibility topics, and more. on various levels, from environmental resource management, management of human resources, caring for employees, and development of new products and services promoting customers’ Customers Promotion of financial freedom for customers through online household budget financial freedom and contributing to economic, environmental, and social sustainability, to new management tools, capital-market workshops for beginners, and the introduction of personal financial community projects. planning meetings include the following: (1) continued promotion of savings and financial education for children through the Dan the Saver program, (2) promotion of the creation of environmental value for New initiatives and significant activities developed and implemented during 2011 are briefly customers and for the economy by developing and offering banking products in the area of sustainability described below: (financing of power stations fueled by natural gas, water desalination plants, and renewable energy plants), (3) gradual implementation of an environmental risk management methodology in financing, Environment Additional initiatives carried out in the area of paper (Paperless Branches, Mail(4) Continued accessibilization of branches and ATMs for a wide range of population groups, including Net) include the following: (1) transition to the use of “green” office paper, (2) formalization of the people with visual impairments, (5) development of new, innovative customer-service applications in bank's environmental management system and formulation of targeted procedures, towards the direct channels, and more. overall certification of the bank under the ISO 14001 standard, (3) improvement and expansion of the database and system for collection of information about the bank's real-estate properties, Community Projects include the following: (1) A pioneering project for the collection of electronic and processing of data on consumption of energy and water and on emissions of air-conditioning waste and electrical appliances, using the resources and experience of the bank, while employing systems, (4) continued progress on approval and certification procedures in construction of additional workers with disabilities, (2) an initiative for the operation of a shared shuttle system for several branches and properties in compliance with the Green Construction Seal (5281) in Mazkeret Batya, business organizations to the Tel Aviv business district, sponsored by the city of Tel Aviv and Israel Afula, and Tiberias, (5) change in the purchasing procedure for carpeting at the bank, to environmentRailways, with knowledge accumulated during the bank's internal planning process shared with Introduction 26-27 the partners in the project, (3) tighter controls applied (through an external specialist) to reports by manpower contractors engaged in the areas of cleaning, cafeteria, and security services, measures taken according to the findings, and distribution of the ethical code to contractor employees in In 2011, a video was added to the website summarizing the bank's annual CSR activities in four languages, (4) a large-scale campaign on energy savings and efficiency, based on the bank's a concise, entertaining, user-friendly format. The video was also enclosed with all copies energy efficiency guide, distributed extensively on the Internet and on television, (5) an increase in of the report distributed on USB flash drives, and is available in English in the CSR section community aid in Israel through project financing and direct donations, (6) continued promotion of the bank's website. of strategic community projects in the area of education, such as From Three to Five and Read & The content of the CSR section of the website was prepared with the aim of reflecting Succeed, (7) promotion of volunteer activities at the bank through integrative management by the all of the sustainability and CSR activities at the bank. The most important activities are nationwide volunteering network, and more. highlighted, and links are provided to other sections of the website that offer practical tools in business areas related to sustainability and CSR, such as solar-energy financing, tools All of the new initiatives are described in detail in the relevant sections of this report. The descriptions for better financial conduct, green mortgages, and more. address qualitative and quantitative aspects, to the extent possible, as well as future objectives. During the reported period, the bank developed a feedback form designed for all stakeholders of the bank who visit the website. The feedback form invites all visitors to the site to respond to the content reported in the bank's CSR reports or presented on its website. Feedback received Transparency as the foundation of dialogue Our website as the reflection of is examined by the bank and methods of implementing the comments are considered. Bank Hapoalim for stakeholders and as a communication channel for feedback on its activities The location of this section within the website, its internal division into subsections, and The CSR section of the bank's website, at www.bankhapoalim.co.il/csr, reflects the the content itself are designed to display a full picture of the bank’s actions in the area of bank's activity in the areas of sustainability and social responsibility. The website presents sustainability and CSR, including multi-year quantitative information. The website earned an appropriate level of transparency for stakeholders with regard to events the bank first place on the Transparency Index, for the fourth consecutive time. at the bank and delivers the maximum possible amount of information, which is essential to dialogue. The CSR section of the website is constructed in congruence with the organizing model of CSR activity at the bank, the CSR Flower. This structure provides users with quick, easy access to all internal content and immediate transition between content segments. A link to Additional aspects of CSR, added in 2011, leads to other parts of the bank that conduct activities related to social responsibility. Introduction 28-29 Assimilating the Bank Hapoalim Vision Over the last two years, an ongoing process has been underway to assimilate the vision of the bank. The Bank Hapoalim Vision is comprised of ten elements: The purpose of the vision is to express the future we foresee for Bank Hapoalim at its best. The Global with a core in Israel We are, and will remain, employees, investors, suppliers, the community, and Bank Hapoalim Vision is a clear, powerful, meaningful description of our future as it can and should a leading Israeli bank. Yet in today's world, under the general public. The creation of value is based on be. The vision also provides a structured framework for charting our future course; declares our conditions of a globalized economy, a large top-tier four pillars: (1) the stability of the bank, which ensures its commitment to our customers, our employees, and all of our stakeholders; imparts meaning and a bank must engage in international activities and offer its ability to meet its obligations at any given moment and to connection with our values to the objectives and initiatives led by the bank; and empowers the bank customers globe-spanning services. Our international support the development of the economy, (2) sustainable in its leadership on the shared path to the challenges of the future. Values chosen for inclusion in the operations are an important growth driver for the long term. profitability, balancing risk and returns, (3) promotion and Bank Hapoalim Vision are intended to create an impact on the following three levels: cultivation of sustainability principles, and (4) a philosophy Leadership of the bank is mainly measured by its of genuine partnership with customers and employees. 1. Proud to belong Our focus on our customers and our financial leadership are a source of pride market capitalization, profitability, and return on equity, and foster a sense of belonging for our employees; but also by its operating efficiency, brand strength, Excellence An organizational and personal CSR activities, upholding of sustainability principles, stance leading to success, and expressing the desire, 2. Committed together The endeavor to create value for our stakeholders and our commitment to contributions to the community, and professional ethics. responsibility, and commitment to be better, through the cultivation of human capital on a path of humanity, integrity, transparency, and responsibility The bank is strong on all of these parameters, and is resolute and effective efforts. Excellence is the ambition are aimed at nurturing a personal commitment to our shared journey, in which each person acts to make the most of our inherent potential, to make working to improve and advance further. responsibly and contributes to the success of all; optimal use of available resources, and to set a high Focused on its clinets We are dedicated to 3. In it for the long haul The drive towards financial freedom for our customers, in congruence standard for performance. responding to the changing needs and aspirations of our with the principles of sustainability and in encouragement of excellence and innovation, reflects Innovation Finding and promoting new initiatives customers during each stage of their lives, while creating a long-term commitment to improvement and empowerment. that generate business value and competitive advantage, economic value for the bank and tailoring services to through processes that encourage employees to raise The concept underlying the integration of these three dimensions and the fundamental motif of the different sectors: households, private banking, small ideas and to think creatively and innovatively, throughout Bank Hapoalim Vision is: Leading Growth Together. businesses, commercial, and corporate. We believe that the bank. This effort is aimed at improving processes our focus on our customers is the key to our success and systems, developing new products and services, over any period of time. The Bank Hapoalim Vision and promoting business initiatives. Financial freedom This concept represents the Developing human capital The bank believes To b e a l e adin g gl o ba l fin a n c i a l insti tu ti o n, freedom and will of our customers and employees to that the human capital of any business organization is headquartered in Israel, focused on its customers make good choices, based on their personal preferences, one of its most valuable assets. The bank considers its and working towards their financial freedom. while taking responsibility for and understanding the employees to be partners, maintains a relationship with financial capabilities and possibilities open to them. To c re ate va l u e fo r o u r s t a ke h o l d e r s w h i l e them based on mutual trust and respect, and strives to upholding the principles of economic, social, and Sustainability principles Represent and reflect enable them to succeed and to provide them with tools environmental sustainability. environmentally conscious business conduct aimed at for professional and personal development. preserving and enhancing existing resources and achieving To cultivate human capital and encourage excellence Fundamental principles: humanity, integrity, economic, social, and environmental balance for our own and innovation. transparency and responsibility These values sake and for the sake of future generations. The bank embody the ethical and moral standards and principles To base our actions on the core values of compassion, believes that the adoption of these principles supports its that are the cornerstones of our organizational culture, integrity, openness, and accountability. objectives and increases its value for the long term. reflecting the way of life and rules of appropriate conduct Creating value for stakeholders The essential of the bank. We will uphold these values in our work The vision consists of ten values. Practical applications of these values are demonstrated throughout mission of a business enterprise is to maximize its value relationships with each other, and in our connections the sections of this report. in a way that serves all of its stakeholders: customers, with customers, suppliers, and the community. Introduction 30-31 Adoption of Responsible Initiatives, Promotion of Partnerships, and Transparent Reporting Throughout the years the bank has joined partnerships and initatives as follows: The bank is committed to its partnership with organizations working towards sustainability and CSR, and has adopted international standards of responsible conduct: 2011 Global Sullivan Principles of Social Responsibility The bank adopted these principles as early as 2004, in the belief that the implementation of the principles would help achieve greater 2010 tolerance and understanding among peoples and promote a culture of peace. Maala Bank Hapoalim joined Maala in 2006 as a member of the organization’s business leadership. In ratings assigned by Maala for 2012, based on reported data for 2011, Bank 2009 Hapoalim was ranked at the top of the Platinum Plus class, the highest rating category. UN Global Compact During 2010, Bank Hapoalim joined this UN initiative aimed at promoting 2008 economic development that is beneficial for the community and for future generations. FTSE4Good The bank was added to the worldwide FTSE4Good index in the first quarter of 2007 2011, with the maximum score. FTSE4Good is considered a leading global index of sustainability and responsible investment. Voluntary reporting system on greenhouse-gas emissions in Israel In 2010, Bank Hapoalim 2006 was one of the first organizations to join the voluntary system for recording greenhouse-gas emissions. This system is a joint initiative of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Manufacturers’ Association. 2004 Business transparency index Bank Hapoalim has led this index for all four consecutive years since its launch. The transparency index examines the degree of social and environmental transparency of the 100 largest publicly traded companies in Israel. 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Introduction 32-33 Looking ahead The sustainability and corporate social responsibility program continues Finally, the bank plans to support the strengthening of the social responsibility network to be a part of the strategic core of Bank Hapoalim. The program is in Israel non-profit organizations, academia, government agencies, local government, ongoing, and encompasses organizational infrastructures, information and and other professionals thereby contributing to the promotion and development of measurement systems, milestones, and controls, constituting an element sustainability and CSR in Israel. This report presents detailed descriptions, addressing of the bank's long-term vision. As extensively illustrated in the CSR report, each dimension, of the key activities performed and planned at the bank. structured work plans and planned future activities have been formulated. At the same time, within its emphasis on innovation and entrepreneurship, the bank works to identify original ideas in this field and to bring these concepts to fruition through pilot projects. The projects are designed to test the feasibility of the ideas in light of societal, environmental, and ‫‏‏‬ EMPOWERING THE SOCIETY THE CLIENT'S WELLBEING economic considerations. Following the testing period, ideas that prove AND COMMUNITY IS IN OUR HANDS successful on these parameters are implemented broadly across all units IS IN OUR HANDS C ‫ ‏‬LIENTS, PRODUCTS AND SERVICES ‫‏‬CREATING VALUE FOR THE ‫‏‬Value creation for customers: of the bank. ECONOMY AND SOCIETY • ‫‏‬Answering the client's needs throughout the life cycle • Providing ‫‏‬ accessibility to a variety of services The bank intends to continue to expand the activities conducted within the ‫‏‬Value creation in distant circles of regardless of time and place influence • Service, ‫‏‬ complaint management and customer sustainability and CSR plan, on all dimensions, and to further enlarge its • Suppliers satisfaction sphere of influence, with continual examination of the progress being achieved • Community • Green ‫‏‬ products and services • Local economy • Credit ‫‏‬ based on environmental considerations globally in this field. Bank Hapoalim believes that corporate responsibility • Designated ‫‏‬ service for special populations • Enriching ‫‏‬ the financial knowledge of the customers begins within the organization itself; this philosophy must be expressed first ‫‏‬VALUE and foremost in the bank’s internal conduct, its responsibility towards its CREATION employees, and its responsibility towards the environment. The bank plans ECHELON to strengthen and implement these values as extensively as possible. ‫‏‬R ESOURCE MANAGEMENT Concurrently with its continued progress in the area of resource management ECHELON and multi-year measurement, the bank will sustain its efforts to expand its business activities and identify new opportunities to create combined ‫ ‏‬IVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT L ‫ ‏‬MPLOYEES' WELLBEING E IS IN OUR HANDS IS IN OUR HANDS business value for the community and the environment. Examples include R ‫ ‏‬ESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL ‫ ‏‬ESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE R the wide range of activities designed to promote customers' financial BEHAVIOUR EMPLOYEES freedom; expansion of the electronic waste collection drive in Israeli cities, M ‫ ‏‬anaging logistical resources while Dialogue, sharing and transparency considering the environment: Energy • An arena for personal and professional with the employment of workers with disabilities; and leadership in providing efficiency, paper consumption, recycling and development financing solutions for projects that promote environmental causes, in areas waste management, water, green building, • Solidarity and friendship transportation, working environment, • Wellbeing of the employees and their family such as renewable energy, energy efficiency, water desalination, and more. ergonomics etc. • Equal opportunity The bank intends to continue to develop and expand the positive impact of its sustainability and CSR plan, and to leverage this influence through its employees’ families, its customers, and other stakeholders. Knowledge imparted to thousands of people helps them while also making them partners for change in the broad circles of their social networks. OPERATING PROACTIVELY LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 36-37 Environmental Policy In recognition of the bank's social responsibility and the importance of sustainable environmental of environmental damage, and acts accordingly. No substantial fines or sanctions have been imposed policies, Bank Hapoalim has formulated a comprehensive, formalized policy in this area. The policy was upon the bank for violations of environmental laws or regulations. delineated by professional bodies and constitutes an integral part of the strategy of the bank. Coping with Environmental Effects ■■ The bank views the protection of the environment as a social value, managed as an inseparable Banking products have an inherently low direct environmental impact, as they primarily operate in an office component of its social responsibility; setting and take the form of services. Nonetheless, Bank Hapoalim strives to minimize this impact. ■■ The bank recognizes that natural resources are an asset of the public, the community, and future This section describes the bank’s approach to the management of environmental resources (such as generations, in accordance with the principle of sustainable development; paper, energy, and water) and to waste management and the prevention of pollution (paper, batteries, ■■ The bank seeks to achieve the proper balance between economic development and protection of the vehicle emissions, and more) the main direct environmental impacts of Bank Hapoalim. In addition, environment in its business decisions; we address the expansion of public awareness of environmental issues and of the environmental costs ■■ The bank complies with environmental regulations and laws, and adheres to the directives of the and effects of banking products. organizations charged with protecting the environment; The bank involves its employees in this process both through internal changes in environmental practices and through the attempt to maximize the impact of its overall environmental activities, in the hope that ■■ The bank diligently endeavors to prevent environmental damage; its employees will become agents for change in their own right. In accordance with its worldview, the ■■ The bank is committed to managing its environmental impact in a manner that ensures continual bank aspires to rigorously manage its direct environmental impact, with employee involvement whenever improvement, by setting measurable targets and monitoring the achievement of its objectives; necessary, after the infrastructure for appropriate environmental conduct has been established. The ■■ The bank will continually measure its impact on the environment in all significant respects, and will bank engages employees in these processes based on the philosophy that their participation is essential strive to understand ecological consequences and make decisions accordingly; for success. In addition, the bank seeks to extend its influence on environmental conduct to employees' homes; the bank's employees together with their families number in the tens of thousands. Towards ■■ The bank will collaborate with other companies and public entities to promote environmental causes; that end, the bank strives to supply its employees and their families with information and tools to enable ■■ The bank will work to assimilate environmental education among its employees, and will initiate and them to be greener when driving, recycling, saving energy, and more. This enlarges the bank's sphere participate in community projects. of influence, so that its environmental effect encompasses a growing range, progressing from its internal environment to the external public environment. The bank recognizes the added value associated with the implementation of this environmental policy, on two main levels: The bank encourages extensive use of its products through online means, thereby improving service quality while reducing environmental impact. A multitude of channels are currently available to ■■ The integration of environmental values with the economic values of efficient use of logistical resources customers at any place and time, so that a substantial part of their activity with the bank can be generates shared value for the profit line of the bank’s financial statements and for the protection of conducted without visiting a branch. 2011 saw a substantial increase in the use of computerized and the environment; online channels such as the call center, the bank's e-banking website, smartphone ■■ A policy of environmental responsibility makes it possible to improve the work environment and tablet applications, the Mail Net service, and more. As noted, this trend leads contributing to better quality of life for employees at work and higher workplace satisfaction. to minimization of the environmental impact of banking products in that it frequently eliminates the need to visit a branch of the bank (reducing vehicle Obeying the Law pollution) as well as leading to paper savings (as detailed below). The bank is aware of its legal duties in connection with the protection of the environment and prevention LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 38-39 The use of bank branches also carries relatively low environmental impact, due to the broad distribution ■■ Examination of environmental effects throughout the life cycle of the resource, taking all types of of the branches of Bank Hapoalim and the extensive network of ATMs, self-service stations, and selfimpact into consideration (pollution, global warming, resource scarcity, etc.). service information delivery stations, located adjacent to and outside of branches. Customers can visit The following parts of this section focus on describing the management of the environmental resources a branch or use a self-service station conveniently, with minimal travel and environmental impact. of paper, energy, and water, the approach to green construction, management of the various types of Bank Hapoalim also takes responsibility for the indirect environmental impact of banking products. waste; and the ways in which the bank is expanding its sphere of influence in the area of responsible The Clients chapter of this report addresses the management of these environmental effects, with an environmental thinking. emphasis on services and products that promote sustainable development and generate environmental value for the economy and the general public, while also generating financial value for its customers. The Clients chapter also addresses the management of the indirect environmental effects of the ISO 14001 bank: promotion of environmental value through the bank's customers and prevention of negative effects through customers' activities. The bank promotes the creation of environmental value for its Within the bank's commitment to protecting the environment and as another customers and for the economy as a whole by developing and offering banking products in the various element in the ongoing process of optimizing and formalizing this commitment on the organizational level, the bank is in the advanced stages of implementing areas of sustainability, such as financing of gas-driven power stations, financing of renewable energy the environmental management system ISO 14001, in line with the requirements generation facilities (thermosolar, photovoltaic, pumped storage, etc.), financing of water desalination of the Israeli and international standards. This process is aimed at defining the plants, and more. In addition, the Clients chapter describes the ways in which the bank prevents the routine management of the fields in which the organization has an impact on formation of negative environmental effects through environmental risk management when granting the environment, and assimilating the prudent use of environmental resources credit. In this context, the bank has adopted an environmental risk management policy, in accordance in every activity and unit. with the directives of the Supervisor of Banks, carried out a formal training program for all relevant The ISO 14001 environmental management system promotes a method employees, and acted to assimilate advanced work processes in this area that are appropriate for a for transition to effective, efficient work processes, allows monitoring of commercial bank. It is important to distinguish between commercial banks that provide financing to compliance with all existing legal requirements in this area, and helps independent business entities and investment institutions that become interested parties and thus strengthen trust between the bank and the various stakeholders, such as bear responsibility for the activity and management of the investee entities. citizens, social and economic organizations, state and municipal organizations, From Consumption Management to Resource Management green organizations, etc. The standard provides assurance that caring for the The bank views consumable materials as resources to be managed from an environmental and business environment is a high priority for the bank. In addition, the process offers an perspective, rather than as an inevitable but undesirable component of its routine expenses. Consequently, additional opportunity to improve efficiency in resource usage and to achieve key environmental resources consumed by the bank are managed according to the following parameters: savings in inputs such as electricity, water, and raw materials. The implementation process includes identification of the substantial areas of ■■ Creation of a measurement infrastructure allowing monitoring of trends and identification of areas environmental impact of the bank; definition of work processes and controls needing improvement; in all environmental areas that are material to its activity, coordination with the ■■ Establishment of a multi-year comprehensive work plan; various functions responsible for each area; and certification from the quality and assurance institute IQC, which conducts tests and examinations for ■■ Validation of forecasts from the planning stage and analyses of variance in performance for that purpose. For each working procedure, the bank has defined a rationale learning purposes; for monitoring in that field, work methods, a survey of the relevant internal ■■ Implementation of initiatives aimed at increasing efficiency; and external stakeholders, a system of controls and reports, and details and contact information of contact persons. ■■ Partnership with employees, internal professional functions, and external stakeholders in the implementation of localized initiatives and formal work plans; LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 40-41 Management of Paper Resources The drive to reduce paper consumption at the bank continued during 2011. Special emphasis was placed on maximizing the potential for automation of processes that previously consumed paper, as well as on the transition to green paper, which is made of a combination of recycled raw material and system, the branch's copy of the document is retained as a digital file in original cellulose. This significant accomplishment was achieved through initiatives such as the Paperless the computerized archive; Branch and the Mail-Net service. The Paperless Branch project entails analysis of the bank’s paper ■■ Automation of credit forms The process of automating various manual consumption in terms of efficiency of use and examination of possibilities for reducing or canceling the credit forms, initiated in 2010, was expanded in 2011; the forms now production of forms. The Mail-Net service enables registered customers to receive account notifications include applications for a loan with guarantors. The first form automated through the bank’s website, in a mailbox linked to their online account. All of these efforts supported the is the most commonly used form: the loan application. The development trend towards paper saving. was based on an abridged version of the form, with automatic entry of customer information and other loan parameters contributing to the improvement of work processes, beyond the reduction of paper volumes. The project has substantial advantages in terms of the elimination of the The Paperless Branch 2011 need to manage a supply of forms in warehouses and in the branch network, reduction of paper due to the production of an abridged form, The Paperless Branch project is run by the Corporate Strategy Area of and savings of time and paper resources at the branches; the bank, led by the Poalim the Right Way Unit. The project is focused on the analysis of four categories of paper use: forms, reports, document ■■ Credit-card renewal Previously, when their credit-cards were about retrieval, and mailings. Current analyses of demand and of production to expire, customers were required to come to their branch to collect and distribution methods are conducted. Possibilities for reduction or a new card and sign forms. Today, the new card is mailed directly to elimination of superfluous forms are examined, subject to professional the customer, who activates the card over the telephone following an and regulatory approval, while preserving high levels of functionality and identification procedure. This process saves paper and unnecessary service. The main activities conducted within the Paperless Branch project travel, and improves customer service; in 2011 are reviewed below. ■■ Double-sided printing As part of the continual monitoring system ■■ Digital signatures Technological infrastructures were established to designed to reduce the production of various documents, including forms, allow the introduction of digital signatures at the bank, following a pilot infrastructure has been developed to make double-sided printing possible project at two bank branches. The implementation of digital signature on printers with the suitable capabilities; this feature is currently systems will allow paper savings and an improvement in service, applied to credit-card orders, leading to immediate retention of documents at a high quality without the need for printing, paper savings. Moreover, 20 printing centers rapid location and retrieval of documents, and a reduction of the quantity were added to the head-office building of printed materials sent to the archives; this year. The printing centers support double-sided printing, contributing to ■■ Green accounts An infrastructure has been created to allow a reduction of the quantity of printed copies of transaction forms and information printouts ordered pages by about half and a cutback by customers to be sent by fax or through the Mail Net in the use of toner cartridges. service, for transactions executed in response to an order over the telephone or via fax. E-mail is used according to customers' request, for certain transactions (e.g. teller transfers). For the transactions converted to this LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 42-43 Mail Net Bank Hapoalim aims to streamline and reduce mailings to customers. Under various regulatory consumerIncrease in Mail-Net users and Paper consumption at the protection directives, the bank is required to send mail to its customers, at specified times, containing the active users of the bank’s website bank (in tons) details specified by law. Within this requirement, the bank is working to reduce its paper consumption. 3000 This effort includes consolidation of messages, reduction of mailings where possible, and environmental mail initiatives such as Mail Net. The Mail Net service enables registered customers to receive account 2500 1,500,000 603 notifications through the bank’s website, in a mailbox linked to their online account. Every customer 2000 445 394 355 registered for this service contributes to average savings of 45 mailed pages annually. During 2011, a 348 1,000,000 1500 survey was conducted to identify needs with regard to the Mail Net service, with the aim of identifying 810,000 754,000 and addressing the main barriers to registration for the service, in order to encourage new registrations. 705,000 1000 1,527 1,461 1,306 500,000 2,015 1,659 660,000 301,345 407,805 500 246,000 Transition to Recycled Paper 0 134,000 248 271 265 At the beginning of 2011, the bank made the transition to green A4 paper for its printers and copiers. 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The green paper is made in Israel, using a combination of 50% recycled fibers and 50% ordinary fibers Active users of the Mail-Net Paper used internally Paper mailed to Blank A4 paper (original cellulose). bank’s website subscribers customers 2011 Summary: ■■ In 2011, as part of the the Paperless Branch project, credit-card activation by telephone prevented the printing of 400,000 forms and freed customers from the requirement to come to the branch; ■■ 407,805 customers of the bank use the Mail Net service, or about 50% of the total active users of the bank's website a 10% increase compared with 2010; ■■ The paper consumption was reduced by 170 tons in 2011 relative to 2010. 1,000= preventing 45,000 trees 42.3% Decrease from being cut down The cumulative savings in paper consumption in comparison to In the last four years, paper consumption 2007 reached 2,960 tons. This figure is equivalent to preventing for internal needs decreased by 35.2%, and approximately 45,000 trees from being cut down for the paper paper consumption for mailings to customers 2008 2011 industry. Cumulative paper savings increased by 50% in 2011, decreased by 42.3%. compared to total savings in 2007-2010. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 44-45 Looking ahead ■■ Digital signature The deployment of digital signature ■■ Double-sided printing The double-sided printing format systems at all branches will be examined during 2012; will be expanded to additional forms during 2012; ■■ Green accounts In 2012, the infrastructure for sending ■■ Basic documents Basic documents are agreements and transaction forms by e-mail will be expanded to several accompanying documents (dozens of documents, defined additional forms. Savings from this process are estimated by the bank, e.g. account opening forms or provident at tens of thousands of pages, in addition to savings on fund opening forms) that define the working relationship inputs and improved customer service; between the bank and the customer and encompass the requirements of the bank as well as legal and regulatory ■■ Credit-card orders and delivery to customers' homes requirements. These documents are retained permanently When a customer orders a credit card, 42 pages are printed, of and must be accessible at the request of customers, courts, which half are given to the customer. A new agreement for use government agencies, and external supervisory entities. In in orders of new cards has been formulated. The agreement 2011, infrastructure was established to continuously follow will be printed as a thin pamphlet, without a printed copy for basic documents from their creation in the branch to their the branch. This change is expected to lead to annual savings scanning and archiving. This infrastructure allows customers of about 10 million pages. In addition, an innovative pilot is fast and specific retrieval (including fast matching of the planned in which new credit cards will be delivered by mail. requesting client) of both the computerised scanned copy The implementation of this process is expected to lead to and the archived physical copy. This project will expand to extensive savings on paper used when cards are collected, all branches of the bank during 2012; travel savings, and improved customer service; ■■ Mail Net The bank plans to continue to market the Mail ■■ Checkbook delivery In 2012, the bank plans to launch Net service, while working to gain a better understanding a pilot project in which checkbooks will be sent directly of customers' needs and preferences, in order to provide to customers. This process is expected to eliminate an appropriate response to such needs within the service. the need for visits to the branch to order and pick up checkbooks, superfluous paperwork, and reprinting of uncollected checkbooks; ■■ Double-sided mail Within the bank's effort to streamline and reduce mail sent to customers, a process of converting all notifications sent to customers to a double-sided format will be implemented during 2012, along with the consolidation of notifications. Savings from this process are expected to reach millions of pages per year; LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 46-47 Power Consumption Management and Energy Efficiency Electrical power is a key resource used at the bank. The basic assumption is that in businesses that operate in an office setting, just as in industrial operations, electricity should not be seen as an uncontrollable expense or as a necessary evil. Electricity should be managed as a resource, By maintaining and updating this complex system, the bank is able to with rigorous analysis of power consumption over the course of the day, week, and year, and with examine the consumption profile of each property separately, compare comparisons among buildings. The central principle in efficient management of electricity consumption it to itself and to similar buildings in terms of size and function, identify by offices is coordinated timing of air conditioning and lighting systems and of computer operation, trends of improvement and increased efficiency, and identify properties according to employee presence, to the extent possible. The collection and analysis of as much data that may be experiencing inefficiencies or malfunctions. as possible allows organizations to identify excessive consumption and find the optimal solution. In recent years, extensive efforts have been invested in creating a database and improving measurement infrastructure in the area of Virtually all of the energy consumption of Bank Hapoalim is in the form of electricity supplied by the Israel power consumption, at all of its properties. As part of the process of Electric Corporation, rather than renewable energy (apart from fuel consumption by the vehicle fleet). improving the database, data on the bank's power consumption in 2010 were revised in 2011. An analysis of multi-year data indicates that the In 2011, the bank expanded its activities in the area of energy efficiency. Ongoing internal processes report for 2010 did not include the power consumption of properties include a series of measures such as the installation of air-conditioning systems, installation of command under the management of private management and holding companies; and control systems, and various activities in the area of green computing. In addition, the bank has it also emerged that the information regarding the total area owned by reached out to the Israeli public on the subject of energy efficiency by offering guidance on simple, the bank was incomplete. In addition, the measurement of consumption everyday ways to save energy, by launching an environmental protection guide and an energy efficiency per employee was changed, and now includes the external employees of campaign (see details in the Community chapter). the bank. The multi-year power consumption analysis presented in this report therefore presents data as of 2010 that have been validated and affirmed by an external audit. Power Consumption Management Measurement and Control Energy Efficiency Initiatives Management, monitoring, relevant data processing of power consumption require a system for thorough tracking and analysis. Bank Hapoalim has Command and Control Systems hundreds of buildings. In some of the buildings, especially the larger These computerized systems monitor and control all energy ones, several separate electricity meters are installed. Each year, tens consumption, from temperature control and lighting at the of thousands of consumption data items are collected and analyzed, branches, to cleaning status buttons (reduced air conditioning making it possible to discover the characteristics of the overall power and lighting during cleaning hours) and alerts for significant consumption as well as various cross-sections and long-term trends. problems (flooding; overheating of a computer room). The systems The bank, as a dynamic organization, experiences structural changes are operated from the Hapoalim call center; their advantage is a in its properties each year as a result of the addition, closure, or convenient interface for control over every energy-consuming system redesignation of buildings. Monitoring in this area requires analysis, at every branch. The installation of command and control systems for processing, validation, and reexamination of hundreds of types of data. energy savings was completed in the branch network and in almost all head-office buildings during 2010. The systems were installed in all new branches opened during 2011. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 48-49 Lighting and Air Conditioning Timing ■■ Reduction of energy consumption by servers Over the last year, the bank significantly increased An energy efficiency diagnosis was conducted at the bank's head-office the number of servers operating based on consolidation and virtualization technologies. The old buildings in 2011. The findings indicated that lighting and air conditioning servers were replaced by virtual servers, allowing savings on power consumption for cooling, operation hours exceeded the limits originally established. Consequently, optimal utilization of server resources, reduced maintenance, and savings on physical space; usage was readjusted to the original schedule. ■■ Computer shutting system starting from 14:00, the independently developed system identifies Energy-Efficient Lighting lack of mouse movement or typing, and changes the computer mode to hibernate. The system In a process initiated three years ago, LED lights were installed in elevators, prevents data loss by automatically saving files left open. In this way the system reduces the signs, and peripheral lighting fixtures at the bank's head-office building on electricity consumed by turned on computers left after the working hours; Yehuda Halevi Street in Tel Aviv. In 2011, a pilot project began at Rubinstein ■■ Transition to printing centers and double-sided printers In 2009, over 700 different printing Towers, in which neon light bulbs are being replaced by more efficient LED devices were installed at the head-office buildings: personal printers, department printers, fax lights as central lighting fixtures both at existing buildings and at new buildings. machines, copiers, and scanners. In that year, the bank conducted a pilot project in which department Within this innovative transition, existing bulbs are replaced by 50% of their printers, fax machines, scanners, and copiers were replaced by a single secure printing center (an original amount, based on a techno-optic solution that enables better spreading of integrated device operated using an employee card reader) that uses double-sided printing. The the new LED lights, in order to shorten the time needed to obtain returns from the project. quantity of printed pages as well as toner cartridge and paper consumption were reduced by about Installation of Systems with Variable Compressor Capacities half after the change. In addition, where personal and/or department printers are in place and a The bank conducted an economic test of these systems and determined that air-conditioning printing center is not necessary, the bank is gradually replacing the existing printers with printers systems with variable compressor capacities (VRF variable refrigerant flow) generate savings of that offer a double-sided printing function. In 2011 the project continued; about 38% on energy and maintenance costs relative to other systems; 20% of the savings are in power consumption. Following this examination, a decision was made to install VRF systems in each ■■ Printing and toner saving system A command and control system for physical replacement or addition of air-conditioning systems. features and print settings (Web Jet Admin). All of the printers are connected to a central printing management server. Central management of printing Green IT allows uniform control over print settings, efficient management of toner The bank also works to achieve energy savings and efficiency through a thorough examination of the consumption, monitoring and examination of exceptional consumers, and possibilities for green information technologies at its branches and offices. Energy efficiency is one more. The default setting for all printing is draft quality printing. This of the parameters in the procurement tenders for IT equipment. Equipment with more efficient power option differentiates between text and image content, and leads usage earns added points in IT tenders, motivating bidders to supply with more advanced products. to reduced use of toner for printing text; In addition, the hardware and communications division does not rely on manufacturers' information regarding the performance of the various components, instead running the necessary tests on server ■■ Use of the Mail to Fax / Fax to Mail application hardware and software, printers, and peripheral equipment at a laboratory set up for that purpose. This application allows full automation of two-way fax The tests make it possible to examine the products in greater depth, and serve as a preliminary stage transmission. Use of the application eliminates large to pilots in the field, in order to generate more reliable forecasts. quantities of superfluous printing (including fax sent/ Main activities in the area of green IT during 2011: received confirmation pages produced automatically) ■■ IP telephony Implementation of IP Telephony solutions at the branches and head office continues. and the associated ink consumption. In addition, no IPT solutions allow the entire telephony system of the branches to be managed from a centralized less importantly, fax transmission automation allows computer system, without the need to travel to the branches to set up local switchboards, as was management and control of all faxes received by and sent necessary in the past; from each user's number. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 50-51 Bank Hapoalim indirect energy consumption The Bank Hapoalim Environmental 2010 2011 Change vs. 2010 Protection Guide Total (KwH) 96,982,405 94,058,465 -3.01% In 2011, the bank updated its comprehensive ‫מדריך בנק הפועלים‬ Total (GJ) 349,137 338,610 -3.01% guide on the protection of the environment ‫לשמירה על הסביבה‬ with an extensive range of ideas for household Consumption per 8,510.2 8,299.5 -2.48% employee (KwH) energy efficiency. Through this guide, the bank offers its employees and the public practical Bank area in sq. m. 304,365 312,787 2.77% professional information that can help reduce Consumption per sq. m. (KwH) 318.66 300.71 -5.63% household expenses as well as contributing to the environment. This project is part of a strategy ‫אחריות חברתית‬ adopted by the bank to implement the values of ‫ בנק הפועלים‬.‫זה בידיים שלנו‬ Installation of command Installation of virtual Installation of VRF sustainability and corporate social responsibility The bank's protection and control systems servers air-conditioning systems guide in everyday life, and using it, offer its customers 16 and the general public tools for smart financial behavior, and help them attain control over their budgets and expenses. The bank accompanied 90 433 69 the production of the guide with extensive publicity in Israel, through 42 various media (see details in the Community section). 282 310 61 The ideas described in the 25-page guide were collected from various 104 150 192 330 960 100 650 5 sources, with the assistance of experts in this field, including suggestions 46 320 320 39 34 34 from employees, and the public has been invited to continue to offer 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 updates. The guide is divided into three categories: energy, water, and recycling. Each idea is given a concise, reader-friendly presentation New installations Existing systems describing the recommended action, the reason for the action, and the savings and environmental benefits that can be achieved. Comparison of rate of change in power consumption Bank Hapoalim vs. banking industry For example, the section on ideas for electricity saving lists correct usage methods for lighting and a range of common household appliances, 110 Consumption index such as air conditioners, refrigerators, washing machines, dryers, and 104.3 109.1 105 103.8 102.0 dishwashers. Another section is devoted to methods for saving fuel in cars. 105.8 100 100 101.9 The section on water contains several tips for the reduction of household 101.4 102.5 95 99.3 95.9 water consumption and the prevention of water pollution. Another section provides a wealth of ideas in the area of recycling and consumerism. The 90 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 adoption of these methods can lead to genuine savings of 20% or more on electricity and water expenditures. * The data were presented and analyzed by Gadir Engineering Ltd. Bank Hapoalim Banking industry LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 52-53 Water Resource Management Water is a natural resource facing severe shortages, in Israel and globally. Although the banking 2011 Summary (includes data from previous report) industry is not a major consumer of water, it is still important to formulate a methodical approach to ■■ 44,000 T5 fluorescent bulbs were used in 2011, constituting ~35% of all light bulbs used at the bank; this resource and to examine ways of achieving optimal management in this area. ■■ 69 VRF air-conditioning systems were installed or replaced, adding to 100 existing systems; Water consumption efficiency and savings are a national goal of the utmost importance. The bank ■■ 433 virtual servers were installed in 2011; has therefore decided to address this issue comprehensively. In recent years, a series of measures for ■■ 20 additional printing centers were installed (for a total of 52), cutting paper and toner usage efficient management and savings of water were taken, including the installation of water-saving faucet by about half; fixtures at all of the facilities, the installation of dual-flush toilet tanks in the restrooms, installation of signs ■■ The deployment of the Fax2Mail applications was expanded to 1,900 users throughout the explaining the efficient use of the dual-flush toilets in all restrooms, locating potential water sources bank, and the deployment of the Mail2Fax application was expended to all the employees for reuse for various purposes at the bank, and creation of a comprehensive measurement system using E-mail; encompassing all properties (branches and head office) in all municipalities. ■■ 60 IPT switches were installed to manage telephony through a centralized computer system, saving employee travel. These switches are installed in 1,800 telephones. Measuring Total Water Consumption As part of the process of improving the database on the bank's properties, the measurement of water consumption continued and was expanded during 2011. Comparative data were Looking ahead collected at 245 properties of the bank, (versus 236 properties in 2010 and 228 properties in 2009), covering 82.5% of the total area of the bank’s properties. ■■ Expansion of the LED lighting installation pilot will be considered, based on an analysis of economic performance The most significant figure in the measurement of water savings is water consumption per and electricity savings; employee, given that most of the water consumed is used for restrooms, cleaning, and ■■ In 2012 the bank plans to continue installing VRF systems drinking, all directly influenced by the number of employees. This figure decreased by an in its new branches and to change old systems during impressive 5.4% in 2011. refurbishments and renovations; ■■ Further energy savings are expected, by gradual installation of Total water consumption Water consumption Water consumption volume detectors in the management buildings. The control (cubic meters) per square meter per employee 100000 9.00 system, connected to the existing energy management 96,705 0.60 8.49 90,951 systems, would be installed in every room and monitor the 0.41 8.03 lighting and air-conditioning based on employee presence; 0.40 80000 0.34 7.00 ■ ■ The bank's work plans include gradual upgrading of its 0.20 existing consolidation servers to new virtual servers. Altogether, in 2012 200 ser vers are expected to 60000 0 5.00 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 be replaced; * Methodology note: There are still many difficulties involved in creating the database and in the reliability of the data, due ■■ The IPT project is planned to expand in the following years. to the lack of water meters at many of the properties, problems assigning consumption data to the correct properties, In 2012, the move is expected to add 1,000 new users. delays in receiving information from water corporations, and more. During the update of this data, the need arose to retroactively revise water consumption data for 2010. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 54-55 Building According to Green Construction Principles Green construction entails the adoption of an environmental approach to construction processes, from planning to execution. The goal of this approach is to avoid damage to nonrenewable resources, reduce Looking ahead waste production, and save energy. The key principles of green construction are efficient, energy-saving ■■ A project aimed at recovering water from air conditioners for planning of the construction, in integration with the environment, efficient thermal insulation for heating reuse will launch at two buildings during 2012. At the Rubinstein and cooling; channels for natural light and air to enter the building, efficient water management, waste Building, this water will be collected and used to flush toilets. At recycling and contribution to employee health. the head-office building on Rothschild Boulevard, the water will be used for the cooling tower; Beyond the benefits to the environment, the transition to green construction also confers economic rewards. The volume of the additional nonrecurring investment in a green structure relative to an ordinary ■■ In addition to the local municipality's meters, bank water meters structure ranges from 5% to 10%. Yet the ongoing savings, for example in energy, can reach 30% to 40%. would be installed, as part of the water measurement system. The meters would be connected to the energy management Green Construction at Bank Hapoalim system and the data supplied would be constantly monitored. The bank has adjusted all of its purchasing specifications to align with green construction principals, In case of abnormal water flow (leakage, pipe explosion), the intending to work according to these specifications when constructing office buildings and branches. It system would provide visual and audio warning. The move is important to note that a significant number of branches are located in shopping malls and commercial would be gradual and assist in water measurement and saving, centers not owned by the bank, where the bank cannot alter the infrastructure of the buildings. However, for both the bank and the country. the bank intends to bring as many elements of green construction as possible to these sites, even though the properties involved may not meet accepted green construction standards. Installing Environment-Friendly Carpets In 2011, the bank began to install environment-friendly carpets at several of its buildings. The carpets are manufactured in conformity with international environmental standards. The manufacturing process of the carpets installed uses fewer raw materials and larger amounts of recycled materials compared to ordinary carpets. In addition, in this manufacturing process, the environmental impact of the product decreases throughout its lifetime, as the quantity of emissions is reduced. The carpets are also beneficial to employee health, as fewer toxins are released during installation are less allergenic materials are used in the installation process. The bank has made a decision to use environment-friendly carpets in all future installations at its properties. The main advantages of the carpets are: ■■ The volume of recycled materials (about 70%) and the innovative technologies for examination of the impact of the product throughout its life cycle lead to significantly lower emissions and savings on raw materials during manufacturing of the carpets, with 30%-50% fewer fibers used; ■■ Due to the development of installation technologies that do not require adhesives in the carpet installation technique, a 90% reduction of toxins Rubin Marlena, In-House Art LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 56-57 Turning Waste into a Resource and Preventing Pollution The environmental trends of recent years have highlighted the fact that one person’s waste is another’s emitted by sealants and glues, is achieved; resource. Population growth creates pressure on ecological systems, making it difficult to meet the demand ■■ The carpets have a protective layer that benefits employees who suffer for natural resources such as metals, wood, water, fossil fuels, and more. In addition, without proper treatment, from allergies to substances found in ordinary carpets; waste pollutes the environment and damages soil, water, and the air, while contributing to global warming. ■■ Replacement of the carpet generates minimal depreciation, due to the These and other insights highlight the importance of a methodical approach to the future of the modular design that simplifies localized replacement of carpet tiles without materials and products that we consume, after they have been used. Bank Hapoalim mapped the the need to replace the entire carpet; types of waste generated by its operations, and subsequently examined the most environmentally ■■ In the first stage, Interface carpets were chosen for the project. in the next beneficial methods of treating such waste: stages, other suppliers would be added to the environmental carpets procurement process. ■■ Reuse of a resource or of its components (in its existing condition, or after improvement); ■■ Recycling of the resource by external parties, who convert it into raw material and then reinsert it into the production process; 2011 Summary: ■■ Responsible disposal through collection and transfer to a licensed site (prevention of environmental pollution). ■■ The bank's green building in Afula, which houses the regional administration, a retail branch, and a business branch, in the process of obtaining green certifications similar to those of its Yokneam Collection of Electronic Waste from the Public and from Employees' Homes branch, which earned the Israel Standards Institute's 5281 Green Construction Mark in 2009. The The bank allows head-office employees to bring building was planned and constructed in accordance with the green building principals that include electronic waste from their homes to the collection center electricity consumption reduction through thermal insulation, external shadings, usage of LED lights and lighting sensors, economical air conditioning, conserving building waste for reuse, air at Rubinstein Towers in Tel Aviv. When the receptacle conditioning water reuse, etc; is full, the waste is transferred to a licensed supplier for ■■ The planning process of a green retail branch in Tiberias was completed; responsible disposal. This year, the bank expanded its ■■ The planning process of a green building planned to house the local Municipality and a bank branch sphere of environmental influence beyond the bounds in Mazkeret Batya was completed; of the organization by initiating a drive for collection of ■■ Environment-friendly carpets have been installed at the bank's business center in southern Israel, electronic waste from the general public, in collaboration at the southern regional administration, at Isracard headquarters, and at the regional call center, with the city of Holon, at central locations in the city. This over a total area of about 4,000 square meters. project will be expanded to additional Israeli cities during Electronic waste collection center 2012 (see details in the Community section). Collection of Electronic Waste of the Bank Bank Hapoalim strictly maintains responsible, orderly disposal of disused computer equipment. In Looking ahead general, the bank endeavors to donate computer equipment, when it is still usable. Moreover, the bank ■■ In 2012, the installation of environment-friendly carpets invests efforts in upgrading computer equipment before donating it (for details, see the Community will continue in several of the bank's buildings, including section). Computer equipment not suitable for donation is transferred for responsible recycling and the Rubinstein Building, (as part of a gradual process to disposal each year. In addition to computer equipment, all mobile devices no longer in use are be carried out over the course of the coming years). returned to the supplier for responsible disposal. All other disused electronic equipment is transferred to Ecommunity, a unique company specializing in electronic waste recycling that employs only workers with special needs. The bank thereby contributes both to the community and to the environment. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 58-59 Collection of Used Clothing Collection of Bottles and Cans Receptacles for the collection of used clothes are located at Bottles and cans subject to the Deposit Law are used at the Rubinstein Towers. Head-office employees bring used the head-office buildings of the bank. Every such container clothes to this facility instead of disposing of them. In early carries a refund of NIS 0.30 when returned. Receptacles 2010, the bank formed a collaboration with the Pitchon Lev for the collection of cans and bottles were developed in foundation, which undertook a commitment to collect the 2008; following an initial pilot project on one floor of the clothes each week. In late 2011, an additional receptacle Rubinstein Towers in 2009, the project was expanded in was placed at the head-office building on Rothschild 2010, with 330 recycling receptacles placed throughout Boulevard in Tel Aviv. Rubinstein Towers and at the call centers in Nesher and Used clothes collection receptacles Cans and bottles collection receptacles Azor. Receptacles were also placed at the Rothschild Toner and Ink Cartridges head-office building in 2011. The collection of bottles and The quantity of toner and ink cartridges consumed at the bank is directly influenced by the quality cans for recycling is performed in collaboration with the ELA recycling corporation. Refunded of computer equipment (printers, scanners, and fax machines) and by the management of paper deposits are transferred to the unit's employee union and used to finance various social activities, consumption. The trend towards reduced paper consumption as a result of proper planning and donations, etc. management, reflected in initiatives such as the Paperless Branch project, similarly affects the consumption of printing materials. Consumption of three key categories of printing products has Batteries trended down over recent years: printer ink cartridges, printer toner cartridges, and fax toner cartridges. Used batteries placed in the trash may cause substantial environmental damage due to their toxic This movement has also been supported by the transition to printing centers, which are gradually contents. Accordingly, as part of the expansion of the bank's sphere of influence to employees' supplanting personal printers, and the introduction of secure printing. environmentally conscious behavior at home, an initiative has been launched for the collection of used In 2011, consumption of toner and ink cartridges increased by about 20% in comparison with 2010, from batteries brought in from employees' homes at all units of the bank. 19,723 to 23,669 cartridges. The most significant increase occurred in purchases of toner cartridges for printers. The increase resulted from several factors: opening of several regional offices of the central back Battery collection receptacles were placed at all of the bank's buildings during 2008, and the office, requiring new printers; opening of new branches, requiring new printers; and an upgrade of printers quantity of batteries disposed has been monitored and measured since 2009. The governmentin the branch network to a new model, requiring purchases of a model not available in inventory. In addition, owned Environmental Services Company is responsible for removing the batteries. the activity of the branches grew in 2011. Fluorescent Bulbs Collection of Paper and Cardboard Fluorescent light bulbs contain mercury and glass, making disposal The bank collects and transfers waste paper for recycling. in trash cans and garbage dumps environmentally problematic. Paper no longer in use (documents, forms, etc.) is regularly Bank Hapoalim uses tens of thousands of fluorescent bulbs. As and systematically collected and transferred for recycling by part of the bank's sustainability and CSR plan, used fluorescent a specialist external company. As part of this effort, each bulbs are disposed of responsibly at all of the buildings and employee has a bin designated for paper collection. Cardboard branches of the bank. This orderly disposal method, which is collected at the head-office buildings (Rubinstein, Yehuda includes removal of the mercury and its safe burial, continued to Fluorescent Bulb Paper and cardboard collection facility collection receptable Halevy, and Rothschild) and compressed for recycling. be implemented in 2011. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 60-61 Responsible Disposal of Medication Vehicles with exceptionally high fuel consumption that indicates a problem are referred for treatment Within the bank's CSR plan and environmental to a repair shop, in accordance with agreements with the leasing companies; efforts, a pilot was launched in 2009 for the collection of old unneeded medications at the ■■ Dialogue with employees through the organizational portal and response to specific inquiries the Rubinstein Towers. There is currently no formally vehicle department operates a page at the organizational portal. The page is used to publish articles organized solution for drug disposal, and most people treat medications as ordinary waste. The active and recommendations concerning safe, efficient, careful driving; ingredients in medications reach soil or water reservoirs, react with the natural environment and pollute it, and, among other effects, contribute to the development of resistant germs. ■■ Payment for resource-saving toll lanes for employees of certain ranks the bank finances travel on toll lanes for some of its employees, allowing employees to save time and fuel consumption (due to the To contend with this potential source of pollution, a collaboration was formed with Clalit Health Services. avoidance of traffic jams and high-fuel-consuming travel). The roads included are Route 6, the Carmel A receptacle designated for the collection of medications was placed in the lobby of the Rubinstein Tunnels, and the Fast Lane; Towers. In 2011, medication collection was expanded to six additional buildings. This activity has earned the full cooperation and a positive response from employees. ■■ Encouragement of commuting by bicycle The bank encourages employees at the Rubinstein Towers to ride bicycles to work instead of driving. Within this initiative, the bank prepared Responsible Disposal of Construction Waste showers for its employees on the ground floor and placed bicycle parking spots at the The bank arranges for orderly disposal of its construction waste. Bank Hapoalim includes a contract building's entrance; clause in its agreements with construction and renovation contractors working at the branches and buildings requiring the responsible removal of waste to a licensed facility. The aim is to fully prevent ■■ Promotion of environmental transportation options through improved access and subsidies of public construction waste originating with the organization from reaching unlicensed sites or open fields. transportation for commuters (see details regarding the shuttle project in the Community section); Working to Prevent Air Pollution by Vehicles ■■ In addition, the innovative processes in the area of direct banking (by mobile, Internet, or telephone) The direct and indirect environmental impact of Bank Hapoalim in the area of transportation, primarily and the Paperless Branch initiatives (such as credit-card renewal by telephone) eliminate the need for fuel consumption and emissions resulting from fuel burning, derive the bank's vehicle fleet and the customers to visit the branch, leading to reduced air pollution. internal system for transportation between branches and facilities of the bank. The bank is working to reduce its fuel consumption, and consequently to cut back on air pollution, by various means, Emission of Substances that Damage the Ozone Layer including: The bank uses five main types of air-conditioning systems: split air conditioners, central air conditioners, VRF systems, cooling towers, and chillers. The older systems use freon gas, which is permitted by law, ■■ Limiting the vehicles chosen for the vehicle fleet to those with a pollution rating of 8 according but may be harmful to the ozone layer. The bank is working to replace these existing air-conditioning to internal procedures, bank employees entitled to a leased vehicle may choose a vehicle with a systems with systems that use only environment-friendly gases. pollution rating no higher than 8. Most of the vehicles at the bank have lower pollution ratings; All of the air-conditioning systems are installed and maintained through service contracts with licensed ■■ Monitoring actual consumption and addressing vehicles found to have higher than usual consumption suppliers only. Due to the service and maintenance components of the systems, it is not possible to obtain the fuel companies provide information regarding the fuel consumption of each vehicle owned by a definitive measurement of the quantity of coolant gas emitted during system malfunctions. The bank the bank. The information regarding the vehicles is collected and analyzed by the vehicle department. strives to keep all systems optimally maintained and acts immediately to repair any leaks discovered. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 62-63 The air-conditioning systems were mapped in the last two year. The mapping indicates that the air-conditioning systems of all of the bank's properties in aggregate are filled with about 21 tons of coolant gas, of which approximately 50% is the environment-friendly R-410a. The gas supplements Looking ahead added to the systems during 2011 due to leaks and other malfunctions totaled about 6.5 tons (one■■ In 2012, the environment-friendly cleaning materials project third of which consisted of environment-friendly gas). is planned to expand to the call center in Nesher; ■■ Train station shuttle system: Ahuzot Hof, a company owned 2011 Summary: by the city of Tel Aviv, plans to implement this plan in 2012. Bank Hapoalim will assist in every way in involving as many ■■ 14 tons of cardboard were collected and transferred for recycling in 2011; of its employees as possible in the shuttle program; ■■ The bank carried out the orderly disposal of 8,000 fluorescent bulbs; ■■ The bank plans to establish bicycle parking spaces in the parking lot of the head-office building on Rothschild ■■ 470 kilograms of batteries were removed from the bank's properties; Boulevard and to prepare showers for employees in 2012; ■■ During the year, more than 130,000 bottles and cans were transferred for recycling, ■■ A system of carpools for employees is planned to be set with refunds given to the unit's employee union; up during 2012. ■■ The usage of green secure envelopes for transfers of checks and cash from the branches to the central back office and the head office began in 2011. The envelopes biodegrade within six months and can be buried without fear of toxic gas or pollutant emission; ■■ The bank's fuel consumption decreased by 12,523 liters in 2011 relative to 2010, a slight decrease of about 1%. The gas mileage remained unchanged from 2010 at 10.1 kilometers per liter; ■■ The number of hybrid vehicles decreased in 2011, due to the expiration of leasing contracts. However,more non-hybrid energy efficient vehicles were introduced, in order to reduce fuel consumption and emissions; ■■ The project of transitioning to environment-friendly cleaning products, launched in 2010 as a pilot at the Rubinstein Towers head office buildings, continued in 2011. This method ensures a higher level of cleanliness while using materials that are better for employees’ health and for the environment, as well as saving water. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 64-65 Coping with Global Warming Israel is no longer exempt from compliance with global warming requirements, as it was when it had Data on Bank Hapoalim vehicles developing-nation status. With its accession to the OECD, Israel has become accountable for compliance  2007  2008  2009 2010 2011 with the environmental standards that are binding for other OECD member nations, including the reduction Number of vehicles in leasing fleet 1,362 1,407 1,364 1,324 1,329 of greenhouse-gas emissions. The first step towards minimization of the impact of the organization’s operations on the environment is measurement. The metric used globally to quantify and assess climate Annual fuel consumption (in liters) 3,615,406 3,979,223 3,719,817 3,586,759 3,574,235 impact is the carbon footprint. This metric converts a range of environmental impacts into one numeric Kilometers per liter 9.8 9.8 10.8 10.1 10.1 figure, in tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2eq), encompassing all of its various emission sources. The Number of hybrid vehicles in the fleet 97 115 110 23 result enables us to gain awareness of our share of the climate change process. In 2010, Bank Hapoalim joined the voluntary greenhouse-gas reporting system of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Since that Responsible disposal of electronic waste time the bank has reported to the recording system in accordance with the established methodology. Fax Computers Screens Printers Servers Keyboards Telephones Routers Other Total machines Measuring the Carbon Footprint 2011 714 284 170 104 174 120 30 26 28 1,650 Go 2010 258 354 324 77 1,013 105,093 o d E n e r gy Init i The carbon footprint of Bank Hapoalim consists of greenhouse-gas emissions on 2009 698 414 405 26 1,543 three levels: 2008 473 959 757 24 2,213 CO 2 at i ve ‫מת האנרגיה הטובה‬ 2007 514 720 403 55 1,692 ‫יוז‬ ■■ First level Direct emissions due to fuel burning or other direct emissions; In addition, the bank disposed of 1,685 kg. of hard disks and 170 cartons of electronic waste: electric cables, electronic cards, plastic parts, and electronic components. ■■ Second level Indirect emissions due to the production of electrical power for the bank; Consumption of toner and ink cartridges Collection of paper for recycling (tons) 25,000 610 ■■ Third level Indirect emissions due to actions that are not carried out 1,730 2,369 20,000 1,440 675 7,524 3000 by the bank (resource production, waste treatment, use of banking 5,527 9,024 8,489 2,017 services, etc.). 15,000 7,705 2000 1,320 10,000 1,170 1,146 The measurement of the first two levels is a technical 15,327 1,067 11,314 15,535 1000 5,000 10,342 10,560 matter, performed according to methodologies agreed upon by the Ministry of Environmental Protection's 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 greenhouse-gas recording system. However, it is more Printer toner Printer ink Fax toner difficult to define, measure, and assign responsibility to cartridges cartridges cartridges the bank for causes of emissions on the third level. In The significant increase in purchases of printer toner cartridges in 2011 relative to earlier years stems from several fact, at this time no international consensus has been factors: A. The opening of several regional offices of the central back office, requiring new printers. B. Opening of new branches, requiring new printers. C. An upgrade of printers in the branch network to a new model during the year, requiring reached regarding methodology for the measurement purchases of a model not available in inventory. In addition, the volume of activity of the branches increased in 2011. of third-level emissions of greenhouse gases. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 66-67 Nonetheless, Bank Hapoalim recognizes its responsibility for greenhouse-gas emissions on the third level as well; the bank therefore diagnosed the significant factors that can be categorized as third level, and monitors these factors while examining possible ways of reducing them. Carbon footprint Following is the bank's carbon footprint for 2010, measurement levels broken to elements and their relative contribution The total carbon footprint of Bank Hapoalim amounted to 106,593 tons CO2eq in 2010. Greenhouseto the total value: gas emissions from the bank's routine operations mainly derive from electricity consumption at the head-office buildings and branches (64%), coolant gases (10.5%), and the vehicle fleet (7.8%). The 5,622 9,029 moderate decrease of 164 tons CO2eq in the carbon footprint from 2010 to 2011 resulted from more 11,340 9,716 efficient electricity consumption alongside an increase in the bank's constructed area, including IT Depreciation 2.28% Paper construction, renovations, and air conditioning at new and renovated branches. 5.29% 70,409 68,286 construction 7.91% Electricity 2011 Summary in Numbers: 64.04% Other 4.41% Flights, 1.33% Vehicles ■■ Waste recycling and the substitution of e-mail for physical mail saved emissions of 9,319 tons CO2eq; 19,386 19,562 7.86% ■■ Without the reduction of emissions at the source, the carbon footprint would have 2010 2011 coolant gases wastewater 10.49% treatment, 0.52% Water 0.11% been 115,912 Ton CO2eq, 8.7% more than the figure actually measured; hotel stays Ink, 0.11% Go Tier 1 Tier 2 0.04% Generators, 0.01% ■■ The bank planted 50,000 trees to rehabilitate the Galilee forests in 2007. These trees will 9,319 o d E n e r gy Init i Tier 3 Tier 3 (added measurements absorb 37,500 tons CO2eq over 25 years, commensurate with an annual offsetting of in 2010) 1,500 tons CO2eq; CO 2 at i ve In the 2010 report there was a typing error, and mistakenly the saved emissions were added to the formula. ■■ The total carbon footprint of Bank Hapoalim in 2011: 106,593 1,500 = 105,093 ‫מת האנרגיה הטובה‬ ‫יוז‬ tons CO2eq. Preserving Biodiversity and Contributing to Environmental Awareness in Wider Spheres The bank is committed to being a contributor to the sustainability of the State of Israel. As such, within its environmental responsibility philosophy, some of its activities are aimed at raising general awareness Looking ahead and finding practical solutions to a variety of environmental issues. ■■ As part of the project for the collection of electronic Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Campaign waste, metals, and electrical appliances from city centers in Israel, in 2012 the bank plans to measure the carbon This year, the bank updated its environmental protection guide, which contains tips and ideas for footprint of its collected waste. This will help increase the bank's carbon offset. financial savings and energy efficiency for households in Israel. The bank subsequently communicated these environmental messages to the public through an extensive media campaign (see details in the Community section). LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 68-69 Opening of Museums and National Parks to the General Public During Passover Holiday Week ■■ This is the fourth year in which Bank Hapoalim has sponsored the project Rowing for a Clean Ocean. The project is an initiative of the Kayak4all Zevulun foundation, which works to raise awareness of the During Chol Hamoed (the Passover holiday week), the bank for the eighth consecutive year, protection of the marine and coastal environment. Rowing for a Clean Ocean, now in its sixth year, invited all Israelis to visit 50 museums and sites free of charge. The museums and sites held an ecological rowing event along the shores of Israel; participating in this project are located throughout Israel and relate to various subjects and diverse experiences. The sites include the Eretz Israel Museum, Eco-Kinnereth, Gan Guru, the ■ ■ As a reflection of its identification with the worldwide drive to raise awareness of global warming, Haifa Zoo, the Jerusalem Botanical Garden, the Kokhav Hayarden National Park, the Hai-Bar and for the fourth year in a row. Bank Hapoalim joined the international Earth Hour event Nature Preserve, Ovdat National Park, the Shafdan visitors' center, the Yitzhak Rabin Center and the lights-out in Tel Aviv. Accordingly, lights at the bank's head offices were turned off, Israel Museum, and more. information and education efforts were conducted at educational and cultural institutions as part of this event. Bank Hapoalim joined this drive by addressing all of its employees via its The bank invests extensive efforts in raising public awareness of nature and heritage sites and organizational portal. publishes the invitation to the public through a variety of channels, including billboards, newspaper advertisements, and the Internet; information about all of the participating sites is made available to the public through a minisite and information lines. From the Open museum campaign Trister Shoshana, In-House Art OPERATING PROACTIVELY EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 72-73 Human Resources Policy Adhering to Five Basic Principles Earning Rating on List of Best Workplaces Following its time-honored tradition, the bank strictly maintains a unique work environment, characterized In a survey conducted by BDI among 3,600 college students at fifteen academic institutions, Bank by five fundamental principles: Hapoalim was ranked as the fourth most desirable workplace of fifty Israeli companies. Bank Hapoalim was ranked fifth on the BDI index of best workplaces at the top of the financial and banking sectors by ■■ Constant dialogue, cooperation, and transparency between employees and management; company employees. This accomplishment reflects the bank's commitment to its employees and its achievements in the area of social responsibility. ■■ Opportunities for personal and professional development, to cultivate growth, learning, and empowerment. Employees benefit from this approach, while the bank gains the best people, at the most appropriate place and time; ■■ Solidarity and collegiality, imparting special meaning to the relationship among colleagues, achieved through means including social events held by branches and management teams; ■■ Continual caring for the wellbeing of employees and their families, and support for employees during times of crisis; ■■ Rigorously maintained equal opportunities and non-discrimination. Defining a Human Resources Credo The bank applies long-term considerations of sustainability and social responsibility to the management of its human resources. For the bank, its employees are key stakeholders; its relationship with them is conducted on a firm foundation of true growth and partnership. Each employee is a member of the community of the bank, and all interactions with the employee are rooted in this basic stance. The bank recognizes that as an employer, it has a duty to consider employees' wellbeing and wellness, understand the importance of balancing work with family and leisure time, and devote attention to employees' enrichment, growth, and empowerment. Responsiveness, flexibility, assistance, and support when necessary are vital elements in fostering the desired relationship between the bank and its employees. This approach helps the bank achieve the goal of satisfied employees who are able to function to their full potential and who view the bank as a desirable, preferred workplace where they seek to remain. It is important to note that caring for employees also encompasses orderly and attentive preparation of employees for retirement, as well as continued contact with retirees, who remain part of the Bank Hapoalim family. According to the philosophy of the bank, the most effective way to manage human resources in the best interests of both the bank and its employees is to create a genuine partnership. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 74-75 Presenting Information on Employees 2011 in Numbers: Distribution of employees by type Employee turnover, 2009-2011 of employment contract ■■ The bank employed 10,206 internal employees; Year Age Female Male Total P ‫ ‏‬ermanent ‫ ‏‬emporary T ‫‏‬S enior ■■ The rate of the positions of internal employees was 90.1% and the rate of the positions of external employees employees employees ‫‏‬Total employees was 9.9%; Up to 30 197 81 278 C  ollective contract 77.2% 16.3% 93.5% ■■ 692 employees took maternity leave, while 501 employees returned to work following maternity 2011 31-50 96 59 155 leave. In general, employees returning from maternity leave return to their previous positions; Personal  contract 0.2% 5.0% 1.3% 6.5% 2011 50+ 69 43 112 ■■ 93.3% of the employees are employed full time; 6.7% are employed part time. The number of C  ollective 77.5% 17.9% 95.4% full-time employees increased by 1.1% relative to 2010; 2010 contract Total 362 183 545 Personal  ■■ Over the last year, the percentage of employees holding academic degrees rose from 54.4% contract 0.2% 3.2% 1.3% 4.6% Up to 30 164 70 234 to 56.6%; C  ollective contract 77.9% 18.3% 96.3% ■■ The bank recognizes its employees' right to unionize and conduct collective negotiations. The 2009 31-50 68 60 128 Personal  collective agreement applies to the overwhelming majority of the employees of the bank (93.5%), contract 0.1% 2.4% 1.2% 3.7% 2010 excluding those employed under personal contracts. 50+ 48 47 95 Total 280 177 457 Segmentation of employees by rank, 2007-2011 Up to 30 76 132 208 % change 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 vs. 2010 31-50 37 61 98 2,501 External Workers 2,501  Board of 2009 14 13 14 15 15 0.0% 50+ 23 16 39 management Hired in 2008-2011 Area heads Total 136 209 345 and chief 69 83 87 85 87 2.3% 50 In 2011, the bank hired 624 external workers as regular employees. supervisors Branch Overall, the bank hired 2,501 external workers in 2008-2011. managers and 584 586 602 605 625 3.3% Proportions of internal and department From 2007 to 2011, the percentage of external workers at the heads external employees 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 bank fell from 18.8% to 9.9%. First tier 100% 1,723 1,780 1,799 1,792 1,849 3.2% 18.8% 12.6% 12.4% 9.9% management 13.4% Total 80% 2,390 2,462 2,502 2,497 2,576 3.2% management 430 employees attended Other 7,486 7,477 7,535 6,984 7,630 1.9% 60% 81.2% 86.6% 87.4% 87.6% 90.1% employees academic degree Total 9,374 9,979 9,979 9,983 10,206 2.2%% 40% employees programs with financing Most of the employees who left the bank in 2011, further to the trend of 20% from the bank in 2011. 2009-2010, belong to the youngest age group (up to 30). This resulted from the following factors: (1) Due to the amendment to the Manpower Agencies Law, a large number of employees were hired by the bank in 2008 for positions historically 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 staffed by external personnel. Many of these employees viewed their work at the The funding was provided by a joint fund of the bank and bank as temporary, and were not interested in a long-term career at the bank. the employees. (2) Employees in this age group, known as Generation Y, are characterized by Internal employees External employees frequent transitions between jobs and workplaces. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 76-77 Insurance Policies, Funds, and Benefits for Employees Education and Age The following table presents a breakdown of the 10,206 employees of the bank in 2011, by Bank Hapoalim pays wages to its employees in accordance with personal or collective employment age and level of education. contracts signed with each employee. In addition to wages, employees enjoy a wide range of benefits, under agreements with the Employee Union and pursuant to their personal contracts, as relevant. Education Academic degrees No academic Age group Employees receive comprehensive insurance coverage, including pension insurance (starting on the first Total Age degree distribution day of employment at the bank), disability insurance, life insurance, personal accident insurance, health  B.A M.A Ph.D insurance, and dental insurance. In addition to the insurance coverage described above, two additional 18-21 34 1 35 0.3% safety nets are available to employees of the bank during times of crisis: 22-30 800 715 112 1,627 15.9% 31-40 650 1,456 751 2 2,859 28.0% ■■ The Malki Foundation A voluntary fund financed by the bank and its employees, which provides 41-50 946 903 690 2 2,541 24.9% financial coverage for employees in the event of serious illness or similar occurrences; 51-60 1,770 636 307 2 2,715 26.6% ■■ The Shared Mutual Assistance Foundation This foundation is financed by the employees budget and +60 215 137 72 5 429 4.2% the management budget, and is also designed to assist employees who encounter financial difficulties Total 4,415 3,848 1,932 11 10,206 100% and family or financial crises. Education level Employees are entitled to discounts on bank-account fees, subsidized loans, spreading of debts into 43.3% 37.7% 18.9% 0.1% 100% distribution installments, and loans tailored to personal milestones: moving to a new home, buying a vehicle, children's weddings, and more. Upward trend in percentage of degree-holding employees at the bank Employee Union The employee union is first and foremost a strategic partner and a key stakeholder. The work of the 50.7% 54.4% 56.6% 49% 49% management with the employee union follows a pattern of continual dialogue (updates, feedback, and 48% 50% consultations) and partnership in all key actions and processes in the everyday life of the bank. 44.5% 41.3% The roles fulfilled by the employee union include protecting each employee's rights and obligations; 39% developing cultural, instructional, and social activities; and organizing mutual assistance among 36% 33.9% employees. The numerous activities of the union for the wellbeing of employees include summer 30.2% day camps for employees’ children throughout Israel, reduced-price or subsidized tickets to cultural and entertainment events, discounts on hotels and vacations, holiday gifts and gifts for personal 0 occasions, various types of insurance for employees and their families, medical examinations, aid 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 funds, assistance for families in mourning, assistance during crises, and more. The upward trend in the percentage of degree-holding employees continued at a greater pace in 2011. This achievement The national union heads the pyramid of local unions, which are organized into regional unions. Branch reflects an ongoing long-term positive trend of rising proportions of degree holders due to factors including the bank's encouragement for employees to study towards undergraduate and graduate degrees through tuition aid and added vacation managers in each region have a regional union as well as representation in the national union. The days for examinations. Overall, from 1997 to the end of 2011, the percentage of degree-holding employees at Bank Hapoalim rose from about 26% to almost 57%. national union consists of representatives of the regions (including branches and the head office), with representation proportional to the size of the region. The national union operates on the basis of articles of association, accessible to all employees in a dedicated section of the organization's web portal. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 78-79 Ensuring Diversity, Equal Opportunities, and Transparency Performance Rewards Non-Discrimination The bank’s remuneration policy as adopted by the board of directors is congruent with the principles of From the Bank Hapoalim ethical code: the Supervisor of Banks according to the circular issued by the Supervisor in April 2009. The bank treats its employees fairly and without discrimination. The policy of the bank is to employ, promote, and make decisions regarding employees based on pertinent considerations, such as qualifications and Following the circular, a working committee was established in 2010 to examine remuneration policies performance, with no discrimination due to religion, race, sex, age, political views, sexual orientation, at the bank group level. The committee analyzed all of the subsets at the bank that receive bonuses, and disabilities, etc. The bank does everything in its power to implement this policy. Any claims of discrimination defined groups to be addressed. Accordingly, components were added to the remuneration models to brought before the responsible parties are addressed by the bank immediately, in order to eradicate such balance short-term and long-term risks, as well as components reflecting the success of the individual occurrences. In 2011, no discrimination claim was brought before the human resources department. in relation to the success of the bank as an organization. In addition, components were added to the Transparency from First Step remuneration policy for the spreading of bonuses over several years and for negative bonuses. In The bank provides new employees with information regarding terms and processes related to their accordance with the approved remuneration policy, in order to promote a culture of achievement and work, as well as extensive useful information on all matters connected with the beginning of their outstanding business performance, the bank links employee remuneration to the performance of the employment, in order to allow for a highly transparent and rapid orientation. The First Step at the bank in the following ways: Bank section of the organizational portal was launched for this purpose. Large amounts of useful ■■ Annual bonus The annual bonus is determined information are available in this section. according to the rate of return of net profit on equity, Equal Opportunities in Wages and Terms as it appears in the consolidated financial statements of In general, salaries and terms of employment for bank employees are determined according to a role the bank group. Part of the annual bonus is distributed book. The role book, which is available on the organizational portal, contains information regarding the uniformly to all employees, while part is distributed terms of employment and entitlements granted to each rank of employees. The publication of the role differentially, based on employee performance; book contributes to transparency in wages and allows control over the terms of the wages. The range of starting salaries is based on minimum wage. ■■ Option allocation The bank has an option allocation program for permanent employees and for employees with Equal Opportunities Gender and Sector non-executive personal contracts. The option allocation Male and female employees receive equal compensation for equal positions and ranks. The bank strives to program highlights the employees' partnership in the achieve diversity in the workplace and hires diverse employees as part of its hiring policy. business success and constitutes an additional level in Data on the employment of women indicate that the percentage of female managers of the whole the comprehensive annual remuneration for employees, is on an upward trend. The pool of female employees with management potential (at the first tier of which also includes bonus and ranking processes. management) is very large, and has a positive effect on the development of talented female managers and on the increase of the proportion of women in senior management. Commendation of Outstanding Employees The bank selects and commends employees who excel. Adapting Work and the Workplace for Special Needs The selection of outstanding employees expresses Many physical disabilities pose no limitation to the ability to work at the bank. Accordingly, the bank the appreciation as management for these employees' does not exercise special treatment (affirmative action) with regard to persons with physical disabilities contribution to the accomplishments of the bank. in its hiring processes or during routine work at the bank. The bank invests the necessary resources Outstanding employees are chosen for their skills and for a and carries out any adjustments that are called for in the working environment in the event of changes in combination of qualities based on a range of criteria, such employees' health. Thus, the bank provides disabled employees with an appropriate work environment as striving for excellence, colleague relationships, teamwork, that enables them to function to their full potential, and in some cases assigns them to a more suitable and more. position in order to enable them to continue to work within their abilities. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 80-81 Hiring Employees from Groups Underrepresented in the Job Market Bank Hapoalim encourages the hiring of employees from population groups that are underrepresented resources personnel. In addition, evaluation days at screening centers in the job market, as part of its hiring policy. To promote workplace diversity, the bank invests extensively were adapted to enable candidates to better express their capabilities. in studying the accumulated experience in this area, in Israel and globally. The bank is also a sponsor of the Israel Forum on Workplace Diversity. Among other activities, the bank collaborates with non-profit In 2011, special emphasis was placed on promoting the recruitment of organizations specializing in the empowerment and integration into the job market of these population employees from the ultra-orthodox sector. As part of this process, special groups. The bank is learning from its accumulating experience and drawing conclusions in order to allow criteria were approved for ultra-orthodox candidates; representatives of the for optimal integration, generating value for all of the parties involved. bank participated in a job fair targeted to the ultra-orthodox population; and visits were made to non-profit foundations and organizations specializing in this field. In addition, a first-of-its-kind pilot was launched to recruit female ultra-orthodox students for the Poalim by Telephone call center, Promoting Workplace Diversity through a targeted training course adapted to their school schedules. Diversity was promoted on the systemic level in 2011 through For the following years, a systemic diversity work-plan was created, based an increase of awareness in this area, continued realization of the on the existing experience in the bank and on available information and recruitment potential of employees from relevant population groups benchmark from the world. The plan encompasses nine components of and the creation of a systemic work plan for the promotion of humana systemic overview of diversity, based on the understanding that the capital diversity in the bank. promotion of diversity in human capital takes place on various dimensions Awareness of the importance of workplace diversity has been of the organization, including employee hiring, screening, intake, mobility, raised through the presentation of this subject, its importance, and development, and promotion; leadership to promote diversity; community the work plan for its promotion to managers in the area of human relations and partnerships; supplier diversity; change management; resources and operations who are responsible for the management communication of messages in this area and more. of human resources at the various units, and to the members of the management and board of directors. The importance accorded to the promotion of this area has also been communicated to the manpower agencies engaged by the bank. The agencies were asked to meet Proportion of women in management positions, 2007-2011 objectives in the area of recruitment of employees from population 60% groups underrepresented in the job market. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 50% The bank's hiring process emphasizes maximization of the potential found in population groups underrepresented in the job market, 40% by reaching out to non-profit organizations specializing in these 30% population groups, participating in specially designated job fairs, and guiding candidates through the process. The bank has made changes 20% to its standard screening processes in order to adapt them to the unique cultural characteristics of candidates from population groups 10% underrepresented in the job market. As part of this process, targeted 0 workshops on multicultural job interviews were held for humanFirst tier Branch managers and Division supervisors Members of management department heads and division heads management EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 82-83 Data for 2011: Comparison of men and women at each rank women are 49.6% Female Male Total of the managers ■■ Minimum wage earners constitute 6.5% of the employees of the bank and 8.8% of nonmanagement employees; Board of directors* 5 10 15 at the bank ■■ 64.6% of the employees of the bank are women, versus 46.6% in the workforce; ■■ Minority employees constitute 5.9% of the bank’s workers, a moderate increase of 0.2% percentage Board of points relative to 2010; 5 10 15 49.6% of the managers at management ■■ The number of minority employees at the bank rose from 445 in 2007 to 606 in 2011; the bank are women, versus Division heads and ■■ From the beginning of 2011, 45 employees were hired at the bank's regional administrations under the chief supervisors 23 64 87 33.6% in the workforce; bank's diversity policy, accounting for 17.8% of the 254 employees hired by the regional administrations Section heads at in total; 280 269 549 head office ■■ The bank participated in three diverse employment fairs for population groups underrepresented in Department heads at branches or the job market: In Jerusalem, for the Ultraorthodox (Haredi) population, in Tel Aviv University – for Arab 522 407 929 department heads students, and In ZOA, Tel Aviv, for people aged 60 and above; at head office ■■ The bank continues to collaborate with non-profit organizations engaged in promoting population Branch managers 105 211 316 groups underrepresented in the job market, such as Olim Beyahad Leadership for Ethiopian-Israeli First tier University Graduates, Tech Careers Computer Training for Ethiopian Israelis, Kav Mashve Equality 487 434 921 management for Arab University Graduates, Manpower Bereshit a placement firm for the ultra-orthodox sector, IT Works, Tevet Fighting poverty and Be-Atzmi. Total management 1,395 1,422 2,817 Other employees 5,172 2,217 7,389 Total employees 6,594 3,612 10,206 49.6 % 33.6 % Looking ahead * Not bank employees The execution of the work plan for the promotion of human-capital diversity at the bank for the coming years will continue in 2012, through several organizational processes, including the following: Segmentation of minority employees Wage equality ■■ Defining positions, work processes, and measurement infrastructures in the area of workplace diversity; between men and ■■ Identifying appropriate recruitment channels, continuing to improve the First tier management 10% Branch managers and head office department women screening process, and adapting the orientation process; ■■ Establishing metrics for employee mobility, development, and promotion; heads 3% The basic salary at Bank Hapoalim is defined identifying gaps; and creating focused plans to close the gaps; by a wage system based on position and level ■■ Providing training to managers on the management of a diverse which makes no reference to gender whatsoever. workforce and on the creation of an optimal employment diversity mix; Thus, there is full equality in the basic salary paid to men and women in all levels and positions. ■■ Formulating targeted messages and identifying inter-organizational However, certain differences in the gross salary channels and opportunities for communication in this area; of different employees in various positions can be ■■ Managing and assimilating workplace diversity with the bank's suppliers; found, since salaries are based on the personal ■■ Establishing groups of employees from diverse population groups for characteristics of employees such as: seniority, assistance with various aspects of the management of diverse human Employees 87% overtime and benefits given to parents. resources at the bank. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 84-85 Promoting a Culture of Dialogue and Openness Bank Hapoalim considers its employees to be full partners who contribute to all business and organizational processes. Employees become partners in the promotion Assimilating the Bank's Vision of all endeavors of the bank through organizationat the Campus wide communication on every level: dialogue between As a destination for many managers and employees, and direct communication of the bank's employees, between different units. Direct dialogue between managers the Campus is a key forum and employees enables employees to feel connected with for assimilating the bank's organizational objectives. Lateral dialogue between units strategic objectives, vision, helps organization-wide processes move forward with and values. In a process flexibility and efficiency. The range of methods applied initiated in 2011, the bank's at the bank to achieve these aims includes face-to-face vision and values were meetings, use of the organizational portal, promotion integrated into various training E m p l oye e s d u r i n g t h e b a n k's v i s i o n assimilating workshop of a culture of sharing and innovation, and processes of Employees in a Breakfast with the CEO event programs. As part of the feedback, assessment, and drawing conclusions. process of assimilating the vision of the bank, workshops were held in several locations throughout Israel in which a dialogue was conducted, Strengthening Connections and Communications between Management and Employees using artwork, in order to familiarize the participants with the vision and its components and impart an understanding of the value of financial ■■ Breakfast with the CEO, Zion Kenan Aimed at forging closer relationships with employees and freedom , which differentiates the vision of the bank from the visions of connecting management to events on the ground. Employees of various ranks are invited to the other organizations. These workshops strengthen employees' sense of breakfasts to celebrate their birthdays together. The get-togethers are an opportunity for dialogue and connection and pride in belonging to a vision-driven organization. bilateral communication, in an atmosphere of openness and honesty, on equal terms. Topics raised during the event are documented and addressed both during the session and through subsequent The stage in which the vision is assimilated is the apex of a process action, to the extent possible; begun four years ago, during which the guiding values of the bank's activity were considered thoroughly and in depth. This has been a ■■ Executive Chat meetings Since January 2010, each member of the bank's board of management has process of renewal and growth, as well as commitment to social values held a series of open talks with groups of employees from other areas of the bank, in a variety of positions, applicable to all of humanity that also reflect sound business policies. representing a range of the bank's units. The sessions are known as Executive Chats, and are aimed at strengthening the relationship and dialogue between management and employees, in order to enable the executives to listen to voices on the ground and make necessary changes. Data for 2011: ALL EMPLOYEES ■■ From the beginning of the project, by the end of 2011, more than 100 Executive Chat Meetings PARTICIPATED IN OVER were held, involving 1,200 employees; 100 WORKSHOPS ■■ Over 500 employees participated in Breakfast With the CEO events with the bank's CEO Within the process of assimilating the vision of the bank, over Zion Kenan. 100 workshops were held for all the bank's employees. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 86-87 The Organizational Portal Creating a Central Infrastructure for Intra-Organizational Communications Dialogue, transparency, and sharing are fundamental elements of corporate social responsibility. These ■■ Guidance for headquarters units through the information values are put into practice through the organizational portal. Since the launch of the portal, it has become package model The organizational portal unit helps increase a key arena for extensive business activity conducted on an everyday basis. The portal has enabled the effectiveness of communication and absorption of information Bank Hapoalim to move from information distribution to effective information sharing and management. transmitted by the various headquarters units, through a model used As a result, the bank has succeeded in achieving improvement in employees' professional expertise, to plan the necessary steps. The information package model allows increasing synergy between headquarters and the field, strengthening employees' identification with the the units to become familiar with all of the tools at their disposal organization, and fostering genuine dialogue, through the various tools offered by the portal. and helps them plan effective processes for communication and absorption of the information over the long term. The bank's organizational portal has been recognized in Israel as a best practice organization in the areas of knowledge management and intra-organizational communications. Consequently, the portal has The planning of a communication and absorption process based on continued to respond to requests from representatives of leading organizations in this field in the Israeli this model consists of three stages: economy for sharing of practices and practical tips to further the study and promotion of this topic in Israel. A. Defining the goal and target group through the timing of the communication, exposure level, urgency of the message, and duration of transmission; Activity of the Bank's Portal in 2011 B. Examination of the range of services and products (listed on the appropriate page of the portal) useful over the long term, according During 2011, the bank continued to expand the activity of the portal in to the target audience; the area of knowledge sharing and flow within the organization and the improvement of service and support for banking activity, through the C. Creation of a periodic distribution plan for the selected range of tools. following means: ■■ Straight to You During 2011, an innovative application was launched within the portal allowing quick, efficient access to information in the banking portal, the telephone directory, and the term glossary. The Data for 2011: Straight to You application helps users obtain information quickly, ■■ The service and banking knowledge center of the organizational portal, an essential source of without leaving the screen they are using, whether they are working in knowledge for employees, has processed a cumulative number of approximately 55,000 inquiries the Messila or Dialogue systems, on the organizational portal, or on from employees, meeting 94% of its response objectives. The maximum response time has been any document; predefined at 24 hours. 32 headquarters units participate in processing inquiries to the service and banking knowledge center; ■■ The number of page views on the organizational portal in 2011 reached 45 million. The banking portal had over 8 million page views by employees, while the international portal had 450,000 page views by about 1,000 employees, including 650 employees of the International Banking Area and its 21 overseas offices; ■■ The website management community encompasses 470 staff members who work to manage and update knowledge on the business websites and at the service and knowledge center. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 88-89 Looking ahead ■■ Innovation lab A select group of employees with the mission of raising ■■ In 2012, information consumption through the organizational ideas and developing product lines and processes to promote the bank portal will be expanded due to accessibility via cell phone, within a 3-5 year range. In 2011, lab members began meeting regularly tablet, Portal at Home, and Portal Straight to You; for work sessions, training camp sessions, and professional training, with continual guidance from Israeli and international innovation experts; ■■ The range of new sites planned to launch on the organizational portal during 2012 has been expanded, and includes a ■■ Innovation community The innovation community, consisting management site, an informational site for the Corporate of hundreds of employees, was launched in 2011. The goal of the Banking Area, an informational sites for Platinum employees, community is to cultivate human resources in the organization with a New York site, and a Poalim by Telephone site. the aim of discovering creativity, innovation, and business initiative. Community members benefit from quarterly webinars on various topics related to innovation and tools for inventive thinking, and are the first to learn about innovation activities; Organizational Innovation ■■ Innovation coaches Two additional groups of innovation coaches Innovation is one of the significant values promoted at the bank as part of the process of assimilating the were trained at the bank in 2011. Immediately upon completing their Bank Hapoalim vision, through a commitment undertaken by the board of management and board of training, the innovation coaches began to guide the various teams directors. The goal of the process is to create a culture in which employees suggest initiatives and innovative participating in the initiatives competition, as well as running business ideas for products and services, as well as for the improvement and change of operational and business innovation training days for groups of bank employees; processes, eventually granting the bank a competitive advantage. Furthermore, the process is designed to ■■ Innovation festival During 2011, some 2,000 employees from all generate interest and enthusiasm among customers regarding innovation at the bank, which is reflected in parts of the bank participated in the festival, held over three days, the interaction with them. The bank is leading a process aimed at assimilating the values of excellence and during work hours. Participants attended more than 80 workshops innovation in its organizational culture at all levels of activity, through a series of initiatives. The innovation at the Mediatheque and other selected locations for the various process at the bank is led by the Poalim the Right Way unit within the Corporate Strategy Division. regional administrations; ■■ Innovation competition in 2011, 120 employees from all parts of the bank formed teams to develop ideas for innovative Organizational Innovation 2011 products, processes, and ■■ Inter-organizational innovation forum In the second half of 2011, a business models. During forum was established for executives from the 50 leading companies the competition, the teams received guidance from the in the Israeli economy that promote innovation in their organizations. innovation coaches and The forum convenes periodically and offers opportunities for from external innovation networking, the exchange of ideas, sharing of accumulated experts for the promotion knowledge in this area, consultations, and collaboration, as well as of their ideas and for an arena for introduction to activities for the promotion of innovation, personal empowerment The judging panel in the innovation from Israel and from abroad; and development. competition EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 90-91 The performance evaluation process includes an examination of the employee's performance over the last year and formulation of the main objectives for the coming year, including professional objectives as well Looking ahead as personal development objectives. About six months after the feedback meetings, trend meetings are ■■ In 2012, the bank will launch its innovation strategy and held to enable managers and employees to examine the progress made towards the objectives together a routine working framework for the creation of synergy and to discuss steps that will help achieve the objectives. These talks offer another opportunity for open between islands of innovation” and the promotion of dialogue between managers and employees. The process reflects the spirit of the vision and the promotion innovative outputs; of transparency, openness, and cultivation of human capital. In processes conducted to draw conclusions, ■■ The bank will hold an Innovation Happening during 2012 managers and employees expressed satisfaction with this system. for the development of innovative products and services, based on the exclusive participation of members of the Surveys and Feedback innovation community; The bank conducts surveys from time to time with the aim of learning about employees' positions and ■■ Two other groups of innovation coaches will be trained in preferences on various matters. The surveys enable to formulate specifications for processes and products 2012, and will run workshops and instruct trainees at the while taking employees' knowledge, experience, and opinions into consideration. Poalim Campus. A variety of surveys were conducted during 2011, including notably a survey on organizational climate and a survey on intra-organizational service. Findings of the survey are integrated into work plans, with the aim of reducing gaps identified during the process. An organizational survey was conducted, to measure and Conducting the Processes of Feedback, Evaluation, and Drawing Conclusions identify the feelings and positions of employees and managers regarding various aspects of the workplace. The survey is a valuable means of communicating a message to employees regarding the importance The Performance Evaluation and Management Process accorded by management to listening to employees and to creating continuous dialogue, including a Each year, managers provide feedback to employees on their personal performance at their positions, commitment to act and cultivate human capital in the spirit of the bank's vision. Survey questions are in which the manager and the employee address the range of subjects and aspects that make up the derived from content areas known to be correlated with satisfaction, commitment, and investment in the employee's role. The performance evaluation process is in the form of a dialogue between the manager organization, including respondents' perception of their position, their work environment, their organization, and the employee, and supports a number of goals, including employee development, coordination of and the fairness of their employment. expectations, and improvement of performance. The process helps empower and nurture employees, and promotes excellence. Excellence in Service for Employees The Mashab Personal Service Center serves as the centralized location for employees' and managers' queries on various matters related to human resources, aimed at improving satisfaction and strengthening connections. Mashab was established as part of the conclusions drawn from the organizational climate survey, among other factors, with the aim of bringing human-resource services to the next level. Mashab was established in early 2010, and provides service to all employees and managers. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 92-93 Mashab consists of two functions: Data for 2011: ■■ A service center for online and telephone queries from bank employees and business partners on matters related to human resources; ■■ In 2011, 99% of the employees of the bank received feedback on their performance, and trend meetings were held with 72% of employees; ■■ An operational system to support work processes derived from queries on matters related to human resources, focusing on topics such as attendance, maternity leave, unpaid leave, monitoring of missing ■■ Approximately 7,000 employees participated in the bank's organizational climate survey. The data on employees, employment certifications, visas, eligibility for mobile phones, cafeteria points, daily survey attained a participation rate of 61% of all employees of the bank (up from 56% in the expense allowances, and more. previous survey); The Poalim Service Center At Employees' Service ■■ 41,000 queries to Mashab were documented in 2011, from 8,700 employees. Since the establishment of Mashab, over 60,000 queries have been made by 9,650 employees; The Poalim Service Center monitors alarm and security systems at all of the bank's facilities: monitoring closed-circuit television systems, supervising head office building control systems, providing personal ■■ Mashab: 87% of respondents to the employee survey expressed high satisfaction with the service assistance to Platinum clients, providing logistical services to the various bank units. provided; Services for bank units and for employees and their families in addition to intra-organizational professional ■■ The Poalim Service Center processed 39,323 service requests and answered 513,190 services, the Poalim Service Center offers a unique package of services to bank employees and their incoming calls; families, 24 hours a day. Among others, the service center assists employees in calling the police in case ■■ The “I Care” initiative was the first element launched in the innovation drive: of burglary, assisting during car crashes, providing initial consultation, referring to professional bodies in Any employee in any position who identifies an activity that can be improved, cases of domestic facilities' problems, assistance in location of family members abroad and more. streamlined, or renewed is invited to formulate a proposal and submit it to the relevant parties at the bank. In 2011, a total of 3,019 proposals were submitted by 1,383 employees. From the launch of this program to the end of 2011, 9,802 proposals were submitted by 2,777 employees, of which 8% are in the stages of implementation. Mashab 2011 Improved service at Mashab Mashab responds to changing needs as they arise from employees. The following issues were addressed during 2011: ■■ Pregnancy and childbirth Since the establishment of Mashab, many queries concerning pregnancy and childbirth have been received. In order Mashab Service Metrics to provide a suitable response, a booklet on pregnancy and childbirth 100% was produced, summarizing all of the information relevant for employees The objectives set for Mashab 90% 91% 90% during pregnancy, childbirth, and the return to work. The booklet will be include objectives with regard 87% 87% 80% 80% sent to all female employees who report an expected birth; to queries responded to by the 80% next day, calls answered within 60 70% ■■ Mashab in the field Mashab has commenced a series of visits to branches with a relatively low rate of contact with Mashab, with the aim of strengthening seconds, and user satisfaction. 60% the connection with employees and responding to their questions. During Metrics as measured in 2011: 50% One-contact Answered within Satisfaction the visit, employees are introduced to the option of contacting Mashab resolution 60 seconds online, and answers to employees' questions are provided. Execution Target EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 94-95 Caring for Personal Development, Training, and Realization of Potential Creating an Organizational Map at the Human Capital Development Center Approximately 1,800 employees change positions each year at Bank Hapoalim. Employee mobility Looking ahead takes place within a supportive, values-driven work environment that encourages workers to enrich their ■■ Following two years in which Mashab solidified its knowledge and experience. The bank is committed to providing a setting conducive to its employees’ responsive services for employees, proactive initiatives personal and professional development; the Human Capital Development Center (HCDC) serves this will be emphasized in 2012. These include: purpose by creating a point of contact between the organization’s needs and its employees’ professional A. Proactive contact with employees, by telephone, ambitions, with the aim of realizing this approach and fostering employee growth, development, and e-mail, or text message, on occasions such empowerment. The center provides a comprehensive, current operational status snapshot of capabilities as birthdays; and skills, while advancing employees through individual instruction and occupation changes. B. Forums and roundtables held to strengthen relationships with employees and respond to their requests; The Human Capital Development C. Raising awareness of prolonged illnesses by Center in 2011 producing a pamphlet for employees who are Several initiatives were carried out at the HCDC in 2011 in order to at home or at a medical facility for a prolonged period due to illness or injury, detailing all of the improve mobility processes for both employees and managers. relevant information; Processes targeted to employees: ■■ Mashab will continue to promote operational ■■ Mentoring A mentor was assigned to every employee undergoing excellence in 2012 by automating the employee loan mobility, during the process of discovering, monitoring, and tracking application process, updating and improving humanresources procedures, and automating the process of job offers and interviewing with potential managers; issuing certification forms to employees, such as ■■ Interview preparation Preparation sessions for employees who employment certifications; find job interviews difficult. The preparation focuses on professional ■■ A hotline for calls from contractor employees working and personality aspects, and employees receive feedback and tips on the premises of the bank will be established in 2012, to help them prepare for interviews; as part of the activity of Mashab; ■■ Observation days In the advanced stages before a final decision ■■ Work methods within the I Care initiative are planned regarding employee mobility, an observation day may be scheduled to change during 2012, to allow management for the employee at the destination unit, to allow a deeper and optimization of ideas with the participation of understanding of the position and field to which the employee all employees. is being assigned. The observation day serves to reinforce the employee's decision regarding the designated position; EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 96-97 the bank's need for high-quality workers. Poalim Campus promotes an organization-wide culture of ongoing learning. This learning-oriented approach emphasizes the ambition to decentralize learning, ■■ Transition workshop A one-day workshop, Transitions and from Campus classrooms to the training centers at the regional administrations and beyond, to each Preparation for Change, was built in collaboration with the Poalim employee's workstation. According to this view, the time invested in employee training does not impede Campus. Most employees who transfer to a different position business performance; instead, it serves to enhance and hone professional capabilities, on the path through the HCDC staffing coordinators are invited to attend the towards better business achievements. workshop. The workshop provides an opportunity to discuss dilemmas related to the transition from one position to another, The Poalim Campus in 2011 imparts tools to aid entry into a new position, and more; In addition to being a workplace, serves as an arena of personal development and empowerment ■■ Guidance and monitoring of mobility Guidance for employees to its employees. In 2011 as part of the Campus and as a joint venture with the workers' union, the during the initial phase in a new position and monitoring of the campus' expanded its activities beyond the normal training hours. This initiative was implemented for employee's integration. the personal enrichment of employees, learning a variety of subjects unrelated to the ongoing work at the bank. Processes targeted to managers: The process of extending work hours started with preliminary planning that included dialogue with ■■ Validation of job profiles to ensure a broad understanding of the employees, part of which included an employee survey that examined the feasibility process among requirements of the position; the employees and their wishes in relation to topics of studying. Employee involvement was high and ■■ Distribution of a pamphlet for managers on taking in a new was expressed in response of more than 3,000 employees to the survey, within a few days. In March employee at the unit; 2011 the campus started the extracurricular learning scheme, and based on the employees' requests ■■ Joint thinking on advantages and disadvantages of employees in – focused on language studying. The next step was the opening of additional study groups in the connection with positions and alternatives. country's periphery. Other employee groups were trained on personal coaching, both in the main campus and the country's periphery. In 2011 about 500 employees who chose to register the various extracurricular activities studied in the various programs. 2011 in Numbers: Poalim Campus The bank cultivates a culture of learning and invests in professional ■■ 614 employee moves between areas of the bank and 1,678 moves within areas were performed; and management training to empower its employees and ■■ The number of participants in courses at the Campus, the central back office, and Poalim by managers. Professional and management training is conducted Telephone call centers increased significantly this year. Approximately 74,300 learning days were through the Poalim Campus. The Poalim Campus serves as held in 2011, and the annual average number of learning hours per bank employee was 54.6; the central arena for change-generating learning, leading to personal, organizational, and business ■■ This year, for the first time, the Poalim Campus held educational days for children of employees growth, with the goal of ensuring professional and managerial excellence for the employees and who are employed at the bank over summer vacation, in collaboration with the employee union. In managers. The Campus consists of the banking school and the management and leadership school. this program, the teenagers learned about financial management. The Campus is an arena for personal growth, combining employees' desire to learn and develop with EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 98-99 Assimilating and communicating the value of sustainability and social responsibility As part of the internalization of the values of social responsibility into its operations, the bank communicates Poalim Campus activity average number of learning hours per employee its social responsibility philosophy to its employees, calling upon them to take part in these efforts and receiving advice and opinions for the expansion of its activities. The drive to promote the internalization and 45 communication of the values of responsibility among employees takes various forms, such as: 40 38.5 38.9 35 32 ■■ The corporate social responsibility section of the organizational portal, which presents the bank's 30 28.4 25 24.1 25 18.4 19.3 philosophy in this area and centralizes all CSR content. In the CSR section, employees are invited to 20 15.7 15 9 suggest ideas and tips, ask questions, and request assistance from the various content experts. Some of 10 5 4.9 5.3 the ideas and tips are posted in the content sections, with credit given to the employees who suggested 0 Employees First tier Branch First tier them. The ideas are considered, and some are implemented. In addition, the CSR section is used to management managers and management department communicate activities conducted at the bank within its CSR plan. The CSR section was updated during heads the year, with added content and is being redesigned; 2009 2010 2011 ■■ Dialogue with employees is a key axis of the process of assimilating CSR values at the bank. Employees commit to this process and greatly contribute to it through personal messages, telephone calls, e-mail, and surveys conducted from time to time. As part of this dialogue, a series of training programs and lectures on CSR topics was developed. The training sessions are held during routine work hours in special meetings, at unit-level conferences, and in voluntary enrichment programs offered after work hours, in collaboration with Looking ahead the social and wellbeing services unit and the employee union; The execution of several projects at the Poalim Campus will ■■ Change of management processes and creation of cooperations with employees The Sustainability begin during 2012: and CSR Report is distributed to a long list of influential players in the Israeli economy: businesses, government agencies, non-profit organizations, academic institutions, and more. Copies of the report ■■ Development and beginning of implementation of a are on display at all branches for perusal by customers and the general public; the report is also available learning management system (LMS); in digital form on the bank's website. In addition, cooperation with employees is enlisted to assimilate ■■ Team leadership center A new program at the new processes in this area, by transforming a new and unfamiliar activity into an organizational, management and leadership school, designed to teach operational, and business routine. In order to achieve success, each new idea is examined in depth. and assimilate a leadership model adapted to global Following this examination, a small-scale pilot is conducted with continual monitoring. When the pilot changes and trends; has been completed and the relevant conclusions have been drawn, the activity is expanded and ■■ Employee mentoring by managers Continuation and converted from a project to a formalized routine. expansion of the program imparting mentoring tools to managers at various levels, to enable them to empower their employees, in accordance with the various needs; 80 Lectures on CSR ■■ Management reserves Development of thinking and Approximately 80 lectures on subjects related to CSR learning skills within the middle-management tiers of were given for employees at the various units of the the bank. bank during 2011. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 100-101 Caring for Employees’ Whole-Person Wellbeing Wellbeing Services A Healthy and Ergonomic Work Environment Employees of the bank benefit from an extensive array of wellbeing services in many different areas. One of the many facets of caring for employees is to ensure a healthy, appropriate work environment. These services provide appropriate solutions for a broad range of employee needs, from leisure This is achieved through ergonomics, the science of adapting the working environment to the worker. The activities to enrichment for employees and their families to professional assistance in times of personal bank has a structured methodology-based training program applied at all of its units by an ergonomics or family crisis. As part of these wellbeing services, a page was set up within the organizational portal, expert from the management engineering department; in addition, the CSR section of the portal contains in collaboration with the employee union, offering employees of the bank a wide range of special offers a page dedicated to ergonomics. In the training program, the expert highlights the importance of properly and discounts in areas including theater, performances, travel, products, and services. The page is arranging the workstation, and provides practical knowledge in this area, either through personal training updated routinely and allows orders to be performed directly through the portal. or in unit-level monitoring rounds performed to examine the absorption of this content. Resources are allocated in order to enable employees to maintain a healthy lifestyle, including through the initiation of The bank's wellbeing services also include a wide range of leisure activities offered to employees. For competitions, sports events, and other events during work; medical examinations; workshops on healthy example, employees benefit from discounts and subsidies at fitness clubs, swimming pools, and the lifestyles; and workshops on breast health, physical fitness, nutrition, quitting smoking, and more. Good Movie Club. Life Cycle Workshops Another component of wellbeing services is a range of benefits in the following areas, offered through The bank is committed to being a family-friendly employer, and therefore offers employees support in a fund maintained jointly by the management and the employee union: their family roles and duties as parents of children, children of aging parents, spouses, and more. In this ■■ Gifts for holidays and special occasions In addition to the gifts given on Jewish holidays, employees context, the bank offers life-cycle workshops, such as a parental authority workshop, defensive driving receive gifts on special family occasions. The bank takes part in the happy events in its employees' lives, classes, workshops on correct use of the voice, couples' workshops, workshops on safe Internet use, and expresses its appreciation during difficult times as well, through a condolence basket; language courses, and more. ■■ Insurance, financial assistance, and medical tests The bank has established an insurance plan Caring for Employees during Organizational Changes designed to provide employees with a sense of security and protection. The bank also helps employees Organizational changes are carried out by the bank with optimal care for its employees, integrating the undergo thorough periodical medical examinations; needs of the bank with employee needs. Caring for employees involves ensuring that the conditions of their ■■ Employee education In order to maintain the high quality and continual drive towards development of employment are not impaired as a result of the change. As a dynamic business organization in a competitive its employees, the bank encourages employees to acquire education and therefore promotes academic environment, the bank carries out organizational changes and adjustments that sometimes take several studies, through assistance with tuition or with work hours; months. Such changes are communicated to and coordinated with the various stakeholders. In some cases, not only do units undergo change, but employees are also reassigned to ■■ Education for children of employees In view of its ambition to promote higher education, not only among its different positions. In these situations, the appropriate training and instruction own employees but as an important societal value, the bank provides tuition aid to children of employees. are provided in order to prepare the employees for their new roles, and support Occupational Wellbeing is offered through all stages of the transition and absorption. Under the bank's The bank's occupational wellbeing unit provides assistance to employees during situations of distress, labor constitution, in all cases in which employees are transferred to a different crisis, or change in their personal lives or in the family or occupational sphere, such as divorce, position, the employee must be given at least one month’s advance notice. bereavement, single parenthood, illness, disability, retirement, and more. This assistance is aimed Preparing for Retirement and Keeping in Touch with Retirees at helping the employee cope with the crisis, change, or distress and resume optimal functioning. In The bank’s obligations regarding retirement plans, compensation, and pensions some situations, intervention and assistance may also be necessary for the employee's family, or for are fully covered by pension plan assets. The bank cares for employees and the family members of a deceased employee. employees' spouses approaching retirement age by offering preparatory Counseling, guidance, and support are provided through various means of intervention and communication, courses and workshops regarding retirement, and maintains continuous including face-to-face meetings, telephone calls, and e-mail conversations. Contact is made through the contact with retirees. This includes support, financing, and cooperation with manager or through a direct application by the employee to the occupational wellbeing staff, which can the retiree union, which organizes trips and leisure activities and arranges be performed without notifying the employee's managers, as the service is confidential. monetary assistance in times of need. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 102-103 Maintaining Safety and Hygiene Bank Hapoalim, as an employer, is committed to creating a safe work environment for its employees and 2011 in Numbers: for workers on its premises. The bank also ensures a safe service environment for all customers and ■■ At the bank's head office, in Rubenstein Towers in Tel Aviv, a room was set aside and adapted for visitors to its branches and properties. The bank operates its facilities based on an awareness of potential nursing mothers who return to work after maternity leave to pump milk during the workday; safety and hygiene risks, and is committed to complying with all legal requirements in these areas. ■■ The Human Resources division produced a Pregnancy and Childbirth booklet containing detailed The bank works to identify and locate risks and maintains a risk-management plan in this area. Safety information on the rights of the employees from the pregnancy stage through maternity leave, to considerations are an integral part of decision-making processes at all levels at the bank. The bank works their return to work. The booklet that would be updated in 2012 was distributed to the pregnant to minimize negative effects on health and to continually improve its work environment. Processes and employees and to the bank's business partners; activities are regularly improved in order to prevent safety and hygiene risks. The bank conducts training ■■ Pages regarding the protection of the environment, dealing with elderly parents, and dealing and instruction activities, as part of its structured work processes, designed to promote awareness and with illness and disability were added to the organizational portal; responsibility, with the aim of providing safe environments to all of its employees, customers, and visitors. ■■ Ergonomics: Approximately 600 lectures and 300 personal training sessions were held; Management ensures that this policy is made public and is clear to each employee and to anyone whose ■■ About 850 employees took courses and workshops on various health-related subjects; services are engaged by the bank. The policy is available to all employees, including through the safety and hygiene section of the organizational portal, which is aimed at creating a culture and climate of ■■ In the annual tradition, an appreciation event was held for employees who completed 25 or 40 safety and compliance with legal requirements for the protection of employees’ and customers’ safety. years of work at the bank; ■■ 114 artists who are employees of the bank participated in the In House Art exhibition, held for the The safety and security department of the bank is responsible for safety and hygiene, and conducts sixth year to display a wide range of works by employees and retirees of the bank. The artwork routine activities aimed at maintaining a safe and appropriate work environment. The department works was created using a variety of techniques and materials and limitless sources of inspiration; to prevent and reduce safety incidents such as fires, malfunctions, and accidents and the resulting damage. Among other factors, the department's activities are derived from the bank's legal duty to protect the health and safety of its employees and customers while they are on its premises. The bank conducts annual analyses of accidents that occur at its facilities, in order to understand the reasons for Looking ahead the accidents (cause, timing, and location) and the possibilities for prevention. The safety and hygiene ■■ As part of the CSR plan, infrastructure was added during 2011 section of the portal introduces the bank’s safety and hygiene policy, for the creation of a safe driving section within the bank's provides information regarding safety and hygiene risks in the portal. This project includes digital guides on this subject, to workplace, describes prevention and response methods, and be produced during 2012; offers extensive information on safety at home ■■ As part of the collaboration between the CSR division, the and at work, occupational hygiene employee union and the organizational portal unit, a site and health, and more. will be set up within the bank's portal during 2012 to help employees cope with marital issues; ■■ Towards the last quarter of 2012 the Poalim Health program is expected to start. This program includes various initiatives to improve the health of bank employees, focusing on two main areas: healthy lifestyles and preventive medicine. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 104-105 Number of branches included in Distribution of employee accidents Launch of the safety tutorial within safety systems and equipment at the bank, 2009-2011 knowledge management and training installation plan 60 During 2011, a safety tutorial was launched within the organizational 100 50 portal, with the aim of teaching employees about the risks and hazards 40 19 18 inherent in everyday life at the bank and ways of identifying and 30 50 13 15 73 preventing them. Responses to questions that may arise during the 20 13 10 working routines of the various branches and units are provided. The 18 17 40 10 17 12 9 tutorial was introduced as part of the promotion of safety, as required 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 2009 2010 2011 by law, and is intended for all employees. Slipping Falling Other In addition, the following activities were carried out during 2011: Relative to the large presence in the bank's facilities and its many employees, the number of accidents is very ■■ Safety and security trustees of the bank were certified as Civilian Defense low and does not indicate any systemic or structural problems. In 2011, 35 of the accidents occurred to monitors, in collaboration with the IDF Home Front Command; women and 8 to men. ■■ A process was conducted to assimilate safety procedures, in which seminars were held at several departments and divisions, and training sessions were held for relevant positions; ■■ An interface was created with the new National Fire and Rescue Commissioner, as part of the promotion of safety and optimization of Looking ahead shared working interfaces; The following processes will be emphasized in 2012: ■■ The safety and security section of the organizational portal was updated and renewed. ■■ Launch of a safety tutorial for construction supervisors; ■■ Implementation of safety procedures at subsidiaries, as part of the corporate governance policy of the bank's board of management and under the responsibility of the 2011 in Numbers: heads of the subsidiaries, based on the safety procedures ■■ As part of the Safety Gap Remedy project, safety systems and equipment were installed during of the bank; the year. The project, based on a multi-year plan, was completed this year, with installation at a ■■ Implementation of the bank's safety procedures with total of 148 branches; regard to suppliers of services to the bank, as part of its ■■ 345 training sessions and drills and 500 refresher courses for employees were held at branches procurement policy. during 2011. OPERATING PROACTIVELY THE CLIENT'S WELLBEING Customers, products and services 108-109 Working to Promote Financial Meeting Customer Needs Freedom for All Stakeholders This section describes the bank’s relationships with its customers, the services and products offered to customers by the bank, and the ways in which the bank identifies opportunities and manages risks in Financial Freedom the area of social responsibility in a changing business environment. The bank strives to develop banking This term represents the freedom and will of our customers and employees to make good choices, services and products based on a philosophy of creating shared value for its customers and its other based on their personal preferences, while taking responsibility for and understanding the financial stakeholders, such as the community, various participants in the economy, the environment, and others, capabilities and possibilities open to them. The Bank is committed to helping its customers and while simultaneously generating economic value for the bank. employees achieve their goals, working to realize their financial potential, and guiding them towards Bank Hapoalim recognizes that customers’ needs and aspirations change during different life stages. The growth, by matching solutions to each stage of the life cycle and to growth from one stage to the next. bank therefore endeavors to provide customers with all of the financial information and services that can Through the use of tools and products for responsible financial planning and management, knowledge, help them understand, plan, and carry out both long-term and immediate financial decisions. The bank’s and dialogue, we enable our customers and employees to take responsibility for prudent financial view of its customers is derived from a philosophy of sustainability, giving rise to a relationship designed to behavior, while developing a significant, ongoing relationship of mutual trust and partnership. encompass a comprehensive understanding of the needs of customers and their families over time. From the Financial Freedom value in the Bank Hapoalim vision. Furthermore, the changes underway in the business environment the transition to a low-carbon economy, resource scarcity, water and land conservation efforts, and global warming harbor potential As a business leader, Bank Hapoalim has the responsibility to promote equal economic opportunities business opportunities for the bank. As a result of sustainability strategies, the values and needs of in Israeli society and economic sustainability among its customers. The bank welcomes this duty, and customers are evolving as well. The bank's role is to provide solutions in the financial arena and to believes in its mission to contribute to the empowerment of the society from which it draws its strength. promote emerging demand in the sustainability space. Towards that end, the bank offers various Expanding our customers' financial knowledge is also congruent with the bank's business interests. Aware financing solutions, deposits, and investment products that encourage sustainable consumption and consumers make better decisions; they maintain a relationship with the bank that is more balanced and environmentally conscious investment. more congruent with their expectations; and they are able to reach financial decisions more capably. The bank works to create value for its customers, in the following ways: Examinations of consumer needs and desires in the area of financial behavior conducted in recent years by the bank indicate that the need for broader financial knowledge has grown stronger during ■■ Development of responsible products to foster economic and environmental sustainability, for our this period. Lifetime Financial Planning is an organization-wide initiative stressing the formulation of a customers and for the economy as a whole; range of tools, products, knowledge, and guidance provided by the bank, matched to customer needs ■■ Maintaining a multichannel network for at various life stages. As part of this process, the bank is working to promote education on prudent communication with customers at any time and financial conduct in Israel, in three main areas: place, with appropriate accessibility; ■■ Education on smart budget management; ■■ Providing optimal service to achieve customer ■■ Education on prudent investments; satisfaction; responding to and learning from ■■ Education on savings. customer communications; Budget Management Education ■■ Responsiveness to customers’ needs through The bank has developed an extensive series of unique tools for education on smart budget management, all life stages; with the aim of providing ongoing assistance with bank customers' financial conduct. These tools include ■■ Solutions tailored to the unique characteristics personal financial planning meetings with customers, a budget management tool available through of different customer groups. Hapoalim Online, and exclusive workshops on smart budget management. Customers, products and services 110-111 3. Matching According to the client's situation, the banker offers Personal Financial Planning immediate solutions and alternatives that provide an effective Within the drive to expand services response to the client's needs (such as information aimed at helping in the area of financial freedom for clients repay existing loans as quickly as possible); customers, the bank launched a new 4. Guiding At the end of the meeting, the client receives a printed service: personal financial planning summary of the meeting, including graphs displayed during the meetings. These meetings are focused meeting, and a personal financial planning pamphlet describing on an in-depth examination of the the full range of tools for prudent financial behavior. Along with customer's banking activity, based on clear explanations, the pamphlet offers many practical tips on an overview of the customer's financial savings, setting expenditure targets, smart account management information, with real-time access to all (such as prudent use of loans and credit cards), and more. relevant data, and an understanding of After the meeting and in the following months, contact with the client the customer's needs. Based on these is maintained in order to create an ongoing guidance process. This materials, practical solutions are offered guidance is aimed at raising the client's awareness of the main budget for improvement of the customer's Text management tools offered by the bank through the direct channels, in financial condition and ability to make order to encourage a pattern of independent planning and monitoring sound budget management decisions. Potential customers are identified of financial activity. by the bank and invited to a branch of the bank for a meeting. The bank has trained bankers to specialize in providing this service. The service This project began as a pilot, in which over 200 meetings were held is another step in the ongoing process of implementing initiatives and at 22 branches in central Israel. In early 2012, the bank began to tools designed to raise awareness and enhance financial freedom for offer the service at all of its branches; thousands of customers have the customers of the bank, adding to the budget planning workshops already benefited. introduced several years ago and the budget management tool on the bank's website. The meeting is structured in four stages: Online Budget Construction Tools 1. Getting acquainted The banker becomes familiar with the client's individual needs, both in terms of the current situation and from a ■■ Poalim Like Me For the first time in Israel, customers can examine their financial conduct in long-term perspective; comparison to customers with a similar profile, leading to more prudent behavior. The service offers 2. Understanding With the banker's help, clients attain a broad and comparisons of total expenses as well as a distribution of expenditures by category, such as food, comprehensive financial overview covering all of the data and tools communications, education, etc; used in their banking activity, through an innovative application that ■■ The Living Right Financially zone launched on the bank's website contains content, tips, articles, and presents the information drawn from the various financial systems of the bank on a single screen; general financial tools, presented in a unique colorful format, guiding customers through their first steps towards wiser financial management. Reflecting the bank's emphasis on the principle of people serving people, the new zone contains videos starring Bank Hapoalim bankers and investment advisors; Customers, products and services 112-113 ■■ Goal setting This tool enables clients to plan their budget according to income and expense ■■ Launch of Dan the Saver savings plans The bank allows children to open special accounts in categories and set monthly targets. At the end of each month, clients can obtain a current snapshot which parents and children can deposit funds without paying a coin fee, so that children can deposit of performance relative to the targets. In addition, customers registered for the On Time service can money saved in a coin bank. Dan the Saver child accounts allow children to receive information, for receive directly to their mobile phones a text-message alert of any deviations from a target. This the first time, through an experience-based Internet interface, including a special activity channel represents a significant upgrade of the budget management tool, allowing customers to improve for children. The website allows children to choose savings goals, with the aim of assimilating their control over financial budget management by encouraging them to plan their income and habits regarding savings from an early age. Children can use the interface to see how much they expenses by category, set goals, and discover deviations from the plan in real time; have saved, set savings goals, and view their progress towards their personal objectives. It should be emphasized that children are not authorized to carry out banking transactions in the account; ■■ Household financial management and planning A budget management tool that presents a parents must do this on their behalves; current snapshot of income relative to expenses. The snapshot is based on collection, classification, and analysis of all of the customer’s transactions. The service provides the customer with a daily, ■■ Cash and coin deposit machines for children In order to enable children to actively participate current, detailed overview of income versus expenses. The savings management tool allows customers in depositing their savings, special coin deposit machines were installed at about 30 shopping malls to select a purpose for the savings plan, assign a name of their choice to the plan, define the saving throughout Israel. Parents accompanied by their children can use the machines to deposit the method (standing order or one-time deposit), set the monthly amount deposited, and choose a preferred children's savings directly into an account in the child's name. In addition to the convenience of the duration for the plan. Progress towards the goal can be tracked throughout the period, and clients can deposit machines, they can help illustrate and assimilate the value of savings and the importance of make changes to the plan and deposit one-time sums to promote timely achievement of their goal. savings to the future of all members of the family; Education on Prudent Investments ■■ Dan the Saver World In addition to banking products, a new experience-based online children's Seminars on better investing for clients club has been established at www.danpoalim.co.il, offering educational games and activities for Seminars were held for customers during 2011, at the initiative of the branches. The seminars covered children. The website is designed to teach children about savings and smart financial behavior, content related to the capital market, from product-focused sessions to broad global market surveys. through content and games; Dozens of seminars were held throughout Israel; additional seminars are planned during 2012. ■■ Dan the Saver summer camp Financing Education on Savings of dozens of Dan the Saver summer camps Dan the Saver held during summer vacation in over 20 As part of the bank’s approach to responsible financial education of current customers and of the Israeli towns. 5,000 children from a variety future generation, and based on the goal of enabling children to have a better financial future and on of sectors participate in the camps, in the understanding that early habits become lifelong habits, the bank is leading a financial education coordination with the municipalities; initiative targeted to children and parents. ■■ Dan the Saver ATM card and checkbook This effort is designed to reinforce and promote the values of saving among parents and children. Two offers designed to expand the services Activity targeted to parents the program, focuses on encouraging saving by appealing to positive provided to Dan the Saver child account Dan the Saver summer camp nostalgic memories, while remaining innovative and offering value beneficial to the customer. Activity holders were designed. The Dan the Saver targeted to children focuses on creating a positive experience during their first encounter with a banking ATM card is a card specially designed for organization, and on building a beneficial, empowering relationship. As part of this process, a series of Dan the Saver child accounts. The card can be used at all ATMs throughout Israel as well as at special savings products were created, aimed at encouraging savings by parents for their children's Dan the Saver machines, where children can complete the experience of saving by depositing the future. The goals of these savings plans cover each life stage of childhood, until financial independence. money they save into their account. In order to continue to encourage savings by parents, the bank The bank thereby promotes savings by parents for their children, easily and simply. In 2011, the bank introduced Dan the Saver checkbooks, which are given to customers along with elegant branded further strengthened the Dan the Saver brand through the following activities: greeting cards and envelopes. When a Dan the Saver check is deposited in an account, the customer Customers, products and services 114-115 is entitled to a benefit when opening a Dan the Saver savings plan. The checks are intended for use as gifts for special occasions, such as a bris, bar mitzvah, etc. A beneficiary depositing the check in ■■ Establishment of unique aid funds for businesses Bank a new savings account receives a gift of NIS 100 for the account; Hapoalim has won a tender for participation in the operation of a fund for small and mid-sized businesses, backed by the state, to provide ■■ Dan the Saver grants Providing benefits in savings plans for specific population groups or events: NIS 700 million of credit to businesses. Each client seeking a loan from a grant for the birth of a child, a Hanukkah grant for customers who open a Dan the Saver Hanukkah the fund will first apply to an external coordinator, who will determine savings plan, and a grant worth NIS 50 for customers who open Dan the Saver plans. whether the client meets the fund's conditions, examine the business and financial aspects of the business, and formulate an opinion. If In 2011, Dan the Saver won an Effie Award, in the social responsibility category, for its contribution to the opinion is favorable, the loan application will be transferred to financial education for children. In the competition, awards are granted each year for effectiveness in the bank for further processing. In addition, joint funds would be advertising over time. Dan the Saver won second place in 2011 for the reintroduction of the brand with a established with craft, industry, and commerce organizations and new, updated appearance and for setting the goal of financial education for children. promote various collaborations would be established with leading organizations in the Israeli economy (such as the Histadrut General Offsetting Current Accounts Labor Federation Fund, the Manufacturers' Association, and the As of 2011, the bank offsets positive and negative balances in its Koret microfinance fund). customers' current accounts, reducing the amount of interest customers The bank has also established Poalim for Growth, a unique loan are charged for negative balances. The offsets are performed automatically fund for small businesses, at a volume of NIS 100 million (beyond in accounts with private drawing account credit facilities, salary accounts, loans in the ordinary course of business). The fund will enable small bank employee accounts, benefit salary accounts, soldier accounts, student accounts, and youth businesses to grow, by granting credit with unique terms, including accounts. As a result of this initiative, customers pay less interest on negative balances, provided that preferred interest rates, grace periods of up to twelve months, and their account has a positive balance during part of the month. no collateral requirement beyond an owner's guarantee. The fund will focus on the commerce, craft, and industry sectors. Clients of the fund will benefit from enrichment on banking-related subjects, through meetings with banking experts on the various topics Promoting the Growth of Small relevant to the management of a small business. In addition, the Businesses bank reinforced the bankers in the business divisions, broadened In recent years, according to the values embodied by the Bank Hapoalim the branch managers' credit authority and would offer some clients vision, the bank has worked diligently to enhance and promote private will be offered business advice services provided by expert advisors customers' financial freedom, through the development of financial tools external to the bank, fully financed by the bank. Overall, the bank and knowledge. Within this process, Bank Hapoalim is committed to will designate an additional amount of approximately NIS 1 supporting and promoting small businesses, as a foundation for growth billion for the benefit of small and mid-sized businesses; of the Israeli economy as a whole. During 2011, a plan for responding ■■ Deployment of business branches Specialized branches to the unique needs of small businesses, was created in order to established for business clients over the last two years, as another enable them to grow and expand while meeting the challenges that element of the service package provided by the bank's corporate they confront. The plan is based on the bank's core capabilities, and banking area. The branches are based on personal service comprises several elements: customized to client needs, full availability including opening Customers, products and services 116-117 hours suited to business clients, professional service by experts, The bank's CEO, Zion Kenan, commented: Bank Hapoalim has set and updates and initiatives for clients. Eight business centers and a goal, from a business perspective and from the perspective of the 22 new branches have been opened within this program (see details economy and society, of increasing its activity with small businesses, later in this section); which we believe will be a key element in the growth of the economy in the coming years. ■■ Innovative channels for business account management The bank offers multiple channels for improved efficiency of the operation of the business and for time savings. Hapoalim Online Business is an area of the bank's website tailored to business needs. The site offers account management and execution of all banking transactions, as well as advanced information, tools, and services, and the option 2011 in Numbers: of carrying out a range of financial activities at any place and time. Poalim by Cell Phone offers a unique application for the bank's ■■ Over 240,000 clients registered for the online budget management tool; business clients Poalim Business available for a variety of mobile ■■ Dan the Saver World From launch in 2010 to the end of 2011, 107,000 users registered for the site devices. The application includes innovative services (such as alerts and the site logged over 2 million visits. of transactions awaiting approval or an aggregate summary of balances in all of the company's accounts), as well as services such as real-time text-message alerts of events in the business account (see details later in this section); ■■ Professional banking solutions In various financial fields, Looking ahead individually tailored to one's specific business, including investment ■■ In 2012, the Personal Financial Planning project consulting by professional, experienced advisors, who guide the will expand to serve tens of thousands of the business using knowledge based on leading economic and financial bank's customers. research, adapted to the client's needs. The foreign-trade center, which supports the service provided by the business branches, guides clients in international activities; a specialized desk for midsized businesses operates within the bank's dealing room; ■■ Business club Provides solutions to business needs of small businesses through a professional program of guidance and 160,000 Dan the Saver instruction for these clients. Each business client can receive professional training delivered by expert lecturers from the bank on savings accounts were subjects relevant for small-business owners. The training sessions opened also provide opportunities for networking and meetings with From launch to the end of 2011, over 160,000 Dan the Saver colleagues in the same field. savings accounts were opened, at a total volume of more than NIS 1.2 billion. Customers, products and services 118-119 Developing Products and Services to Promote Environmental Sustainability Mankind is at a critical crossroads due to the ever-expanding gap between supply and demand. Bank Hapoalim’s involvement in promoting the solar-energy industry is based on five key elements: Most environmental resources are being used faster than they can be renewed in nature; meanwhile, ■■ Inter-segmental partnership with the Electricity Authority and the Israel Electric Corporation; increased consumption of nonrenewable resources (such as fossil fuels, metals, and more) is causing ■■ Intra-organizational preparation to provide professional, comprehensive service to a range severe shortages. In societal terms, the world's population is growing and developing, adopting wasteful of customers; consumption patterns, and creating an even greater strain on the existing resources. These and other ■■ Ensuring the quality of the product; trends mean that a worldwide systemic change is essential, based on several strategic activities: ■■ Dialogue with and support for a network of suppliers and installers; 1. Development and implementation of resource-efficient business processes, including in the areas of ■■ Encouragement of public awareness of solar energy. reuse and recycling; The bank continues to offer financing solutions in the solar-energy field to all client segments, based on 2. Emphasis on high efficiency of product manufacturing processes; the arrangements published by the Electricity Authority. 3. Incentivization and acceleration of groundbreaking technological innovation in the energy industry; Gas-Driven Powered Stations 4. Creation of sustainable consumption patterns and consumer behavior in line with sustainability values; Bank Hapoalim coordinated the credit for the Dorad private power station project, currently being 5. Water: management, transport, recovery, purification, and desalination; constructed to the south of the city of Ashkelon. The station will be fueled by natural gas as a primary fuel, with the option of operation based on diesel fuel as an alternative. The station will supply about 6. The challenge of producing and supplying food to a growing population. 800MW to the IEC and to major private consumers, accounting for a substantial percentage of total Bank Hapoalim recognizes the strategic inevitability of the necessary change, and the resulting power production capacity in Israel. The station is scheduled to begin operating in early 2014. Bank opportunities. Action is therefore being taken on all levels of the activity, both internally and externally. Hapoalim led the senior debt funding for the project, and organized a syndication for that purpose, In its outward-oriented activities, the bank is working to impart knowledge to its customers and encompassing most of the commercial banks in Israel and institutional investors, including some of the offer tools for responsible financial planning and management, in order to promote its customers' largest insurance companies and pension funds in Israel. The institutional financing was organized by the economic sustainability. bank in collaboration with Clal Finance. In addition to its internal environmental efforts, the bank has set a strategic objective of being a leader Desalination in offering financing solutions to its clients for projects that promote environmental concerns: renewable The bank is a leader in the financing of desalination plants. Bank Hapoalim financed the desalination energy (solar thermal energy, photovoltaic energy, geothermal energy, pumped energy storage, project at Palmachim, including expansions. The bank is a partner in financing the desalination project in cogeneration stations, wind turbines, etc.), energy efficiency, water, and more. Activity in these areas is Hadera and Sorek, and recently closed the financing for a desalination project by the water corporation, conducted alongside varied, familiar, traditional banking activity. The new activity follows the accumulation Mekorot, in Ashdod. of the necessary professional knowledge and an in-depth examination of goals and consequences. Wind The bank is following the progress of regulation in the area of wind energy in Israel. Bank Hapoalim is in Promotion of Solar Energy in Israel negotiations with leading entrepreneurs in this area for the formulation of a financing package for wind Bank Hapoalim plans to be the sustainability leader on all levels of its activity environmental action energy projects. and business operations while taking into consideration the effect on Israel's society and economy. Accordingly, as part of its business strategy, the bank seeks possibilities for the development of new Green Construction Mortgages banking products and financial solutions in the various environmental fields that can bring shared value A Green Mortgage is a banking product offered to all customers, which provides unique benefits on to the promotion of environmental values and sustainability in Israel while promoting business. Bank mortgages to buyers of apartments or houses based on green construction principles (after receiving Hapoalim is committed to promoting the solar-energy industry in Israel, by taking a proactive approach. confirmation from the Standards Institute of potential compliance with Standard 1528). Customers, products and services 120-121 Examining Environmental Risks in Financing Pursuant to the directives of the Supervisor of Banks regarding exposure to and management of 2011 in Numbers: environmental risks, the bank established a working committee to formulate recommendations regarding environmental risk management policies and methodologies. The committee enlisted the assistance of ■■ The bank is the leader in financing for the solar-energy industry in Israel; external specialists and examined existing methodologies at banks elsewhere in the world. ■■ In early 2011, Poalim Capital Markets, a member of the Bank Hapoalim Group, and a group of institutional investors launched the Noy Fund for investments in infrastructures and energy. The Methodology for Management of Environmental Risks in Financing fund raised NIS 570 million, as of the end of 2011, for investment in various infrastructure and The objective of the environmental risk management system is to identify, specify, and manage energy ventures; environmental risks in its key areas of activity, based on a uniform, approved methodology, in accordance ■■ The bank is the leader in financing water desalination projects. The forecast for the volume of with the following principles: desalinated water organized or financed by the bank stands at 487 million cubic meters per ■■ Management of environmental risks from the perspective of the overall exposure of the bank to each year, or about 80% of desalinated water in 2014-2015. specific risk; ■■ Management of credit risks through assessment and management of the exposure to environmental risk in the corporate credit portfolio; assessment of environmental risk and its effect on credit risk in new credit applications that meet predefined criteria; management and monitoring of exposure to environmental risk at the level of the overall credit portfolio and at the individual level; Looking ahead ■■ Management of market risks managing exposure to environmental risks in direct investments by ■■ The bank intends to continue to promote financing the bank (in the proprietary portfolio and in general); solutions in the areas noted above, including in ■■ Management of operational risks adapting operational systems to regulatory changes on the area of the transition to natural gas, energy environmental matters. efficiency, and solar energy. Risk Management Method of the Bank Group Risk management at the bank is performed based on a global view of its activity in Israel and of its branches abroad, with due attention to the activity of banking subsidiaries. Risks are managed separately by each banking subsidiary in the bank group, according to policy formulated by each company’s board of directors and presented to the board of directors. Some risks are hedged during risk management. Financial and operational risk assessment and control are performed based on a uniform methodology at the level of the group, with guidance from the risk management area, The Arava Power Solar Field, in Kibbutz Ketura, financed by the bank. taking into consideration the unique characteristics of each subsidiary's activities. Customers, products and services 122-123 Leading Banking into a Multichannel World Even before a general policy had been formulated, the bank began to apply environmental risk Bank Hapoalim is dedicated to assisting its customers with the full range of the financial aspects of management processes when financing major infrastructure projects. A prerequisite for specific their lives. In view of this commitment, the bank offers its customers full availability and accessibility of financing of such projects is an examination of the project’s impact on the environment. Clients are banking information and financial services through various interfaces: an extensive network of branches required to prepare an environmental survey, which is examined for the bank by an external consultant. and a mix of direct channels available at any place and time. Beyond the advantages of convenience The consultant ensures that the project complies with all of the requirements set forth in the permits and time savings, these services also save travel and fuel, thereby preventing pollution. In 2011, the granted by government agencies. bank continued to lead the Israeli banking industry in direct services and channels meeting international standards. This was achieved through the following initiatives, among others: The bank's system of environmental risk management in financing currently encompasses the ■■ Poalim Connect In 2011, Bank Hapoalim launched a organizational components necessary for efficient and effective management in this area, including service making a personal banker available to each of a policy formulated and approved at the level of the board of directors, an organizational structure, a its customers at its contact centers, in addition to their model for the classification of risks (including control threshold), procedures for transaction approval branch bankesr, who are familiar with their needs, serves processes, and control systems. as the contact person for all of their customers' requests, and can be reached during extended business hours. Customers can contact the personal banker through a range of different channels Main Activities in 2011 (e-mail, chat, text message, website, telephone), according to their choice. The personal banker also proactively initiates continuous, routine contact with the customer. Through Poalim Connect, the bank During 2011, the bank approved the model for environmental risk management in financing. The model provides its customers with comprehensive solutions, combining the experience of personal service links the various environmental risks, as defined by the Supervisor of Banks, to the business sectors through direct channels with continued service through a branch. to which the clients belong. Within the model, each risk is scored for the various activity sectors, determining the series of tests required in order to approve financing for clients. After approval of the This comprehensive response also relies on an advanced interface between the customer and the model, all of the relevant personnel were given training in this area (a total of 100 senior-level employees, bank, presenting all of the important information about the customer's account on a single, central, including customer relationship managers). The system of environmental risk management in financing innovatively designed screen, adapted for laptops and tablets. The interface provides real-time is operated with respect to infrastructure projects, real-estate projects, and all corporate credit of more alerts, customized text messages, proactive contact by the banker for important personal events in than NIS 200 million. customers' lives, reminders to carry out actions, and options for telephone calls or meetings at its branches with expert advisors; ■■ Cardless cash withdrawal by text message A service enabling customers to transfer funds, in cash, from their account to themselves or others, and to withdraw the cash from an ATM without using a card, through a text message sent to any mobile phone. The service provides a solution for Looking ahead customers who forget or lose their credit card or their PIN, as well as an option for transferring funds to others, such as soldiers serving far from home, or a remote payment to a service provider; ■■ The bank will continue to study this area and apply internal controls to the implementation of ■■ Opening an account through the bank's website This year, the recruitment process of new the management model, drawing the appropriate customers, was improved, based on the various value offerings: families with children, young people, conclusions. students, soldiers, and teenagers. The application makes opening an account a convenient and pleasant experience, beginning at the bank's website, shortening the procedure to be completed at the branch. Customers interested in opening an account are invited to fill their details on the account opening page and set a meeting with a banked using the online calender, for final signing in the branch. Customers, products and services 124-125 Poalim by Telephone Poalim Online Poalim by Telephone is a service that allows customers to receive information and execute various The Bank Hapoalim website offers a comprehensive package of services for the its customers. transactions in their accounts, including securities trading. The service is available Throughout most of The website aggregates all of the services in a uniform, convenient, user-friendly interface the day, and allows all customers including disabled persons to receive professional service without (www.bankhapoalim.co.il). The bank also offers a range of secondary sites tailored to the needs of coming to a branch. In order to offer customers comprehensive service, the authority of the bank's different customer groups: a site for private clients; a site for retail business clients and clients of the telephone bankers has been expanded to enable them to provide solutions on the spot, during the call. corporate banking area; a site in English for business clients; a mortgage site; a site for students; an Services offered through this system include: international site in English designed for non-residents; a site for global private banking (BHI) clients in English, Spanish, and Russian; and a marketing site in Russian for residents of Israel. ■■ Poalim Speak An automated system that recognizes voice commands, used to receive information and execute transactions during most hours of the day; Bank Hapoalim’s Internet activity is based on the principle of customer advocacy. Customer advocacy is ■■ Callback service This system makes it possible to hold the customer's place in line for the call part of an advanced customer-centered philosophy with the following foundations: center. Customers hear a recording offering them the possibility of disconnecting the call while the ■■ Full transparency regarding the terms, prices, and properties of products and services; system keeps their place, until the banker can return the call, thereby saving time for the customer; ■■ Thinking from the customer’s perspective and offering solutions tailored to unique customer needs; ■■ Voice response in Arabic The Arabic-language voice system allows Arabic-speaking customers to receive information; ■■ Granting customers complete, easy control in managing their financial activity on the bank’s website. ■■ Voice signature The bank has developed a system for recognition of customers' voices. The Accessible Website identification allows customers to be transferred directly to a service representative without the need The bank’s marketing site is the first banking website in Israel to be accessible to users with disabilities. to enter identifying information, shortening call times. The website meets the Level II accessibility standard, complying with all requirements (approximately 99% of the pages within the website are Level II accessible). The 2011 in Numbers: accessibilization of the website allows people with visual or motor impairments, people with cognitive limitations and people who have difficulties operating a computer and ■■ Over 700,000 accounts are active at the call center; using the Internet, to easily use the website, benefit from the online banking service, ■■ Poalim by Telephone receives about 2 million calls each month, of which 70% are resolved through and save the hassle of visiting a branch. the voice response system and 30% go through to bankers; ■■ To date, 350,000 voice signatures have been created for the customer voice recognition system; Outstanding Site ■■ During the year, over 20,000 customers registered for Poalim connect; The website won the Best Online Banking Site award for the seventh consecutive ■■ Poalim Connect won a variety of prizes: 1. First place in the Best Technological Initiative category time at the prestigious WebiAwards 2011 competition. for the year from The Banker magazine; 2. Best in Class in the banks category of the IMA (Interactive Media Awards); 3. First place in the innovation and cellular fields in the Financial World Innovation Hapoalim Online in 2011 Awards; 4. First place in the Best use of CRM technology category, in the FTS awards. The bank ■■ Corporate client website As part of the service package for corporate clients, the bank created also won second place in the social media applications category of the EFMA awards, for the website tailored to business needs, offering the possibility to manage accounts and execute all Poalim Like Me service. banking activities, through information, advanced tools and services, and a range of options for financial transactions, available at any place and time. The site is also accessible to customers through the most advanced mobile devices and tablets, via innovative applications including the following: Customers, products and services 126-127 Poalim Growth As part of a new initiative to promote the growth of ■■ International site With a new design and advanced infrastructure. Concurrently, three new BHI sites small businesses, including through a specialized loan fund, a new page were set up in English, Spanish, and Russian; has been launched within the site providing information regarding the ■■ Sites for the Haredi sector and for Arabic-speaking customers Two targeted sites were launched terms of the loans, the application process, relevant forms, and meetings this year (see details later in this section); with experts in various financial fields, as part of the service offered to small businesses. Following the main initiative to promote business ■■ Standardization and improved website access Extensive efforts have been devoted to allowing customers' growth, a Poalim Business application was launched, which customers to enjoy direct-banking services from the full range of their natural work environments, allows business account holders, for the first time, to activity manage including all browsers and platforms, while maintaining an advanced user experience. their activities using smartphone devices. The application includes unique options that meet the business customer's needs, including approval of Poalim on Facebook transactions waiting for signing. This option is exclusive in Israel to Bank As part of the multichannel activities and the initiative aimed to encourage smart financial behavior, Hapoalim and does not exist in competing applications. The application smart consumerism, and long-term savings from a young age, in 2011 the bank added Facebook to The Poalim Growth brochure is available for iPhone, iPad, Android and BlackBerry devices; the numerous channels used for these initiatives. The two main projects launched during the year were a youth page and a students' page. New site for transfers and payments All fund transfer transactions, including transfers to customers, employees, and suppliers, concentrated in a single interface, leading to time and resource savings in the routine management of a business account; Increased transfer amounts For transfers from business accounts to other accounts at the bank Poalim on Facebook in 2011 and to accounts at other banks; This year, the bank led a socioeconomic effort Account access authorizations page Provides the option of viewing full, current information targeted to the 14-20 regarding all persons authorized to access a Hapoalim Online Business account. This service is tailored age group. Activity in to the needs of business clients, enabling them to maintain control over the account, with the aim of this area is adapted increasing their activity on the website and strengthening their relationship with the bank. In addition, to the language of this a range of transactions can be carried out in the account, even when several signatures are required demographic, addressing for approval of the transaction. A unique signature composition can be set up for Hapoalim Online them as equals, through Business that differs from the signature composition required at the branch, as well as a binding order interactive dialogue on of signatures (work flow), thereby expediting procedures and allowing control over all transactions a screenshot from the Poalim Youth facebook page the Facebook page. executed in the account; Young people were challenged to perform tasks related to their social ■■ Tools for smart financial conduct Poalim Like Me A unique service allowing customers to environment, and to the world of consumerism and thinking before analyze their financial behavior in comparison to a peer group with a similar financial and family profile, buying for example, checking and comparing prices, being aware of as part of the budget management tool on the bank's website; a limited budget, prudently managing an allowance, and more. ■■ Promotion of capital-market activity This year, online capital-market services were expanded Participation by minors requires parental permission. The Facebook to include a consolidated portfolio, allowing customers to view data on the current holdings in their youth page had over 35,000 Likes within a few months of its launch. portfolio and end-of-day portfolio data on the same screen, as well as a new interface for trading in foreign securities, which helps customers transmit trading orders easily and conveniently; Customers, products and services 128-129 Looking ahead Poalim Students on ■■ In 2012 an online protocol will be launched. The service Facebook is another is a great step forward, significantly shortening the channel used to registration process to the online business service, and raise awareness and is designed to replace the current manual filling protocol. promote the use of The online protocol will enable customers to quickly and a range of tools and efficiently fill out the required details in the web site, using services that contribute a friendly and convenient interface, accompanied by the to t h e c u s to m e r 's relevant explanations; knowledge and financial a screenshot from the Poalim Students facebook page ■■ My Advisor Service in 2012 an advanced innovative interface freedom. This activity will be launched. The interface enables investors, for the encompasses interactive dialogue with college students, in which they first time in Israel, a customized investments overview that are invited to suggest services or products that can help customers includes an innovative connection interface to an investment achieve smart financial behavior. In addition, a range of services and consultant, important updates, news and stock exchange benefits are offered through this channel: Worth Knowing area for events relevant for the clients' portfolio, a calendar of future promotion of various products; regular updates of site content about events, advanced analysis options and more; new services, such as budget management tools; a list of banking ■■ In 2012 the dialogue with the youth and students will continue benefits, updated each month, including a range of banking and nonbanking benefits and an option for opening an account by clicking next on facebook, while promoting financial education through to the benefit; and customer service, responding to students' inquiries activities, content and communication of the bank's tools. on various matters and transferring the requests to relevant bank staff for further processing. Poalim by Cell Phone Poalim by Cell Phone is another element in the multi-channel service. This is an innovative, dynamic, developing channel that allows customers to receive 2011 in Numbers: information and execute many types of transactions in their accounts through their mobile phones. The service meets advanced international standards, focusing on: ■■ Poalim Online About one million active accounts are maintained on the ■■ User-friendliness, availability, simple use, real-time transaction execution; bank's website; ■■ The bank's account management application won the People and Computers ■■ Adaptation for a wide range of of operating systems and devices providing magazine Mobi 2011 competition's excellence award. an advanced user experience, while leveraging smartphones' advanced capabilities. Customers, products and services 130-131 Poalim Applications Capital market application In 2011 an The content offered to customers through the mobile channel includes applications developed for advanced capital market application was launched smartphones and tablets: for iPhones and Android based smartphones. The touch-screen based application allows a swift and Account management application for smartphones: Allows customers to receive information and easy trade orders the most important parameter carry out transfers and many other account transactions, including withdrawal or deposit of daily when it comes to trading. The application presents deposits, third-party transfers, finding a branch on a map, instant credit applications, viewing images of abundant information from the capital market: checks, receiving information from a personal investment portfolio and from the capital market, details graphs, updated information on indices and stocks, of credit-card charges, and more. The application also offers the option of ordering an immediate supporting tools in making decisions and market callback from a banker online. The account management application and the banker callback feature analysis, smart graphs, ability to compare between are open to all Poalim Online customers and can be downloaded free of charge; stocks across defined periods, presentation of the The Poalim HD application portfolio by investment segmentation and more Hapoalim Business application A unique channels and more; application for business clients, accessible to a Integration of Waze navigation application In a collaboration with Waze, the bank's branches and variety of devices, offering innovative services ATMs are displayed in the popular social navigation software. including: alerts of transactions awaiting approval, status of the transactions, and approval of pending In addition to these applications, it is worth mentioning the Cellular wallet, presented in 2010 that transactions; an aggregate summary of balances of enables direct bill payment and the Stock exchange information application, providing market data to all of the company's accounts, and of each account clients of all the banks, without the need for identification. separately; a view of check payments; information the Poalim Business application advertisements regarding deposits; information regarding loans Poalim by Cell Phone also includes the following services: in the account; list of past and future credit-card charges; information of the status of the investment portfolio, including orders; and more; ■■ Cardless ATM cash withdrawals An innovative service allowing customers to transfer cash, to themselves or to others, through an ATM, Poalim HD iPad application An innovative, sophisticated, advanced application for account without using a card. For example, a child can be permitted to withdraw management via iPad devices. Transactions in the account are presented as a dynamic sequence, in a specified amount, without the need to use a credit card. This tool is the format of a continually updated news feed, based on social networking usage habits. For example, also useful for clients who have forgotten or lost their credit card, ATM a transaction executed by credit card appears on the following day, under the heading What's New. card, or PIN; Each transaction in the account is tagged, for easy monitoring. For example, touching the name of a business leads to a list of all purchases from that business. A touch of the category tag (clothing ■■ On Time service A text-message service allowing customers to and footwear, leisure, communications, etc.) leads to a display of a graph summarizing expenses in receive information regarding events in their accounts, at the times and that category over recent months. The application offers a range of additional options, such as fund occasions they select in advance. The service is offered in packages The Cardless cash withdrawal screen in the transfers, transactions related to deposits, bill payment, and more. The application and is available to regarding foreign exchange, stock exchange, a customized package for smart-phone application all registered customers of Poalim Online; business clients and a free package for all the bank's clients; Customers, products and services 132-133 Network Deployment 2011 in Numbers: The bank continued to deploy its branch network in 2011, in accordance with the following principles: ■■ Over 600,000 accounts actively managed via mobile devices; ■■ More meeting points for the bank and the customer Increasing the number of branches relative ■■ In 2011, the bank's mobile banking services were named the best in the Middle East by the to the number of customers, and growing the bank's presence in the various regions of Israel; prestigious international magazine Global Finance. ■■ Transition to specialist branches Adaptation of the branch deployment to the target audience to be served by each branch, by moving from a model of a large branch serving the full range of customers to a model of specialist in congruence with customers' desire for service in an intimate atmosphere at a smaller branch; Looking ahead ■■ Extensive automation and operations external to the branch Channeling resources to improve ■■ In 2012 the Capital market applications would be customer service at the branches through an increase of the volume of transactions and services upgraded, and offer more value for foreign exchange delivered via self-service stations, and through the transfer of technical operations that do not require traders. the customer's presence to a central back office. The specialized branch approach has given rise to several types of differentiated branches: Poalim Express branches Designed to meet the needs of key demographics, such as younger and older customers, who do not need complex banking solutions. The deployment of these branches Branches emphasizes availability and accessibility; Bank Hapoalim branches serve as an anchor and point of origin for all of the services offered and Boutique branches Designed to serve private banking customers. These branches are aimed for all customers interested in face-to-face service. The branch channel offers customers of 298 at the provision of consulting and private banking services, with an emphasis on comprehensive branches, in the most broadly deployed nationwide network of the Israeli banking system. Bank financial solutions encompassing investment advice as well as a range of credit solutions Hapoalim has branches throughout Israel, from city centers to remote regions. Although most of the and additional services. The branches offer extensive self-service solutions while stressing services provided in the branches are also available through other means of communication with the personal connections; bank, the physical encounter has a meaningful contribution, mainly in the following areas: Business branches Specialized branches established exclusively for business clients over the last ■■ The human dimension Fostering a relationship of trust between the banker and the customer, two years, as another element of the service package provided by the bank's corporate banking area. and allowing the customer's to be listened to and supported needs at the highest level; These branches provide a skilled, high-quality service experience across all aspects of routine banking ■■ Clarification of needs and addressing complex information and execution The personal activity, offering professional solutions and improving response time and availability to customers. The meeting between the customer and the bank supports an orderly, in-depth discussion to service offering created at these branches focuses on personal service customized to client needs, understand the customer's needs and present appropriate solutions, with the assistance of the full availability including opening hours suited to business clients, professional service by experts, and bank's information systems and experts; updates and initiatives for clients. The service package was constructed based on a comprehensive process of learning about customers' needs and expectations. This process was before the branches ■■ Customer relationships Face-to-face meetings help nurture bonds with customers by maintaining were opened, through in-depth interviews, focus groups, and surveys. The learning process was the continuity of the relationship and improving the level of service provided by the bank. designed to realize the vision of setting a standard of innovative, high-quality, proactive service Customers, products and services 134-135 responsive to the unique needs of business clients 2011 in Numbers: and connecting all of the systems that come into contact with the client. ■■ The bank opened 7 business branches in 2011, and an additional branch in Raanana in early 2012. A total of 22 business branches have been opened since the beginning of 2010; Poalim the Right Way ■■ In 2011, 87 branches joined the Poalim the Right Way initiative; by the end of the year, 158 branches Poalim the Right Way is an initiative aimed at were implementing this approach. promoting operational and managerial excellence at the bank's branches. This process encompasses changes being implemented at the branches, on 300 4 5 The Inauguration ceremony of the business banch in 5 14 21 5 10 three dimensions: Ra'anana 7 15 11 20 Distribution of Bank Hapoalim 250 17 branches, 2009-2011 ■■ Management dimension Poalim the Right Way provides branch managers with new 200 Central back Business Boutique management tools; offices branches branches 150 250 246 247 Poalim Express Traditional ■■ Process dimension Primarily via improvement of teamwork. The operational flexibility made branches branches 100 possible by the new management tools strengthens connections between all of the departments within the branch. The various departments support one another during busy hours, thereby 50 improving service, shortening wait times, and creating a culture of sharing; 0 ■■ Operations dimension Activities that do not require the customer to be present are gradually 2009 2010 2011 transferred to a central back office. This process has proved successful, generating shared value for the bank, its customers, and its employees by focusing the branches on business activities, providing better service, and providing an option for the development of a second career for longLooking ahead standing employees who retrain for positions at the central back offices. ■■ A launch of 6 branches within the retail banking area during 2012: 4 boutique branches, a private business branch, Poalim the Right Way was expanded during 2011 to encompass three areas of the head office, as a pilot and a traditional branch; project, within the effort to create a shared organizational language for headquarters and the branches. ■■ Additional branch targeted to business clients would be This process has enabled employees to take ownership of the work processes in which they participate, opened Tel Aviv during 2012, completing a series of 23 and to redesign such processes, with the help of Poalim the Right Way experts selected by the areas, business branches; for a better response to customer needs and an improved work environment. ■■ In 2012 the Poalim the Right Way initiative would expand The focus of the project, which is being conducted as a collaboration between the corporate strategy to 63 additional branches, thereby completing the its area and the three participating areas, is the improvement of the following processes: credit applications implementation in the bank's branches. In addition, the of commercial clients; bill payment; and securities operation. This move is the first step towards the initiative is expected to expand to 5 other bank units, as improvement of additional processes both at the areas participating in the pilot and at the other areas well as to the bank's central managements. and units. Customers, products and services 136-137 Physical Accessibility of Branches As part of its corporate social responsibility philosophy, the bank sees accessibilization to disabled persons as an essential issue in promoting the Summary: Branch Accessibilization quality of service provided to customers and upholding human dignity. The 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 bank's endeavors to realize this ideal are conducted in two areas: physical and virtual accessibilization (with regard to virtual accessibilization, see the section The Access Israel logo Branches granted Accessibility Seal 52 87 100 112 110* Hapoalim Online ). Bank Hapoalim is making its branches accessible with the Branches in process of obtaining 1 10 16 20 57 active assistance of the Access Israel foundation. The foundation awards the Accessibility Seal to each Accessibility Seal branch when the required adaptations have been completed, including ramps, handicapped parking Branches in accessibilization process 29 14 27 23 27 spaces, structural adjustments, and more. Total accessible branches or branches 82 111 143 155 194 in accessibilization process Accessibilization to visually impaired persons The bank operates advanced equipment and products at its facilities to assist customers with visual and auditory impairments, in accordance * The gap between 2010 and 2011 figures stems from branches closed. with international and local standards, with the assistance of the Mehalev Israel Communication Access Center and Kilim Electronics. Among other elements, this effort has included trading in older equipment for more sophisticated devices with voice alert units, which provide voice information on 2011 in Numbers: cash withdrawals, account balances, work hours, and additional subjects. ■■ The bank operates approximately 70 ATMs providing voice-guided cash withdrawal services, for visually impaired users. A current list of the ATMs is available at the bank's website and at the Access Israel website. Each branch equipped with a voice-guided ATM receives a supply of headphones for distribution to customers; Drive-Through ATM ■■ 41 branches of the bank were added to the accessibilization effort in 2011. In early 2012, Bank Hapoalim completed another important step in the accessibilization of self-service stations for its customers. For the first time in Israel, the Poalim Self-Service bank launched a drive-through The self-service stations, available throughout Israel, operate independently of branch opening hours ATM, where customers can and allow customers to execute a wide range of transactions at the hours convenient to them. The use withdraw cash without leaving of self-service stations saves time, hassle, and resources and enables the bank to provide better, more their cars. The ATM is situated advanced service. Customers are increasingly using the self-service channels to perform transactions in a central location (at the gas previously conducted through bankers. Starting in 2010, funds can be deposited for third parties and station adjacent to the Glilot into savings plans through self-service stations. Cinema City compound), in order to allow maximum access Adaptation of Self-Service Stations for Additional Uses and availability, including The ATMs offer cash withdrawals, balance inquiries, cash and check deposits, payments into certain adaptation for cash withdrawals deposits, and more. The bank's ATMs are widely and extensively distributed throughout Israel. The by customers with disabilities. The first Drive-through ATM in Israel bank's relative share of total ATMs in Israel is greater than its market share in the Israeli banking sector. The addition of user interfaces in four languages Hebrew, Arabic, English, and Russian to the selfservice network continued during 2011. Customers, products and services 138-139 Committed to Customer Satisfaction Customer service awareness at Bank Hapoalim is an expression of our organizational commitment to 2011 in Numbers: customer satisfaction. This philosophy refers to internal customers as well as end users. The approach ■■ The bank has the widest distribution of ATMs in the Israeli banking industry, with 583 ATMs: 478 at is broad-based and integrative, and covers the breadth of the bank’s operations. branches of the bank and 105 on customer premises; ■■ Arabic language support: 288 ATMs and 756 combined machines and Adcan stations support the Service at Bank Hapoalim is a value exemplified across the entire organization and all processes, and is Arabic language, including stations at all of the Express branches opened in Arab-Israeli communities; not limited to direct, immediate interaction with customers. The direct encounter with both internal and ■■ During the year, approximately 150 older ATMs were replaced with new ATMs allowing direct deposits external customers is the initial stage in the service cycle, based on which information is collected and of cash into accounts, without the need to use an envelope; processed. The analysis of this information makes it possible to draw conclusions, learn, and improve, ■■ In 2011, 6 Dan the Saver machines were installed in various locations in Israel; these machines accept contributing to the development of work processes that improve the level of service. This service cycle coins in addition to ordinary deposits. These locations join dozens of Dan the Saver machines installed enriches the value offered to various customers, creates a flexible organizational framework that is in shopping malls and town centers, targeted to children, with clear language and simple instructions open to feedback, and expresses the bank's organizational commitment to customer satisfaction. for deposits. Service from an Organization-Wide Perspective Transactions using self-service channels Distribution of self-service stations The organizational commitment to service and to increasing the number of satisfied customers is as a percentage of total transactions 1300 184 reflected in all levels of the bank’s activity from upper management to the lowest-level employees. 231 1100 232 273 Service processes pertaining to the organization as a whole can be classified into three levels: 100% 900 574 528 700 497 497 ■■ Organization-wide culture level A focus on organization-wide activities designed to foster a culture of 80% 500 88 105 service. These activities include formulation of a service philosophy, improved measurement capabilities, 85 85 60% organization-wide implementation, and creation of work routines and remuneration methods; 300 453 478 40% 100 437 440 20% ■■ Partner area level Areas of the bank not in direct contact with customers provide support for 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 0% business activities and back the activity conducted at the points of contact with customers. Adcan machines Check-deposit machines Cash Check Cash Service is perceived as a key pillar of the promotion of an organizational culture supportive of and withdrawal deposit deposit ATMs on customers' ATMs on bank's premises premises focused on better business performance. Activities in the area of service are therefore a key route The slight decrease in the number of Adcan machines was due to organizational success; 2008 2009 2010 2011 to the replacement of these machines with newer check-deposit stations that also provide Adcan services. ■■ Client area level The service philosophy is an essential aspect of the promotion of customer satisfaction and enhancement of customers' relationship with the bank. Service activities at Bank Hapoalim are centered on the following three elements: Looking ahead 1. The service philosophy, which sets a uniform standard for internal and external service processes; ■■ 20 additional ATMs will be fitted for voice-guided 2. Service performance measurement, which allows the bank to collect detailed information from its operation for visually impaired customers by the end internal and external customers and use this information to improve service; of 2012. 3. Lateral and vertical implementation of service processes based on uniform standards designed to realize the bank's service philosophy. Customers, products and services 140-141 Service Philosophy Assimilating Service Values As part of the service strategy and the commitment to improve customer service, in 2011 the interEmployees and managers at the bank were provided with practical tools during 2011, encompassing a organizational service concept was developed. Implementation processes were introduced in order to range of methods and channels, designed to assimilate an organizational culture reflecting the bank's create management infrastructure for the domain and promote the creation of supportive organizational Service Compass: culture. In 2011 the following main steps were taken: ■■ Periodic service meetings at branches; ■■ Intra-organizational service survey the survey takes place once a year and serves as an opportunity ■■ Service workshops at the Poalim Campus and branches; for managers to give feedback on the central services provided by the bank's various units. The survey provides a meaningful tool for evaluating and improving the internal service, leading to ■■ Observation of service processes and feedback for personal learning and development; improved customer service; ■■ Service training tailored and relevant to business processes; ■■ Assimilating internal service as part of divisional annual work plans – the Assimilation of which is carried out through three main axes: ■■ Implementation of learning and improvement processes through processing of customer inquiries; and more. 1. Organizational culture including a change in values, worldviews and organizational identity; Training sessions on service were held in the branch network and at the head office, to highlight the 2. Processes implementing structural changes, defining positions, process improvement, indices bank's commitment to these values and to promote uniform implementation. The implementation adjustment and upgrading technologies; process was performed with the management stratum, so that managers would lead the change and 3. Business vision including implementation of the service in the core activity, constant improvement impart service values to their employees. In order to support the process of assimilating service values in the quality of the services that were rated low in the intra-organizational service survey, initiation and emphasize the service aspect of everyday activities, the bank commends twenty branches for of new services and ongoing examination of the purpose and functions of the division as outstanding service each quarter. The branches receive appreciation certifications and a gift. determined directly by their contribution to the customers and the bank's leading position. Processing Inquiries and Requests Service Performance Measurement The customer contact center oversees processing of incoming contact from customers through all Continuous measurement and immediate, routine feedback for the branches and internal service channels: Internet, fax, telephone, etc. This year, the center handled about 21,000 inquiries. The providers based on the information collected help keep service issues relevant and motivate action service philosophy at the customer contact center is based on the following principles: and improvements of performance across all divisions of the bank. Service measurement is based on business objectives, allowing remuneration to be linked to performance. ■■ The bank sees the inquiry as an opportunity to provide an appropriate response to the customer's needs and improve the customer's trust and level of satisfaction; Comprehensive, extensive measurement was carried out during 2011 in a variety of channels and points of contact with customers: ■■ The bank uses inquiries as a means of monitoring the quality and professional skill of customer service; ■■ Measurement of the customer service experience at branches and on the direct channels; ■■ Inquiries serve as a sensor indicating customer expectations, enabling to better prepare for the future; ■■ Regular feedback for branches based on customer voices, on a weekly basis; ■■ Inquiries present an opportunity to learn and draw conclusions for the improvement of performance ■■ Thorough measurement at the level of the individual banker through covert and overt customer on the business, service, and operational levels; controls allowing tracking of personal development of service providers; ■■ Centralized management of customer inquiries: prioritization according to the type and seriousness ■■ Measurement of the quality of the internal service experience of employees and managers within of the inquiry, processing on a predefined schedule, monitoring through specialized software, the organization. and more. Customers, products and services 142-143 Processing of Inquiries From Localized Resolution to Organizational Learning Compliance with laws and regulations concerning marketing communications: No significant Organizational learning The customer contact center monitors complaints and inquiries with fines or nonmonetary sanctions were imposed on the bank for noncompliance with laws and regulations systemic implications, such as recurring events at various units, problems with organizationin the area of marketing during 2011. wide procedures or work processes, and more. These inquiries are presented to the appropriate professionals at the bank for study and potential improvement of the relevant procedures and processes. When an inquiry is classified as systemic, the process and progress of resolution are ‫‏‬Requests concerning privacy and confidentiality monitored via a formal procedure. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Event analyses of systemic inquiries appear in the service zone on the organizational portal, in order to assimilate the use of inquiries as a driver for learning at the branches. Service inquiries and events ‫‏‬Number of requests 75 122 78 92 77 are analyzed in branch staff meetings from time to time. N ‫ ‏‬umber of justified 6 7 15 14 9 Localized resolution Localized inquiries without implications for the lateral activity of the bank are requests handled appropriately through a shared process by the customer contact center and the source of the issue; for example at the end of the process, a letter or report summarizing the resolution is sent to the ‫ ‏‬ercentage of P 8% 6% 19% 15% 12% justified requests customer who initiated the inquiry and to the branch. The branch is also issued with recommendations for improvement and instructions for action aimed at avoiding similar incidents in the future. Information about Banking Products and Services Percentage of justified requests Bank of Israel data The bank is subject to laws that impose due-disclosure requirements concerning information to be delivered to customers regarding banking products and services. These directives apply to all products 40% and services of the bank. Bank Hapoalim strictly adheres to the directives, through designated 35.7% 33.6% mechanisms subject to controls and audits. Fundamental principles underlying consumer-protection directives: 30% 26.7% 26.1% 25.7% 25.3% 24.3% 24.3% 23.2% 23% ■■ Due-disclosure duty (transparency) towards customers; 20% ■■ Protection of customers' right to receive advice and service from the bank. 10% In this context, as a leading business organization in the Israeli economy, the bank exercises caution in its advertising, marketing, and sales promotion, and applies several levels of rigorous screening 0% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and controls. All messages published by the bank conform to the law the first and most essential level. In addition, the bank consults with advertising experts on the essence, content, and style of its Bank Hapoalim advertisements, according to the service or product and the target audience of the messages. The Banks average third level consists of internal controls applied by the bank's experts in this field, including further review of the preceding two stages. Customers, products and services 144-145 Serving a Diverse Clientele Markets Served by the Bank The activity of the Bank Group is conducted via six operating segments. The division into operating Looking ahead segments is based on types of products and services or on types of customers. The board of management ■■ In 2012 there will be an additional internal service survey. of the bank uses this division to make decisions and to analyze the group's business results. The operating In order to enable a wide organizational view, the survey segments are presented according to characteristics stipulated by the Supervisor of Banks: results would be analyzed consistent with the findings of the organizational climate survey conducted in 2011; Households Segment: Provides a range of banking services and financial products to households. ■■ During March June 2012 internal service training for all Private Banking Segment: Provides a range of advanced multi-channel banking services and financial managers would be held. The training would take place in products, including investment advisory services, to private customers of medium to high net worth heterogeneous groups of managers from various units and in Israel and abroad. ranks, in conjunction with Poalim Campus. At the end of the training managers would train their employees in their Small Business Segment: Provides a range of banking services and financial products to small prospective units; businesses. This segment includes customers with a turnover of less than NIS 30 million, with debt to ■■ In 2012, as part of the internal service measurement process, the bank of up to NIS 6 million. all the divisional work plans would be systematically Commercial Segment: Provides a range of banking services and financial products to middle-market measured, using the Balance score card system; business clients. This segment includes customers with an annual turnover of NIS 30 million to NIS ■■ In 2012 the various divisions' availability would be measured 400 million , or with debt to the bank of NIS 6 million to NIS 100 million, or total debt (to the bank or to based on their predefined service level agreement (SLAs) other lenders) of NIS 6 million to NIS 250 million. as described in the dynamic service charter. The charter includes dozens of core processes and availability goals Corporate Segment: Provides a range of banking services and financial products to major international aimed to meet the required service level as determined in companies, in Israel and abroad. The main area of activity in this sector is credit granting. This segment the joint process with the internal customers; also includes clients in the communities and local government sectors. ■■ In 2012 excelling internal service providers would be Financial Management Segment: Responsible for the management of the Bank’s proprietary portfolio, chosen. These employees would be selected by a management of overall market and liquidity risks, and support for the development and pricing of financial unique system in the organizational portal, available to products in order to market them to customers of the various segments. The activity of the bank’s dealing all employees and based on the recommendations of the various unit managers and division directors; rooms is also included in this segment. In addition, this segment is responsible for activities aimed at raising sources of financing and secondary capital for the bank through issuances. ■■ In 2012, a customer forum will be established as a venue for dialogue with the bank's customers, for Cultivating Relationships with Additional Sectors feedback on improvement of the efficiency of customerBank Hapoalim accords high importance to cultivating a stronger relationship with its customers in the centered processes and improvement of the customer Haredi (ultra-Orthodox) and Arab-Israeli sector, in the view that these communities are catalysts for experience in all channels. growth of the Israeli economy. Based on this perspective, and as part of the bank's vision and strategy, the bank continually endeavors to create value offers and develop services tailored to the specific needs of these customers. Over the last few years the bank has achieved a leap forward in marketing to customer segments within the retail banking area, and it continues to expand its community and business activities in these sectors. Customers, products and services 146-147 The Haredi Sector 22 branches operate in communities with large observant and Haredi populations. The bank offers Expanding Access for a Diverse Clientele a specialized package of services and products to Within its outreach to a range of different population segments, the bank Haredi sector customers. launched two targeted websites during 2011: Branches operating in the Haredi sector have been ■■ A site for Arabic-speaking customers of the bank, at www.bankhapoalim. adapted to these customers' needs. Each branch co.il/arabic. This site contains key content, translated into Arabic, on has a reading library, decorated with Judaica pieces subjects such as account management, loans, the capital market, and stocked with religious works, which customers deposits, and savings; can peruse while waiting; pictures on branch walls The Read and Succeed campaign for the Haredi Sector and marketing materials are adapted to this customer ■■ A site for the Haredi sector, at www.bankhapoalim.co.il/bsd. The site segment. Thus, for example, a Mishkan brochure, a serves Haredi and observant customers and is adapted to the norms of multi-channel loan pamphlet, and other materials have been adapted for this sector. these communities. Customers can use the site to access their accounts, receive routine banking information, and execute various transactions. The Arabic-Speaking Sector The bank has an extensive network of branches serving the Arabic-speaking population. The bank also employs minorities, in all areas of Israel, as described in the chapter on employees. In 2011, 2011 in Numbers: the bank continued the process of expanding this ■■ Two Express branches were opened, in Bnei Brak and Modi'in Ilit, serving Haredi population centers; network and improving access to services, including ■■ The bank introduced its Read & Succeed project (see the Community chapter) in the Arab-Israeli a marketing website in Arabic presenting information sector, and continued it for the second year in the Haredi sector; about the products and services offered by the bank. ■■ In 2011, two Express branches were opened in Araba and Reina, joining 35 other branches located in The self-service stations are gradually being adapted towns and cities with Arabic-speaking populations; Dan the saver campaign in Arabic for use in the Arabic language. ■■ Self-service stations are gradually being adapted for use in the Arabic language. As of 2011, 288 ATMs and 675 combined machines and Adcan machines provide information in Arabic. Interest-Free Deposits for Targeted Sectors As part of the bank's customer segment management, two types of interest-free deposits have been introduced in response to the needs of observant customers Looking ahead in the Haredi and Arab-Israeli sectors. The new deposits allow customers to deposit funds with the bank and benefit from linkage to the exchange rate of ■■ In 2012, the bank will continue to emphasize the the shekel, US dollar, or euro, or linkage to the CPI. The development of these introduction of products and services adapted to the products is another step in the ongoing expansion of the bank's product offering, needs and lifestyle of customers in the Haredi and Arabstemming from an understanding of the individual needs of its customers, with Israeli communities. the goal of helping customers achieve prudent financial behavior. Customers, products and services 148-149 Protecting Customer Safety, Health, and Security Bank Hapoalim takes all necessary measures to ensure the safety and health of its customers during Segmentation of Borrowers their presence in its branches and facilities. The safety and security department has the objective of Total credit to the public amounted to approximately NIS 246 billion in 2011, up 9.4% from 2010. preventing safety incidents or reducing such events to the extent possible, and when incidents do occur, The development of balance-sheet balances of credit to the public is described below. minimizing injuries and property damage. This is achieved by taking measures including the following: Credit to the public by operating segment, 2011 ■■ Defined actions formalized in procedures and in the multi-year work plan; implementation of the plan Others and is reported to the institutional safety committee of the bank; Adjustments Households Segment ■■ Involvement in the planning process of new buildings and of additions and renovations to branches 2% and other buildings of the bank; Corporate 25% Segment ■■ Continuous response and availability for emergencies such as fires, fire extinguishing equipment 42% Private Banking 12% operation, work accidents, health hazards, medical emergencies, etc.; Segment 9% 10% ■■ Investigating accidents and injuries in order to draw and implement conclusions. Thus, for example, Commercial work has been performed in order to add texture to smooth floors and place anti-slip stickers on Segment Small Business existing stairs. Anti-slip floor tiles are installed at new or renovated branches. Segment As part of the bank's sustainability and corporate social responsibility plan, accidents on the premises of the bank were analyzed in detail and reported to the insurance department. Summarized Development of Balance-Sheet Balances of Credit to the Public by Operating Segment ‫‏‬Balance-sheet balances of credit to the public as of December 31 (in NIS millions) Number of reported accidents involving 2011 2010 Change‫‏‬ change %‫‏‬ customers of the bank, 2009-2011 Households Segment 61,685 57,666 4,019 7.0% Private Banking Segment 28,509 23,932 4,577 19.1% 20 Small Business Segment 22,911 21,384 1,527 7.1% 17 Commercial Segment 24,405 21,575 2,830 13.1% 10 13 16 Corporate Segment 104,839 96,760 8,079 8.3% 0 Others and Adjustments 4,146 3,971 175 4.4% 2009 2010 2011 Total 246,495 225,288 21,207 9.4% Of which, consumer credit in Israel excluding housing loans The findings point to a very small number of Households Segment 26,814 25,301 1,513 6.0% accidents: A relatively minor number of accidents is reported each year, relative to the immense number Private Banking Segment 10,767 10,166 601 5.9% of customer visits to the 298 branches of the bank Small Business Segment 19,258 18,592 666 3.6% each day. This year, 9 customer accidents involved Total 56,839 54,059 2,780 5.1% women, while 7 involved men. Housing loans in Israel 48,868 42,929 5,939 13.8% Customers, products and services 150-151 Looking ahead ■■ In 2012 the bank would create an educational safety Working for business contiguity software for construction inspectors; In July, the bank received certification of compliance with the Israeli ■■ As part of new contracts and, in conjunction with and international standard BS 25999, which concerns the management corporate procurement center, in 2012 the safety of a business continuity system in emergencies. The standard reflects training of employees employed by contractors working knowledge and expertise from around the world, and aggregates strict with the bank; rules for the management of a business continuity system, requiring each emergency scenario to be addressed with an appropriate response. The ■■ As part of safety and health practices implementation certification marks the culmination of a twenty-month effort by the bank, among employees, tutorials and training of employees including a comprehensive analysis of processes in the organization and and managers would continue in 2012; of the resources required to operate such processes under routine and ■■ In 2012 strengthening cooperation and fostering emergency conditions. During this period, action plans and emergency work interfaces with the Fire Department would be procedures were created, and several emergency drills were held, with emphasized. the participation of units from all parts of the organization. The bank is committed to business continuity at all times, under all circumstances, for all of its customers, and strives to continually preserve and improve its emergency preparedness. OPERATING PROACTIVELY EMPOWERING COMMUNITY AND SOCIETY Poalim in the community 154-155 Economic Impact on the State and Society of Israel The positive economic impact of Bank Hapoalim is reflected both in its annual earnings and in its contribution to the Israeli economy, through taxes, local purchasing, and employment. The following table presents the economic value added of the bank, which includes gross wages (including wage-related items), taxes, profits, and more (in millions of NIS). This value reflects the As Israel’s largest bank, Bank Hapoalim is an economic entity of considerable power in the Israeli contribution of the bank to the Israeli economy, as a large organization that maintains economic economy. Its economic impact is not confined to its annual or quarterly earnings as reported in its interactions with many stakeholders (employees, suppliers, the community, government financial statements, which are addressed primarily to shareholders and investors. This section of the agencies, etc.). report reviews the broad economic impact of Bank Hapoalim and describes its added value, including its contributions to the national economy through tax payments, local purchasing, and employment Economic value of the Bank Hapoalim Group, in NIS millions of workers. Bank Hapoalim pays state and municipal taxes, and receives no financial aid or support from the state. Breakdown 2009 2010 2011 Economic value created Total income (including extraordinary 11,757 12,827 13,088 by the group income) The following table presents key data regarding the economic performance and value added generated by the bank (based on the consolidated financial statements of the bank, Operating and other expenses (including municipal tax; excluding 6,778 7,576 7,610 in millions of NIS): depreciation) 2009 2010 2011 Wages and related expenses (within 4,016 4,631 4,759 operating and other expenses) Profit from financing activities* 6,718 7,775 8,231 Economic value distributed to Total income (financing profit + operating income) 11,757 12,827 13,083 stakeholders by the Donations and sponsorships (within 43 44 47 group (operating and operating and other expenses) Operating costs 7,457 8,291 8,365 other expenses plus provisions for taxes and Wages and related expenses 4,016 4,631 4,759 dividends) Provision for taxes (tax benefit) 1,004 1,342 809 Donations and investments in the community 43 44 47 Dividends declared 0 0 270 Shareholders’ equity 20,097 22,561 23,845 Dividends paid to shareholders of the bank 270 Total 7,782 8,918 8,689 Interest to debt or bond holders 1,970 1,529 2,060 Difference between the group’s income and its operating and other Provision for taxes (tax benefit) on operating profit 990 1,342 809 Economic value retained 3,975 3,909 4,399 expenses, provisions for taxes, and dividends Provision for doubtful debts 2,017 1,030 1,202 *Before expenses for credit losses Poalim in the community 156-157 Examining the Supply Chain A Nationwide Employer As part of its sustainability and corporate social responsibility plan, Bank Hapoalim also examines its Bank Hapoalim maintains a network of 289 branches (as of the end of 2011), broadly distributed social responsibility in terms of the inclusion of social and environmental considerations in the choice throughout Israel. About 20% of the branches are located in National Priority Areas, and approximately of suppliers and ensuring protection of the rights of workers employed at the bank through contractors. 45% of the branches are outside the Gedera-to-Hadera central region. Employees and managers Managing Supplier Relationships at the branches usually reside in the vicinity of the branch. Recruitment procedures are identical for The bank undertakes a process together with its suppliers to define its needs and coordinate all branches; consequently, the bank employs an equal proportion of residents of peripheral and expectations, and maintains routinely used channels to address issues that arise in the course of the central regions. relationship with the supplier. In order to maintain routine contact with suppliers, a regular buyer has Bank Hapoalim operates two call centers and a central back office, which provide approximately 1,550 been appointed for each supplier, to conduct ongoing business and receive feedback from suppliers jobs. One of the call centers is located in central Israel, at the industrial zone in the Azor Regional regarding their relationship with the bank. Council, and the other, for reasons including social responsibility considerations, is in the northern town Integrating Social and Environmental Considerations in the Selection of Suppliers of Nesher. The central back office is located outside Tel Aviv, in the Beit Dagan area. The central back Bank Hapoalim applies various social and environmental considerations when selecting and contracting office in Beit Dagan also operates through regional offices throughout Israel, located in Beer Sheba, with suppliers. For example, the bank requires contractors who employ workers on the premises of Mevaseret Tzion, Nesher, Givat Olga, Hatzor Haglilit, Revadim, and the Emek Hefer industrial zone. the bank to meet legal requirements regarding employees’ wages and benefits, to avoid employing Buying Locally Made Products illegal workers, and in some cases to comply with various ISO standards (such as IS 9001 Quality Bank Hapoalim performs almost all of its procurement Management Systems or IS 14001 Environmental Management Systems). in Israel from local manufacturers or importers. The These requirements include considerations such as appropriate physical conditions for workers, as bank does not import products or services directly well as workplace safety and hygiene on the supplier’s premises; avoidance of discrimination, on any from abroad (except purchases of a negligible grounds; avoidance of excessive employee turnover and improper treatment of employees; compliance volume, mainly professional literature or hardware with environmental standards; meeting the terms of current licenses and permits; a clean record in the not manufactured in Israel). Bank Hapoalim strives to area of environmental and labor-related compliance; and more. obtain the largest possible proportion of its purchasing from Israeli manufacturers and endeavors to find Protecting the Rights of Workers Employed by Contractors on the Bank’s Premises local supplies whenever possible. Within its policy of To meet its needs, the bank enters into agreements with various contractors for the provision of security, purchasing Israeli products, the bank sometimes gives cleaning, and cafeteria services, through employees of the contractor who are assigned to the bank. priority in its purchasing considerations to peripheral Trister Shoshana, In-House Art In order to ensure the protection of these workers’ rights, the agreements between the bank and the regions and border areas subject to confrontation. In contractors stipulate the obligation of the contractors to provide the following to their employees, among addition, as part of the social considerations applied to the selection of suppliers, priority is given to other matters: minimum wage, and other rights granted to workers in Israel under its labor laws; social suppliers who employ a substantial percentage of workers with disabilities. For example, the national benefits; prevention of harmful employee turnover; and due disclosure to employees of their rights. flags distributed by the bank each year in honor of Independence Day are manufactured by the To ensure that contractors meet these obligations, and as a means of supervision of the contractors, Hameshakem sewing workshop, which employs workers with disabilities. the bank requires contracting firms operating on its premises to submit detailed quarterly reports Additional Indirect Economic Impact covering these areas. These reports are examined by an independent external company, and the Bank Hapoalim works to benefit the public as a whole. Some of the services for public benefit examination is fully financed by the bank. Contractors are required to submit a report to the bank include extensive activity in the area of financial freedom (see details in the Clients section), opening listing names and turnover of employees assigned to the bank as well as the reasons for any turnover. nature reserves and museums to the public free of charge during holidays, running exhibitions to sell This enables to the bank to determine whether the contractors are meeting their obligation to avoid handicrafts created by people with disabilities, and more. excessive turnover of their employees. Poalim in the community 158-159 In 2011, as in previous years, contractors’ reports submitted to the bank were reviewed. Any problems Human Rights Training for Security Guards uncovered are investigated with the contractors until a satisfactory resolution has been achieved. The Bank conducts courses, over five full days, to train its security guards in the various areas related Within the due disclosure requirement, the bank requires contractors to give their employees full disclosure to their routine duties. Guidance for these courses is provided by the Israel Police. The content covered of all of their rights. In addition, the bank insists that employees are able to inquire about every aspect of includes human rights. The topic of human rights is discussed in a series of talks given by an attorney their employment relationship and receive an appropriate and fair response. The bank is also attentive to specializing in this field. All security guards working at the bank’s branches and head office have any complaints regarding harmful employment. undergone instruction on human rights as part of their training and periodic refresher courses. Update of the Ethical Code for Contractor Employees Looking ahead In 2011, as part of the process ■■ In 2012, as part of the implementation of the Law for of assimilating corporate social Increased Enforcement of Labor Laws, 2011, purchasing responsibility, the bank created contracts at the bank will be updated to include changes an ethical code, in collaboration designed to ensure the protection of the rights of with its contractors, relevant to contractor employees working at the bank, and a contractor employees working system for processing communications from in security, food service, and contractor employees will be established cleaning on the premises to ensure the protection of their rights of the bank. This code was communicated to all contractor and provide a response to such employees working on the bank's communications during their work at premises. These employees the bank's facilities; received and read the code, and ■■ In 2012, as part of the promotion of signed the code document. The the bank's influence on its suppliers, bank received a report of the The Ethical Code in Amharic, Russian the field of purchasing in the area of and Arabic. completion of this process from banking will be reexamined, and the company employing the new criteria will be defined, workers, signed by the general manager of the company. The content of the code was distributed in Hebrew, Russian, Arabic, and Amharic. including expanded environmental and social As of 2011, all new and existing suppliers are required to communicate threshold conditions the content of the new code, annually, to every employee they assign for the provision of to the bank. This process is noted in the employee's personal file. goods and services Accordingly, suppliers are required to submit an annual report on to the bank. the number of employees who have received and read the code, for control purposes. Poalim in the community 160-161 Creating Dialogue with Stakeholders in Our Society and Community One of the key elements in the implementation of corporate social responsibility is to foster dialogue Dialogue with Stakeholders and Expansion of the Bank's Sphere of Influence with stakeholders on issues relevant to them, with the aim of creating shared value for the bank and the The bank conducts regular, continuous dialogue with its stakeholders. Within this effort, during 2011 various stakeholders. the bank held meetings and discussions including the following: Mechanisms for Collaboration and Dialogue Active dialogue is in progress with academic and management The bank’s dialogue with stakeholders in its society and community is based on four building blocks: personnel at universities and colleges with regard to academic programs and projects in the area of social responsibility. In addition, ■■ Transparency and reliable information By making information accessible in a transparent, reliable, Academia the Corporate Social Responsibility Administration holds meetings with and clear fashion, the bank informs its stakeholders of its activities, its focus, and its future plans; university students to present the bank’s approach and professional experience in this field, and advises student teams working on various ■■ Obtaining feedback Dialogue with stakeholders makes it possible to assess the quality of the academic projects; shared value created during the course of its activities and to enhance it in ways that increase the mutual benefit; The bank maintains ongoing relationships with various non-profit Non-profit organizations regarding social responsibility, in order to receive ■■ Involvement in decision-making and mutual empowerment Through the study of mutual needs, organizations feedback, exchange knowledge, and offer mutual assistance; the bank creates partnerships with its various stakeholders. These partnerships are dedicated to advancing shared goals and to the creation of value for all parties concerned. In this manner, the bank is not only a contributor to the partners involved in these processes, but also derives benefit; The bank has an open-door policy for businesses operating in Entrepreneurs various “green” sectors: green construction, energy efficiency, solar energy, water, etc. Within this area, the bank exchanges knowledge, ■■ Application of the bank's range of business capabilities Enhancement of and businesses examines options for assistance and connection with additional work processes with the various stakeholders through implementation in the field of parties, considers possibilities for pilot projects in this area, and of the core business capabilities in shared activities. sustainability more. The bank also provides support for professional conferences in this field, professional websites, and more; As part of the implementation of corporate social responsibility, the Connections bank maintains close contact with business organizations and with with colleagues Maala, for shared discussions and mutual assistance in coping with professional issues and challenges; In another element of this dialogue, representatives of the bank Government conduct meetings and give talks in order to exchange knowledge agencies and and insights with representatives of government agencies and local authorities local authorities. In this context, joint projects, aimed at addressing environmental issues, are promoted. Poalim in the community 162-163 Expansion of the Bank's Sphere of Influence in Israeli Society The Social-Environmental-Economic The project entails multiple benefits on the economic, social, and Project for Collection of Electronic environmental dimensions, both in Holon and on the national level: Waste and Employment of Persons with ■■ Improvement of the environment in the city and its surroundings; Disabilities ■■ Prevention of the emission of greenhouse gases and other toxic gases released during improper recycling of electronic waste; During 2011, the bank, in collaboration with the city of Holon, organized a ■■ Reduction of the volume of urban waste (savings on transportation pioneering community project to create costs and waste burial levies); a comprehensive system designed ■■ Promotion of the city's agenda, in line with its vision as an ecological to deal with electronic, electrical, and community; metal waste, including collection, ■■ Community involvement the project is consistent with the environmental removal, and recycling of the waste and social needs of the city's residents; in Holon. This project was created based on the philosophy of promoting ■■ Promotion of a national goal employment of persons with disabilities; the values of sustainability and CSR, ■■ Manufacturing of the receptacles and operation of the project through and expanding the bank's sphere of The electronic waste recepticle local Israeli companies; influence in Israeli society. in Holon ■■ Education of the public and of youth on environmental values. The pilot project was the first of its kind in Israel, presenting a systemic solution for organized treatment of electronic, electrical, and metal waste Bank Hapoalim initiated this project, and as a partner of the city of Holon, while promoting environmental, social, and national causes. The waste fully financed the development, design, and manufacture of the receptacles, was recycled by the collection and recycling company Ecommunity which were placed at the disposal of the city. In collaboration with the city, (Ecology for a Protected Community), which employs people with the bank served as the key promoter of the advertising and communication disabilities. The company collects and disassembles the waste into of the project, through formulation of the concept, message, and range components for recycling, contributing to carbon offsetting. This serves of channels, which included a brochure distributed to every household the goal of preserving the environment while also meeting the essential in Holon to explain the project. After the receptacles were set up, the social goal of promoting the employment of disabled workers. bank, jointly with the city and the recycling supplier, monitored the overall process, particularly the quantity of material collected in the receptacles, The project encompasses the setup of twenty designed waste collection the recycling process, and the quantification of carbon offsetting as a receptacles, which were developed and manufactured in Israel, supplied result of the collection of the electronic waste. for this purpose by the bank, and situated throughout the city of Holon in early 2012. The receptacles were placed in accessible, high-traffic Holon mayor Moti Sasson commented on the project: I am very happy, locations protected from theft, in response to the need for proper and I would like to thank Bank Hapoalim for its partnership in this important collection and treatment of electronic waste. The project also aims to project. I know the bank has declared a vision of innovation and leadership encourage and raise awareness of collection and recycling activities for alongside the promotion of social and environmental causes. In this case, Holon residents, as part of everyday routines and as a way of life. the bank proved that its actions match its words. Poalim in the community 164-165 Promotion of Environmental According to the current plans, the proposed shuttle system will offer service Alternatives in Transportation from the Hashalom and Hahagana rail stations to the banking centers and back, at an attractive subsidized price, for interested employees. This initiative has direct benefits both for workers and for the environment: ■■ Savings on expenses for vehicle maintenance, gas, and parking; ■■ Reduced time in traffic; ■■ Reduced driving time and time looking for parking at the office; ■■ Contribution to the reduction of air pollution. One of the key elements in the bank's internal feasibility test of the initiative was the direct involvement of the employees in the process, as part of the ongoing dialogue with them, through the identification of the daily need for transportation to and from work at the bank. A survey on this subject made it possible to derive a precise outline of the Sarrussi Gantz Amira, In-house Art demand for the project. The survey was conducted in collaboration with the human resources division, in coordination with the employees' union, In recent years, the bank considered developing an initiative for the and was targeted to the relevant employees, in an effort to address each operation of a direct transportation shuttle system for its employees. employee's individual needs. Of all employees exposed to the survey, The initiative is aimed at reducing pollution caused by cars by offering over 650 responded to all questions and expressed interest in using the a convenient, efficient solution for transportation to the workplace, as service. About two-thirds of the employees interested in participating an alternative to the existing means. This initiative has not been realized said they would be willing to forgo the use of a personal vehicle and use due to economic disadvantages involved in operating such a system on a the proposed train and shuttle service. small scale, for only one organization. The project, through dialogue and cooperation with additional Consequently, efforts were made to find partners for the creation of a stakeholders, expands the bank's sphere of environmental shared shuttle system for several business organizations in the business influence by reducing harm to the environment, and involve district of Tel Aviv, with the sponsorship of the city of Tel Aviv and of Israel the maximum number of employees working in the Railways. The knowledge accumulated during the internal planning process Tel-Aviv city area who benefit from cost savings at the bank would be shared with the various partners. This dialogue bore and from convenient, organized transportation fruit in 2011, when the city of Tel Aviv, through the company Ahuzot Hahof, to work. undertook responsibility for the project and began to promote it vigorously, in cooperation with several banks and with Israel Railways. Poalim in the community 166-167 Energy Efficiency Campaign ■■ The second stage was conducted during the As part of the strategic drive first quarter of 2012, at Bank Hapoalim to adopt through integration of sustainability and CSR values c o n te n t f r o m t h e and to apply these values to the campaign into the daily The Energy efficiency campaign everyday life of its employees, reports on the Big society, and community while Brother reality television show on the website Mako. The various advancing national goals, the bank campaign messages appeared several times in each daily video, with The Energy efficiency campaign led a broad campaign on energy an energy saving tip shown on screen and matched to the situation efficiency, for several months starting in late 2011. The campaign was part presented in the video. In addition, concurrent with the insertion of of the extensive activities initiated to make valuable financial information the messages into the daily report videos, to increase the campaign's accessible to the public, with an emphasis on households. This effort visibility, the messages were also displayed at the Big Brother encompasses information regarding rational expense management and compound, on the daily report site, and on the main Mako website. This budget control, and methods of saving and deriving genuine added value stage also resulted in millions of exposures to the Israeli public. from savings on expenses, while protecting the environment. The campaign targeted the general public in Israel. Based on the environmental protection guide published by the bank (see details in the Environment section), the campaign exposed its audience to a series of ideas for easy savings on household energy expenses, explaining how the implementation of the suggestions could lead to savings on Looking ahead electricity, water, gas, and more on a scale of hundreds to thousands of ■■ Recycling electronic waste and employing disabled workers: NIS per family each year. The campaign served as a direct value offer for In 2012, the project launched in Holon is planned to expand the public, with economic and environmental elements in tune with the to the cities of Ashdod, Rehovot, Yavneh, and others, with spirit of the time. the aspiration of assimilating the habit of recycling currently The campaign achieved wide exposure in the Israeli public. Messages of untreated waste in the general public and creating hundreds the campaign were managed in two stages: of new jobs for workers with disabilities; ■■ The train station shuttle system: In 2012, Ahuzot Hahof, ■■ The first stage began in late 2011, through the leading websites in the company owned by the city of Tel Aviv, plans to Israel; millions of exposures of visitors to the sites were measured, with implement this plan. Bank Hapoalim will assist in every about 125,000 active pages poened by users of the environmental way in involving as many of its employees as possible in protection and energy efficiency guide; the shuttle program. Poalim in the community 168-169 Financial and Equivalent Contributions Examples of community events in which the bank took part in 2011: Assistance to the numerous organizations supported by the bank is delivered through the Poalim for the Community Forum. The Forum, which consists of senior executives, manages all of the bank's ■■ Tevet Conference on Diverse Employment As part of the promotion of workplace diversity, the bank's human resources donations according to criteria established in the policy of the Poalim for the Community (Registered division hosted the semiannual executives' conference Non-Profit Organization) foundation. organized by Tevet (Employment Momentum, founded by the JDC and the Israeli government) on the subject of green As in previous years, the foundation made contributions in many different areas in 2011, including employment. In accordance with the policy delineated by assistance to children and youth, reinforcement of disadvantaged population groups, and support for the board of management and board of directors, the bank institutions in the areas of education, culture, welfare, health care, and science. The bank provides is committed to promoting the employment of population Bank employees welcoming new olim aid through the foundation for higher-learning institutions, scholarships for disadvantaged university groups underrepresented in the labor market; students and schoolchildren, realization of educational enrichment and advancement initiatives for children and youth, and assistance for children who are hospitalized and need special support to ■■ Aliyah Assistance As part of the collaboration between the bank and the Nefesh B'Nefesh make progress academically. The bank does not donate money or equivalents to political parties, organization, which has aided the successful immigration of over 25,000 Olim (new immigrants) from politicians, or political institutions. the United States, Canada, and Britain, the board of management launched an exciting new community activity, in cooperation with the employees' union: assistance for families of Olim in their first months in Israel. The families involved in this project met and connected with the Olim families, in some cases Data for 2011: even before they reached Israel, through a special social website set up for this purpose. In addition, Monetary value of the community involvement of Bank Hapoalim shared events were held for the employees' families and the Olim families, including one-day trips and activities to get to know the land, culture, and language of Israel, fully financed by the bank; in recent years (in NIS millions): ■■ Sponsorship of the Milbat Foundation The bank sponsored an event held to celebrate the thirty2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 year anniversary of the non-profit organization Milbat, which works to raise the level of independence of children and adults with disabilities. The event included a tour of an exhibition of selected projects, initiated by the foundation, for the development of products for special-needs populations. 45 42.7 39.6 44 47 Participants in the exhibition were professionals and students in the areas of design, engineering, rehabilitation, and electronics, as well as disabled persons who had developed unique devices to The value of the total community involvement of the enhance the well-being of a target group. Products displayed at the exhibition included a pen that bank from 2004 to 2011 is NIS 315.3 million. attaches to a finger, a voice system to locate products when grocery shopping, a wheelchair for dogs, and more. The event, MC'd by the Honorable Judge (retired) Dr. Eliyahu Winograd, culminated in the announcement of the establishment of a new research and development center and an award ceremony for the winners of the competition, sponsored by the bank; As in recent years, in 2011 Bank Hapoalim made more ■■ Conferences in the Negev and Galilee Regions As part of the annual cooperation between the community contributions than any other bank in Israel, bank's corporate banking area and the Manufacturers' Association, a conference on The Currency accounting for half of the aggregate total. Bank Hapoalim’s Wars Implications and Practical Coping Tools was held in June 2011 for industrialists from the community contributions totaled NIS 47 million in 2011, Negev region. At the Arab Business Council held in Nazereth in May, the Chairman of the Board up 6.8% from 2010. Community contributions constituted of Directors announced the continuation of the scholarship program for Arab-Israeli students and 0.36% of the bank’s revenues, the highest rate of any expansion of the activity of non-profit organizations working with the Arab-Israeli community. Israeli bank. Poalim in the community 170-171 Poalim for the Community Committed through Our Strategy and Vision Comparative contributions of banks Breakdown of Bank Hapoalim donations budget, 2011 As part of the Bank Hapoalim Group’s vision, strategy, and corporate % of Bank 2010 2011 Difference values, the bank is committed to an active, leading role in the Income 13% 44.0 47.0 6.8% 0.36% 50% community, alongside its business leadership and economic initiatives. 12% Leumi 30.4 32.4 6.5% 0.29% This involvement, implemented through Poalim for the Community (Registered Non-Profit Organization), is Discount 7.3 6.4 -14% 0.09% part of an advanced managerial approach stating that an organization that operates within the community, Mizrahi Tefahot 3.4 3.6 5.8% 0.08% and draws both its employees and customers from it, should take a leading role in the advancement and Habeinleumi 3.0 3.0 0.08% improvement of conditions for all members of the community, especially those who are underprivileged. Igud 0.5 0.5 0.05% 25% In the spirit of this business philosophy, the bank conducts a varied and extensive range of communityJerusalem 0.6 0.6 0.22% oriented activities that take the form of social involvement, monetary donations, and large-scale volunteer Total 89.2 93.5 4.8% 0.23% Education Culture and arts activities in which both members of management and employees participate. Activity on behalf of the Taken from the banks' 2011 financial reports Health care, welfare, special needs Other community is an important factor in cultivating employees’ sense of pride and cohesion. As noted, the bank’s community-oriented activity is organized within the Poalim for the Community foundation. Ms. Shelly Amir, head of community relations at the bank, is responsible for this activity. Donations of Computers Recognizing the great importance of investment in technological equipment for the education and Creating Strategic Partnerships advancement of children and youth, the bank donates large numbers of computers and related equipment each year. The bank’s IT division is responsible for computer donations, through the Bank Hapoalim exercises its community involvement through nationwide projects, including projects technology administration. The process of donating computers is conducted in a similar manner to targeted to geographical, economic, and social peripheries, with the assistance of experts in the any business process at the bank: professionally and objectively, with a continual effort to attain understanding of community needs. These projects strive to realize the underlying philosophy of optimal service and operating efficiency. In 2011, the bank donated approximately 1,173 items of the principles of socio-community development. The distinction between aid and socio-community computer systems and auxiliary equipment, at a value of NIS 921 thousand. development is an important one; such development is based on the following principles: ■■ Focus on a core issue closely related to the bank's essence and crucial to Israeli society; The monetary value of the computer systems donated by the bank in 2007-2011 is approximately ■■ Long-term projects, rather than temporary action; NIS 4.6 million. ■■ Measurement of the project according to the effectiveness of attainment of its objectives, with conclusions drawn and implemented throughout the course of the project; Data for 2011: ■■ Strategic partnerships with additional parts of the community, including professional partners, rather than stand-alone projects. Breakdown of contributions' value in recent years (in NIS thousands): 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The bank maintains strategic partnerships with a range of leading community organizations. These include collaborations with the ORT network of science and technology schools, museums, 1,100 650 797 1,107 921 the National Parks Authority, the Israel Association of Community Centers, the Batsheva Dance Company, the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra, the Israel AIDS Task Force, and the IDF. The bank also collaborates with a large number of non-profit organizations on unique projects in each of their fields. Poalim in the community 172-173 Notable organizations include Hayim For Children with Cancer in Israel, Etgarim (Challenge), project includes a public informational campaign, distribution of books, funding of story hours Paamonim The Responsible Way, Lasova (hunger prevention), Latet Israeli Humanitarian Aid, Beit throughout Israel, activities during National Book Week, and collaboration with the Children’s Channel Issie Shapiro, ELEM Youth in Distress in Israel, Beterem Safe Kids Israel, The Council for a Beautiful and other media. Israel, and Be-Atzmi Employment for Youth at Risk. Read & Succeed in the Arab-Israeli Sector Promoting Educational Projects After launching Read & Succeed for the Jewish The key focus of the bank's community activities is education. About 50% of the budget of the Poalim religious sector last year, in 2011 the bank for the Community Forum is dedicated to activities in the area of education. expanded the project's reach with the introduction of Iqra Tinajah Read & Succeed in Arabic. Poalim from Three to Five Project The launch event was held on July 10, in Umm Bank Hapoalim, through the ORT Alumni Association, is participating in the al-Fahm, and was attended by Bank Hapoalim effort to help students with lower socioeconomic backgrounds improve their chairman Yair Seroussi, MK Dr. Afu Agbaria, academic achievement in scientific and technological subjects. Poalim from deputy mayor Mustafa Ghalin Mahajneh, Three to Five is designed to promote a vision of social change, in which and dozens of businesspeople, educators, geographically remote communities in northern and southern Israel are brought Arab-Israeli sector activists, and senior closer to academic centers, with a substantial increase in the number of students from these areas executives of the bank. The bank held book fairs who take matriculation examinations in mathematics and sciences. The aim of this effort is to help in sixteen Arab-Israeli communities throughout The Read & Succeed event, in Umm al Fahem reduce social inequalities. The project includes students in grades 9 through 12 from Israel’s Jewish, Israel, offering ten children's books for NIS 10 Arab, Bedouin, and Druze communities. per book. The books on sale at the fairs included Arabic translations of the best global literature for children as well as original children's literature by Arab authors. )2( 8,406 students have The Mobile Library participated IN THE This project, launched in early 2010, continued in 2011, in cooperation with the Key Books Foundation. PROJECT The project consists of mobile lending libraries housed in trucks that travel throughout Israel, allowing children and youth to enjoy a wealth of children’s theater, creative writing workshops, lectures, story Since its launch, 8,406 students in 1,052 groups hours, and enrichment classes. have participated in the From Three to Five Project. National Book Week During National Book Week in June 2011, a storytellers’ tent called the Read & Succeed World was erected in Rabin Square in Tel Aviv, for the seventh consecutive year. The tent hosted story hours and Read & Succeed conversations with authors during the afternoon hours, tailored to different age groups. Over the course Starting in 2004, the Poalim for the Community Forum has led a focused initiative aimed at changing of ten days, the activities in the tent attracted great interest from parents and children visiting Book Week the reading habits of Israeli children and youth. This project continued in 2011. The Read & Succeed and hosted 500-600 children and parents each day. Poalim in the community 174-175 Financial Literacy in Secondary Schools at the ORT Network Bank Hapoalim, in collaboration with the ORT Israel Development Center, offers a program of study for A Password for Every Student secondary-school students designed to provide personal financial education, teach skills that students will need as independent adults, and impart the tools and knowledge necessary to make sound personal As part of its support for technology integration in education, in financial decisions. The program consists of fifteen hours of instruction, with a blend of face-to-face 2011 the bank joined the educational initiative A Password for Every teaching and virtual learning, in ten self-contained modules covering subjects such as investment, Student, which combines education and today's technology as a way savings, income, smart consumerism, money and means of payment, personal budget management, of acquiring learning and developing abilities. Within its support for bank accounts, and the capital market. this project, the bank has adopted ten schools in communities in need of special reinforcement throughout Israel (Mitzpeh Ramon, Ramla, Adoption of the Zeil ORT Multidisciplinary Center in Lod Acco, Kiryat Gat, and more) for the next three years. The first school In 2011, the bank continued the program in which it adopted the Zeil ORT School in the city of Lod, supported by the bank through this program is Sapir in Lod, which launched in 2010 through its IT division. The adoption is a long-term commitment aimed at promoting will serve as an initial model for a school equipped and connected educational activities, especially in the area of technology. This project is part of a wide-ranging, unique for the twenty-first century digital age. Goals of the project: to create relationship with the 190 educational institutions of ORT Israel. a technological infrastructure allowing all users to work and create using a central portal, from any location; to assimilate a view of the The goal of this multi-year project is to make the multidisciplinary center a city leader, improve the center’s school as a computerized organization; and to create a computerized environment and infrastructures, promote wellbeing and the community, and increase the number of educational environment within the school. students joining the center. Elements of the project include assistance in funding for all-day childcare at the school, improved infrastructure, technological equipment, establishment of an Excellence Center, Objectives: assistance for weaker students, and more. ■■ A computerized organization Use of computers as a communications tool, development of the school portal as a The systemic assistance provided to the center reflects the bank's range of business capabilities, component of the computerized organization, and mastery of including the following initiatives: basic computer skills and software; ■■ Establishment of a long-term thinking group on raising resources for the school, from the bank and ■■ Computerized education Creation of class sites for social and from other sources; educational purposes, computerized activities, and a shared pool ■■ Involvement of the school's staff in the bank's professional training center in Shfayim, for professional of educational materials; advancement and professional and personal enrichment experiences for teachers; ■■ Collaboration Promotion of collaboration among all users of ■■ Personal coaching in management offered to the school's principal by the bank; the computer systems: teachers, students, and parents; ■■ Independence Making schools independent as computerized ■■ A five-year plan formulated for improvement of the physical appearance of the school, with the help organizations managing a computerized learning environment. of bank employees who have volunteered to assist improving infrastructure, who visit once every few months and help with gardening and painting; ■■ Participation by bank employees in a wide range of activities of their choice in areas such as poetry, sports, healthy lifestyles, etc. Poalim in the community 176-177 In 2011, the bank continued to provide comprehensive support for this program throughout the year. every floor. For several years, the bank has arranged This activity included guidance for students in the school's core technological subjects, enrichment exhibitions in this building as fundraising efforts for lectures, mapping of the school's needs with an emphasis on technological equipment, and joint important community causes. The exhibitions are activities by employees and students to contribute to the community and promote education, through professionally curated, transforming the building various events related to school activities, holidays, and Israeli heritage. into a museum for the duration of each show. The bank leverages its system of social and business Promoting Culture and the Arts relationships to bring an audience of stakeholders The philosophy of Poalim for the Community places special and donors to these events. emphasis on assistance in the area of culture and the arts. Each year, the bank contributes to the promotion of culture and the Non-Profits Exhibition Zion Kenan, the bank's CEO visting the art's arts through donations and sponsorships. As part of this effort, For the sixth year, the bank invited the Israeli public exhibition the bank provides assistance to museums throughout Israel. to buy holiday gifts sold by non-profit organizations The bank also provides support through multi-year agreements that offer products lovingly handmade by children, ‫ממתין לתמונה מהבנק‬ for internationally recognized cultural institutions committed to adolescents, and adults with special needs and disabilities. All income from the sale of these products leadership and excellence in their field. For example, the bank is dedicated to the activity of the foundations. The creations offered for sale include paintings, supports the activity of the Batsheva Dance Company through photographs, sculptures, furniture, toys, handicrafts, potted plants, rugs, Judaica objects, music CDs, three-year scholarships for dancers, and supports the Israel jewelry, clothes, wine, chocolate, cakes and cookies, organic food products, and more. Philharmonic Orchestra and the Cameri Theater under threeIsraeli Art Exhibition for the Israel AIDS Task Force year and five-year agreements respectively. The bank also holds The Israeli arts exhibition in the head This exhibition, in memory of Leah Rabin, one of the earliest supporters of the battle against AIDS, was art exhibits at its Head Office building, with revenues devoted office building held for the twelfth year at the bank's head office building. Artwork donated by hundreds of artists was to the various foundations that participate in this initiative. displayed. All of the funds raised through the sale of the artwork at this event, in the amount of NIS 1.6 Poalim for Culture and Nature in Israel million, are devoted to the Israel AIDS Task Force. Since 2005, Poalim for the Community has conducted a special project each Passover, in which all Israelis are invited to visit a variety of sites throughout Israel free of charge during the holiday week. In 2011, 50 sites were included in the project. Bank Hapoalim believes that closeness to our heritage and culture is of the utmost importance, and has therefore resolved to make it possible for parents Looking ahead and children throughout Israel to travel during holidays and enjoy a variety of sites all over the country ■■ In 2012 the promotion of financial freedom through at no cost, while promoting culture and the arts. financial assistance, guidance, and training as well as the Welfare and Health Care development of initiatives and support groups for specific Poalim for the Community is involved in various community activities through community-oriented target groups, such as the Ultra-Orthodox sector and the sponsorships, primarily encouraging excellence in sports, funding cultural events, and assisting Arab-Israeli sector would continue; health-care institutions. The numerous projects led by the bank in the areas of welfare and health care ■■ Creation of the Bankopedia website for information, this year include the following: enrichment, and education of the general public on banking and financial subjects. Exhibitions Dedicated to Community Causes The internal space of the bank's head office building resembles a museum, with open galleries on Poalim in the community 178-179 Volunteering The bank has established a nationwide network of volunteers, 2011 in Numbers: encompassing thousands of employees from various parts of the country. The frequency and type of volunteer work vary widely among ■■ 756 students, of which 20% were minorities, participated in the From Three to Five the units, with weekly, monthly, or quarterly activities, or activities held on project in the current school year (2011-2012). This year, the project included 93 groups holidays. Bank Hapoalim has the widest geographical deployment among the financial organizations in at 27 schools in 17 towns; Israel. This enables to respond to the needs of local communities and adopt activities on a local basis, so that the local branch of the bank becomes a center for aid to the community or assistance during ■■ The number of schools participating in the Financial Literacy program grew from 30 in the various types of crises. Employees volunteer in their spare time, some privately and independently, 2010-2011 school year to 50 in 2011-2012; and some with the leadership of the bank, in collaboration with the various foundations. ■■ The Read & Succeed World tent at Management of Volunteer Work National Book Week 2011 hosted This year, the board of management made a decision, in line with the bank's 5,000 children and parents. The tent, vision and as a strategic step, to promote volunteering through integrative targeted to a range of age groups, management of this area. As part of this process, a new organizational structure was set up at Rabin Square in Tel for volunteer work is gradually being constructed. This structure includes the Aviv during National Book Week and following components: hosted story hours and conversations ■■ Senior manager Appointed within the bank to hold overall responsibility with authors each afternoon; for management of this area; ■■ Steering committee Provides strategic support within the new structure ■■ The Read & Succeed mobile library through the exposure and selection of models and of potential strategic Story telling in the bank's Read & Succeed world tent, partners in the community; formulates policies for recognition and program added a mobile library in Kiryat during the the national book week, 2011 Shmona, in addition to the financing of appreciation of volunteers, marketing of the activities in the organization, and the town library; recruitment of volunteers; ■■ Core social leaders 46 leaders to be selected by division/region heads, responsible for promotion of the Poalim Volunteers program and its goals ■■ In the joint project with Nefesh B'Nefesh (Soul To Soul), dozens of bank employees and objectives in their division/region, development and management of welcomed hundreds of new immigrants at Ben Gurion Airport during the year; partnerships and volunteering programs on the regional and local level with community partners, motivation of employees, and management and ■■ For the seventh consecutive year, the bank distributed Israeli flags in honor of guidance of the network of social leaders; ■■ Social leaders network 400 leaders to be selected by department and Independence Day, in recognition of the importance of the unifying and shared dimensions branch heads, serving direct liaisons to all employees and leading the of Israeli society. The flags, all made locally in Israel, were manufactured by various volunteering drive at the level of the units and branches; suppliers, including Hameshakem, which employs 2,700 workers with disabilities, in 40 ■■ Retiree social leader Leads volunteering by retired employees of the bank, Israeli towns including development regions and border communities. in cooperation with the retirees' union; responsible for involving thousands of bank retirees in routine activity on behalf of the community. Poalim in the community 180-181 2011 in Numbers: The new organizational structure promotes volunteering as a core activity of the bank and will allow management, absorption, measurement, control, and ■■ It is estimated that the employees volunteered a total of 160,000 hours to the community; guidance of the volunteering system. These activities will make it possible to ■■ Hundreds of employees received professional training this year to enable them to provide create a volunteering infrastructure and to better integrate a large number of classes, as volunteers, on financial education, advice on family budget management, and employees and units into volunteer work and community activities, on the financial enrichment for small businesses. Some of the courses were held during the year; national and regional level, according to community needs. This process ■■ During the Jewish holidays, 1,300 employees will also serve as a practical expression of the creation of maximum value participated in activities in several locations: in community-oriented activities through the realization of core capabilities distributing gifts at hospitals, elder care homes, and in the various projects. after-school childcare programs; assembling food Promotion and management activities performed in this area include: packages in Bnei Brak and Jerusalem; helping to ■■ Mapping and diagnosis of community activities currently conducted at the bank; transport food in Jaffa; and picking vegetables on ■■ Discussion of fundamental questions to formulate the bank's policies on agricultural farms; community involvement; ■■ During Hanukkah and Christmas, 1,000 employees ■■ Formulation of criteria for the selection of headline social issues; distributed gift packages at hospitals, at elder care ■■ Formulation of policies on project positioning, including the aspects of the homes in Jaffa, to children in after-school childcare public, marketing, public relations, communication to customers, and more; programs, and to children and adults with special ■■ Guidance, monitoring, and supervision of activities and development of plans. needs throughout Israel; ■■ Before the beginning of the 2011-2012 school year, 80 bank employees worked to paint group homes for children at risk in Carmiel, Horphish, Looking ahead Kibbutz Farod, Hacfar Hayarok, Ramat Gan, and ■■ Creating a volunteering site within the organizational portal, to Rishon Lezion; include information about volunteering opportunities, personal ■■ 41 courses on financial and general subjects experiences of employees from these activities, reports on were conducted by employees in 38 schools, in appreciation and commendation events, and reports on award cooperation with the Different Lesson foundation; ceremonies for outstanding community volunteers; ■■ Strengthening relationships and cooperation with other ■■ About 1,400 employees volunteer on a regular community organizations, such as Youth Business Leadership, basis. This activity has been conducted over the the Reut community mental health foundation, Hinuch Lepsagot course of the last five years; (College for All), the Gvahim foundation, and more; ■■ As part of the Poalim Volunteers effort, the Good ■■ Building infrastructure for a management system to allow qualitative Works Day was held for the fifth time in April 2011. and quantitative measurement of volunteering at the bank; Over 1,500 employees participated in volunteer ■■ Development of the Synergy program to involve executives as activities during the work day. Bank employees in various volunteering projects members of the governing boards of foundations. the Ethical Conduct Code 182-183 Assimilating the Ethical Conduct Code In 2004, Bank Hapoalim adopted an ethical code addressing the values that such inquiries are transferred to and addressed by the authorized parties at the bank. In order of accountability, trust, integrity, and respect. The ethical code defined the to ensure that employees who submit inquiries are protected and are not harmed as a result of their relationship between employees and their environment the bank, other report, the organizational portal offers the option of sending an anonymous message directly to the employees, customers, and the community. The ethical guidelines stress ethics officer. employees' respectful behavior towards their environment and the commitment of the bank to treat employees fairly and respectfully. In 2009, the bank carried 2011 Summery: out an update of the code, in which the phrasing was renewed, content was expanded, and the code became a global ethical code. In 2010, the code was officially launched for the ■■ The bank's ethical code was updated during the year. The update was carried out in the area of employees of the bank. The process of assimilating the code was conducted on three organizational fairness in internal work relationships between employees of the bank; levels: the individual level, the level of leading forums, and the level of the organization. This process was ■■ All employees of the bank reviewed the content of the code, through a tutorial, and were required aimed at reinforcing the status of the code as a significant element of the bank's organizational culture. to take a knowledge test at the end of the process; The ethical behavior code is divided into four sections: ■■ The bank's ethics committee began to work actively and identified ethical issues in audit reports ■■ My work at the bank Defines the relationship between the bank and its employees; of the bank and issues from daily life at the bank; ■■ Customer relationships Defines the relationship with the customers of the bank; ■■ A procedure for inquiries on ethical matters was written, describing the contact channels and ■■ Relationships with external parties, suppliers, and competitors Defines the relationship with addresses for consultation or reports regarding ethical dilemmas; external parties, suppliers, and competitors; ■■ Promoting the environment, society and community in Israel Deals with the bank's social ■■ Employee inquiries regarding ethics were responded to and addressed routinely; involvement, environmental responsibility, employee quality of life and welfare services and the ■■ A meeting of the ethics committee was held, with the participation of senior executives of the bank's customers' wellbeing. bank, in which the committee resolved to address ongoing ethical matters; An organizational structure has been established in order to promote a culture of conduct congruent ■■ In 2011, the bank created an ethical code relevant to contractor employees in the areas of security, with the content of the ethical code, including work processes and reporting channels in this area. cafeteria services, and cleaning working at its facilities, in collaboration with its contractors. Within the new structure, the head of the Human Resources, Logistics and Procurement Area has been Subsequently, this code was communicated to all contractor employees working on the bank's appointed the head of ethics at the bank. Areas within her purview include matters related to the update premises (for details, see the Community section). and absorption of the ethical code, such as training and learning processes, the creation of a channel for inquiries by employees, and more. An ethics committee has been established at the bank, headed by the head of ethics. The committee's role includes: ■■ Discussing ethical issues raised by employees through the various reporting channels at their disposal; ■■ Discussing cases of violation of the code; Looking ahead ■■ Assisting in the development and absorption of the ethics plan. In 2012, as part of the process of assimilating the ethical The committee is authorized to resolve ethical dilemmas and issues raised by employees, and to make code, a refresher program will be conducted, through a decisions regarding disciplinary measures in cases of ethics violations. The committee consists of tutorial on the ethical code and a game, at the various units senior executives from the various areas of the bank. In addition, an officer responsible for ethics was of the bank. appointed at the Human Resources Division, in the Leadership and Organizational Development Unit. Among other matters, the ethics officer coordinates the activity of the committee and helps assimilate the code; the officer is responsible for processing employee inquiries regarding ethics and ensuring THE BANK'S PROFILE 184-185 The Bank's Profile The Bank was founded in 1921 by the central institutions of the Jewish Settlement (the Yishuv) at the In addition to its banking business, the Bank Group also engages in related activities, mainly in the areas time, the Zionist Histadrut and the Histadrut General Federation of Hebrew Workers in Eretz Yisrael, and of credit cards and the capital market. In the credit-card sector, the Bank Group, through a subsidiary (the incorporated as a limited company under the Companies Ordinance. The Bank is a banking corporation Isracard Group ), issues, operates, and markets credit cards, within and outside the Bank, for use in Israel and holds a bank license under the directives of the Banking Law. In 1983, within an arrangement and overseas, and clears transactions executed using its credit cards as well as credit cards issued by formulated between the Israeli government and the banks, the shares of the Bank were brought under others. The Bank Group's capital-market activity includes the provision of services for the execution of trading the control of the state. The Bank was privatized in 1997, with the controlling interest transferred to the transactions in securities (brokerage), securities custody services, research and consulting, services for current controlling shareholders and others. financial asset managers, investment portfolio management, and issuance underwriting and management. Following is the bank’s organizational and operational structure: Information of the Bank in Israel (excluding subsidiaries) for December 31st, 2011 Headcount (incl. external personnel) 11,085 CEO Total profit (Profit from financing activity and operating income) for 2011 (unified) 13,083 Million NIS Corporate Client Asset Strategic Global Risk Management Financial and Strategy Management Division Treasure Officer Information Division Equity 23,845 Million NIS Division Division Chief Legal Human Resources, International Retail Division Information Chief Total capital to risk-adjusted assets 14.1% Internal Advisor Chief Logistics and Banking Banking Technology Accountant Auditor Procurement Division Division Shareholders’ equity to total assets 6.7% Activities of the Bank Group Abroad Activities of the Bank Group in Israel Alongside its activities in Israel, the Bank Group also operates overseas, in the private-banking sector The Bank Group operates in Israel in all of the various areas of banking through two main units: the and in the corporate sector. This activity encompasses Israel, Europe, the United States, Canada, Latin Corporate Area and the Retail Area. America, Australia, Hong Kong, and Singapore, by means of branches, representative offices, banking subsidiaries, and asset-management subsidiaries. The Corporate Area provides service to most of the Bank's business customers; activities with large corporate clients are conducted through sectors specializing in specific industries, which operate The Bank Group also operates in the households sector and in the commercial sector in Turkey and within the Head Office, while middle-market clients are served through eight Business Centers located Kazakhstan. In its private-banking activity, the Bank Group provides its high-net-worth customers throughout Israel. abroad with advanced professional products and services, including investment products and global asset management. Corporate sector activity abroad includes the provision of credit to local and foreign The various banking services are provided to all customers of this Area through the Bank's branches. borrowers, mainly through the acquisition of participation in credit organized by leading banks abroad; A network of business branches was created in response to customers' business needs, consisting the provision of credit to borrowers with an affinity to Israel; and investments in bonds. As part of its of 21 branches as at the end of 2011; additional branches are planned to open during 2012. The international activity, the Bank Group maintains ties with over 2,400 foreign banks around the world Retail Area, through the network of branches, serves customers including households, private banking (hereinafter: correspondent banks ). The Bank's strategy is currently aimed at the development and clients, and small businesses; is responsible for operating direct-channel services: Internet services, expansion of its international activity, both in the area of Global Private Banking and in the business Poalim by Telephone, and mobile services; and also oversees consumer credit and mortgage activities. activities of its London and New York branches. The Bank aims to continue to expand its service package The Retail Area operates through 277 branches, which provide the full range of banking services. and improve its capabilities in the areas of products, marketing, and customer service. THE BANK'S PROFILE 186-187 Set out below is a chart of the Bank’s main holdings*: Control of the Bank and Legal Organization The Bank The holder of the permit for control of the Bank, near the date of publication of the financial statements, Banks Abroad Credit Cards Other Financial is Ms. Shari Arison. Her stake in the Bank is held through several trusts that have holdings in the Israeli Services companies noted below, which own shares of the Bank. 100% Bank Hapoalim 98.2% 100% (Switzerland) Isracard Poalim Capital Markets Bank Hapoalim 100% (Cayman) 100% Poalim Express 100% Poalim Sahar Arison Holdings (1998) Ltd. ( Arison Holdings ) holds shares comprising approximately 20.20% of Ltd. 69.8% Bank Pozitif the Bank’s share capital near the date of publication of the financial statements, which constitute the Turkey controlling interest of the Bank (as defined in the control permit issued by the Governor of the Bank of 100% Bank Pozitif Israel). Arison Investments Ltd. (a sister company of Arison Holdings; hereinafter : Arison Investments ), Kazakhstan The chart includes the principal companies held directly by the Bank or indirectly through private subsidiaries under the full ownership through a wholly-owned subsidiary, holds the entire share capital of Salt Industries Ltd., which holds of the Bank. The wholly-owned subsidiaries through which the companies in the above chart are held do not appear in the chart. For the purposes of this chart, a principal company is a company engaged in business operations which in the opinion of the Board of shares comprising approximately 2.40% of the share capital of the Bank. Near the date of publication of Management of the Bank is a principal company in the Group, and in which the Bank's investment is at least 1% of the shareholders' equity of the Bank, or the Bank's share of whose net operating profit (loss) attributed to shareholders of the Bank exceeds 5% of the net the financial statements, the Arison Group (through Arison Holdings and Arison Investments) holds a total operating profit (or loss) attributed to shareholders of the Bank (similar to the criterion established in Public Reporting Directive No. 662 of the Supervisor of Banks regarding the statement of data on principal subsidiaries in financial statements of banking corporations). of approximately 22.60% (22.37% fully diluted) of the share capital of the Bank. Rating of the Bank The issued and paid-up share capital of the Bank, as at December 31, 2011, is NIS 1,323,805,735 par value, The following ratings have been assigned to the Bank by rating agencies in Israel and abroad: composed of ordinary shares of par value NIS 1 each. This is the issued capital following the subtraction In Israel, in local currency, the Bank is rated AA+ by S&P Maalot Ltd. and Aaa by Midroog. of 5,183,853 ordinary shares purchased by the Bank, as detailed below: In August 2011, the rating agency Midroog published a rating of Aaa for long-term deposits and P-1 for short-term deposits of the Bank, for the first time. These ratings are the highest possible for a financial ■■ In 2011, and up to the date of publication of the financial statements, an increase of approximately institution in Israel. 5,296,168 ordinary shares occurred in the issued and paid-up capital of the Bank, as a result of Ratings of the Bank and of Israel by the international rating agencies: the conversion of 5, 296,168 options allocated to employees of the Bank under the plan from May Long-term Short-term Rating 2004. The remaining option notes granted to employees of the Bank under this program amount to Rating agency Last update Foreign currency Foreign currency outlook 7,146,954 option notes; Israel sovereign rating: Moody’s A1 P-1 Stable April 2011 S&P A+ A-1 Stable September 2011 ■■ The last packet of options pursuant to the extension plan of September 30, 2009, consisting of Fitch Ratings A F1 Stable May 2011 4,332,998 share option notes, was allocated in February 2012. Near the date of publication of the Bank Hapoalim: Moody’s A2 P-1 Stable April 2011 Financial Statements, 12,526,743 option notes had been allocated and not yet exercised; these S&P BBB+ A-2 Stable December 2011 options will be converted into shares, as described above, from the pool of shares to be purchased Fitch Ratings AF2 Stable June 2011 for this purpose. Corporate governance 188-189 Corporate governance As a part of the banking system in Israel, Bank Hapoalim operates in a broad legislative environment Data for 2011: including primary legislation, standards, and regulations with which the bank is obligated to comply: the Banking Ordinance, the Bank of Israel Law, the banking laws concerning licensing and customer ■■ As of the end of 2011, the board of directors of Bank Hapoalim consisted of 15 members, service, the rules of the governor of the Bank of Israel, directives of the Supervisor of Banks, and more. including 4 external directors, as defined in Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive No. All of these regulate the activities of the bank on various levels, including requirements with respect to 301 of the Bank of Israel, and 2 additional external directors, as defined in Section 240 of the its capital and ways of managing capital, exercise of internal and external auditing, and the areas in Companies Law. which the bank is permitted to engage. According to the Companies Act, shareholders can suggest ■■ As of the reporting date, the number of directors with accounting and financial expertise and discussion issues for the next general meeting. Bank employees are able to appeal to the bank's professional qualification, according to their education, skills, and experience, in accordance board according to the bank's procedures and legal requirements. with the requirements of the Companies Regulations, is 15. The number of directors with accounting and financial expertise and professional qualification who are members of The Board of Directors: Composition, Activity, and Committees the audit committee of the board of directors is 5, in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Law, 1999, and the regulations. The board of directors of the bank operates in accordance with corporate governance guidelines established by law, including the Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directives of the Bank of Israel, the SOX Act, and more. The bank implements all of the directives set forth in the legislation, standards, and regulations with regard to the prevention of conflicts of interest within the board of directors. As part of the separation of duties required between management in practice and the formulation of the Board of policy and supervision, the chairperson of the board of directors does not serve as an executive at the bank. Directors of the bank are selected pursuant to the directives of Israeli law the Companies The Board's Composition Directors held Law, 1999, and the derived regulations; the Securities Law, 1968; and the Proper Conduct of Banking Men Women Total 41 meetings IN 2011 Business Directives of the Bank of Israel as well as the articles of the bank. 10 5 15 In the course of 2011, the According to Israeli law, a director of a bank is required to be an individual with knowledge, experience, Board of Directors held 41 meetings in plenary session or expertise in one or more of the following areas: banking, finance, economic or business activities, and 203 meetings of its law, management, or accounting. committees. The financial expertise and professional qualification of directors are evaluated by the board of directors. The range of considerations include the director's education, experience, and knowledge in areas and issues related to the activity of the bank, as detailed in the Companies Regulations (Conditions The Board of Directors and its committees and Tests for Directors with Accounting and Financial Expertise and Directors with Professional Qualification), 2005. During 2011, the Board of Directors of the Bank continued its work of formulating strategy, policy, and fundamental principles for the activity of the Bank in Israel and overseas, while establishing guidelines An application to appoint a director, with a declaration filled out by the director, pursuant to Proper on various matters, in accordance with the requirements of updates in legislation and in accordance Conduct of Banking Business Directive No. 301, is sent to the Supervisor of Banks for review; the with the new Directive 301 of the Bank of Israel. As part of this process, the Board of Directors appointment of the director is subject to advance approval by the Supervisor of Banks. set forth policy for the activities of subsidiaries in Israel and abroad, limits for exposure to various Corporate governance 190-191 risks, bond issuance, share capital issuance, execution and realization of fixed investments, and the execution of buyout offers and mergers. The Board of Directors addressed the approval of the Board of Directors Meetings in 2011 quarterly and annual financial statements; dividend distribution policy; the organizational structure Name of the committee Members of the committee No. of meetings of the Bank; establishment of policy on manpower, salaries, retirement terms, and the remuneration The Credit Committee Y. Seroussi Chairperson, I. Izakson, M. Baron, N. Dror, I. Tov, and M. Koren. 48 system for employees and senior executives; and supervision and control over ongoing business The Transactions with Related Parties M. Baron Chairperson, N. Dror, I. Tov, and M. Koren. 48 operations executed by the Board of Management and the congruence of these operations with the Committee policies of the Bank. The Audit Committee N. Dror Chairperson, M. Baron, N. Zichlinskey, I. Tov, Y. Yarom, and Y. Peer 32 The Human Resources Salaries and Y. Seroussi Chairperson, A. Dick, N. Dror, I. Tov, E. Peled, and M. Koren. 21 Remuneration Committee The directors' duties under the law are uniform for all types of directors. The basic duty is to act in The Risk Management and Control Committee I. Izakson Chairperson, N. Dror, I. Tov, Y. Seroussi, E. Peled, and M. Koren. 15 the best interest of the company. These duties include the duties of care, the fiduciary duties, the The Overseas Banking and International Y. Seroussi Chairperson, A. Dick, M. Wietchner, I. Tov, E. Peled 7 Activity Committee and N. Ronen. corporate governance duties, the avoidance of conflicts of interest, and other duties applicable to boards The New Products Committee Y. Seroussi Chairperson, I. Izakson, M. Baron, N. Dror, and M. Koren. 7 of directors, by law and pursuant to the directives of the Bank of Israel. Y. Seroussi Chairperson, N. Dror, N. Zichlinskey, I. Tov, E. Peled The Corporate Governance Committee 9 and N. Ronen. The plenum of the board of directors receives and discusses routine reports regarding execution The Investment Approval Committee Y. Seroussi Chairperson, A. Dick, Y. Tauman, I. Tov, and M. Luhmany 4 plans in the area of sustainability and corporate social responsibility at the bank. The reports and The Information Technology Committee M. Wietchner Chairperson, A. Dick, and N. Zichlinskey. 7 I. Izakson Chairperson, N. Dror, I. Tov, Y. Seroussi, Y. Peer, E. Peled discussions include both status reports on the bank's progress in this area, under its CSR plan, and The Finance and Prospectus Committee* and M. Koren. 5 discussion and approval of future work plans. In addition to the discussions by the plenum of the To read more about the bank's committees, Please see the Annual Report, pp. 210-219. board of directors, the activity of the members of the board of directors of the bank is conducted through the committees. Principal Changes in the Authority and Structure of the Committees in 2011 The management and senior executive remuneration program links between the bank's long-run overall business performances and the remuneration paid, based on risk adjusted profit and the Audit committee On February 6, 2011, the board of directors affirmed that in addition to the roles of capital price. the audit committee, it would also discuss the periodic and annual financial statements and present its recommendations regarding the approval thereof to the board of directors. Within this process, the audit The program sets a negative bonus for goals not met, as well as a long-term payment spread committee will discuss estimates and evaluations performed in connection with the financial statements, mechanism, in order to discourage risks beyond the bank's risk appetite. The annual bonus is based on including with regard to doubtful debts; internal controls related to financial reporting; the completeness the bank's performance (reflecting the management's responsibility to the banks overall performance, and fairness of the disclosure in the financial statements; accounting policies adopted and accounting beyond their specific responsibility for their division's/unit's performance),meeting personal goals treatment applied with regard to material matters; and evaluations, including the underlying assumptions (KPI's), including risk management and compliance indicators, regulatory demands and procedures and estimates, on which the financial statements are based. The committee will also examine the and supervisor assessment. In addition, part of the management bonus has been given since 2010 in effectiveness of the key internal controls over financial reporting at the bank. the form of Blocked Stock, with a blocking and ripening period of a few years. This mechanism creates a long-term link between the management's remuneration and the other stakeholders, and does not The resolution of the board of directors was passed in light of the directives established in the Companies encourage assuming excessive risks, as option based mechanisms, common in some companies in Regulations (Directives and Terms for the Financial Statements Approval Procedure), 2010, and the Israel and around the world, may do. updates of Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive No. 301 concerning the board of directors. Corporate governance 192-193 Finance and prospectus committee On February 6, 2011, the board of directors resolved to establish 2. The second element consists of the corporate governance rules set forth in the articles of the bank the finance and prospectus committee (following its decision to dissolve the balance sheet committee and in the permit for control of the bank, to the extent that they do not contradict unconditional and the prospectus committee). legal directives. Roles of the finance and prospectus committee: To review the business performance of the bank, as 3. The third element encompasses additional or stricter requirements undertaken by the bank of it arises from the draft financial statements, and to discuss its economic implications; to discuss the its own volition, in the recognition that the adoption of such standards can improve its conduct. accounting policies adopted on critical matters in the financial statements and the implications thereof; These requirements are also based on the corporate governance principles expressed in the to discuss estimates regarding doubtful debts and material evaluations in the financial statements, recommendations of professional organizations in Israel and elsewhere, including the corporate while considering implications and courses of action in the area of business. Within this discussion, governance rules proposed by the Goshen Committee, which examined the corporate governance the committee will receive reports on problematic borrowers in Israel and at the overseas branches. code in Israel; the first addendum to the Companies Law; and the corporate governance principles The committee will also discuss dividend distribution, in accordance with the policy established by set forth by the Basel Committee. the board of directors, and make recommendations to the board of directors regarding the approval thereof; and the committee will discuss the bank's prospectuses, including shelf prospectuses and The corporate governance rules detailed in the procedure approved by shelf offer reports, and present its recommendations regarding the approval thereof to the board of the board of directors are based on an approach in which each of directors. The members of the committee are: I. Izakson Chairperson, N. Dror, I. Tov, Y. Seroussi, Y. the elements is intended to add to the preceding elements, Peer, E. Peled, and M. Koren. rather than detracting from them. Accordingly, the board of directors has stated that in any case of On August 26, 2009, the board of directors resolved to establish a committee on corporate governance. discrepancy between the procedure approved by The committee discusses and makes recommendations to the board of directors regarding policies, the board of directors and the binding directives procedures, and guidelines designed to assimilate corporate governance principles in the work of established in legislation, in the Proper the board of directors and its committees, and to enable the bank to comply with the appropriate Conduct of Banking Business Directives, in corporate governance principles, as adjusted to legal directives, including establishment of the bank's the control permit, or in the articles of the policy and supervision of the board of management and the subsidiaries of the bank, as required by bank, the aforesaid directives shall take the Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directives of the Bank of Israel. precedence over this procedure. On December 21, 2011, the board of directors resolved to revise the procedure document concerning the work of the board of directors. The document approved by the board of directors is based on three elements: 1. The first element is the legal directives concerning corporate governance. The bank's activity in this area is dictated by the provisions of the Companies Law, 1999 (the Companies Law ) and the derived regulations; the Securities Law, 1968 (the Securities Law ) and the derived regulations; rulings of the Israel Securities Authority; and the Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directives of the Supervisor of Banks. Compliance and Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity 194-195 Compliance and Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity The responsibilities of the chief compliance officer of Bank Hapoalim are derived from Proper Conduct The main activities of the chief compliance officer unit in 2011 are summarized below. of Banking Business Directive No. 308, the Prohibition of Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing The Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing Prevention Department Law, and Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive No. 411. The chief compliance officer unit The anti-money laundering department is responsible for fulfillment of the duties imposed upon the encompasses the compliance department and the anti-money laundering department, as well as two banking corporation, and supervision of the execution of such duties. The department is also responsible additional units. The first is the international compliance unit, which is responsible for ensuring compliance for ensuring that the bank's policies and procedures are implemented at the group level. Within these and the prohibition of money laundering at the bank's offices outside Israel. Compliance staff at the responsibilities, a regulatory rating model in the area of the prohibition of money laundering was developed; bank's overseas branches now report directly to this unit, on both the professional and the managerial a new system for subjective reports was developed; an abridged Know Your Customer questionnaire for level. The second unit is an administrative unit (operations, coordination, and control), which assists the transactions by walk-in customers was implemented; expanded and corporate Know Your Customer chief compliance officer with the execution of systemic and operational assignments. questionnaires were updated; an expanded due diligence (EDD) questionnaire was implemented in the The activity of the Chief Compliance Officer Unit is supervised through three channels: branch network; and more. ■■ The board of directors’ committee on risk management and control and Basel II implementation; The Compliance Department The compliance department assists the board of management and the board of directors in fulfilling ■■ The board of management committee on compliance, headed by the CEO; requirements in the areas under its responsibility, reducing the corporation’s exposure to legal claims, ■■ Quarterly and annual reports to the board of directors of the bank, the CEO, and the heads of the and protecting the corporation’s reputation. During the year, the compliance department reviewed work areas. The reports include updates on the main exposures and risk areas in the group; progress on processes at various units; held working meetings with professional units supporting the execution of work plans; and activities performed, including controls, mapping of knowledge gaps, organizational the new compliance policy; made visits to branches and regional managements; ran training sessions learning, technological and other projects in this field, reports submitted to the Israel Money Laundering on matters related to consumer-protection directives, with a focus on account closures; developed a Prohibition Authority, violations, and reports of exceptional events. new tutorial on consumer-protection directives that regulate the relationship between the Bank and its customers; and more. Upon the establishment of the chief compliance officer unit, the board of directors of the bank established a new group-level compliance policy for the bank. The new policy sets forth rules regarding The International Compliance Unit all of the component areas of the prohibition of money laundering and compliance with consumerThe international compliance unit oversees the compliance officers at the bank’s overseas branches, from protection directives. The policy emphasizes corporate control and the interaction with subsidiaries the professional perspective, and works to ensure that the compliance system at the subsidiaries operates and branches outside Israel, based on Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive No. 308, the in accordance with the policies of the board of directors and the local regulatory directives. In 2011, Money Laundering Prohibition Law, the Terrorism Financing Prohibition Law, and Proper Conduct of the unit continued its activities aimed at creating a uniform compliance infrastructure and procedures for Banking Business Directive No. 411. This policy took effect at the end of December 2010, and was communication and reporting by all units of the bank around the world. The unit worked to update the updated in December 2011. group policy document in order to resolve gaps relative to legislative directives and local standards, and performed controls in the field. In addition, upgrades of the automated control systems at the branch In order to comply with legislative directives and with the group-level compliance policy, several activities compliance units were completed, in order to improve monitoring efficiency and improve the ability to track are being conducted by the chief compliance officer unit, such as: identifying the main exposures and exceptional activities; and more. risk areas; applying process-based, qualitative, and quantitative controls to ensure adherence to the directives that regulate relationships between the bank and its customers and the prohibition of money The Coordination, Operations, and Control Department laundering and terrorism financing; developing training systems and knowledge management on the The coordination, operations, and control department is responsible for coordination, monitoring, and organizational portal; infrastructure surveys; analysis of new products and services; development of control of the activities of the chief compliance officer unit and for maintaining contact with the compliance systems in the area of compliance and the prohibition of money laundering; and many other activities. system of the bank, among other matters. In addition, the department is responsible for managing the Compliance and Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity 196-197 GRI Index and Global Compact COP Report work plans of the chief compliance officer unit; managing incentives, training, and activities in the area of compliance and the prohibition of money laundering; and coordinating reports to the board of directors and Profile GC Page / Reason Description Level the board of management. The department also manages technological projects, manages the content Disclosure Principle for Omission sites in the area of compliance and the prohibition of money laundering and terrorism financing, and STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures manages conferences for the compliance officers of the group. The unit creates risk metrics in the area of compliance and the prohibition of money laundering, control reports for monitoring of compliance risks at 1. Strategy and Analysis the business units, and compliance metrics in the compensation model. 1.1 (Core) NR* Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. ⎷ 4-6 1.2 (Core) NR Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. ⎷ 4-6 No material fines or material nonmonetary sanctions were imposed on the bank for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and service during 2011. For 2. Organizational Profile details of material legal proceedings to which the bank is a party, see Note 19D (p. 395) to the Financial 2.1 (Core) NR Name of the organization. ⎷ 7 Statements for 2011. 2.2 (Core) NR Primary brands, products, and/or services. ⎷ 184-185 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, Data for 2011: 2.3 (Core) NR and joint ventures. ⎷ 184-185 2.4 (Core) NR Location of organization's headquarters. ⎷ 184-186 ■■ In 2011, compliance officer visits were held at 31 branches and 8 business centers (13% of the branches of the bank), to examine compliance aspects of processes at the branches. The chief 2.5 (Core) NR Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major ⎷ 185-186 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. compliance officer and international compliance unit also visited overseas branches of the bank, in Miami, New York, London, and Kazakhstan; 2.6 (Core) NR Nature of ownership and legal form. ⎷ 187 ■■ Within an annual learning process using tutorials on the prohibition of money laundering, in 2.7 (Core) NR Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ ⎷ 145-148, 184-185 beneficiaries). accordance with the requirements of legislative amendments, 75% of managers and employees completed the course and test. In addition, 72% of managers and employees completed an annual 2.8 (Core) NR Scale of the reporting organization. ⎷ 184-187 learning process using tutorials on compliance; 2.9 (Core) NR Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. ⎷ 191-193 ■■ During 2011, 124 training sessions were held in various courses and forums at the bank and its 2.10 (Core) NR Awards received in the reporting period. ⎷ 31, 117, 124-125, 128, 132 subsidiaries. Targeted training sessions were held at branch compliance officer conferences, and a specialized course was taught for new branch compliance officers; 3. Report Parameters ■■ Brief refresher presentations were developed and provided to branch compliance officers for use 3.1 (Core) NR Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. ⎷ 7-10 with employees during branch-level training hours. These presentations cover the subjects of 3.2 (Core) NR Date of most recent previous report (if any). ⎷ 7-8 reporting unusual activities, management of accounts on behalf of other parties, the regulatory rating model, and the process of completing an expanded due-diligence questionnaire; 3.3 (Core) NR Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) ⎷ 7 ■■ A training structure was created aimed at the absorption of work processes, enhancement of 3.4 (Core) NR Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. ⎷ 10 professional skills of compliance staff, and integrating compliance as part of the general training 3.5 (Core) NR Process for defining report content. ⎷ 7-9, 23 provided to managers and employees of the bank; Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, ■■ A process was formulated for mapping of individual knowledge in the area of compliance at 3.6 (Core) NR ⎷ 9 suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. the branches. * Not specifically required GRI Index 198-199 Profile GC Page / Reason Profile GC Page / Reason Description Level Description Level Disclosure Principle for Omission Disclosure Principle for Omission State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for 1-10 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy 3.7 (Core) NR ⎷ 9 organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in explanation of scope). 4.13 (Core) ⎷ 30-31 projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and The report does not refer membership as strategic. 3.8 (Core) NR other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between ⎷ to the bank's subsidiaries List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 23-26, 68-69, 84-86, 108organizations. and activity abroad. 4.14 (Core) The Global ⎷ 109, 160-168 Compact Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques COP is part of 3.9 (Core) NR underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. ⎷ 10 4.15 (Core) the CSR and Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. ⎷ 22-23, 84, 160-168 Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Sustainability Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by 4.16 (Core) Report, which ⎷ 22-23, 84, 160 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the stakeholder group. is the base for 3.10 (Core) NR reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of ⎷ 46-47, 53, 67 stakeholder Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the business, measurement methods). 4.17 (Core) dialogue ⎷ 84-85, 108-109, 160-168 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement 3.11 (Core) NR methods applied in the report. ⎷ 23-27 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) 3.12 (Core) NR Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. ⎷ 197-206 DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC ⎷ 3.13 (Core) NR Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. ⎷ 11-19 Economic performance ⎷ 29, 154-156 Aspects Market presence ⎷ 29, 154-156 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 1-10 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body Indirect economic impacts ⎷ 29, 154-156 4.1 (Core) ⎷ 188-193 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN ⍻ 4.2 (Core) 1-10 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. ⎷ 4 1-10 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the Materials ⎷ 29, 36-39, 40 4.3 (Core) ⎷ 188-189 highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Energy ⎷ 29, 36-39, 46 1-10 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest 4.4 (Core) ⎷ 188 Water ⎷ 29, 36-39, 53 governance body. Not applicable: not relevant 1-10 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and Biodiversity ☓ 4.5 (Core) executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social ⎷ 189-190 to bank's activities and environmental performance). Aspects Emissions, effluents and waste ⎷ 29, 36-39, 57 4.6 (Core) 1-10 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. ⎷ 188 Products and services ⎷ 29, 36-39 1-10 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the 4.7 (Core) highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other ⎷ 188 Compliance ⎷ 29, 36-39 indicators of diversity. Transport ⎷ 29, 36-39, 60-61 1-10 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to 4.8 (Core) ⎷ 28-29, 84, 182-183 Overall ⎷ 29, 36-39 economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 1-10 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA ⎷ management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and 4.9 (Core) ⎷ 190 opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, Employment ⎷ 29, 72 and principles. Labor/management relations ⎷ 29, 72 1-10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to 4.10 (Core) ⎷ 189-193 economic, environmental, and social performance. Occupational health and safety ⎷ 29, 72 Aspects 4.11 (Core) 7 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the ⎷ Not relevant to bank's Training and education ⎷ 29, 72 organization. activities Diversity and equal opportunity ⎷ 29, 72 1-10 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to 4.12 (Core) ⎷ 30-31 which the organization subscribes or endorses. Equal remuneration for women and men ⎷ 29, 72 GRI Index 200-201 Profile GC Page / Reason Profile GC Page / Reason Description Level Description Level Disclosure Principle for Omission Disclosure Principle for Omission DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR ⍻ Market presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at Investment and procurement practices ⎷ 28-31 EC5 (Additional) 1 ⎷ 82-83 significant locations of operation. Non-discrimination ⎷ 28-31, 79 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of EC6 (Core) NR ⍻ 156 Freedom of association and collective bargaining ⎷ 28-31,74 operation. ⎷ Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community Child labor There is no child labor practice EC7 (Core) 6 ⎷ 156 at significant locations of operation. There is no forced labor Aspects Prevention of forced and compulsory labor ⎷ Indirect economic impacts practice Security practices ⎷ 28-31, 103 EC8 (Core) NR Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public ⎷ 162-163, 166-181 benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Not applicable: not relevant Indigenous rights ☓ Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of to bank's activities EC9 (Additional) NR ⎷ 156 impacts. Assessment ⎷ 28-31 Environmental Remediation ⎷ 28-31 Materials DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO ⎷ EN1 (Core) 8 Materials used by weight or volume. ⎷ 43, 64 Local communities ⎷ 29, 154 ⎷ EN2 (Core) 8, 98 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 42, 64 Corruption ⎷ 29 Materials Aspects Public policy ⎷ 29 EN3 (Core) 8 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. ⎷ 64 Anti-competitive behavior ⎷ 194-196 EN4 (Core) 8 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. ⎷ 51 Compliance ⎷ 29, 143 EN5 (Additional) 8, 9 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. ⎷ 51 DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR ⍻ Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and EN6 (Additional) 8, 9 ⎷ 43, 118-119 reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Customer health and safety ☓ Not material EN7 (Additional) 8, 9 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. ⎷ 46-50, 164-165 Product and service labeling ⎷ 29, 142 Water Aspects Marketing communications ⎷ 29, 142 EN8 (Core) 8 Total water withdrawal by source. ⎷ 53 Customer privacy ⎷ 29, 141 Not applicable: not relevant Compliance ⎷ 29, 143 EN9 (Additional) 8 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. ☓ to bank's activities STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators ☓ Not applicable: not relevant EN10 (Additional) 8, 9 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. to bank's activities Economic Biodiversity Economic performance Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas Not applicable: there aren’t EN11 (Core) 8 ☓ such areas in bank owned, of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee leased, or managed land EC1 NR compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to ⎷ 155 capital providers and governments. 68-69, The bank has no Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in EN12 (Core) 8 ⎷ significant direct impacts protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to on biodiversity EC2 7 ⎷ 118-122 climate change. EN13 (Additional) 8 Habitats protected or restored. ⎷ 68-69 EC3 NR Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. ⎷ 100-101 EN14 (Additional) 8 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. ⎷ 36-39, 68-69 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas Not applicable: not relevant EC4 NR Significant financial assistance received from government. ⎷ 154 EN15 (Additional) 8 ☓ affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. to bank's activities GRI Index 202-203 Profile GC Page / Reason Profile GC Page / Reason Description Level Description Level Disclosure Principle for Omission Disclosure Principle for Omission Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time Emissions, effluents and waste LA3 (Additional) NR ⎷ 77 employees. EN16 (Core) 8 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. ⎷ 67 LA15 (Core) 1, 3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave. ⎷ 74 EN17 (Core) 8 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. ⎷ 67 Labor/management relations EN18 (Additional) 7, 8, 9 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. ⎷ 66 LA4 (Core) 1,3 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. ⎷ 74 EN19 (Core) 8 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. ⎷ 67 Not applicable: not Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is LA5 (Core) 3 ⎷ 101 EN20 (Core) 8 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. ☓ relevant: no air emissions specified in collective agreements. in bank's operations Occupational health and safety Not applicable: not EN21 (Core) 8 Total water discharge by quality and destination. ☓ relevant to bank's Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety Not relevant; where isn't activities LA6 (Additional) 1 ☓ committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. such a committee EN22 (Core) 8 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. ⍻ 57-60, 62 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related LA7 (Core) 1 ⍻ 105 Not applicable: not fatalities by region and by gender. EN23 (Core) 8 Total number and volume of significant spills. ☓ relevant to bank's Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist activities LA8 (Core) 1 ⎷ 100-101 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the Not applicable: not EN24 (Additional) 8 terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste ☓ relevant to bank's ☓ Not applicable: not relevant LA9 (Additional) 1 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. shipped internationally. activities to bank's activities Not applicable: not Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats ☓ Training and education EN25 (Additional) 8 relevant to bank's significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. activities LA10 (Core) NR Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. ⎷ 97-98 Products and services Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact LA11 (Additional) NR ⎷ 88-89, 97-98 ⎷ employees and assist them in managing career endings. EN26 (Core) 7 66, 118-120 mitigation. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, Not applicable: not LA12 (Additional) NR ⎷ 93 by gender. EN27 (Core) 8 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. ☓ relevant to bank's activities Diversity and equal opportunity Compliance Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category LA13 (Core) 1,6 ⎷ 74-76, 82, 189 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonaccording to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. EN28 (Core) 8 ⎷ 36-37 compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Equal remuneration for women and men Transport Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used LA14 (Core) 1,6 ⎷ 82 EN29 (Additional) 8 ⎷ 64 locations of operation. for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall Social: Human Rights EN30 (Additional) 7, 8, 9 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. ☓ Not reported Investment and procurement practices Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include ☓ Not applicable: not relevant HR1 (Core) 1,2,3,4,5,6 clauses incorporating human rights concerns. to bank's activities Employment HR2 (Core) 1,2,3,4,5,6 Percentage of significant suppliers. ⎷ 157-159 LA1 (Core) NR Total workforce by employment type. ⎷ 75, 82 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights HR3 (Additional) 1,2,3,4,5,6 ⎷ 159, 183 LA2 (Core) 6 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group. ⎷ 75-76 that are relevant to operations. GRI Index 204-205 Profile GC Page / Reason Profile GC Page / Reason Description Level Description Level Disclosure Principle for Omission Disclosure Principle for Omission Non-discrimination Corruption HR4 (Core) 1, 2, 6 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. ⎷ 79 SO2 (Core) 10 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. ⎷ 194 Freedom of association and collective bargaining SO3 (Core) 10 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. ⎷ 196 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of HR5 (Core) 1, 2, 3 association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to ⎷ 77 SO4 (Core) 10 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. ⎷ 194-196 support these rights. Public policy Child labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child ⎷ There is no child labor SO5 (Core) 1-10 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. ⎷ 30-31 HR6 (Core) 1, 2, 5 labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. practice Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related Prevention of forced and compulsory labor SO6 (Additional) 10 ⎷ 154 institutions by country. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced Anti-competitive behavior There is no forced labor HR7 (Core) 1, 2, 4 or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or ⎷ practice compulsory labor. Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices SO7 (Additional) NR ⎷ 196 and their outcomes. Security practices Compliance Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning HR8 (Additional) 1, 2 ⎷ 159 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonSO8 (Core) NR ⎷ 196 compliance with laws and regulations. Indigenous rights Social: Product Responsibility Not applicable: not relevant HR9 (Additional) 1, 2 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. ☓ to bank's activities Customer health and safety Assessment Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for PR1 (Core) 1 ⎷ 149 improvement. Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/ HR10 (Additional) 1, 2 ⎷ 85, 159, 183 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Not applicable: not relevant or impact assessments. ☓ PR2 (Additional) 1 health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle. to bank's activities Remediation Product and service labeling Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal HR11 (Additional) 1, 2, 6 ⎷ 79 grievance mechanisms. PR3 (Core) 8 Type of product and service information required by procedures. ⎷ 142 Social: Society Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR4 (Additional) 8 ⎷ 143 product and service information and labeling. Local communities PR5 (Additional) NR Practices related to customer satisfaction. ⎷ 139-143 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, SO1 (Core) NR ⍻ 162-163, 166-181 and development programs. FS15 (Additional) NR Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services. ⎷ 108-109 SO9 (Core) NR Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. ⎷ 121-122 FS16 (Additional) NR Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary. ⎷ 109-117, 175, 181 FS13 (Core) NR Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type. ⎷ 132, 145-147 Marketing communications FS14 (Core) NR Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people. ⎷ 108-115, 136-138, 145-147 PR6 (Core) NR Programs for adherence to laws ⎷ 142 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning SO10 (Core) NR ⎷ 121-122 PR7 (Additional) NR ⎷ 143 actual negative impacts on local communities. marketing communications GRI Index 206-207 Profile GC Page / Reason Description Level Disclosure Principle for Omission Customer privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of PR8 (Additional) 1 ⎷ 143 customer data. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the PR9 (Core) NR ⎷ 196 provision and use of products and services. SECTOR SUPPLEMENT: Product and Service Impact Product portfolio FS1 (Core) NR Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines. ⎷ 109-122 FS2 (Core) NR Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines. ⎷ 109, 121-124 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with environmental and FS3 (Core) NR ⎷ 108-109 social requirements included in agreements or transactions. Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies FS4 (Core) NR ⎷ 99, 108-109, 121-122 and procedures as applied to business lines. Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social risks FS5 (Core) NR ⎷ 108-109, 157, 160-169 and opportunities. Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and FS6 (Core) NR ⎷ 148 by sector. Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each FS7 (Core) NR ⎷ 109-117 business line broken down by purpose. Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for FS8 (Core) NR ⎷ 118-120 each business line broken down by purpose. Audit Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies FS9 (Core) NR ⎷ 108-109, 118 and risk assessment procedures. Active ownership Not applicable: Hapoalim Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting is a commercial bank FS10 (Core) NR ☓ organization has interacted on environmental or social issues. rather investment institution Not applicable: Hapoalim is a FS11 (Core) NR Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening. ☓ commercial bank rather investment institution Not applicable: Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting Hapoalim is a FS12 (Core) NR ☓ organization holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting. commercial bank rather investment institution
