Alto 2012 UNGC COP Alto Packaging 2012 UNGC Communication on Progress July 2011 to June 2012 1 Alto 2012 UNGC COP CEO Statement: 2 Alto 2012 UNGC COP 1. Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Alto seeks to uphold universal human rights including accessibility, discrimination and labour rights, across all our sites in line with the Human Rights Act 1993 and the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act 1990. This is reinforced through our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. Alto believes that all employees should be treated with respect and fairness. The provision of fair and equitable workplaces is a legal obligation. Our company has an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Policy which can be viewed at www.alto.co.nz/eeopolicy. This policy states that discrimination, harassment, victimisation and bullying will not be tolerated within our company. We also have a Code of Conduct which requires the fair and equitable treatment of all employees, contractors and customers, and establishes the responsibilities of all employees in this regard. Implementation Our Human Resources’ team is responsible for protecting human rights in conjunction with our line managers. Alto has an Equal Employment Opportunity Awareness Campaign which involves training all staff in the areas of legal compliance and policy breaches and advises our people on taking action and seeking action about issues relating to equal opportunity. The programme is run at a site level on an annual basis. Suggestion boxes are available at all sites so that any issues can be raised confidentially and followed up by site managers as appropriate. Measurement of outcomes No prosecutions relating to equal opportunity have been recorded against Alto for the period covered by this report. Any incident involving a human rights violation would be addressed by site management and our Human Resources team. 3 Alto 2012 UNGC COP 2. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Alto is committed to the principles of fair and equitable labour relations and has a range of diversity in our teams, sites and operations. The rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining are upheld in all our Australian and New Zealand operations. No person may influence an individual because they are or are not part of a union. In New Zealand, approximately 65 percent of our permanent workforce is covered by a collective agreement and in Australia about 78 per cent is covered. Contractual agreements observe statutory minimums in relation to termination and redundancy, and often exceed such provisions. We are committed to providing all employees and potential employees with fair access to employmentrelated opportunities. Decisions regarding recruitment, training, promotion, redundancies and retention of staff are based on merit. Our company has an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Policy which can be viewed at www.alto.co.nz/eeopolicy. This policy states that discrimination, harassment, victimisation and bullying will not be tolerated within our company. We also have a Code of Conduct which requires the fair and equitable treatment of all employees, contractors and customers, and establishes the responsibilities of all employees in this regard. Implementation Our Human Resources team is responsible for protecting labour rights in conjunction with our line managers. Alto has an Equal Employment Opportunity Awareness Campaign which involves training of all staff in the areas of legal compliance and policy breaches and advises our people on taking action and seeking action about issues relating to equal opportunity. The programme is run at a site level on an annual basis. We also undertake annual staff engagement surveys where staff can have their say on their workplace. Survey responses are used to fine-tune workplace leadership, communication, performance recognition, ethics and safety in the workplace. Alto is committed to operating in a safe and efficient manner to protect the welfare of all employees, contractors and visitors to our operations. We recognise that health and safety is a priority for all employees and requires a combined effort across the whole business. We work together to create a safety culture which maintains safe workplaces and safe working environments, and are committed to eliminating incidents that result in injury or occupational illness through processes of training, monitoring and corrective actions. Our Health and Safety Policy can be viewed at www.alto.co.nz/healthandsafetypolicy. In order to control risk, each Alto site is required to maintain a comprehensive and integrated Safety Management System which is audited annually. This system must be accessible to all employees. It describes the site’s safety objectives and the systems, processes and procedures used to achieve them. The audit results are an Executive Key Performance Indicator which reinforces safety performance as a critical responsibility. Our Safety Management System requires all injuries to be reported as they occur. This includes injuries that result in time away from work or medical treatment. We continue to drive improved reporting through safety education (including toolbox talks), training and audit processes. Each Alto site has a committee consisting of both management and employee representatives where safety is regularly discussed and reviewed. 4 Alto 2012 UNGC COP Through PPC Worldwide we provide an Employee Assistance Programme to give our staff and immediate family members access to counselling and support services. Counsellors are all professionally qualified psychologists or social workers who provide services throughout Australia and New Zealand. The programme provides a mechanism for practical assistance where personal or work related issues arise including relationship and family concerns, work life balance, depression, stress, crisis support and outplacement services and dealing with workplace change. The programme is confidential, non-judgmental and independent. Twice a year, monthly employees participate in the performance review process. This is designed to allow our people to set goals, measure performance and provide feedback. Employees and their managers use this to establish and measure indicators of employee performance and development. These reviews also allow our people to raise any concerns and to discuss topics such as career aspirations and development needs. Measurement of outcomes The staff engagement survey was undertaken in April 2012. A Safety Awareness Week was held for Australian sites in October 2011 and New Zealand site in August 2011. In May 2012 an Employee Health and Wellbeing Week was held for all sites. This discussed drugs, alcohol and smoking as well as promoting our Employee Assistance Program. Over the year our Safety Management System was reviewed and sites were all audited using our new safety management tool. The purpose of the review was to continue pushing for improvements in health and safety across our business. 5 Alto 2012 UNGC COP 3. Environment Assessment, policy and goals We are committed to promoting sound environmental management practices to ensure that our activities, products and services enhance both the environment and the communities in which we operate. We focus particularly on reducing waste, minimising the life cycle of our products, conserving energy and preventing pollution. This is in line with our environmental policy which can be viewed at www.alto.co.nz/environmentalpolicy. Implementation Our Environment team is responsible for protecting the environment at our sites in conjunction with our site managers and environmental representatives. As our business grows, so too does our capability to identify, monitor and reduce our environmental impact. Each Alto site adheres to an environmental management system (EMS) aligned with the international standard ISO14001:2004. Every year, actions and targets for improving eco-efficiency are set for all sites with a view to continuously reduce our environmental impact. Each site is audited against the requirements of the system annually and these results are an Executive Key Performance Indicator. The quarterly Alto EScorecard communicates these audit results as well as sites’ progress on meeting key eco-efficiency targets. To assist our sites in meeting set targets we have implemented training on subjects relating to the environment such as environmental management systems, spills and stormwater management. We also ensure that information is shared across our company on progress at sites and also the positive actions that sites are taking to improve their environmental performance. Site Environmental representatives participate in 6 monthly forums in which environmental training and updates are conveyed along with success stories from other sites. Results of audits and information on sites’ progress on meeting key eco-efficiency targets are communicated to all staff through our quarterly environmental scorecard. We hold environmental awareness months across all our sites in Australia and New Zealand on key environmental issues and initiatives. Awareness months generally involve staff taking part in toolbox talks which give information on how the topic affects them at work and actions they can take to improve their environment. st Climate change is the biggest global challenge of the 21 century and is as much a socio-economic issue as it is an environmental issue. Australia and New Zealand are both at risk of climate change impacts and have a big role to play in the global action to mitigate these risks. Alto Manufacturing supports the introduction of a price on carbon and has developed an Energy Efficiency and Reduction Program. All sites have a nominated Energy Champion that promotes energy efficiency on their site and also participates in a quarterly Energy Council teleconference call, in which ideas are shared. Understanding our waste streams and using resources efficiently is very important at Alto Manufacturing. We are committed to minimising waste generation and using raw materials responsibly. We also focus on the collection, re-use and recycling of packaging to divert waste from landfill and re-use of existing resources. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is an internationally recognised approach to assessing the environmental impact of products and services across all phases of their life cycle. Alto Manufacturing has utilised the services of sustainable packaging consultancy, SustainaPac to perform LCAs on some of our key packaging products. LCAs help Alto’s designers and customers to identify specific areas on which to focus to reduce the environmental impacts of a package. These services can assist our customers to 6 Alto 2012 UNGC COP determine how best to reduce environmental impacts of packaging, measure progress on reducing impacts and identify green marketing opportunities. The National Packaging Covenant was replaced by the Australian Packaging Covenant (APC) on 1 July 2010 with a renewed focus on the whole-of-life environmental impacts of packaging. Alto Manufacturing is a signatory to the new APC and has its own specific actions including the signatory requirement of reviewing all current and new consumer packaging against the APC’s Sustainable Packaging Guidelines. These guidelines focus on meeting the following 12 criteria in order to optimise consumer packaging to make efficient use of resources and reduce environmental impact without compromising product quality and safety. The 12 Criteria of the Sustainable Packaging Guidelines are: Minimise materials (source reduction) Use recycled materials Design for transport Maximise water and energy efficiency Minimise risks associated with toxic and hazardous materials Use renewable or recyclable materials Use materials from responsible suppliers Design for reuse Design for recovery Design for litter reduction Design for consumer accessibility Consumer Information The New Zealand Packaging Accord ended in 2009 and was replaced with the Packaging Product Stewardship Scheme, which had the goal to reduce the whole-of-life environmental impacts of packaging in New Zealand. The scheme was launched on 20 April 2010 and is a voluntary agreement to meet the requirements of the Waste Minimisation Act 2010 New Zealand. Alto Manufacturing is a member of the voluntary scheme. The scheme requires members to adopt the Code of Practice for Packaging Design, Education and Procurement which focuses on the following four principles: Packaging functionality Resource efficiency Use of low impact materials End-of-life options Measurement of outcomes In F12 environmental management system audits continued to be undertaken at our sites with an average score of 91% and two awareness months were held in Australia and New Zealand covering the areas of energy efficiency and recycling at our sites. In F12 Alto commenced a 5 year program developed to audit 90% of our energy consumption. In F12 a best practice guideline for energy efficiency at our sites was developed including: Changing to more energy efficient lighting Power factor correction improvements Implementation of infrared imaging Fixing of compressor leaks Focus on turning off machinery and lights when not in use. 7 Alto 2012 UNGC COP 4. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals At Alto, we have governance processes in place to support our focus on the longevity and success of our business. We are a privately owned company with nine sites in New Zealand and four in Australia. General Managers meet quarterly to address economic, environment and social performance. A balanced scorecard is issued weekly and circulated amongst General Managers and Site Managers. Legal governance is also key to the ethical business practices of Alto. As a member of the Pact Group, Alto is ultimately governed by the senior management team, which consists of our Chairman and Director, CEO, CFO and General Counsel. In addition to this senior management team, Pact Group also has an Advisory Board consisting of three independent (non-executive) advisors and convened by our Chairman and owners. This provides guidance to the company and meets quarterly. Our company has a confidential disclosure/whistle blowing policy and hotline. Implementation As part of our on-going competition law training programme, employees with responsibilities relevant to the Commerce Act 1996 (NZ) and Competition & Consumer Act (Aus) are required to complete face to TM face and online Self Administered Legal Training (SALT ). New employees with relevant employment TM positions are required to complete SALT training within three months of commencing employment and all employees will be required to refresh their face to face training every two years or more frequently when there are major law changes. Measurement of outcomes In the financial year F12 no prosecutions took place for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly practices or for non-compliance regarding the provision and use of products and services. 8
