2011 Corporate Sustainability Report Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy company engaged in the exploration for and production of crude oil and natural gas, as well as in refining and in marketing refined petroleum products, natural gas and electricity. Our strategy is to build a company that will sustain profitable growth and create significant shareholder value. We are committed to meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship by protecting the health and safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment and making a positive impact on the communities in which we do business. 2002 In Accordance C C+ B B+ A A+ Mandatory Self Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Declared Third Party Checked Optional GRI Checked Report Application Levels C C+ B B+ A A+ Mandatory Self Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Declared ✓ This is our Communication on Progress Third in implementing the principles of the Party Checked United Nations Global Compact. Optional Report GRI Checked We welcome feedback on its contents. Note: Following a review by ERM CVS, our external verifier, Hess is self-declaring a GRI Application level of A+ in conformance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Verification ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) conducted representative site visits, reviewed source data and our internal data collection and aggregation system and conducted interviews to ensure the information presented is a reliable representation of our performance. An ERM CVS verification statement has been included at the end of this report. ERM CVS also provided an opinion on the GRI Application Level. On the cover: Hess Education Program, Equatorial Guinea Table of Contents 2 4 8 12 24 36 44 52 60 68 2 Message From 44 Global Workforce The Chairman 52 Climate Change 4 Accomplishments, and Energy Challenges and Opportunities 60 Environment 6 Our Approach to Reporting 68 Products and Services 8 Our Global Reach 74 Performance Data 12 How We Operate 4 78 GRI Content Index 24 Community and Social Performance 81 Verification Statement 36 Safety and Health 82 Awards and Recognition 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report Message From The Chairman United States’ natural gas production five years ago, is now more than 30 percent of the nation’s natural gas supply. This growth in supply has significantly lowered the price of natural gas in the United States compared to other parts of the world, providing a material cost advantage for the nation’s economy in electricity generation, manufacturing and potentially transportation. It also has the benefit of leaving a much smaller carbon footprint than other forms of hydrocarbon energy. In terms of crude oil, production from shale has grown to more than 1 million barrels John B. Hess per day and is projected to reach an estimated 2 million barrels Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer per day in the next five years, with the potential to reduce crude Our company continued to make progress during 2011 in our oil import dependency during this time period to approximately strategy to sustain long term profitable growth while making a 35 percent from 45 percent today. In the United States, hydraulic positive impact on the communities where we operate. Hess fracturing was used in 80 percent of the 44,000 wells drilled last remains committed to help meet the world’s demand for energy in year and has been safely deployed in approximately 1 million a way that protects the health and safety of our stakeholders and wells since 1949. While there are improvements to make in terms respects the environment. We recognize that our performance as of measuring water use and air quality, disclosure of fracturing a socially responsible company is critical to our license to operate. fluids and utilization of best operating practices, the application of hydraulic fracturing to shale resources offers many nations a Our company holds a long term vision for our future that unique opportunity to improve their economic growth and energy is based on the Hess Values of Integrity, People, Performance, security in an environmentally responsible way. Value Creation, Social Responsibility and Independent Spirit. These deeply held values, embodied in our Code of Business Conduct We must address climate change in a manner that sustains and Ethics, guide the way we do business and help us fulfill our economic growth and protects the environment. With five percent purpose of developing trusted partnerships with communities, of the world’s population and 20 percent of its energy use, the employees, customers, business partners and investors. United States has an obligation to lead globally and to develop an energy policy that lowers demand for oil, encourages more supply A critical challenge for our company and our industry is that demand through drilling, emphasizes natural gas for electricity generation, for energy is expected to rise significantly in the years ahead. World invests in research for new forms of energy and sets realistic population is estimated to grow from 7 billion today to 9 billion targets for reductions in carbon emissions. The United States by 2050, largely in developing countries. With a corresponding and Europe cannot meet climate change alone. The role of China, increase in living standards, hydrocarbon energy is essential for which has surpassed the United States in CO2 emissions, is critical. the betterment of human life and economic development. While Transparent and equitable carbon price signals should be given renewable energy is needed and should be encouraged to help serious consideration once the economy recovers and people get meet future energy demand and reduce carbon emissions, it back to work. This would ensure that we use hydrocarbon energy currently does not have the scale, timeframe or economics to more efficiently and make meaningful reductions in emissions. materially alter the growing demand for hydrocarbons. Our Performance Over the past five years, hydraulic fracturing has been applied to shale formations, unlocking vast supplies of natural gas and crude Stakeholder expectations are rising for the energy industry to oil. Shale gas, which accounted for approximately 5 percent of the increase transparency, combat corruption, promote human rights, 2 minimize adverse environmental and socioeconomic impacts, Hess invested more than $23 million in social programs around responsibly manage suppliers and provide clean energy products the world in 2011, an increase of more than 25 percent from the and services. These areas present significant challenges and previous year. More than two-thirds of our social investment funds opportunities to our industry and our business. were spent in the United States, primarily supporting education and community initiatives. During the year, we announced a fiveAcross our entire company, we have engaged in intensive year $25 million donation to fund “Succeed 2020,” an education efforts around operational excellence, capital discipline, project in North Dakota to help students prepare for college, risk management, innovation, trusted partnerships and the careers and the workplace. In addition, our company recently professional development of our people to sustain growth. signed an agreement to build upon our successful primary These initiatives will help us become more efficient and effective education partnership with the government of Equatorial Guinea with our use of resources. by developing a $50 million Phase 2 program to strengthen The global reach of our operations demands our commitment to secondary education, continue efforts in primary education respect human rights. We maintain a long-standing engagement and vocational training. with the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, the For the seventh consecutive year, Hess employee safety United Nations Global Compact and the Extractive Industries performance continued to improve. There were no fatal incidents Transparency Initiative. We also endorse and uphold the for employees or contractors. However, contractor safety international standards set out in the United Nations Declaration performance declined last year, driven primarily by the rapid of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization rise in activity in our growing unconventionals business. Plans Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. are in place to significantly improve safety in that portion of our Hess joined last year with other companies in our industry to business, and recent data indicate performance is improving. identify, learn from and apply lessons from the Macondo tragedy We advanced our strategy to offer more clean energy solutions in the Gulf of Mexico and other deepwater spill incidents. We to our customers. In Marketing and Refining we significantly conducted extensive reviews of our technical and management expanded our products and services to help customers become systems for well design, construction and staffing and significantly more energy efficient and reduce their carbon footprint. We enhanced our well control response capabilities. With our plan to recently completed construction of the natural gas fueled resume drilling in the Gulf of Mexico in 2012, we worked closely Bayonne Energy Center in New Jersey and are now generating with drilling contractors and blow-out preventer manufacturers cleaner electricity for New York City. Nuvera Fuel Cells, a wholly to conduct comprehensive risk assessments and implement owned subsidiary that conducts research and development of upgrades and we plan to apply what we have learned to our hydrogen energy technologies, made advancements in operations elsewhere in the world. Our participation in the Marine hydrogen generation technology from natural gas and cost Well Containment Company and the Helix Well Containment Group effective hydrogen fuel cell efficiency. further strengthens our response capabilities in the Gulf of Mexico. We are proud of what we have accomplished this year and aware Three years ago, our company established a Climate Change that significant challenges remain. With the ongoing support of Network to execute a strategy to be a top quartile performer our communities, employees, customers, business partners and for both our greenhouse gas emissions performance and the investors, we are confident that we are building a sustainable quality of our climate change disclosures to stakeholders. In 2011 enterprise that will continue to make a positive impact on the world we achieved a 14 percent GHG intensity reduction against our around us. 2008 baseline and achieved our flare reduction target several years ahead of schedule. We have been recognized by the Carbon Disclosure Project, Bloomberg, Maplecroft and others for communicating openly about our climate change strategy, John B. Hess programs and performance. Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 3 Accomplishments, Challenges and Opportunities Our goal at Hess is to help meet the world’s power plants in New Jersey. One began operations in increasing demand for energy and sustain long term mid-2012 and a second plant is proposed. We are also profitable growth while incorporating environmental growing our Energy Solutions business to offer customers and social considerations into our business decisions. opportunities to reduce their energy use and greenhouse Hess understands that climate change is a global gas emissions (GHG). environmental concern with potentially significant consequences for society and the energy industry. Environment, Health & Safety In 2011 we continued to reduce enterprise risk by Hess has spent considerable effort evaluating our rebalancing our portfolio to build a global position in operations after the Macondo incident and will apply what unconventional resources while maintaining access we have learned in the Gulf of Mexico to our worldwide to key conventional resources. operations in order to reduce the risk of serious safety and environmental incidents. A viable option for reducing CO2 emissions includes replacement of coal fired power plants with natural gas We have strengthened our environmental and social fired ones. Hess has invested in two natural gas fueled impact assessment (ESIA) program to screen for risks Accomplishments communities n Initiated 5 year, $25 million education project in North Dakota n Signed partnership agreement for $50 million secondary education program in Equatorial Guinea human rights n Rolled out contract language for suppliers and contractors in E&P that includes expectations regarding respect for human rights n Field tested draft human rights training safety & health n E stablished Global Hess Rules, formalizing expectations for all employees and contractors around high risk activities n Implemented performance indicator system to monitor, manage and improve safety processes that prevent major accidents global n Aligned organization goals and individual objectives to our strategic vision for the year 2020 workforce n Reinforced a work environment that fosters continuous learning and development for all employees climate change n Reduced GHG intensity 14% (1.3 million tonnes) against 2013 target of 20% n Incorporated energy efficiency, flare reduction & carbon pricing tools in new investment decisions Environment n Conducted high level risk assessments as part of new asset entry process n Joined with seven oil companies to create Sakakawea Area Spill Response consortium, the first of its kind, in North Dakota 4 Accomplishments, Challenges and Opportunities and impacts associated with worldwide exploration, achievements, combined with our natural gas electricity drilling and development operations. operations, Energy Solutions services and Nuvera Fuel Cells business, underscore our commitment to Our Exploration and Production (E&P) business is addressing global climate change. formalizing standardized operating practices for our unconventional operations to ensure that we conduct our People and Communities activities in the safest manner possible and minimize the environmental and social impacts of our activities. Hess is committed to attracting, developing and retaining a highly talented diverse workforce. We have made While employee safety performance improved for the progress in building local workforces that reflect the seventh consecutive year, contractor safety performance makeup of our communities. declined, driven by a tripling of activity levels in our U.S. unconventionals business. We have increased our efforts As our global footprint expands, we have extended our to reinforce Hess’ safety culture with our contractors, efforts to assess social risks in new areas of operation, resulting in improved contractor safety performance in including recent projects in the Utica Shale in Ohio and Q4 2011 and Q1 2012. in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. We have also expanded our efforts to engage with local communities, business We met our flare reduction target three years early and partners, suppliers and other stakeholders and are are striving to achieve our 2013 GHG intensity reduction developing a formalized process to screen contractors target. We are moving toward our goal of establishing for human rights performance. a corporate wide energy management system. These Challenges Opportunities n Identifying key risks and impacts of upcoming operational n Developing appropriate risk mitigation strategies activities n Helping students better prepare for university and workplace n Increasing number of students who complete high school and college programs n Tracking the number of agreements that include human rights n Engaging with business partners on human rights contract language n P resenting complex material in a way that is easily understood n Operationalizing our Human Rights Policy by employees and international cultures n Focusing on contractor safety management performance in n Completing objective assessments of employees, contractors unconventional businesses and worksite leaders on safe work practice competencies n Continuing to mature behavior-based safety and health n Ensuring that existing EHS&SR processes and procedures culture within Hess align with corporate expectations n Developing leaders at all levels of the company n Increasing effectiveness of learning and development by better integration of HR systems n Creating learning and development opportunities for a diverse n Enhancing our Employee Value Proposition – what attracts leadership pool based on a new competency model people to join us and makes them want to stay n Increasing the pace of progress for implementing a corporate n Generating savings resulting from energy management system wide energy management system n Operating in a political environment where economy n Reducing flaring through gas monetization trumps climate n Finding innovative ways to reduce fresh water usage in n Developing more comprehensive tools to actively monitor and hydraulic fracturing deploy measures that protect water quality n Contending with harsh weather conditions and remote locations n Continuing to use ESIAs to identify, assess, and manage that create operational and environmental challenges environmental risks and impacts from our operations 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 5 Our Approach to Reporting This report provides information on our sustainability Boundary Setting programs and performance in 2011. Additional information The principal facilities and assets operated by Hess is available at www.hess.com/investors, including the Corporation and its subsidiaries and joint ventures current annual report, U.S. Securities and Exchange during calendar year 2011 are included in this report. Commission (SEC) Form 10-K filing and the proxy Data presented refer to gross figures from operated statement. Stakeholders for this report include employees, facilities and third party activities where Hess has overall suppliers, customers and consumers, communities, responsibility as specified in contractual arrangements. shareholders and investors, governmental and nonHealth, safety and environment data for joint ventures governmental organizations and industry colleagues. where we have significant influence, as defined by the GRI’s guidance on boundary setting, are reported Reporting Standards separately. These joint ventures include SonaHess We report sustainability performance based on the (Algeria), Carigali Hess Malaysia/Thailand Joint Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 guidelines to an Development Area Block A-18 (MTJDA) and HOVENSA. A+ reporting level. For industry specific reporting For our subsidiary in Russia, Samara-Nafta, we include guidance, we follow the International Petroleum Industry net equity greenhouse gas (GHG) data and social Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and the investment spending. American Petroleum Institute (API) Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting. We Some quantitative environment, health and safety data provide a GRI Content Index, cross-referenced with the are reported on a normalized basis to facilitate year on IPIECA indicators and the 10 Principles of the United year comparisons. We report GHG emissions on an Nations Global Compact (UN Global Compact) at the operated basis for Hess operated assets. Net equity end of this report. emissions data are provided on a net equity share basis Reporting Boundary Materiality Determination Operational Control Significant Influence 1 Climate change 5 3 2 16 6 1 2 Emergency preparedness and response 7 4 3 Suppliers Hess owned 8 Consolidated 15 12 4 Transparency and operated 9 Reporting facilities 10 5 Human rights 6 Stakeholder engagement 11 7 Water 8 Communities External Awareness Joint Ventures 13 9 Diversity and Inclusion • MTJDA Block 10 Workforce training/development NonA-18 (JDA) 17 14 11 Safety Consolidated • SonaHess • HOVENSA 12 Biodiversity Reporting Subsidiaries 13 Wellness 18 14 Atmospheric emissions • Samara-Nafta 15 Renewable energy 16 Low carbon products and services Company Impact 17 Waste 18 Ozone depleting substances  Low Priority  edium M H  igh Non-Material Priority Priority 6 Our Approach to Reporting for operated facilities, joint ventures including SonaHess, Restatements and Additions Carigali Hess, and HOVENSA, and non-operated facilities In past reports, we have included joint venture (JV) data in which we hold an interest. for SonaHess (Algeria) and the Carigali Hess Malaysia/ For our unconventionals business, recent acquisitions Thailand Joint Development Area Block A-18 (MTJDA) in Texas and Ohio have been classified as assets in in Hess operated totals. In order to align with GRI’s transition. Environmental data for these assets will be boundary setting guidance, we have changed our reported in 2012 once we integrate these acquisitions approach in 2011 and are reporting JV data separately. into Hess reporting systems. To facilitate comparisons with data from prior years, Hess operated data for 2009 and 2010 have been restated to Materiality Determination exclude these joint ventures. The content of this report was selected based on Internal Quality Assurance our internal evaluation of risk and impact, level of internal and external stakeholder interest and relevance We have documentation and information systems in of GRI G3 and oil and gas sector guidelines and best place to promote consistent and reliable data collection practices. Reliable and verifiable quantitative data and aggregation from all of our Hess operated and joint have been provided for GRI indicators to the extent venture assets. We conduct corporate and business level possible given our current corporate data collection Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) reviews and and aggregation systems. validation to evaluate the accuracy and reliability of facility specific and aggregated data. GRI and IPIECA Raise the Bar on Sustainability Reporting GRI and IPIECA have been driving more comprehensive disclosure through a series of recent and planned revisions and expansions to reporting guidelines. These include: n The GRI G3.1 guidance, which builds on GRI G3 by more fully incorporating gender, community and human rights. n The GRI Oil & Gas Sector Supplement (OGSS), which provides industry specific guidance and indicators. n The GRI G4 guidance, which is expected to be finalized in 2013. n The 2010 IPIECA Oil & Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting, 2nd edition, which includes expanded guidance around materiality, stakeholder engagement, process safety and ecosystem services. Hess Corporation has participated in the development of the IPIECA guidelines and GRI OGSS and is a member of one of the GRI G4 working groups. To ensure that the quality of our sustainability reporting continues to be top quartile for our sector, we have undertaken an independent third party assessment of our current reporting with the GRI 3.1 and OGSS Guidelines. The results of this assessment will help us determine the additional resources required to meet expanded reporting and disclosure frameworks in future years. Hess obtained first GRI G3 framework 2nd edition of IPIECA Hess engaged external • Expected release of third party CSR published; Hess achieved Guidance on Voluntary third party to conduct GRI G4 framework verifcation B+ application level Sustainability gap analysis of Hess • Begin reporting Reporting published reporting against using GRI G3.1/ new frameworks OGSS framework 1997 2001 2005 2006 2008 2010 2011 2011-2012 Q1 2012 2013 1st edition of IPIECA Guidance on Hess published Voluntary Sustainability GRI G3.1 GRI Oil & Gas first sustainability Reporting published Hess achieved GRI A+ framework Sector Supplement report Reporting Level published published 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 7 Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area Our Global Reach 11.4 21 1.57 years of countries billion barrels reserve life of operation proved reserves 8 Our Global Reach Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy With the addition of Utica acreage, the company now has company engaged in the exploration for and production the critical mass in shale resources to make a significant of crude oil and natural gas, as well as in refining and contribution to our future production and reserve growth. marketing petroleum products, natural gas and electricity. In terms of conventional resources, Hess filed a Notice Our focus is to build a company that will sustain of Discovery with the Minister for Energy of Ghana for profitable growth and create significant shareholder value. the Paradise-1 exploration well in the Deepwater Tano We are committed to meeting the highest standards of Cape Three Points license, offshore Ghana. In addition, corporate citizenship by protecting the health and safety and in partnership with Petroceltic International PLC, of our employees, safeguarding the environment and Hess signed production sharing contracts (PSCs) with making a positive impact on the communities in which the Kurdistan Regional Government of Iraq for its Dinarta we do business. and Shakrok exploration blocks. In October 2011 we announced that we will proceed with the development of Exploration and Production (E&P) Tubular Bells, a deepwater gas and oil project which we operate in the Gulf of Mexico. In 2011 Hess net crude oil and natural gas production averaged 370,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day, Marketing and Refining (M&R) down from 418,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in 2010. This decrease primarily resulted from short term Our Retail and Energy Marketing businesses remain a setbacks, including severe weather in North Dakota, the strategic part of our portfolio with a well established temporary shutdown of the Llano No. 3 well in the Gulf brand that generates attractive financial returns and of Mexico due to mechanical issues, a two month shut in offers selective growth opportunities. Hess is a leading of the non-operated Valhall Field in Norway due to a fire, independent gasoline convenience store retailer in the as well as civil unrest in Libya. U.S. with 1,360 stores along the East Coast. In 2011 we replaced 147 percent of production at a Hess Energy Marketing, a major supplier of fuel oil, natural finding, development and acquisition cost of about gas and electricity to more than 21,000 commercial, $36 per barrel of oil equivalent. The company’s proved industrial and utility customers in the Eastern U.S., reserves rose to 1.57 billion barrels of oil equivalent and advanced the construction of a 512-megawatt natural reserve life increased to 11.4 years. We have exploration gas fired power plant in Bayonne, N.J. Beginning in and production activities in 21 countries. mid-2012, the plant will generate enough electricity to power 500,000 homes in the New York City area. During the year we continued to strengthen our portfolio, significantly expanding our unconventional resources. In January 2012 HOVENSA announced that our joint Despite the harsh winter and severe spring flooding in venture refinery in St. Croix, the U.S. Virgin Islands would North Dakota, net production from the Bakken doubled close following three years of financial losses and the to 30,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day from 15,000 complex would operate as an oil storage terminal. During barrels of oil equivalent per day last year. In October the first quarter of 2012, HOVENSA completed a safe 2011 Hess acquired a 50 percent interest in CONSOL’s and orderly shutdown of the refinery. acreage in the Utica Shale and acquired Marquette Hess continues to operate its Port Reading, New Jersey Exploration LLC’s acreage and other leases in Ohio’s fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) facility that produces gasoline Utica Shale. Combined, these transactions provide Hess and fuel oil primarily for markets in the Northeast U.S. with nearly 200,000 net acres in the Utica Shale resource. 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 9 Operational Highlights united states Refinery Production Terminal Developments peru  tail and Re Exploration Energy Joint Ventures Marketing BRAZIL M&R Highlights 2011 Business Highlights (Amounts in Millions) Sales and other operating revenue $ 38,466 Energy Marketing Net income $ 1,703 Electricity and natural gas sales increased 5.6 Capital and exploratory expenditures $ 7,462 percent and 7.5 percent, respectively. Total assets $ 39,136 Total debt $ 6,057 Bayonne Energy Center (Hess 50%) Stockholders’ equity $ 18,592 Completed construction of Bayonne Energy Debt to capitalization ratio 24.6 % Center. The 512-megawatt natural gas fueled electric power plant will generate enough Exploration and Production electricity to power approximately 500,000 Total net hydrocarbons produced 370,000 BOE/D homes in the New York City area. Proved reserves (total) 1,573 BOE (Amount in Millions) Retail operations United States 28 % Experienced 2 percent sales decline in both Europe 37 % convenience store sales and gasoline volumes, Africa 17 % reflecting a weak economy. Overall store Asia and others 18 % gross margins improved, driven by new fresh Reserve life 11.4 Years food concept. Replaced production 147 % HOVENSA (Hess 50%) Marketing and Refining Announced the shutdown of the St. Croix, U.S. Refined petroleum product sales 430,000 BOE/D Virgin Islands refinery in the first quarter 2012. Natural gas sales 2,167 000 MCF/D Following the shutdown, the complex will operate Electricity sales 4,374 MW-RTC as an oil storage terminal. Convenience store sales* $ 1,459 (Amount in Millions) HOVENSA gross crude runs 284,000 BOE/D Port Reading feedstock runs 63,000 BOE/D *Excludes fuel sales 10 Message From The Chairman norway United kingdom russia denmark FRANCE azerbaijan china KURDISTAN Algeria libya egypt thailand malaysia brunei Ghana equatorial guinea indonesia australia E&P Highlights United States Europe Asia Offshore (Gulf of Mexico) Norway Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Tubular Bells Continued redevelopment of the Valhall Field Area (JDA) (Hess 50%) Sanctioned development, first production (Hess 64%). Four of 20 wells in the Valhall Flank Continued development drilling at Suriya A expected in 2014, peaking at 25 MBPD net. Gas Lift project came on stream in 2011. Divested platform and drilled appraisal wells at Bulan interests in the Snorre Field and Snøhvit Fields. South and Bumi South. Installed Suriya B Shenzi wellhead platform in Block A-18. Obtained U.S. government approval to resume United Kingdom drilling in Gulf of Mexico. Divested interests in the Easington Catchment Indonesia Ujung Pangkah (Hess 75%) Area, the Bacton Area, the Everest Field, the Installed a second wellhead platform, central Pony Lomond Field, the Central Area Transmission processing facility and accommodations and In negotiations to determine Pony equity with System pipeline and the Cook Field. utilities platform. owners of adjacent Knotty Head prospect for co-development. Sanction expected in 2013. Denmark Kurdistan Region of Iraq Increased interest to 62 percent in the South Arne (Hess 80%; operator) Unconventionals Field, offshore Denmark. Signed production sharing agreement with the Bakken (North Dakota) Kurdistan Regional Government of Iraq for the Increased drilling rig count to 16 in 2012. Doubled AFRICA Dinarta and Shakrok exploration blocks. net production to 30,000 barrels of oil equivalent per Ghana day. Progressed expansion of the Tioga gas plant. Australia Drilled a successful exploration well at the Eagle Ford (Texas) Deepwater Tano Cape Three Points License. Pursuing commercial options for Block WA Three rig program, drilled 28 new wells, 390-P (100%) offshore Western Australia; Algeria completed 22, commenced production. 13 natural gas discoveries with appraisal Sanctioned the development of the Bir El Msana program continuing. Utica (Eastern Ohio) (BMS) Block 401C. Acquired Marquette Exploration LLC and other Completed the first year of a two year seismic leases and formed joint venture with CONSOL shoot onshore in the Beetaloo Basin in the Energy, bringing our position to nearly 200,000 Northern Territories. net acres. 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 11 Okume Complex, Equatorial Guinea How We Operate A+ 5 Be a Trusted GRI Sustainability Report International Application level voluntary Energy Partner commitments to social responsibility 12 How We Operate Our long term vision and six core Values provide a Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental foundation for how we do business at Hess. One of our Principles and Rights at Work. Values, Social Responsibility, defines our commitment Environment, health, safety and social responsibility to meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship (EHS&SR) are incorporated into enterprise risk and creating a long lasting positive impact on the management and governance processes. In keeping communities where we do business. with the precautionary approach, identified risks Management Approach are evaluated and mitigation plans are developed and implemented. Our Values and vision, the Hess Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the Social Responsibility, EHS&SR are core aspects of the company’s disciplined Human Rights and Environment, Health and Safety cross-functional approach to improving the operating policies ensure that we operate at the highest standards results of Hess assets through Operational Excellence. of corporate citizenship. Environment and safety performance metrics are also components of the bonus formula for executives as well We also support voluntary initiatives to promote as employees. human rights, protect the environment and encourage financial transparency. Our key commitments include The company’s management of sustainability issues the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, extends to our participation in sector specific and the United Nations Global Compact and the Extractive multi-stakeholder associations relevant to the enterprise Industries Transparency Initiative. We regularly report and to our businesses. Our memberships allow us on our progress and performance to these groups. to learn from sector peers and others, grow internal We also support the United Nations Universal capacity and engage with external stakeholders on Declaration of Human Rights and the International issues of significance to the company. Our Values Hess Values set the framework and establish the ethical standards by which we conduct our business. Integrity. We are committed to the highest level of integrity in all our relationships. People. We are committed to attracting, retaining and energizing Integrity the best people by investing in their professional development and providing them with challenging and rewarding opportunities for People Performance personal growth. Performance. We are committed to a culture of performance that Value Social demands and rewards outstanding results throughout our business. Creation Responsibility Value Creation. We are committed to creating shareholder Independent value based on sustained financial performance and long term Spirit profitable growth. Social Responsibility. We are committed to meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship by protecting the health and safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment and creating a long lasting, positive impact on the communities where we do business. Independent Spirit. We are committed to preserving the special qualities and unique personality that have made us a successful independent enterprise. 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 13 Internal reviews and audits, as well as third party Hess Leadership Team assurance engagements, are conducted to ensure The Hess Leadership Team, with eight corporate executive conformance with internal requirements, compliance officers, provides strategic business guidance and makes key with legal and regulatory requirements and disclosure operational decisions for the company. The Team establishes of reliable and verifiable information to the company’s strategies to provide a clear focus on the promotion of ethical directors, shareholders and investors, regulators and business conduct, environment, health, safety and social other interested parties. responsibility, and management systems that protect the company’s workforce, customers and local communities. Board of Directors Our Board consists of 13 members, 10 of whom are The Hess Leadership Team establishes performance independent under New York Stock Exchange rules. The objectives and holds business units accountable for their Board is chaired by John B. Hess, who is also chief executive performance. The company’s business units and line officer of the company. There are currently eight regular management are responsible for incorporating environment, meetings per year. The independent directors meet privately health, safety and social responsibility expectations into after each regularly scheduled meeting of the Board, with business activities and providing adequate resources and the chairman of the Corporate Governance and Nominating mechanisms to meet performance objectives. Committee presiding. The Board has adopted a set of Executive compensation is linked, in part, to select Corporate Governance Guidelines to address issues relating environment, health and safety metrics. to the functions of the Board of Directors. The Board has three principal committees: the Audit Operational Excellence Leadership Team Committee, the Compensation and Management The Operational Excellence Leadership Team (OELT) Development Committee and the Corporate Governance provides guidance in the five areas that comprise the and Nominating Committee. Each committee has a written company’s Operational Excellence framework: EHS&SR, charter that sets forth its purpose and responsibilities. asset integrity, maintenance and reliability, production/ Additional information on the Board, its charters, business optimization and cost management. requirements for Related Party Transactions and contact information is available at www.hess.com/investors. There are 12 team members representing Exploration and Production, Marketing and Refining, EHS&SR, Audit Committee Global Process Excellence and Information Technology. The OELT is chaired by the president of Worldwide The Audit Committee fulfills the Board’s oversight Exploration and Production and ensures that the responsibility relating to the company’s financial principles of Operational Excellence are embedded and statements, financial reporting practices, systems become part of the culture at Hess. of internal accounting and financial and disclosure controls, internal audit function, the retention and Ethical Business Conduct oversight of independent auditors and oversight of the company’s ethical business conduct. It also oversees The Hess Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the the company’s environment, health, safety and social Code) describes the standards of ethical behavior responsibility programs. The Audit Committee has six the company expects of employees and business members and meets six times per year. partners, including agents, suppliers, consultants and intermediaries. In 2011 Hess updated the Code to more 14 How We Operate Certification, Training and Audit Enterprise Risk Management The company’s general counsel is responsible for maintaining and updating the Code. The general counsel Hess has developed an enterprise wide risk and the vice president Audit and Global Compliance management program that identifies and jointly develop the ED26 anti-corruption and anti-bribery assesses key risks to the company. The program training and auditing scope and schedule. was developed in 2010 and is being used in The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors reviews Marketing and Refining and in Exploration matters related to compliance with the Code. Senior & Production. leaders, E&P vice presidents, country managers, foreign The objectives of the program are to build a based managers and employees and select M&R and better understanding of our risk management corporate vice presidents must annually certify their culture, develop a shared view on the prioritization compliance with ED26. of risks, understand the scenarios we face with Training on the Code, which includes anti-corruption the greatest potential impact and identify ways classes, is included as part of the Hess onboarding we can mitigate them. The program includes process for all non-Retail employees and salaried qualitative and quantitative risk measurement, employees. Detailed ED26 anti-bribery and anticross risk aggregation and emerging risk corruption training is provided to a subset of employees awareness and analysis. based on job responsibilities and country of operation. Our qualitative assessment process is based on In 2011 our legal staff conducted classroom training a series of management workshops and uses a for approximately 750 executives, managers, and common framework covering risks in many areas professionals, including the Hess Leadership Team. of our business, including: investment; the political and social arena; subsurface; environment, health and safety; and execution and operating, among others. Quantitative risk measurement tools include sensitivity analysis, stress testing, risk mapping and risk correlation. explicitly align with the Hess Values and reflect new regulations and societal expectations. It will be publicly available at hess.com/investors. The Hess anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy, Executive Directive 26 (ED26), reflects the requirements necessary to comply with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. These include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the 2011 UK Bribery Act. In 2011 there were no legal actions, fines or sanctions relating to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, anti-competitive behavior or anti-trust or monopoly laws or regulations. Corporate Risk Workshop 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 15 Confidential Hotline Revenue Transparency The Hess confidential hotline is managed by an Hess is a Supporting Company of the Extractive independent third party and includes telephone and Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), a voluntary internet services through which our employees, business multi-stakeholder initiative that includes oil and partners and customers can report allegations of Code mining companies, governments, civil society groups, violations, workplace concerns and unsafe conditions. international non-government organizations and investors. The objective of the EITI is to improve Customer complaints and allegations not related to governance through transparency of company the Code are sent to the appropriate department for payments to governments. resolution. Allegations that are related to the Code are thoroughly investigated and treated confidentially and Hess complies with EITI revenue reporting and disclosure promptly. Employees who in good faith report known requirements in the countries where we do business. or suspected violations of company policy or make a As the operating company of record, we support the complaint are protected from reprisal. EITI in Indonesia, which is a candidate country that is progressing toward achieving compliant status. Between November 1, 2010, and October 31, 2011, In the second half of 2011 Hess announced it had 62 reports were filed through the confidential hotline signed production sharing contracts (PSCs) to explore alleging violations of company policies, laws or other hydrocarbon prospects in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. matters, a decrease of 40 percent compared to 2010. We are participating in the EITI process in Iraq, also a Of these, 25 reports were substantiated or partially candidate country. substantiated. Most allegations were related to workplace harassment. Disciplinary actions, including In past years we participated in the EITI in Equatorial termination, are taken for substantiated allegations. Guinea, which did not succeed in becoming a candidate country. In EITI Compliant or Candidate countries Political Contributions where we have equity interests but are not the operator, The Code and ED26 prohibit making political including Azerbaijan, Norway and Peru, we comply with contributions with corporate funds and the use of Hess the disclosure practices of the operating company, in facilities or property for campaign activities. The company addition to complying with country laws and regulations. may not coerce political contributions from employees nor directly or indirectly reimburse an employee for a Our revenue transparency performance has been political contribution or channel a contribution through an evaluated by Transparency International and employee to disguise its origin. Any employee, including Revenue Watch and published in Promoting Revenue executives, wishing to engage in the political process Transparency: 2011 Report on Oil and Gas Companies. may do so as a private citizen. Hess was among a group of eight companies characterized as “Top Performers.” We are using the Anti-Corruption and Bribery Audit and Training Frequency (Years) detailed analyses and conclusions in the report to inform and improve our program. COUNTRY CPI* AUDIT TRAINING Hess continues to follow the SEC’s rulemaking process 5.0-10.0 3 3 for Section 1504 of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, which 3.0-4.9 1-2 2 requires oil and gas companies registered with the U.S. <3.0 1 1 Securities and Exchange Commission to publicly report payments to governments on a country by country and * Transparency International Corruption Perception Index project by project basis. We have coordinated with other Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index (CPI) is one of the determining factors for country specific training and companies to provide comments to the SEC. audit frequency. 16 How We Operate Management Systems Decisions about ISO certification are made within the business units. The company’s North Sea and South Hess’ EHS&SR management system framework Arne Operation, and our St. Lucia Terminal are ISO communicates our expectations for putting into practice 14001 certified and account for approximately 12 our commitment to EHS&SR excellence and drives percent of gross operated oil production and effective management of risks, impacts and opportunities. throughput. Denmark Production operations are The framework provides the flexibility necessary to OHSAS 18001 certified. accommodate our diverse businesses and assets so that they are able to manage EHS&SR expectations in a Key Memberships and Associations way that is risk and operationally appropriate. We assess needs, establish goals and metrics to measure progress, Our memberships provide us with essential information identify and implement plans to achieve these goals, and analysis on issues impacting our industry. They review our performance and adjust accordingly. enable us to benchmark and share best practices with sector peers, contribute to guidance documents on This framework conforms to broadly recognized significant environmental and social issues and access management system frameworks, including international tools to manage them. certification standards for environmental and occupational health and safety management systems In addition to the voluntary initiatives previously (ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001) and is consistent with mentioned, key memberships and associations include national process safety and risk management standards the International Petroleum Industry Environmental and programs. Conservation Association (IPIECA), the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP), the Our framework is based on the Hess Values, our Code, American Petroleum Institute (API), the ORC HSE and our EHS, Corporate Social Responsibility and Network, the Fund for Peace, the Retail Energy Supply Human Rights policies. Expectations and threshold Association, the Council on Employee Benefits, the requirements for management of EHS&SR risks, Conference Board, the Corporate Council on Africa, the compliance with applicable laws and regulations, U.S. Chamber of Commerce and country level business conformance with international standards and the organizations among others. voluntary commitments to which we subscribe, as well as continuous performance improvement are expressed These associations also engage with multi-lateral through EHS&SR Global Standards. institutions, governments, non-governmental organizations and other stakeholders on issues of The Global Standards describe our company’s importance to Hess. For example, IPIECA holds United expectations which result in establishment of Nations (UN) consultative status and has coordinated oil business and asset specific systems, processes and gas industry input into UN treaty processes such as and procedures necessary for robust risk management the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, the and achieving a consistent level of EHS&SR excellence Convention of Biological Diversity and the International companywide. They address general management Maritime Organization. practices, safety (including personal and process), occupational health and employee wellness, Within IPIECA, we are represented on the biodiversity, environmental, and social performance, including climate change and social responsibility working groups; Human Rights. These Global Standards are being the greenhouse gas initiatives, sustainability reporting, upgraded to ensure they advance the desired EHS&SR water, supply chain and human rights task forces; performance improvements. the occupational health committee; and the strategic planning group that includes the working group leaders. 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 17 Economic Contributions Small Business Administration (SBA). These local businesses comprised 36 percent of our suppliers, In 2011 our direct economic contributions exceeded accounted for 29 percent of U.S. recordable spend $17 billion. These included shareholder dividends, and were 10 percent minority and women owned. In employee wages and benefits, capital and exploration Marketing & Refining, small and diverse businesses expenditures, interest paid on debt, supplier spend, accounted for 52 percent of recordable spend. In our income taxes, social investments and payments to U.S. Exploration and Production segment, small and governments in countries where we operate including diverse businesses comprised 37 percent of vendors royalties, severance, leasehold arrangements, but accounted for only 19 percent of recordable spend dispensation duties, and other taxes. We currently since a high proportion of our budget was for major report only on U.S. wages and benefits as international capital projects. wages and benefits are not aggregated at the corporate level. We do not collect quantitative information on E&P conducted business with 6,854 international indirect economic impacts. During the year the company vendors. Outside the U.S., E&P has production did not receive significant government financial sharing contracts that typically include government oil assistance (defined as equal to or greater than one companies. Most government PSCs stipulate local spend percent of revenues). thresholds and provide E&P with the names of local vendors that have been approved by the government to Suppliers receive tenders. Hess is committed to a strong and diverse supplier Hess conducts quarterly reviews of its suppliers to ensure network that supports our goal of making a positive compliance with the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s contribution to the communities where we do business. Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) and the U.S. The company spent more than $6 billion on products Patriot Act. Contracts for goods and services typically and services with approximately 18,000 vendors, of include requirements for supplier compliance with which 62 percent were U.S. based. applicable laws and regulations in areas such as safety, health, environment, process safety, drug and alcohol In the U.S., Hess has a supplier diversity policy and use, business ethics, conflicts of interest, the Foreign program to provide increased opportunities to certified Corrupt Practices Act and labor practices. small and diverse suppliers as defined by the federal Economic Contributions ($Millions) Small Business Supplier Spend (U.S.) 35  apital and Exploration C 29% 30 28% 28% Expenditures $7,462 Percent of Spend R  ecordable Supplier Spend 25 $6,081 20  ages and Benefits (U.S.) W 36% 15 44% 11% $1,057 10% 10% 10  oyalties and Other R Payments $947 5 8% 7% 6% 6% Income Tax Expense $785 6% 5% 0 0.06% Interest Expense $383 0.14% 2009 2010 2011 1% Dividends $136 2% Small Business Minority Women Social Investments $23 Carbon and NOx taxes $10 Women and minority data shown above represent percentages of total small business spend. Data are based on the October 1, 2010-September 30, 2011 timeframe. 18 How We Operate Deepwater Operations In 2011 our company joined others in the oil and gas industry to identify, learn from and apply the lessons of Macondo and other deepwater spill incidents. To improve the safety of our deepwater operations and our capacity to prevent and respond to oil spills, we conducted rigorous technical and management systems reviews of deepwater well design, drilling and completions, production, contractor management and emergency response programs, procedures, organizational structures and staffing. We also integrated elements of Exploration and Production’s global environment, health, safety and social responsibility management system (EHS&SR MS) into the Safety and Environmental (SEMS) program in response to new regulations set forth by the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement for all Gulf of Mexico operations. To facilitate SEMS development and implementation, we hired a full time SEMS coordinator. The E&P emergency management team enhanced its well control response capabilities by adding the Source Control group, a multifunctional team of subject matter experts from drilling, production, subsea, supply chain and EHS functions. Global Drilling & Completions updated Hess’s well design and operations standards to incorporate more robust blow-out preventer (BOP) specifications, including a ban on the type of shear rams used in the Macondo BOP. Further, in anticipation of resuming drilling in the Gulf of Mexico in 2012, E&P worked closely with drilling contractors and BOP manufacturers to conduct comprehensive risk assessments and implement BOP and hydraulics upgrades to enhance their capacity for working in the Gulf of Mexico. Hess Global Drilling and Completions, as part of its involvement in the Deepwater Operators Group, participated in third party BOP testing and the development of a BOP database to streamline the process of pressure testing in the shop. As members of the Marine Well Containment Company, the Helix Well Control Group, and the Clean Gulf Cooperative (CGC), we have rapid access to well capping/containment and spill response resources in the Gulf of Mexico. Through our involvement with Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL), which Hess chairs, we have worked with OGP and the recently formed Subsea Well Response project (SWRP) consortium on improving global well capping/containment and oil spill preparedness and response capabilities. Hess continued its engagement in oil and gas industry initiatives to improve the sector’s Gulf of Mexico, U.S. and international spill prevention, well capping response and spill response capacity. We are members of, and contribute deepwater and emergency response expertise to national and international organizations such as the CGC, the Offshore Operators Committee, the American Petroleum Institute, OSRL, the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP), and the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association. Shenzi Field, Gulf of Mexico 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 19 Unconventional Resources Unconventional acquisitions require several levels of risk evaluation, including identification of baseline The presence of vast quantities of oil and natural gas in environmental and social conditions and potential formations with low permeability, including deep shale, constraints to oil and gas development. In 2011 E&P has been known for decades. It is now economically coordinated its existing High Level Risk Assessment feasible to recover these unconventional hydrocarbons process with the Hess enterprise risk management due to a combination of sophisticated horizontal drilling qualitative assessment process. Risk governance technology and improvements in a proven well stimulation workshops were conducted for the unconventionals method referred to as hydraulic fracturing. business and also at the asset level for the Eagle Ford Over the past five years the rapid development of oil and and Utica acquisitions. During 2012 risk governance gas extraction from tight rock has led to stakeholder workshops are planned for other unconventional assets, concerns about the impact on safety, the environment including the Bakken. and public health. In recognition of these concerns, Hess As exploration activities continue, steps taken to prepare publicly reported on the company’s use and management for asset development include detailed, operationsof hydraulic fracturing in its 2009 and 2010 Corporate focused risk assessment and risk mitigation planning; Sustainability reports. More recently stakeholder environmental and social impact assessment and concerns have also extended to shale and tight oil management plans; stakeholder identification and drilling, development and production. engagement; regulatory reviews; contractor screening, Our Approach selection, onboarding and training; and emergency We are committed to addressing environmental and response planning, drills and training. social considerations throughout the project life cycle. Management Practices Exploration & Production (E&P) is formalizing operating General practices and specific activities related to practices that define the environment, health, safety areas of stakeholder concern during development and social responsibility requirements for each stage of and production are described below. the unconventional value chain, from initial screening of opportunities through optimization of production. Unconventional Resources North Dakota france Bakken Ohio Paris Basin Utica texas Eagle Ford Production australia exploration Beetaloo Basin 20 How We Operate Ground Water Protection known local contaminants. The exception to this practice The company designs its oil and gas wells in accordance is in the Bakken development, where the state of North with applicable regulatory requirements and internal well Dakota monitors a long standing, established network of design and completion standards. Hydrocarbon-bearing ground water monitoring wells. formations are most often found thousands of feet below Fresh Water and Chemical Use the deepest fresh water aquifer. Wells are lined with Hess seeks to minimize the use of fresh water for multiple layers of steel pipe and encased in cement to hydraulic fracturing through fresh water substitution isolate fresh water aquifers, preventing fluids or gas in the and recycling and reuse of frac flowback where water well from seeping into ground water. quality allows. E&P has formed a water management Water Quality Monitoring technology team to develop frac fluid water quality Prior to and after conducting hydraulic fracturing, Hess and reuse guidelines and to recommend technology conducts baseline water quality monitoring of preapplications. The team analyzes water sources, including existing ground water wells and surface water bodies fresh water, saline water and wastewater, and assesses within a minimum 2,500 foot radius. At a minimum, their suitability for hydraulic fracturing. water samples are tested for water quality parameters We have engaged since 2009 with current and in accordance with state regulations and FracFocus prospective suppliers of hydraulic fracturing services to Chemical Disclosure Registry guidance as well as for any Hydraulic Fracturing: Bakken Example Surface 2 25m GROUNDWATER 550m Cement Steel conductor pipe Steel surface casing Steel intermediate casing Steel frac string 1 3 water + sand + additives The sand holds the fissures open 3200m SOURCE ROCK 3200m *Drawing is not to scale and numbers are approximate. 1. Hydraulic fracturing is a well stimulation method in which a mixture of water, a propping agent such as sand and special purpose additives are pumped under high pressure into hydrocarbon bearing rock formations. These hydrocarbon bearing formations are most often found thousands of feet below the water table. 2. Wells are lined with multiple layers of steel pipe and encased in cement to depths well below the deepest fresh water aquifers, thereby preventing fluids or gas from seeping into the ground water. 3. The fractures that are created are propped open, allowing oil or natural gas to flow into the well. 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 21 define acceptable fluid systems. This includes efficient mandated emissions factors and the number and types use of chemical additives with the lowest possible of components in natural gas service. toxicity that are both functional and cost effective, and Hess is committed to reducing its flaring of stranded incorporates a ban on the use of diesel. In the Bakken, natural gas and has completed major projects over E&P also incorporated a new, environmentally friendly the past several years that have reduced flaring by proppant based scale inhibitor and formulated a custom, more than 50 percent in Algeria and Equatorial Guinea. biodegradable flowback surfactant in place of an additive In the Bakken, we are accomplishing flare reduction commonly used by one of our vendors. Since late 2011 by investing in our gas gathering infrastructure and the company has publicly disclosed hydraulic fracturing Tioga gas processing plant, and accessing third party fluids on the FracFocus website. infrastructure through contracts and trading agreements. Hydraulic fracturing accounted for about 10 percent of Prior to the development of the Bakken in North Dakota, the company’s total fresh water consumption. North we operated, and continue to operate, approximately Dakota operations used 1.35 million cubic meters of 330 conventional wells. Hess has the lowest flaring fresh water for hydraulic fracturing in 2011, of which rate (0.5 percent) for conventional wells in the industry, approximately 6 percent was treated brackish ground more than 50 times lower than the industry average. We water from our reverse osmosis pilot plant. We operated have achieved that rate by consistently building out the the pilot plant for about 20 months and proved the infrastructure necessary to gather and commercialize technology to be effective. However, we recently ended natural gas associated with oil production. this pilot project because fresh water is plentiful and more economical than treated brine. In addition, the state of Between 2005 and 2010 Hess completed and put into North Dakota is completing a major water supply pipeline production nearly 200 Bakken wells. In 2009 and 2010 to switch municipalities in the western area from ground the company spent more than $50 million to construct water to surface water. Oil and gas companies are being a new gas gathering system and to extend the Red Sky encouraged to purchase municipal fresh water when the natural gas pipeline to interconnect with a third party gas pipeline is put in service. processing plant. This investment helped Hess reduce Air Emissions its flaring rate to 19 percent which was well below the Air emission concerns during unconventional operations industry average of 27 percent in 2010. include methane leakage and flaring. Methane leakage In late 2010 Hess acquired about 250,000 net acres in can occur at a well site when wells are hydraulically the Bakken. In 2011 we drilled mostly at locations within fractured and during pipeline transport and gas the new leases in order to retain them. Many of the well processing. In the Bakken we employ a dedicated crew sites did not have access to gas gathering infrastructure. to separate solids and liquids in frac flowback. The As a result, our flaring rate in the Bakken increased above flowback is separated in closed-top containers and the industry average. natural gas is captured and flared to minimize methane emissions. At the same time, the closed loop system The company is investing $1.2 billion in oil and gas offers the added safeguard of containing the liquids. infrastructure between 2011 and 2013. This infrastructure includes oil and gas gathering lines, compression In 2011 E&P retained third party services to inventory stations, grouped production facilities and gas processing components in our U.S. gas processing plants and operations. Combined with third party arrangements, we gas pipelines to comply with the U.S. EPA’s Mandatory expect to reduce our flaring rate beginning in 2013 to a Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule. Later in 2012 we point below the state’s goal of 10 percent flaring for the will submit our first report to the EPA. The report will Bakken region by 2014. include estimated methane leakage based on EPA 22 How We Operate The oil and gas industry and the state of North Dakota have multiple wells on a single well pad. When our leases have worked together to address the potential issue of vapor short term expiration dates, we drill a single lateral well to emissions from storage tanks, wells and central facilities. hold the lease by production and return later in the field Hess is working with the state to ensure that we install development phase to drill multiple wells from that same proper emissions controls on existing and new facilities. location. In newly acquired assets, we conduct biodiversity screening and field surveys as part of well site selection. At our Eagle Ford operation, the company has engaged an outside consultant to inventory all air permits Contractor Management associated with leases where we operate to ensure that Our company undertakes systematic pre-qualification, they are in compliance with state regulations. Hess will selection, engagement, monitoring and post contract address any issues identified through this process. review of our contractors to ensure they meet our expectations for management of environment, health and Drilling Fluids and Drill Cuttings safety. In those instances where a contractor does not fully During drilling operations, the company uses a closed meet our criteria, management approval and risk mitigation loop system to contain drilling fluids. Cuttings and plans must be in place before work can proceed. residuals are stored onsite in cuttings bins. Cuttings can be disposed onsite or offsite at authorized third party This approach is being further enhanced in 2012 facilities depending on applicable regulatory requirements. to address social responsibility aspects, including If disposed onsite, cuttings are cleaned, dried and stored additional protocols for human rights, labor, security in a lined impoundment. When drilling is completed, and business conduct and ethics. In addition, senior residual liquids are removed from the impoundment, the leadership engaged with our key contractors during 2011 cuttings are stabilized and encapsulated in a liner, and the to reinforce the importance of contractor environment, impoundment is covered with soil. health, safety and social performance to our business. Land Use Community Engagement Our philosophy is to minimize land use and reduce the Hess is committed to engaging with local communities number of well sites needed to develop our acreage. This on issues of concern. We have held open houses for is achieved by using horizontal drilling and by clustering leaseholders, as well as public community meetings. In the Utica, which is a new asset, Hess has set up a complaint hotline and has one in the Bakken for leaseholders. Where we have an established presence, such as in North Dakota, we routinely meet with community members and leaders. We are working with community partners and state officials to minimize traffic congestion, improve traffic safety and support road maintenance. The company has contributed labor and funding to repair local roads. We invested approximately $50 million to construct a rail terminal to transport crude oil to market, thereby eliminating thousands of tanker truck trips on local roads. Hess also donated $1 million to North Dakota flood relief and long term rebuilding in Minot and other impacted communities. We also matched employee donations and halted operations for two weeks so employees could participate in the rebuilding efforts. Drilling Operations, Texas 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 23 Flood Relief Program, North Dakota Community and Social Performance $23 million 18 5 year in social investment countries with social investment $25 million partnership in programs north dakota education 24 Community and Social Performance Social Responsibility, one of the six core Hess Values, service agencies in Texas, North Dakota and other defines our commitment to meeting the highest standards locations where Hess operates. of corporate citizenship and creating a long lasting positive impact on the communities where we do business. More than two-thirds of our social investment funds were spent in the U.S. supporting education and cultural Hess is committed to building trusted partnerships with initiatives and approximately 20 percent of the remaining communities, employees, customers and investors. We funds were spent in Equatorial Guinea to support the partner with host governments, community groups and PRODEGE education project (Programa de Desarrollo other stakeholders to develop programs that can make Educativo de Guinea Ecuatorial). a measurable and sustainable difference. In addition, HOVENSA spent $2.6 million in 2011 on The volunteer efforts of our workforce are an important social programs, of which almost 90 percent was part of our social responsibility activities. Hess employees dedicated to supporting education initiatives in St. provide ideas, start grassroots campaigns, and provide Croix (U.S.V.I.). The International Craft Training Program, their time, energy, enthusiasm and expertise to many established in 2007 to help prepare students for the worthy community based organizations. workplace through vocational training, received half of these funds. Social Investments The donations of our workforce are also a part of our In 2011 we invested more than $23 million in social social responsibility activities. In 2011 Hess employees programs around the world, an increase of more than contributed $280,000 to charitable organizations that 25 percent from 2010. We invest in sustainable programs were matched by the company. in the communities where we operate, especially in the areas of education, health and community development. Hess donated $1.1 million to promote health and A significant portion of our social spend, more than wellbeing in the U.S., Russia, Indonesia, Equatorial Guinea $6 million, was in the form of in kind programs as we and elsewhere. These included projects to improve expanded our donation of Hess Toy Trucks during the hospital facilities, healthcare training and sanitation. holiday season to Toys for Tots and a number of social ® More than $1 million went to support relief and rebuilding efforts in North Dakota after the worst floods in a century. Social Investment by Country ($23.2 million) Type of Investment ($ Thousand) 1% 2% 142 U.S. $15,895,894 2% 25,000 Equatorial Guinea 1,920 1,148 $4,420,684 5% 20,000 1,100 Russia $1,191,214 St. Lucia $355,501 6,524 15,000 19% Indonesia $423,421 68% Norway $190,587 10,000 4,776 Thailand $194,983 All Others $565,822 5,000 7,628 0 Education Health Arts & Culture Community Disaster Relief Environment In Kind 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 25 Program Highlights Hess Funds Repairs, Technology and Infrastructure Upgrades at St. Lucia PRODEGE Sees Positive Results as Phase 1 Secondary School Nears Completion in Equatorial Guinea Hess continued to support the Leon Hess School in As PRODEGE, our Corporate Social Responsibility Castries, St. Lucia, making a $500,000 commitment to flagship program in Equatorial Guinea, nears the end fund repairs, technology and infrastructure upgrades after of its first phase, we continue to see advancements heavy rains damaged the school grounds. The donation in the country’s primary education system. Results in is part of our ongoing commitment to the school, which the project’s final year show that the repetition rate for opened in 1985 and has more than 700 students. primary school students has dropped by 15 percent. In addition to regrading the grounds after a landslide Last year nearly 3,000 more students were promoted to and stabilizing the drainage system around the school the next grade than in previous years. Updated learning complex, we donated classroom furniture and more than guides were introduced to pupils in grades 2 through 50 computers and monitors to expand the computer lab 6 and a new school of education was launched to and improve students’ computer skills. continue supporting teacher professional development. Hess Donates $25 Million to Enhance North We recently signed a $50 million agreement with the Dakota Education government of Equatorial Guinea to implement Phase 2 During 2011 Hess announced a five year $25 million of PRODEGE. Building on the success of the first five donation to fund “Succeed 2020,” a North Dakota years of the program, Phase 2 will strengthen secondary education project to help students prepare for college, education, continue efforts in primary education and careers and the workplace. The project is designed for vocational training. middle and high school students who will graduate in the class of 2020, with the goal of improving college entrance test scores, reducing developmental or remedial coursework in higher education and increasing the number of students who complete high school and college programs on time. During this school year Regional Education Associations (REAs) will work with their local school districts and partners to design and implement programs that improve college and career counseling beginning in the middle school grades, increase access to and success in career and technical education, and provide professional development for teachers and counselors. Hess has engaged FHI 360 to work with the state and Hess to facilitate planning and implementation of the program. Hess Sponsored School, Equatorial Guinea 26 Community and Social Performance Stakeholder Engagement members of the Hess Leadership Team reviewed 2011 performance, outlined 2012 strategy and goals, and Our stakeholders, including communities, employees, responded to questions. suppliers, customers, shareholders and investors, governmental and non-governmental organizations We also communicate through our website and respond and industry colleagues, shape our business environment throughout the year to direct requests from environment, and contribute to our success. The Hess Values, Code social and governance research and rating agencies, of Business Conduct and Ethics, and EHS&SR policies institutional and individual shareholders, NGOs, academic and programs focus on the company’s long term institutions and individual students regarding the strategic vision and provide a framework for our company’s EHS&SR programs and performance. interface with stakeholders. Our executive directive Other examples of stakeholder engagement are included governing social investment outlines the need for local throughout this report, including the Thailand Case Study consultation and feedback to inform program planning and Social Risk content that follow. and design. We strive to connect with our stakeholders early at the onset of a project, starting with our entry into a new country, and during ongoing business operations. Stakeholder Engagement Communication Our approach is positive and constructive; our intention Consultations, town halls, open house Communities is to understand stakeholder expectations, priorities meetings, community advisory panels and concerns, with an aim toward long term effective Town halls, surveys, intranet, Employees safety committees stakeholder identification and engagement. We believe that proactive stakeholder consultation is beneficial to C  onsultations, town halls, open house Landowners meetings, home visits both the company and the community and leads to sustainable outcomes. The importance of stakeholder Suppliers Local content and mentoring programs, business to business relationships engagement is emphasized during new employee induction training. Customer service organizations, surveys, Customers focus groups Our engagement activities include small scale meetings, Governments Consultation, negotiation, legislative and and MLIs* regulatory advocacy, voluntary initiatives discussions, town hall events and working groups. We also participate in larger scale, multi-stakeholder and NGOs Partnerships, voluntary initiatives, funding industry association working groups and initiatives. This process supports transparent, two way dialogue and Shareholders Dialogue and consultation, annual meeting, and Investors surveys, workshops and conferences encourages constituents to approach us regarding issues Trade and professional associations, or concerns they may have pertaining to our operations. Industry Sector benchmarking In 2011 we conducted quarterly town halls for our *Multi-lateral institutions employees in both E&P and M&R. In January 2012 Hess conducted its first companywide Global Town Hall, during which our Chairman and CEO and 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 27 Community Activities United States St Lucia Hess Supports Community in St. Jude Hospital Program North Dakota Flood Relief After a fire at St. Jude Hospital in St. Hess donated $1 million to North Lucia forced the facility to close, Hess’ Dakota flood relief and long term $1 million commitment for essential rebuilding programs in Minot and medical equipment has helped to elsewhere. The company also expand and improve operations at matched employee donations and the hospital’s temporary home on the halted operations for two weeks so island in George Odlum Stadium. employees could participate in the rebuilding effort. United States United Kingdom Ongoing support for New York Hess Employees Volunteer to Public Library Support London’s Homeless Last year Hess committed $5 million Every Monday morning at the to strengthen services at the New St. Martin in the Fields’ day York Public Library. The first $1 center, “The Connection,” 30 million installment was used in Hess employee volunteers 2011 to outfit a new Teen Center at from our London office serve a Harlem branch of the library with breakfast to more than 200 of state of the art learning tools. the city’s homeless. United States Algeria Team Hess Rides Again to Fight Hess Develops New Computer Multiple Sclerosis Facility for Laghouat School Following a long tradition of support In cooperation with national and for the National Multiple Sclerosis local authorities, Hess helped Society, Hess employees in the U.S. create greater opportunities for participated in Bike MS events in local students to develop new Texas, New Jersey and New York, skills by donating a multimedia raising more than $160,000 to room, including computers benefit MS research. and printers, to a school in the Laghouat community. United States Russia Hess Funds High School Hess Renovates Sports School Science Labs in Samara Oblast Hess made a $500,000 grant to Hess supported the renovation help equip three new state of the of the Children and Youth Sports art science labs at Woodbridge School in the Bolsheglushitskiy High School in Woodbridge, district. The refurbished gym and N.J., home of Hess’ Marketing & locker rooms are now used by Refining headquarters and center of approximately 1,000 pupils to play education for 1,450 local students. basketball, volleyball and soccer. 28 Community and Social Performance united KinGdoM russia united states alGeria st. lucia tHailand indonesia australia Indonesia Thailand Sustainable Livelihoods Through Hess Library Improvement Project Local Fishing Initiatives Promotes Literacy and Learning In partnership with local government With the Academic Resources Center and the “All Indonesian Fishermen of Khon Kaen University, Hess is Association,” Hess provides technical supporting a project to strengthen and financial assistance to develop the learning environment in 36 school community based fishing programs libraries. The program provides training for villages near our operations in in library management, student study Ujung Pangkah, East Java. habits and reading skills. Indonesia Australia Enhancing the Role of the Make a Meal Program, Ronald Community Family Doctor McDonald House In collaboration with Brawijaya Hess employees participated in the University, Hess is organizing ‘Make a Meal’ program at Ronald training programs for paramedics McDonald House in Perth, Western and community representatives Australia, volunteering their time to to better serve the local shop for fresh provisions and prepare population’s health needs and home cooked meals for families provide doctors with equipment using the residence while their to improve clinic management. children are hospitalized. 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 29 Sustainable Community Development in Thailand Hess began gas exploration in northeast Thailand in 1996, and following appraisal activities, developed three gas wells, a 63-kilometer pipeline and a gas processing plant in 2006. This development area sits within a national forest and the pipeline route traverses agricultural land and rural communities in Khon Kaen and Udon Thani provinces. Within the combined area, which is home to approximately 46,500 people, there are 72 villages, 36 schools and 15 health centers. Our Thailand social responsibility program is among the company’s strongest and its success is attributable to its experienced local staff, extensive stakeholder engagement, public-private partnerships and ongoing monitoring and assessment. Hess’ strategy in Thailand focuses on small, local projects that support self sufficiency and promote the transfer of knowledge within and between villages. We believe this approach can serve as a model for other Hess assets. Stakeholder engagement Prior to the start of construction in 2006, Hess adopted an approach of full disclosure and engagement with communities, local institutions, business partners, non-governmental organizations, government officials and regulators. With the assistance of Khon Kaen University (KKU), a rigorous public consultation process included dialogue with local communities, a study tour of the proposed sites with 230 village representatives, meetings with village heads and households, community forums and village presentations. As a result, we were able to highlight issues and consider alternatives that guided the planning process for our operations, even altering the proposed pipeline route. The initial community engagement also informed our social investment strategy, including community development project selection and funding levels. We applied feedback from stakeholders to strengthen our social investment program. Building trusted partnerships Identifying and selecting the right local partners was essential for successful program and project implementation. We have strong working relationships with KKU and the Sustainable Community Development Foundation (SCDF) of Ubonrat Hospital, among other local institutions. These partnerships provide Hess with local insight and expertise, as well as regional and provincial reach. We also engage with villagers and local school staff to develop and implement projects that are unique to their needs. Selecting the right projects to meet community needs Long term community needs identified through the consultation phase were grouped around four key themes: community facilities, schools and education, health and wellness, and human habitat and environment. Initial and subsequent village projects have been closely integrated with the local community’s short and long term requirements and aligned with such community values as sustainable livelihoods, education and health. Monitoring and Assessment Local Hess staff visit each community development project quarterly, semi-annually or annually. During these visits, Hess engages in discussion, tours the project, and evaluates implementation progress. Hess partners, such as KKU or SCDF, conduct site visits as well, sometimes with Hess and sometimes independently. The results of these site visits inform Thailand operations’ annual community development work plan and suggest areas for improvement and continued development. 30 Community and Social Performance Key Projects Community Facilities Goal: To improve quality of life by enhancing village infrastructure.  Upgraded a groundwater treatment system to provide purified drinking water to more than 8,000 villagers at less than 10 percent of the cost of the alternative source. Schools and Education Goal: To improve learning environments for children and adults and introduce integrated and sustainable agriculture models that will increase harvests and improve nutrition.  Funded facility improvements at 36 schools including drinking water supplies, classroom and library upgrades, cafeteria renovations and school lunch projects where students and staff grow ingredients to be used in lunchtime meals.  Established three integrated agriculture learning centers offering training on organic multi-crop, fish and frog farming, organic fertilizer production, and raising protein sources such as chickens and wild boar. The centers, which reach 15,000 local residents a year via meetings, seminars and training events, support diversified local and cooperative farms that raise fruit and staple crops. Some villagers have extended this program to small scale cash crops such as local flowers and betel to generate outside income. Health and Wellness Goal: To prevent and treat illness and increase access to healthcare in rural areas.  Provided funding to 15 health centers serving nearly 70,000 residents in Khon Kaen and Udon Thani provinces.  Supported the start up of a community nursing scholarship program through the SCDF to address local nursing shortages. Five nursing students who graduated in March 2012 provide healthcare in village clinics and work at Ubonrat Hospital. An estimated 2,600 residents in four villages are expected to benefit from improved medical care.  Supplied specialized motorcycles to 14 health centers in Ubonrat and Nam Phong to facilitate rural home health care visits by healthcare professionals. Human Habitat and Environment Goal: To improve human habitats and the environment through reforestation.  Partnered with local government conservation and forest resource management to implement reforestation, revegetation and forest fire prevention and fire fighting programs. Hess has been employing local villagers to plant more than 234,000 trees across 462 acres to meet an objective of 505 trees per acre. The planting program combines agro-forestry and socio-economic considerations into a comprehensive approach to reforestation.  Funded the pilot Community Forest Project administered by SCDF to provide skills and training so that 50 farming families can grow indigenous timber trees. The success of the pilot project led to government funding for 50 communities to plant two million tree seedlings over a five year period. Home Healthcare Assistance, Thailand 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 31 Social Risk Management We have recently conducted an in-depth crossOur Philosophy functional HLRA for our Utica Shale project in Ohio, where risks and impacts of upcoming operational Hess respects the rights and cultures of the people in activity have been identified and mitigation strategies communities where we operate. Our philosophy is to are under development. pursue profitable operations and corporate responsibility objectives in tandem, fostering mutual benefit between the In 2011 we updated existing company directives to company’s goals and those of the community. Our practice incorporate social risk criteria into our internal approval is to collaborate with host governments, local communities, process for new country entries and major expenditures. civil society, businesses and other stakeholders to make Social risk has also been integrated into our enterprise lasting contributions to social development. wide Risk Governance Workshops, which have been held at various locations worldwide. Early identification and recognition of the impact of our operations on the interests and values of our community We are working to integrate our best practice examples stakeholders is a key part of our planning activity. We of social risk management throughout our business focus on a diverse range of issues, including livelihood, processes and management systems, particularly living conditions, land access and use, health, safety, with regard to our ongoing operations. We expect cultural heritage and security. We promote a stable, our contractors and suppliers to respect our policies secure environment in which to conduct business, and and standards in this area and have incorporated new we aim to gain local support for projects and to minimize contract clauses clarifying expectations on ethics and adverse impact on our host communities. social responsibility. Our Policy and Approach Our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy sets expectations on how we conduct our business and requires that we carry out Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIA) to ascertain the potential social, cultural and environmental impact of our operations. These assessments ensure that the impact of our operations is actively managed throughout the project lifecycle, enabling consultation, engagement and informed decision making. As part of our approach to operational readiness in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, for example, our company completed a high level risk assessment (HLRA) as part of initial entry, as well as an ESIA and full demographic survey in preparation for seismic activity. We are working in consultation with the community and have begun holding town halls and local meetings. We have appointed a full time social responsibility manager for this operation who is native to this area and based in the region. Leaseholder Meeting 32 Community and Social Performance Human Rights and Voluntary Commitments Additionally, we are active in the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association Hess is committed to respecting human rights, as (IPIECA), an international oil and gas industry association reflected in our Social Responsibility Values, Code of focused on environmental and social responsibility issues Conduct and respective Social Responsibility and Human and a Voluntary Principles Observer. Hess will assume Rights policies. We continue the process of integrating a leadership role as co-chair of IPIECA’s Voluntary these human rights and fair labor condition principles into Principles task force in 2012. We also support the our business processes around the world. We support Fund for Peace and its multi-stakeholder dialogues on international voluntary initiatives designed to promote business and human rights. universal human rights, combat corruption and uphold the rule of law. Following U.N. Special Representative Policies and Protocols John Ruggie’s suggestion of a framework to manage Our Social Responsibility Values, Code of Conduct, and potential human rights issues related to business activity, Social Responsibility and Human Rights policies, available we are reviewing our due diligence and grievance to the public on our website (www.hess.com), uphold the mechanisms with a view to further enhancing our principles in the voluntary initiatives that we endorse operational practices in this regard. and support. The policies also state our commitment to meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship Voluntary Initiatives and making positive and lasting contributions in the Hess maintains a long standing engagement with the areas of governance, transparency, respect for the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (“the rule of law, and social and economic development. Voluntary Principles”) which we publicly communicate Hess requires employees to understand and comply on our website (www.hess.com). We also participate in with the Code, social responsibility policies and related other international voluntary multi-stakeholder initiatives company directives. including the United Nations Global Compact and the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). In 2011 we participated in the fifth EITI Global Conference and we were actively engaged in Corporate Pillar Group discussions. In addition, we endorse and uphold the international standards set out in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. As an active member of the Voluntary Principles, we attend and participate in plenary meetings and are members of a number of working groups, including the Iraq working group and the newly formed Host Government Outreach working group. In 2011 we collaborated with the U.S. State Department on a draft governance framework in consultation with the Voluntary Principles Corporate Pillar, the governments of the U.S. and Canada and the Voluntary Principles Secretariat. This group’s efforts culminated in the adoption of a new governance framework at the September 2011 Voluntary Principles Extraordinary Plenary in Canada. Hess Outreach Program, Pangkah, Indonesia 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 33 As previously noted, the company’s Code of Business analysis showed a need to simplify this complex material Conduct and Ethics has been updated to include a new to ensure adoption by our employees. The valuable section on human rights. feedback we received in the field has since been incorporated into the material and an on-line training We have drafted contract clauses for several types module will be further tested and rolled out in 2012. of investment agreements with the goal of As we launch the training, we will continue to seek eventually incorporating this language consistently employee feedback and are prepared to further refine into future agreements. the content as required. The course will be mandatory Human Rights Risk Assessments for all Hess employees. Hess has utilized a global human rights risk assessment Security process, supplemented by contracted in country human We recognize that it may not be possible to eliminate all rights risk assessments, to ascertain the human rights human rights risks that arise, including those related to and security risks to Hess projects and staff, as well the presence of public and private security providers. as the communities surrounding our operations. To However, our goal is to anticipate and manage the risks. date, assessments have been carried out in Thailand, In keeping with our Code, we avoid engaging public Indonesia, Malaysia, Algeria and Equatorial Guinea. security forces where possible. In 2011 we reduced our human rights risk by focusing In practice this means that we almost exclusively our effort in the following priority areas: contract with private security companies over which Hess  We drafted new corporate guidance on our assumes greater influence and we seek to limit the use expectations regarding security and human rights of public security forces unless required by law. In order to mitigate the risk of unreasonable use of force, security  We completed and rolled out new contract clauses, guards are unarmed whenever the local security situation including Voluntary Principles implementation permits this option. expectations for upstream business partners. These new contract clauses require our contractors to Any security incident with human rights implications demonstrate compliance and communicate our ethics, is reported to the head of global security, including human rights and social responsibility expectations to occurrences that highlight potential future risk such their employees and subcontractors as peaceful community protests. While such incidents are reported to the head of global security and Last year Hess consulted with a third party about a regional managers, we believe they are generally best human rights risk assessment on our development in the addressed at the local level. Accordingly our community Kurdistan Region of Iraq, which will be commissioned development teams engage with the community to during the second quarter of 2012. address the root causes of all incidents or protests. In Training and Awareness addition, we engage governments regarding security and As stated, we are committed to increasing internal human rights issues at the national level, as appropriate. awareness of the Voluntary Principles and human rights. We are not aware of any human rights violations with We are also taking steps to ensure that our contractors respect to indigenous peoples in 2011. are aware of and abide by our Voluntary Commitments Hess human rights staff work closely with our global and related policies and protocols. supply chain to ensure Hess contracts include provisions We set a goal for 2011 to roll out mandatory on-line related to our expectations on ethics, security and human human rights training for all employees. While field rights, and Hess’ Voluntary Commitments, including the testing the early drafts of our training, however, an Voluntary Principles. 34 Community and Social Performance Labor Practices Freedom of Association We do not permit the employment of underage children Hess employs unionized and non-represented workers in or the use of forced or compulsory labor in our global hourly job classifications. There are represented workers workforce. This is also enforced in our new contract at our operations in the U.S., Indonesia and Denmark. In language on labor practices. We recognize and 2011 approximately 6.5 percent of U.S. employees were respect our employees’ right to join associations and represented by collective bargaining agreements, all engage in collective bargaining in a manner that is within the M&R business segment. Approximately 37 consistent with applicable laws, rules, regulations and percent of national employees in Indonesia production local customs. Within this context, the company has not operations are unionized. Denmark operations also have identified significant risk in our global workforce for child represented workers, but Danish law prohibits public labor, forced or compulsory labor, freedom of association disclosure of this information. or collective bargaining violations. For major operational changes, such as layoffs and Hess is committed to diversity and equal employment facility closures, we comply with advance notification opportunities for all employees and job candidates requirements specified in collective bargaining agreements regardless of race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, and labor regulations. These are typically 60 to 90 days for creed, national origin or disability. We do not tolerate locations with 50 or more employees and 14 to 28 days any form of workplace harassment, including sexual for locations with fewer than 50 employees. harassment. We reinforce these expectations through We plan to initiate a process to identify the countries in our Code, Human Rights Policy, and Corporate Social which the right to exercise freedom of association and Responsibility Policy. collective bargaining may be at significant risk. Drilling Operations, North Dakota 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 35 Drillship, Gulf of Mexico Safety and Health enhanced Emphasis zero employee TRIR contractor on process safety or contractor performance; fatalities challenge to improve 36 Safety and Health Hess employee safety performance continued to Work continued in 2011 on development of a suite of improve for the seventh consecutive year. There were process safety indicators for use across our business, no fatal incidents for either employees or contractors. which were derived from industry guidance from both Regrettably, contractor safety performance worsened the American Petroleum Institute (API), and the Oil from 2010 to 2011, driven primarily by our U.S. and Gas Producers Association (OGP). These indicators unconventionals business where overall activity levels will be introduced during 2012 and are expected to increased significantly. Plans are now in place to provide effective and consistent monitoring of process significantly improve safety performance in that business safety within our businesses. and results from the final quarter of 2011 indicated that improvement had already begun. Workforce Safety Performance Safety performance across other parts of our global The following occupational safety metrics, as defined by business remained strong, a testimony to the commitment the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration, of our entire workforce and the effectiveness of our are tracked and reported to the corporate level by each management systems. We remain committed to delivering of our operations: Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR), continuous improvement in our safety performance and Lost Time/Restricted Duty Incident Rate (LT/RD) and to protecting the health and safety of our workforce, our fatalities. We also monitor Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR). partners and the community. The company’s TRIR worsened by 7 percent in 2011, driven We maintained our focus on process safety across our largely by rapid expansion in our U.S. unconventionals business and in 2011 undertook an executive review of business, where year over year workforce hours tripled and process safety to identify areas for further improvement additional high hazard activities were introduced. It now and to consolidate what we have learned from a range accounts for 30 percent of total workforce hours. of industry incidents. The Hess Board of Directors was Retail Marketing accounted for 27 percent of total workforce briefed on the progress of this review in November 2011, hours and 54 percent of total employee hours. Across our and resulting recommendations from this review will be industry, retail station and convenience store operations implemented during 2012 and beyond. Workforce Hours Workforce Safety Performance (53.3 million employee and contractor hours) 0.69 2009 0.44 US North Dakota 0.25 US Retail US Remainder 27% 43% 30% 0.68 US E&P Headquarters 2010 0.36 Indonesia 0.18 Equatorial Guinea 11% 3% 0.60 0.72 Malaysia and Thailand 6% 2% 9% 5% Denmark 2% 2011 0.36 2% 0.16 UK 3% Australia 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 Cases per 200,000 hours worked International Remainder Workforce Workforce TRIRTRIR WorkforceWorkforce LTIR LTIR Workforce LT/RD TRIR Target (Workforce) Workforce LT/RD TRIR Target (Workforce) Data has been restated to exclude JV’s (Algeria & JDA) 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 37 typically have higher average safety incident rates than Contractor Safety Performance overall oil and gas industry averages. Hess owns and In 2011 contractors accounted for 55 percent of total operates most of our retail locations whose performance workforce hours. Contractor hours increased 66 is included in our company safety data summary. Many percent due primarily to rapid growth in our U.S. other oil and gas sector companies either operate their retail unconventionals business. The contractor sector through branded dealer operations or omit retail TRIR worsened in 2011, reflecting the challenges operations from safety data reporting. experienced by the whole industry in the expanding U.S. We participate in ORC Network’s annual Marketing unconventionals business and as described earlier in Advisory Safety and Health benchmarking for U.S. Retail this section. (gas station and convenience store operations). When During 2011 we further embedded our standardized analyzed as a standalone operation, 2011 retail safety contractor safety management processes, which results were among the best in the benchmark group. address selection, engagement, monitoring and post A range of leading safety metrics, tailored to address the contract review. In those instances where a contractor challenges presented by our diverse lines of business does not fully meet our safety management criteria, and their operating environments, are monitored at a management approval and risk mitigation plans must be local level to support proactive and effective safety risk in place before work can proceed. management. Examples of leading metrics used in 2011 include leadership site visits, contractor management Joint Ventures Safety Performance activities, and safety observations completed. At Hess we seek to impart significant influence on those joint ventures which, though not under our direct Employee Safety Performance operational control, are important contributors to our In 2011 we further improved our employee safety portfolio. Fundamental to our approach is assurance performance by 12 percent, our best companywide around the effectiveness of the joint venture’s safety and employee safety performance since we began reporting. health policy and the underlying management system. This improvement was underpinned by the continued Performance review takes place through our strong performance in Retail Marketing. participation in joint venture management and Employee Safety Performance Employee Safety Performance Contractor Safety Performance 0.83 0.45 2009 0.56 2009 0.25 0.31 0.15 0.81 0.50 2010 0.50 2010 0.18 0.26 0.07 0.71 0.73 2011 0.38 2011 0.34 0.22 0.12 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 Cases per 200,000 hours worked Cases per 200,000 hours worked Employee TRIR Employee TRIR Employee LTIR LTIR Employee Contractor TRIR Contractor TRIR LTIR LTIR Contractor Contractor Employee LT/RD Contractor LT/RD Employee LT/RD Contractor LT/RD Data has been restated to exclude JV’s (Algeria & JDA) Data has been restated to exclude JV’s (Algeria & JDA) 38 Safety and Health Chairman’s Award for Safety Excellence and Global Safety Appreciation Day Our Chairman’s Award for Safety Excellence, and annual Global Safety Appreciation Day, are key global initiatives that provide senior leadership opportunities to reinforce the importance of safety in our operations to our business success. Each year the Chairman’s Award for Safety Excellence is presented to the operation that has been most effective at improving and sustaining its safety culture and performance. The E&P and M&R presidents also present awards for safety excellence within their respective businesses. In 2011 we enhanced the criteria for the awards to focus on process safety, in Safety Exercise, Gassi El Agreb addition to occupational safety. In 2011 our U.S. Terminal Operations earned the operational committees. We seek to influence each Chairman’s Award for Safety Excellence. Our Pangkah joint venture to set and manage to meaningful Production Operations and Sun East Retail Operations, continuous improvement targets to support appropriate earned the E&P and M&R Presidents’ Awards for improvement plans and to account for the particular Safety Excellence, respectively. operational, geographical and cultural setting. In our Marketing & Refining business, the key joint venture in Annual nominations, which come from across the 2011 was HOVENSA, a refinery in St. Croix, U.S. Virgin company, demonstrate the day to day leadership and Islands, where safety performance (TRIR) improved operational achievements that deliver improved safety results and reduce risk and exposure in our business. Joint Ventures Safety Performance (TRIR) Global Safety Appreciation Day is an established annual event that gives leaders across the company an 1.00 added opportunity to engage with the local workforce, Cases per 200,000 hours worked 0.74 reinforces the importance of safety in our business, 0.75 0.61 reflects on progress and successes and identifies steps to continue our improvement. 0.50 0.39 0.38 0.48 Global Safety Appreciation Day takes place in every 0.36 0.25 0.27 Hess location worldwide on the same day. The event 0.13 0.11 includes a video broadcast safety message from 0.00 the Hess Leadership Team and focuses on global 2009 2010 2011 improvement priorities. In 2011 particular focus was HOVENSA HOVENSA SonaHess SonaHess JDA JDA placed on process safety, contractor management and Workforce Workforce Workforce Workforce Workforce Workforce the introduction of Hess Rules for Safety. 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 39 markedly, surpassing targeted performance levels and Our Incident Support and Corporate Crisis Management delivering best results ever. In January 2012 HOVENSA teams provide support for local emergency response announced it would shut down its refinery in St. Croix efforts. We routinely exercise and drill our plans. We and operate the complex as an oil storage terminal. then incorporate into our plans the lessons we learn from these exercises and drills, as well as lessons Construction was completed at the Bayonne Energy learned from incidents that have occurred in our industry. Center joint venture, a gas fired electricity generation We share what we have learned and best practices facility in Bayonne, N.J., providing power to New York throughout our company. City. Safety performance during the construction phase was better than comparable construction industry In addition to our own experts, Hess has established performance, though not yet at the levels we expect strategic relationships with third party specialists who at Hess. We will focus on operating BEC to the high are experienced in emergency response and crisis standards of all our other Hess operating facilities. management. These specialists help us respond to and manage incidents related to security, spill containment In our E&P business, we participate in a number of and recovery, fire suppression, medical aid and wildlife joint venture arrangements. Our joint venture with rescue, and provide the necessary functional Sonatrach in Algeria, SonaHess, also delivered strong support for communications, humanitarian outreach, performance improvement in 2011 following introduction government relations, finance and legal counsel. of a series of programs focused on visible management commitment, increased workforce competency, a Hess also has regional and worldwide mutual aid management inspection process and major accident agreements and relationships with emergency response hazard prevention. organizations that have strategically positioned equipment and personnel to supplement and support Safety performance at the Carigali Hess joint venture our response efforts. These organizations include Clean in the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, Gulf Associates, Helix Well Containment Group, Marine deteriorated slightly in 2011 compared with 2010. Well Containment Company, Wild Well Control, National However, based on International Association of Oil and Response Corporation and Oil Spill Response Limited. Gas Producers regional benchmark data, performance We participate in complex drills and work closely with there compares favorably to the industry government agencies and response organizations in that region. to ensure an integrated and systematic approach to emergency response management. One example of this Emergency Preparedness and Response type of cooperation is described in the discussion below Hess strives for safe and incident free operations for the for the U.S. Marketing and Refining (M&R) organization. safety and wellbeing of people, the environment and the Europe/Eurasia – E&P communities where we do business. As a responsible Full scale exercises included a simulated oil spill at the neighbor, we maintain and routinely exercise emergency South Arne Production Platform and a simulated fatality response, continuity and corporate crisis management at a supporting fabrication yard. Participants in the plans that are risk appropriate and are integrated with the exercises included the facility’s emergency response plans maintained by our contractors. Collectively these team, supporting emergency management and incident plans describe the strategies, processes, and procedures support teams from the Hess Copenhagen and London we will employ in the event of an emergency. offices, including third party specialists to address media and humanitarian concerns. 40 Safety and Health Southeast Asia – E&P exercise that focused on the implications of a potential Full scale exercises included the simulation of a major loss of petroleum product distribution facilities near drilling incident at the Sinphuhorm Gas Processing Plant. the New York City Harbor. Participants included Participants in the exercise included Hess employees and representatives of federal, state and local government, contractors, the facility’s emergency response team and the petroleum industry and local utilities. supporting management and incident support team at the Hess Thailand and the Kuala Lumpur offices. Process Safety United States – E&P We focus on effectively managing process safety to Full scale exercises included a simulated oil spill at the help prevent catastrophic incidents and manage key Baldpate Platform in the Gulf of Mexico. Participants in risks in our business. Our management systems are the exercise included the facility’s emergency response designed to address the process safety issues inherent team, supporting emergency management and incident to the energy industry. We focus on continuously support teams out of the Hess Houston offices, including improving the systems and procedures that are the emergency response organizations and third party hallmark of sound process safety in our E&P, Terminals, specialists for emergency management. and power generation operations, in addition to the regulated onshore U.S. refining and gas plant process United States – M&R safety environments. In addition to fire familiarization drills and emergency response exercises, Hess Port Reading and Hess We use industry recognized process safety and asset Terminal Operations hosted a hurricane preparedness integrity assurance methodologies to reduce the risks associated with catastrophic incidents. Process safety fundamentals, including workforce information, management of change, mechanical integrity assurance and follow up on incident investigation and Process Hazard Analysis recommendations are routinely practiced throughout our operations. In addition to the prevention of catastrophic incidents, our focus on process safety is core to ensuring asset integrity, operational reliability and cost effectiveness, which help drive the company’s growth and economic stability in the communities where we operate. While we continue to recognize our vulnerability to our occupational safety risks, our focus on process safety is critical to ensuring that we effectively manage the types of risks that could threaten the company’s financial strength and reputation. Emergency Preparedness Drill, Charleston, South Carolina 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 41 Safety Committees and links to bonus compensation, as well as incident investigation, root cause analysis and reporting. Some Safety committees at Hess, whose members include represented employees are eligible to receive additional managers, salaried and hourly employees, including compensation for safety committee membership. those represented by collective bargaining agreements, provide a lead role in ongoing site safety culture Promoting Wellness and improvements at operating and office locations. Preventing Disease The composition of site safety committees varies by During 2011 we began developing a unified long term location and type of operation, but typically includes health and wellness strategy that recognizes employees, contractors and safety professionals. and respects the variety of cultural and business Committee responsibilities may include establishing site environments represented across the enterprise. The safety goals; identifying and prioritizing safety activities; strategy is based on a major Hess employee wellness reviewing safety issues, incidents, near misses, incident initiative begun in 2008. investigations and root cause analyses; overall safety performance and general safety concerns. Safety The Hess wellness initiative continued to have a positive committees may also play a role in determining the impact on the lives of employees and their families. safety performance component of site specific employee In the U.S., resources and tools were provided to bonus compensation. help employees meet health and wellness objectives for exercise, diet and nutrition, weight control, stress Certain collective bargaining agreements include management, tobacco cessation and chronic disease specific safety related provisions that address topics management. A third party provider, which maintains such as safety training, individual and site safety goals the anonymity of individual records, reports that overall, Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area 42 Safety and Health employees and their spouses have achieved significant improvements in blood pressure and cholesterol readings Aviation Safety over the last two years. Workplace health efforts are stronger when they connect During 2011 Hess employee and contractor with community resources and focus on areas important business travel on commercial and chartered aircraft to employees. In the U.S. for example, Hess participated exceeded 100 million air miles. With chartered in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Servicesoffshore helicopters and fixed wing aircraft operating sponsored “National Women’s Health Week” and in 13 countries and extensive use of commercial promoted free health screenings to all female airlines globally, Hess takes a proactive approach to employees and spouses enrolled in the company managing aviation safety risks. sponsored medical plan. We have a dedicated corporate aviation safety Employees in the London office conducted a two month staff that works closely with our procurement unit health campaign focused on nutrition awareness, to screen and evaluate the safety performance of exercise, and mental health. Employees received free existing and prospective suppliers. Hess aviation membership to a fitness center, participated in onsite safety experts routinely conduct onsite audits and mental health workshops and received information on reviews of all charter companies’ safety practices the nutritional content of food offered at the office café. and their conformance with industry standards At the conclusion of the program, employee teams and best practices, as well as the stringent Hess participated in a fitness challenge and celebrated their Aviation Standards that we follow internally. improved knowledge and health. In Equatorial Guinea we continued community focused disease prevention and education initiatives to help prevent the spread of waterborne pathogens at local schools. This was accomplished through the enhancement of sanitary facilities, drilling additional water wells and distributing mosquito nets in a number of communities that neighbor our operations. We also funded medical care for children who develop acute conditions such as malaria, dysentery and infected wounds. In addition, the company continues to support a blood donor program to foster a safe blood supply at a blood bank established by Hess and the Centro Medico La Paz Medical Center, the first in the country. Through a newly established Hess blood donor registry in Equatorial Guinea, we identified donors whose blood donation saved the life of a preschool child with a rare blood type. Regulatory Compliance There were no significant safety related fines or penalties in 2011. Offshore Australia 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 43 Staff Meeting, Jakarta, Indonesia Global Workforce 19% 39% 72% Increase in Asia women in local national employment Pacific workforce workforce in equatorial guinea 44 Global Workforce Hess is committed to attracting, energizing, developing The global voluntary turnover rate for employees other and retaining a talented, diverse workforce. We value than retail hourly was 7.2 percent. Voluntary turnover individuals with outstanding technical, professional and rates were slightly lower among women and minorities, administrative skills who work well in a collaborative significantly lower for employees over 50 years old and environment, make an extra effort to ensure success, higher for employees ages 30 to 50. Approximately act with a social conscience and demonstrate an one percent of employees were laid off because their entrepreneurial, independent spirit. positions were eliminated. As we compete across the globe to attract and retain Diversity the best skilled and motivated employees, we are most successful when we clearly define the Hess Values, We provide equal employment opportunity to all describe our long range vision and determination to be employees and applicants without regard to race, color, the most trusted energy partner in the world, outline our religion, national origin, gender, age, disability, veteran’s social responsibility expectations and show how each status, sexual orientation or any other protected status employee can make a difference in the communities in recruitment, hiring, compensation, promotion, training, where we do business. In addition, we define the many assignment of work, performance evaluation and all other opportunities for career advancement and development aspects of employment. and tie them to our competitive compensation plan. In 2011 the diversity of our workforce was similar to the prior year. The percentage of women (39 percent), U.S. Workforce Demographics minorities (37 percent) and employees under 30, between Hess employed 13,021 people (excluding Russia) 30 and 50 and over 50 years old (31 percent, 47 percent worldwide in 2011, a 3.4 percent increase over 2010. and 22 percent respectively) remained steady. Ninety percent of employees were based in the U.S.; of Females and minorities represented 32 percent of the those, 69 percent worked at retail locations, 26 percent professional, non-retail employees who were rotated were part time and 66 percent were hourly employees. The to new jobs as part of formal development programs vast majority of hourly employees and 99 percent of part in several functional and technical areas. We also time employees worked in retail. The number of employees advanced our goal to hire and promote women and in the Asia Pacific region increased 19 percent, our fastest minorities into executive positions. growing region. Global Employees Turnover and New Hires 23 5 Africa US Retail 8,078 20 2 US Non-Retail* 3,638 357 175 Asia Pacific 629 3,638 Americas 445 231 Europe 406 8,078 31 16 Africa 270 Asia-Pacific 629 90 43 406 31 10 Europe 270 55 24 Male Turnover Male New Hires Female Turnover Female New Hires Excludes HOVENSA JV, Hetco front office and Russia operations *Includes St. Lucia (103) Excludes hourly retail employees 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 45 Forty-three percent of all new hires were women or minorities. For the second consecutive year, half of new college and university graduates hired into downstream operations were women or minorities. Women and minorities comprised almost half (47.6 percent) of college and graduate hiring for upstream operations. Workforce Localization Hess is committed to building a workforce that reflects the diversity of our communities. A special effort is being made where we have assets in countries that are not part of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, including Equatorial Guinea, Indonesia and Malaysia. We classify Equatorial Guinea, Indonesia and Malaysia as significant operations because they have at least 100 employees. Local nationals comprised most of the Hess Asia Pacific workforce. As a result of our effort, the representation of local nationals increased 3 percent in Malaysia and 9 percent in Indonesia among managers and professionals. Senior leaders who are local nationals include the vice Team Meeting, New York president Global New Business Development Asia Pacific Australia and China and the vice president New Business Development China. In Equatorial Guinea, where 72 prepare for more senior roles. Of those on assignment, percent of staff were local nationals, 19 percent of them 60 percent were in Africa and Asia Pacific where were managers and professionals. they helped develop stronger leaders and technical professionals among the national employees. During the In 2011, 373 employees accepted international year, the Hess Global Foundation Program was expanded assignments to develop and broaden their skills and to include nationals from Equatorial Guinea. Women and Minority Representation (Executive, Management and Professional Staff) WOMEN (US AND INTERNATIONAL) MINORITIES (US) Total Total Job Category Employees Number Percent Employees Number Percent Executives and 95 7 7% 85 6 7% senior officers First and mid-level 2,137 667 31% 1,861 458 25% managers Professionals 2,221 744 33% 1,528 400 26% Total 4,453 1,418 32% 3,474 864 25% Note: There are 209 U.S. employees who are both minority and female. This chart excludes retail hourly employees who are included in the female and minority figures on page 75. 46 Global Workforce Policies and Practices Allegations of discrimination or workplace harassment within Hess and Hess joint ventures that are reported In 2011 we initiated a comprehensive review of our global through the Hess Code of Business Conduct and Ethics workplace policies and human resources practices to hotline, are handled confidentially and investigated ensure that they are not only compliant with the law, promptly and fairly. Confidential hotline allegations but also foster a work environment that supports our determined to be violations of the Code are coordinated long term vision for the company. In the U.S., new by the vice president, Global Audit and Compliance. In policies were created to better define the company’s 2011 there were 14 substantiated violations of the Code workplace practices, especially around affirmative in the category “Diversity, Equal Opportunity and Respect action, anti-harassment, education assistance, and in the Workplace,” almost all related to workplace promoting a drugand violence-free workplace. Similar harassment. Substantiated incidents of harassment or policies were also revised in Asia Pacific and Europe. discrimination are subject to disciplinary action, including Employee handbooks were updated, distributed and termination of employment. posted online where they could be easily accessed, read and acknowledged by employees. Hess will continue Hess had 15 official charges of workplace harassment to review and communicate changes to policies and or discrimination filed with the U.S. Equal Employment practices over the coming years. Opportunity Commission and/or related state agencies. Eight were dismissed and the remaining charges are Respect in the Workplace pending, though we fully expect the remaining charges We do not tolerate harassment of employees or job to be dismissed. There were no major legal judgments, applicants by anyone, including supervisors, fines or penalties related to discrimination or harassment coworkers, vendors, clients or customers. We offer during 2011. preventive training and encourage that suspected abuses be immediately reported. All cases, reported and A new online training course, Respect in the Workplace, suspected, are handled confidentially and are promptly was introduced in 2011 as required training for all and thoroughly investigated. Where it is determined managers and supervisors to ensure that employees that harassment has occurred, we take appropriate maintain a work environment free of harassment toward disciplinary action, including termination of employment other employees, applicants, vendors and customers. or business relationship. Additional employees and managers were provided National Employees (% of Managers and Professionals) National and Non-National Employees (% of Country Workforce) 100 89% 1% 80% 82% Malaysia 66% 33% 75 66% 68% 62% Percent Indonesia 58% 35% 7% 458 50 34% 33% 31% 25 Equatorial 14% 58% 28% 400 Guinea 150 0 2009 2010 2011 0 Professional/ Other Nationals Non-Nationals Malaysia Indonesia Equatorial Guinea Managerial Nationals Malaysia Indonesia Equatorial Guinea  rofessional/ P  ther O Non-Nationals Managerial Nationals Nationals 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 47 instructor led training. Retail store managers attended regardless of race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, a four hour instructor led workshop on fair employment religion, disability or other protected class. Union practices and policies. employees have wages, benefits and bonuses determined by collective bargaining agreements. Compensation and Benefits Hess pays retail hourly employees 23 percent more Hess is committed to paying employees fairly for the work than the minimum wage, on average. Non-retail entry they do and the contributions they make. We benchmark level positions in our significant U.S. and international other companies in our industry and calibrate the operations in Europe and Southeast Asia, where we performance of employees in similar positions to ensure we employ 100 or more staff, were paid on average between provide total pay and benefits that are competitive and fair. two and four times the prevailing minimum wage. In Compensation Equatorial Guinea, where we employ more than 100 local We aim to pay better, on average, than 75 percent nationals, the government sets minimum wages based of workers in comparable positions at companies in on industry sector and job type. Hess pays more than the our specified industry peer group. We also recognize minimum wage rates for the oil and gas sector, which are differences in individual and business unit contributions significantly higher than those of other industries. with greater financial reward. Those who make a bigger Benefits contribution or perform at higher levels earn more, Hess provides comprehensive, high quality health and retirement benefits that supplement or enhance what is offered by government programs. We evaluate our benefits annually and, based on a 2011 analysis, the value of U.S. benefits was among the best offered not only in the energy industry, but by leading employers in other industries, as well. Hess also enhances government provided programs and services and provides supplemental benefits outside the U.S. Hess provides benefits and programs to non-hourly retail employees that exceed the industry standard. In addition to the same medical coverage as every Hess employee, non-hourly retail employees can participate in the savings plan. Hess also offers these employees a pension plan, which is unique in the retail industry. Retail employees are eligible to receive education assistance for courses related to their development. Hess has a separate benefit Comparison of Hess Entry Level Wages to Local Minimum Wages Country of Operation Hess Local Wage Ratio 100,370 2,522 2008 U.S. (Retail hourly) 1–2 times greater 117,140 9,489 2009 U.S. (Non-Retail hourly) 3 to 4 times greater U.K. 2 to 3 times greater 2010 84,939 4,403 Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand 2 to 3 times greater 0 20,000 40,000 60,000 80,000 100,000 120,000 140,000 Employee Orientation, New Jersey 48 Global Workforce plan for full time retail hourly employees that includes Hess’ long term incentive program provides opportunities medical and life insurance coverage and paid vacations. for employees to share in the success they help create Full time retail hourly employees are also eligible to and align their interests with those of shareholders. participate in the company’s savings plan. Stock-based awards are made each year to a segment of employees based on leadership impact and criticality of Salaried employees are eligible to participate in the role in achieving business success. In 2011 the number company’s cash bonus plan or related bonus plan, of employees participating in the program increased 25 except where there is an approved local program or percent compared to 2010. government or cultural constraints. Plan awards are based on business performance and an individual’s Talent Management performance rating. Overall, 87 percent of employees participated in the plan, though fewer employees did in In 2011 Hess continued to grow and develop our our retail and terminal businesses. internal talent by fostering an environment where everyone continually learns and grows, builds Consistent with our culture of continuous learning and capabilities, experiences new challenges and sharpens development, we offer employees financial assistance skills. Hess recognizes that not all roles can be filled for participation in courses outside of the company. In internally as we grow. We hire into the company to 2011 the company contributed more than $1.1 million for supplement the existing workforce when new skills and outside educational assistance. capabilities are needed. Benefits Provided to Non-Retail Employees Performance Management Company Sick Pay We improved the performance management process in 2011. In addition to external benchmarking, we State Disability Pay (if applicable) surveyed more than 1,200 managers and interviewed Vacation and Personal Days senior leaders to assess the current state of the Paid Holidays management process and identify potential approaches Bereavement and Jury Duty Pay to make it more effective. The improved process helped Overtime Pay facilitate alignment of departmental goals and individual objectives to achieve our long term strategic vision. It Employee Assistance Programs also provided more focus and time to have thoughtful, Short Term Disability Insurance in-depth conversations with employees about Long Term Disability Insurance performance expectations, as well as sufficient time to Education Assistance calibrate the assessment of performance and application Pension Plan of compensation decisions to ensure consistency. 401(k)/Savings Plan All professional, managerial and executive employees Medical Plan took part in the global performance management Dental Plan process in 2011. As part of the process, employees were required to create an individual development plan Vision Plan to identify specific actions to be taken during the year to Health Savings Accounts build the necessary skills and gain valuable experiences. LIfe Insurance The aim is to help people make a bigger contribution in Accident Insurance their current role, and, if appropriate, prepare for their Note: Union-represented employees are subject to Collective Bargaining next assignment. Agreements; many of these benefits are available to part time and retail hourly employees. Hess’ SEC 10-K provides a detailed description of defined benefits, pension and other retirement plans. 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 49 In Retail, there are guidelines that mirror and align with the corporate process, but no online performance management system. Training on conducting and documenting performance reviews for hourly associates is provided to Retail general managers. Performance feedback is given continuously throughout the year. Learning and Development Hess supports the developmental philosophy that most (70 percent) learning and development actions should be on the job, some (20 percent) should come from relationships with others (e.g., coaching and mentoring) and the balance (10 percent) should be formal learning that can be fulfilled using classroom training and online resources in the Hess Learning Center. Our goal is for all employees to use competency models as a starting point to access their development needs. In 2011 we introduced tools that employees can use to build more comprehensive development plans. We increased the number of formal competency models for businesses and functions to provide an understanding of Team Meeting, Perth, Australia the technical requirements of their positions. In addition, we introduced nine competencies that establish the consistent experience to 300 new employees in its first standard for being a successful leader at Hess. Those five months of use. The program includes common who lead others and individual contributors in leadership forms and processes for pre-boarding and onboarding, roles were asked to consider the competencies when a first day orientation program, tools to help new hires incorporating on the job coaching and counseling and and supervisors work together during the first 90 days formal training actions into their development plans. to facilitate a smooth integration and the assignment These competencies are being used in 2012 to measure of a guide to help the new hire navigate Hess and leadership performance. coursework through the Hess Learning Center. Feedback attained from a user survey confirmed that the program In 2011, 386 employees worldwide participated in exceeded participants’ expectations and significantly leadership development programs. The offerings included helped accelerate employee integration, effectiveness programs for new managers to build supervisory skills, and engagement; 94 percent of participants surveyed programs for experienced managers to build leadership in the first four months of the program were satisfied to skills for more advanced roles and a program for the extremely satisfied with the program. company’s 100 most senior leaders to effectively lead the change required to achieve the strategic vision that we Early Career Programs have set for our company and our employees. A pilot for our new Global Professional Development New Employees Program (GPDP) was held in 2011 and attended by 18 Among our key accomplishments in 2011 was the newly hired college graduates. When the program is implementation of Passport to Hess, a global onboarding fully implemented in 2012 all new Hess college graduate process and orientation program that provided a hires will participate in this two year program, which 50 Global Workforce is designed to build baseline professional skills, such six online hours, 24 hours on the job and 16 hours of as goal setting, time management, presentation skills classroom instruction. and business writing, and accelerate performance and We cannot provide an accurate global figure for average development. The program complements functional and hours of training for non-retail employees, as our systems technical skill building with a consistent curriculum that do not capture all internal and external training or is delivered with local customizations. It also includes professional development hours. However, independent voluntary participation in a mentoring circle, where third party reviews of business and facility level training participants can exchange ideas and information and hours were conducted in 2009, 2010 and 2011 as part build their networks of business contacts and resources. of the sustainability report verification process. The Hess Global Foundation Program, a multi year, Based on these reviews, we estimate that non-retail comprehensive, early career technical development employees received on average 25 or more hours of program for engineers and geoscientists, not only training in 2011. This year, Indonesia and Thailand site develops new hires, it also helps ensure they become an visits confirmed that operators received on average immediate asset to the company. between 80 and 100 hours of training and coaching. Training At Hess every employee is offered the opportunity for Trend data show that non-retail employee training hours learning and development. Hess spent $16 million on increased between 2010 and 2011. The data we collect company run training, including instructor led courses from the Hess Learning Center indicate that more than and online education modules, a 33 percent increase 4,000 non-retail employees accessed an average two from 2010. hours of online training, the number of users rose 31 percent and learning resources accessed and course In Retail Operations the 2011 training program for new completions doubled. In addition, completion of internal store associates included 12 eLearning modules, each instructor led workshops increased 12 percent. 60 minutes in duration or an average of 12 hours per employee, supplemented by extensive on the job training. HOVENSA L.L.C. In addition, several rapid training eLearning clips, seven In January 2012, following three years of significant to 16 minutes long, were made available to teach store financial losses, HOVENSA L.L.C., announced it was associates about such topics as anti-money laundering, shutting down its refinery in St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands, how to do fast food counts and product knowledge. a joint venture between Hess and Petroleos de Venezuela Training for assistant store managers consisted of S.A. Consistent with Hess Values and recognizing that affected HOVENSA employees face a difficult job market on the island, enhanced severance packages were Training Spend provided. In addition, Hess participated in a HOVENSA job fair with more than 20 other companies to expose 2009 11 employees to opportunities elsewhere. When possible, HOVENSA employees were given special consideration 2010 12 for open positions at Hess. Hess will honor any existing 2011 16 commitments to make tuition payments through the end 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 of the school year for the children of eligible employees. million USD Training spend is for company provided training, and does not include external training courses. 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 51 Tioga Gas Plant, North Dakota Climate Change and Energy 14% 52% 23% Greenhouse gas Flare reduction electricity intensity in Algeria and purchased from reduction Equatorial Guinea renewable sources 52 Climate Change and Energy Hess is committed to helping meet the world’s increasing Hess set a Greenhouse Gas (GHG) intensity reduction demand for energy in an environmentally responsible target for 2013 that is 20 percent below the company’s manner. We aim to be top quartile for our emissions 2008 baseline. In 2011 we achieved a 14 percent GHG performance and the quality of our climate change intensity reduction against the baseline and an absolute disclosures to stakeholders. We have been recognized by reduction of 1.3 million tonnes. We decreased combined the Carbon Disclosure Project, Bloomberg, Maplecroft flaring in Algeria and Equatorial Guinea by more than and others for communicating openly about climate 52 percent during the past several years, achieving our change and sustainable business practices. 50 percent flare reduction target several years ahead of schedule. Our climate change strategy includes the Hess assesses, monitors and takes measures to reduce purchase of both certified renewable energy certificates our carbon footprint at existing and planned operations. and carbon offsets. In 2011 we purchased 23 percent We have expressed publicly the need for cooperation of net electricity used for company operations from between U.S. and world leaders and industry to develop renewable sources and achieved carbon neutral status comprehensive energy and climate solutions that will help for our commercial air travel by offsetting more than 100 meet future energy demand and reduce greenhouse gas percent of these emissions. emissions. Accomplishing these objectives will require an approach that includes increased use of cleaner During the first quarter of 2012 Hess incorporated burning natural gas, commercial scale carbon neutral carbon life cycle tools into the model that we use to technologies and demand reduction measures such as evaluate new upstream investment decisions. We did energy efficiency initiatives. this to encourage best practice energy efficiency and flare reduction equipment decisions and account for the We monitor the evolving regulatory landscape with cost of carbon in future investments. We have also made regard to climate change. Hess believes the U.S. considerable progress toward implementing a corporate needs to act responsibly about climate change. We wide energy management system. In 2012 we plan to are committed to complying with all emissions mandates, collect monthly energy usage data, create an updated and believe that the best approach to reducing emissions energy monitoring system for senior management and is through a carbon tax on transportation fuels and a analyze energy reduction opportunities with the objective market based mechanism for reducing stationary source of setting a corporate wide energy efficiency target in emissions. Carbon price signals, applied when the 2013. In addition, our Hess Energy Marketing team has economy recovers and people get back to work, will developed a series of products that offer our downstream ensure that we use hydrocarbons more efficiently and customers opportunities to minimize their carbon make meaningful reductions in CO2. Hess supports a footprints. More information on the financial implications reasonable approach to reducing carbon emissions of climate change can be found in our Carbon Disclosure that is transparent, flexible and equitable. Such an Project submittals. approach should be introduced over a five year period and only when other major industrial powers take Governance Structure similar measures. In recognition of the importance of climate change, the In 2009 the Hess Leadership Team approved a seven CCN reports to the company’s Operational Excellence point strategy for addressing the challenges and Leadership Team (OELT). The OELT includes senior leaders opportunities presented by climate change. The Hess from our upstream and downstream business segments, Climate Change Network (CCN) was tasked with executing as well as corporate Environment, Health, Safety and this strategy. Three years into our five year target cycle, we Social Responsibility, Global Process Excellence and have made considerable progress toward executing our Information Technology. The president of Worldwide strategy and achieving our targets. 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 53 Exploration and Production, who chairs the OELT, sits on in an environmentally responsible manner. To accomplish the Hess Leadership Team and the Board of Directors. this objective, we must continue to improve our emissions performance and the quality of our climate change Four CCN work groups were established to develop, disclosure to our investors and stakeholders. modify and execute the company’s climate change strategy. The Climate Policy Work Group monitors climate Greenhouse Gas Performance change policy developments in the countries where Hess does business, assesses their impact on our operations Hess tracks GHG emissions on both an operated and net and coordinates climate change strategy development equity basis. Fuel combustion and flaring are our major among the four work groups. The Energy Efficiency and direct (Scope 1) sources of greenhouse gas emissions. We Flaring/Venting Work Groups focus on the technical and also generate indirect (Scope 2) emissions associated with operational aspects of carbon footprint evaluation and the electricity that we purchase and use and other indirect reduction. The Carbon Markets Work Group monitors (Scope 3) GHG emissions generated from employee travel, global carbon markets and provides guidance on third party transport and the use of the petroleum products forward pricing for project economics, emissions trading and natural gas that we process, refine and sell. strategies and carbon monetization opportunities. Hess Operated Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) During 2012-2013, the CCN will focus on updating our During 2011 our GHG emissions from operated assets climate change strategy and objectives for the next five increased by 0.6 million tonnes CO2 equivalent (CO2e) from year cycle (2014-2019). We plan to continue to emphasize 2010. This increase in emissions was primarily related to a best practices for flare reduction and energy efficiency. temporary increase in gas flaring in North Dakota resulting As we reassess our strategy, we have no plans to alter from the rapid expansion of our unconventionals business. the fundamental premise upon which our strategy is built, Based on North Dakota Industrial Commission data, Hess which is to help meet the world’s growing need for energy has traditionally been among the best in the industry at Climate Change Strategy Progress Establish and publicly communicate a five year GHG Through 2011 achieved 14% GHG intensity reduction emissions intensity reduction target. against 2013 target of 20%. Account for the cost of carbon in all significant future Incorporated into new investment model investment decisions. first quarter, 2012. Evaluate industry best practices to minimize emissions Incorporated into new project approval process when designing production facilities. first quarter, 2012. Reduce combined flaring in Algeria and Equatorial Guinea Met five year flare reduction target early by achieving by 50 percent over the next five years. a 52 percent reduction. Collecting monthly energy usage, analyzing energy Implement a corporate wide energy efficiency program. reduction opportunities. Planning to establish target in 2013. Purchase at least 10 percent of annual electricity for Purchased 23 percent of electricity from renewable sources company operations from renewable sources. and carbon credits to offset employee business travel in 2011. Offer Hess Energy Marketing customers products to help Ongoing program. minimize their carbon footprints. 54 Climate Change and Energy Gas Compression Reinjection Program, Algeria minimizing gas flaring in North Dakota, operating well Of the 5.1 million tonnes of GHG emissions generated below industry average flaring rates. With the recent from operations in 2011, 4.4 million tonnes were Scope acquisition of additional acreage in 2010 and the resultant 1 emissions primarily from process operations and ramp up in drilling activity, Hess is investing more than flaring and 0.7 million tonnes were Scope 2 emissions $1.2 billion in infrastructure to monetize gas recovery and related to purchased electricity usage. Emissions related to minimize our gas flaring in the Bakken region of North to direct transportation from corporate aviation and Dakota. This infrastructure should be fully in place by Hess domestic trucking operations were approximately 2013 and will enable us to reduce gas flaring from these 7,000 tonnes of CO2e (equivalent). operations in 2014 and beyond to below the state’s goal of Process operations, flaring and indirect emissions from 10 percent flaring for the Bakken region. purchased electricity accounted for 47 percent, 37 Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Source (Million tonnes CO2e) (5.1 million tonnes CO2e) 5 0.7 103,385 0.6 0.8 6,000,000 4 737,627 5,000,000 Tonnes CO2e 3 4,000,000 1,864,858 4.0 3.7 4.4 3,000,000 2 2,000,000 1 2,370,563 1,000,000 0 0 2009 2010 2011 Scope 1 Emissions Scope 2 Emissions Fuel Combustion Flaring Indirect Other 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 55 percent and 15 percent, respectively of GHG emissions in Hess established a GHG intensity reduction target for 2011. We continue to examine opportunities to improve 2013 that is 20 percent below our 2008 baseline. This the efficiency of our operations and reduce the amount target has been restated to remove the impact of the of fuel consumed, thereby reducing GHG emissions. In recently discontinued HOVENSA refinery operation. Hess addition to ongoing flare reduction initiatives in Algeria, has a large pool of exploration projects that will result Equatorial Guinea and the Bakken region of North in significant production growth over time and which Dakota, Hess continues to pursue other opportunities to may cause our absolute GHG emissions to grow. In our further reduce flaring. judgment it is neither prudent nor desirable to constrain our production growth with an absolute emissions target. Hess Net Equity Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) However, we believe that it is our responsibility to operate Starting in 2007 Hess began tracking GHG emissions more efficiently by reducing GHG emissions per unit of from our net equity interests. While tracking net equity production as we continue to expand our business. GHG emissions is much more difficult than tracking emissions associated with the facilities that we operate, In 2008 our equity emissions per unit of production we believe that net equity emissions is a more accurate resulted in a GHG intensity of 50 tonnes per thousand measure of our total carbon footprint. barrels of oil equivalent (boe) (restated to remove the impact of HOVENSA). By 2013 we intend to reduce The majority of our net equity emissions are associated that number by 20 percent to 40 tonnes per thousand with operations in the U.S., Malaysia/Thailand, Equatorial boe. The restated emissions per unit of production Guinea and Algeria. In 2011 our year over year net equity number temporarily fell below the target in 2010 and emissions were essentially flat at 9 million tonnes CO2e. then increased back to 43 tonnes per thousand boe in However, HOVENSA recently announced plans to close 2011. This aberration occurred for two reasons: first, its JV refining facility. Excluding HOVENSA, restated by removing the impact from shutting down the CO2emissions increased slightly by 0.5 million tonnes relative intensive HOVENSA refinery from our target, the numbers to last year. The increase was anticipated as a result of are artificially skewed; second, as previously discussed, ramped up activity in the Bakken and at our JDA joint we brought back on line some high CO2 content wells venture where selective high content CO2 wells that were at the JDA that were temporarily taken out of service for temporarily shut in for maintenance and repair during maintenance and repair. Based on our current production 2010 went back on line. Net Equity Greenhouse Gas Emissions Net Equity Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Country 50 50 (9.1 million tonnes CO2e) 12 Emissions Rate (Tonnes/1000 BOE) 10 9 10 45 U.S. GHG (Million Tonnes CO2e) 8 2,254,741 Malaysia/Thailand 43 8 41 7 E  quatorial Guinea GHG (Tonnes CO2e) 40 267,814 40 270,520 6 280,544 Other countries* 6 636,766 36 5 U.K. 35 1,187,987 Algeria 4 4 Russia 1,786,097 30 3 2 U.S.V.I. 2 2,363,208 0 25 1 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 TARGET 0 Hess M&R SonaHess JV HOVENSA JV *Other countries: Hess E&P Non-operated E&P Normalized GHG Azerbaijan 1.3% Libya 0.7% Denmark 1.2% Norway 1.9% Indonesia 1.9% Australia 0.1% MTJDA Block Samara-Nafta Target A-18 56 Climate Change and Energy and emissions forecast, we expect emissions intensity Other Scope 3 Emissions to remain relatively flat in 2012. Emissions intensity In addition to our Scope 3 product use emissions, over should come in line with our target in 2013. We expect the past few years we have collected data associated that flaring will be reduced in the Bakken when our gas with third party supply and distribution and employee gathering infrastructure is fully operational and when business travel. While Scope 3 emissions from these several new lower content CO2 wells come on stream at activities are not major contributors to the company’s the JDA. extended carbon footprint, they are of interest to our stakeholders. We have increased the scope of our Product Use Emissions (Scope 3) reporting this year to include third party ocean transport Hess provides an estimate of GHG emissions associated of refined petroleum products purchased and sold with the customer and consumer use of our fuel and by Hess as well as trucking of merchandise to Retail other products, commonly referred to as Scope 3 operations’ Hess Express convenience stores. emissions, although no standard methodology had been adopted within our industry to report these types In 2011 Scope 3 emissions associated with ocean of emissions. transport of feedstock to the Port Reading Refinery and ocean transport of third party refined petroleum products Our methodology includes the emissions related to the for sale by Hess were about 221,000 tonnes CO2e. Third products that we refine and sell, as well as the natural party trucking of refined petroleum products to Hess retail gas that we produce and sell for consumption. We stores and Energy Marketing customers are estimated to exclude emissions associated with products that are be about 11,200 tonnes. For the first time, we are also manufactured by others and purchased by Hess for reporting on Scope 3 emissions associated with third resale to our customers. Based on this methodology, party delivery of merchandise to Hess convenience stores we estimate our 2011 Scope 3 emissions from product which resulted in about 5,600 tonnes CO2e based on fuel sales at 35.7 million tonnes of CO2e in 2011, of which consumption data provided by our vendor. approximately 45 percent was related to product use in mobile sources and 55 percent to product use in Our emissions from employee business travel on stationary sources. In comparison with last year, our commercial aircraft were approximately 22,700 tonnes Scope 3 product emissions decreased by 4.5 million which we offset through the purchase of carbon credits tonnes due to lower production and sales of petroleum certified to the Voluntary Carbon Standard. and natural gas related products. Energy Use Product Use Emissions Hess strives to make energy management an integral part Product Sales GHG 2011 CO2 of the company’s business strategy and to continuously Volumes Factor* (MM Tonnes) improve energy efficiency. Gasoline 29,981,100 0.37 11.1 (bbls) Our operations make and purchase energy primarily Diesel 16,611,150 0.43 7.1 for power, heating, cooling and processing. In 2011 (bbls) direct and gross indirect energy consumption from Hess Residual 8,778,250 0.47 4.1 operated assets was 45,874 thousand gigajoules (GJ), a Oil (bbls) 3.2 percent increase over 2011. Natural 233,534,665 0.0573 13.4 Gas (MMBtu) Increases in energy use were largely in E&P and were attributable to enhanced oil recovery operations and *G HG factors in CO2 Tonnes/bbl. for liquids and Tonnes/MMBtu for gas based on EPA rule for mandatory GHG reporting, except JDA gas factor an increase in drilling and completions. Globally, E&P which is adjusted for CO 2 content in gas sales. 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 57 accounted for 74 percent of total company energy use approximately 23 percent of our indirect energy use was and Marketing and Refining (M&R) for 26 percent. Natural from renewables. gas accounted for 73 percent of the company’s direct Energy Initiatives energy use, mostly consumed by E&P. In 2011 the Energy Efficiency Work Group (EEWG) began In M&R, the Port Reading refining facility accounted for to implement a plan to capture monthly energy data, 92 percent of the business segment’s direct energy use, develop an accurate and reliable baseline and identify the majority from key fuels such as coke and fuel gas appropriate energy use metrics to effectively evaluate and generated during the refining process. The refinery also communicate performance. produced approximately 4.2 billion standard cubic feet We have integrated key energy efficiency concepts into of refinery fuel gas for export to the local utility. the various stages of major new projects, including design, The most recent refining industry benchmarking study, development, implementation and handover to operations. conducted in 2010 by Solomon Associates, ranked The EEWG also continued to implement an energy the Port Reading refining facility top quartile for energy review program for existing operations that incorporated efficiency and carbon emissions intensity among U.S. knowledge gained from best in class energy performers. and Western Hemisphere refineries. During the year the EEWG conducted an energy review of U.S. operations used 99.7 percent of the approximate our Port Reading refining facility using tools developed in 1.1 million megawatts of our net purchased electricity. 2010. The review identified several energy improvement Renewables comprised about 8 percent of primary opportunities that represented about 10 percent of energy energy sources used to generate electricity, the majority spend. The EEWG also identified ways to improve its energy of which was wind and conventional hydropower. All reviews, including additional emphasis on identifying tools to other renewables (solar, biomass, biogas and other) help operators run equipment more efficiently. made up less than one percent of electricity usage. Terminal Operations began a multi year campaign For our operations, Hess targets to purchase at least to convert boilers from fuel oil to natural gas. These 10 percent of annual net electricity from renewable conversions will reduce CO2 and criteria pollutant sources. In 2011 we acquired 180,000 Green-e Energy emissions while lowering fuel and maintenance costs. In certified renewable energy certificates (RECs) for wind addition, the combined enrollment of M&R headquarters power, equivalent to 180,000 megawatt hours or about and the Baltimore and Bronx terminals in local Demand 15 percent of our net purchased electricity. As a result, Three Year Energy Use (Thousand Gigajoules) 2011 Energy Use by Country (Thousand Gigajoules) US (E&P) 23,844 33,688 9,850 US (M&R) 12,019 2009 E  quatorial Guinea 26% 43% 3,943 2010 33,238 11,218 Indonesia 2,268 52% 9% United Kingdom 1,858 2011 34,021 11,853 5% Denmark 1,818  hailand 124 T 0 1 2 3 4 5 4% 4% 0.27% Direct Indirect (gross) Joint Venture data is provided separately in the 2011 Joint Ventures’ energy use: Performance Data Table Malaysia/Thailand JDA 6,944 Algeria 5,720 58 Climate Change and Energy and owned facilities. For its new E&P Headquarters in Houston, Hess leased a building certified as LEED® Platinum for Core and Shell and built out the interior to meet the LEED Silver criteria for commercial interiors. The Houston building is equipped with a green roof which absorbs rainwater and minimizes the heat island effect. The building’s lighting system monitors the position of the sun and automatically adjusts window shade positions, reducing the demand for artificial light and air conditioning. The building also has occupancy sensors that turn off lights in unoccupied rooms. Renovation of the Hess owned Marketing and Refining headquarters building in Woodbridge, New Jersey, made significant progress toward reaching its goal of LEED Gold certification. Key environmental aspects of the Woodbridge project include improved energy efficiency through new windows and lighting, reduction in water consumption with sensor operated plumbing fixtures, and recycling of construction waste to the greatest extent possible. Hess Tower, LEED Certified Building, Houston, Texas The Woodbridge project is projected to achieve a total energy cost savings of more than 70 percent with energy Response programs totaled almost one thousand kilowatt efficient features that include efficient window glazing, hours. These programs afford Hess the opportunity to high efficiency lighting and mechanical equipment and an reduce our electricity costs while easing the burden on onsite solar field. The four acre, 1.1 megawatt photovoltaic the electric grid during peak days. system has sun tracking capacity to maximize generation Green Buildings and will supply approximately one fourth of the building’s In 2011 Hess made significant steps towards incorporating electricity annually. environmental excellence into our leased buildings Direct Energy Use by Fuel Source (Thousand Gigajoules) Net Purchased Electricity by Fuel Source* (Thousand MWh) Coal 399 2009 71% 18% 9% 2% Natural Gas 422 Nuclear 229 43% 37% 35% 2010 73% 15% 11% 1% Wind 59 Hydro 25 2011 73% 16% 10% 1% Biomass, solar and 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 other renewables <3 20% 5% <1% 2% Natural Gas Diesel Petroleum Coke Fuel Oil Joint Venture data is provided separately in Approximate figures based on current US EIA state-specific the Performance Data Table and ISO-New England electricity generation profiles 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 59 Drilling Operations, North Dakota Environment 40% 65% 33% Waste reused Fresh water decrease in oil or recycled Sourced from dischargeD in Hess owned wells produced water 60 Environment At Hess we take a broad view of environmental Hess E&P operations used 9.2 million cubic meters of performance, from the steps we take to minimize our fresh water in 2011, which accounted for 70 percent operational footprint to the decisions we make about of the company’s total. Of E&P water use, 79 percent the buildings where our employees work. With rigorous was used by U.S. gas processing plant operations, 15 management systems in our existing operations and careful percent in hydraulic fracturing operations, 5 percent for planning for new projects, we strive to reduce our water other U.S. drilling and production and 1 percent for consumption, minimize spills, manage and reduce waste other operations. and air emissions, and minimize impacts to biodiversity. The water used at the Seminole gas processing plant in West Texas accounted for half of the company’s fresh Water Use water use, most of which was for process cooling. The Fresh water availability and quality are issues of facility’s fresh water is provided by our Permian Basin increasing importance to our exploration, production and production operations, where we own and operate a refining activities, as well as to the communities where groundwater well field. Cooling system evaporative we operate and other key stakeholders. We actively loss is high because the local climate is dry throughout monitor and evaluate water related issues and deploy the year and hot during the summer. At the Seminole measures to protect water quality and minimize the use facility we therefore recirculate cooling water as many of water across our operations. as three times. The Seminole facility used 6.6 million cubic meters for cooling towers and other utilities in In 2011 our operations used 13 million cubic meters of 2011, a year over year increase of approximately 14 fresh water, almost entirely within our U.S. operations percent, primarily due to increased evaporative losses (99 percent). Our 2011 water use reflects an increase of due to warmer weather in the region. Cooling tower 27 percent from 2010, primarily due to higher use in our blowdown accounted for 1.24 million cubic meters, or 19 North Dakota operations and in our gas processing and percent of the gas plant’s total fresh water use and was refining operations. Approximately 35 percent of fresh reinjected for reservoir management. In 2011 Seminole’s water was purchased from local utilities; the remaining groundwater withdrawal represented 0.1 percent of 65 percent was groundwater, sourced primarily from regional groundwater demand from the Ogallala Aquifer. Hess owned and operated wells. Surface water withdrawals comprised 0.2 percent. No water sources In the Eagle Ford basin in Texas, sensitivity to water use were identified as being significantly affected by the is particularly acute. As part of our recent entry into this company’s water use. unconventional development, Hess commissioned an Fresh Water Use Fresh Water Use by Business and Facility (Million Cubic Meters) (Thousand Cubic Meters) E&P  eminole Gas Plant 6,605 S 2009 6.6 3.9 0.04 North Dakota 1,829 4% 14%  ea Robin Gas Plant 490 S 2% 43% 6.6 3.7 0.04 1% 2010 Tioga Gas Plant 208 50% International 91 19% 2011 8.5 4.6 0.02 M&R Port Reading 2,476 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 9% Retail 1,233 Terminals/Woodbridge 162 Groundwater Municipal Surface Water 1% 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 61 independent consulting company to create a lifecycle water management plan and evaluate water sourcing and disposal options. The water lifecycle evaluation informed the development of water management options, including reuse and recycling of produced water and use of industrial water sources. The Port Reading (N.J.) refining facility used 2.5 million cubic meters of ground water from municipal sources, which accounted for 64 percent of Marketing and Refining’s total fresh water use. Approximately 75 percent of the water used at the Port Reading facility was for the refinery’s water cooling system, which recirculates water between three to six cycles, and 20 percent was water for boilers, which is recycled approximately 20 times. The remainder reflects water used throughout various stages of the petroleum refining process. Additional information on our company’s water related risks, opportunities and performance is available in Gas Plant, Seminole, Texas our Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Water Disclosure report, which can be found on the CDP website, include produced water, drill cuttings and drilling fluids. www.cdproject.net. Offshore exploration and production discharges include drilling mud, drill cuttings and produced water. Discharges In 2011 approximately 13,000 barrels of drill cuttings Discharges in our upstream and downstream operations and 231,000 barrels of drilling mud were discharged include stormwater runoff and process wastewater. from offshore facilities, a significant increase from the In the U.S., these discharges are permitted under the year before, due mainly to a significant ramp up in drilling National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES). activity in Indonesia. The discharged mud and cuttings Discharges associated with our upstream operations also contained approximately 129 metric tons of oil. Oil in Produced Water Discharges to Sea Produced water discharges from offshore operations decreased from 20.1 million cubic meters in 2010 to 17.4 Oil Concentration in Produced Water 250 20 221 million cubic meters in 2011. The average oil content in Oil Volume in Produced Water 19 18 200 16 total offshore produced water discharges was 10 parts per 14 136 149 million (ppm). The discharged produced water contained 149 150 13 12 10 metric tons of oil, 91 percent of which was from operations in (ppmv) (metric tons) 10 100 8 Equatorial Guinea, the North Sea and Indonesia. 6 50 4 2 Onshore upstream operations generated approximately 0 0 2009 2010 2011 19.5 million cubic meters of produced water, of which 59 percent was reinjected for reservoir management and 41 Oil Volume in Produced Water (metric tons) Oil Concentration in Produced Water (ppmv) percent was reinjected for disposal. No produced water onshore was discharged to surface water. Overall, 91.5 62 Environment percent of gas plant stormwater discharge samples were Biodiversity within NPDES permit limits. Some of our operations are located in sensitive The Port Reading refining facility discharged 1,315,745 environments where the protection of migratory and local cubic meters of treated wastewater; 99.8 percent of animal and plant life are critical to our project decision terminal and refinery discharge samples were within making. Hess policy makes clear our commitment to permit specifications. identify, assess and manage the environmental risk and impact of existing and planned operations. Biodiversity Spill Management is included in the scope of high level risk assessments, environmental hazard identification and impact As part of our recognition of the value that partnerships assessments for major new projects and acquisitions, can bring to our projects, in Fall 2011 Hess joined as well as other stages of the business life cycle. seven other companies to create the Sakakawea Area Spill Response LLC (SASR). This is the first spill Upstream Operations consortium of its kind in North Dakota. With funding Hess E&P conducts environmental and social impact pooled from Hess and our project partners, SASR will assessments (ESIAs) in accordance with best practices purchase spill response equipment, including boats, and country specific laws and regulations. In locations boom and oil skimmers. This equipment would be where an ESIA is not mandated, E&P’s EHS&SR available in the event of a spill at Lake Sakakawea. management system framework and EHS&SR Risk Members will share existing equipment, fund the Management Key Process require that risk screening purchase of additional equipment and engage in training and impact assessment be carried out for proposed exercises. State responders also will have access to exploration, drilling and development programs and at the SASR equipment. the conceptual design stage for major new projects. Although engineering and management controls for oil ESIAs are performed for Hess by experienced third party and gas industry development have improved over the consultants and include biodiversity baseline surveys years, harsh weather conditions and remote locations and screening of plants and animals against the in North Dakota can create operational challenges that International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) could impact the environment. As such, SASR efforts Red List, as well as local and national threatened and were designed to exceed the core spill response plan endangered species lists. requirements with which each individual company For offshore activities, we follow Joint Nature must comply. The environmental benefits of the SASR Conservation Committee Guidelines (JNCC) for include quicker and more comprehensive spill response minimizing acoustic disturbances to marine mammals, capabilities, as well as the ability to control larger spills and we employ JNCC certified marine mammal until specialized equipment and teams can be deployed. observers when conducting seismic surveys. We have also used electromagnetic surveys where possible, which have less of an impact on marine mammals than seismic surveys. Port Reading Wastewater Emissions (metric tons) 2009 2010 2011 No Hess asset is within an IUCN protected area, with Biochemical Oxygen 36.9 7.4 10.7 the exception of the Sinphuhorm Natural Gas Field Demand (BOD) in northeastern Thailand. Some of the operation’s Suspended Solids 41.2 11.2 14.3 wellheads and gas gathering lines lie within the northern Hydrocarbons 4.8 4.6 5.7 boundary of the Phu Kao-Phu Phan Kham National Park, which is classified as an IUCN Category V 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 63 protected area. In support of maintaining and protecting and company site remediation staff are active members the national forest, Hess provides financial support for of the multi-stakeholder Elizabeth River Project, which local fire fighting and reforestation programs. focuses on restoration of the river’s ecosystem. In 2011 the HOVENSA joint venture refinery site maintained Examples of biodiversity efforts in Hess Upstream wildlife rescue equipment and assisted federal and operations include: territorial natural resource agencies in monitoring,  F ollowing E&P’s 2010 high level screening of protecting and rescuing wildlife. The refinery also species and sensitive environments in the Monterey preserved and protected Least Tern nesting grounds on play at the San Joaquin Basin in California, the property and supported local conservation efforts for biodiversity field surveys were conducted at Hawksbill, Leatherback and Green sea turtles. prospective well sites in 2011. IUCN Red List Corporate Environmental Affairs maintains a list of IUCN  I n the Utica Shale area of Southeast Ohio, our Red List species compiled from environmental due environmental due diligence included reviews of diligence, screening and impact assessment reports the Division of Wildlife Ohio Biodiversity Database. conducted on behalf of Hess. The majority of critically  A n ESIA was conducted for our planned Tubular endangered and endangered species on this list are Bells project in the Gulf of Mexico. marine mammals, fish and turtles common to tropic and subtropic regions, including some offshore and coastal  T he company performed ESIAs of the Shakrok areas in the vicinity of Hess project areas or operations. and Dinatra blocks in the Kurdistan Region Iraq In Thailand, Hess has contributed financial support in preparation for seismic surveys. to artificial reef building projects which have been Downstream operations spearheaded by Chevron, the operator of the asset. For existing refining and terminal operations in the Eastern U.S., emergency and oil spill response plans include lists of federal and state listed endangered, threatened and vulnerable species of plants and animals. Facility specific mapping is performed for sensitive ecosystems and species that may be vulnerable to spill or uncontrolled releases and results are incorporated into spill protection and response scenarios and action plans. Some of these operations also participate in initiatives to protect and restore local ecosystems and threatened and endangered species. The Chesapeake Terminal IUCN Category Number of Species Critically Endangered 6 Endangered 12 Vulnerable 15 Near Threatened 34 Wildlife, Pangkah, Indonesia 64 Environment Environmental Expenditures We remediate sites that have been impacted by our activities, including former or current gas stations, terminals, refineries and onshore exploration and production facilities. Hess accrues for environmental assessment and remediation expenses when the future costs are probable and reasonably estimable. As described in Item 7 of the company’s 2011 SEC Form 10-K filing, at the end of 2011 Hess held a reserve of $60 million for estimated environmental liabilities, which we expect will be more than sufficient to assess and remediate all known impacted sites. Environmental assessment and remediation expenditures in 2011 were $19 million. In 2011 capital expenditures related to compliance with federal, state and local environmental standards at Hess operated facilities were $95 million. Regulatory Compliance Water Testing, Sinphuhorm, Thailand We paid approximately $160,000 in environmental fines and penalties in 2011. Our North Dakota operations Material Use accounted for 72 percent of these fines, all of which were related to pit overflows. Our retail operations paid Crude oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products are approximately $39,000 in fines, primarily related to the primary goods that we sell. Since these products are issues associated with operation and maintenance of sold in bulk, there is very little use of packaging material. underground storage tank systems. We look for opportunities to improve our operations and reduce costs through more efficient use of natural As part of the U.S. EPA National Petroleum Refinery resources. For example, we use regenerated materials to Initiative, HOVENSA agreed to pay a $5.4 million civil reduce our dependence on raw materials and chemicals penalty and invest in new and upgraded air emissions such as sulfuric acid in our daily operations. controls. HOVENSA paid the fine in 2011 and terminated its refining operations in the first quarter of 2012. The Ozone Depleting Substances facility expects to operate as an oil storage terminal. Within our operations ozone depleting substances (ODSs) are primarily used in refrigeration and air conditioning Legal Proceedings equipment. Hess uses certified technicians to service Information regarding legal proceedings and legacy and maintain equipment containing Class 1 and Class II liabilities that pertain to the company’s wholly owned refrigerants. We are not aware of any material instances and joint venture operations is available in the company’s of ODS releases from our operated assets in 2011. SEC Forms 10-K and 10-Q. The status of these legal matters as of the end of 2011 is detailed in Item 3 of the SEC Form 10-K, which is available to the public on our website, www.hess.com/investors. 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 65 Operated Assets Waste Waste Generation (metric tons) Waste nearly doubled in 2011 due primarily to the ramp 2009 116,458 9,359 up of operations in North Dakota. Ninety-seven percent of waste was non-hazardous and 40 percent was 2010 83,451 4,185 reused or recycled. Waste streams include construction waste, oily tank bottoms and contaminated soil. Spent 2011 149,577 4,300 acids, catalysts and caustics are recycled. No waste considered hazardous under the terms of the Basel 0 20,000 40,000 60,000 80,000 100,000 120,000 140,000 160,000 180,000 Convention was exported from our operations. Non-hazardous Hazardous Hydrocarbon Spills Oil Spills Our 2011 spill volume of 464 barrels, while low by 500 464 140 industry standards, was significantly higher than last 117 Volume of Oil Spills (bbls) Number of Oil Spills (#) 120 400 348 year. Two oil spills in North Dakota resulting from a 117 100 line leak and tank overflow incident accounted for 43 300 94 80 percent of 2011 spill volume. Response efforts were 200 60 immediately commenced and approximately 50 percent 297 40 100 of the oil from these spills was recovered. 20 0 0 2009 2010 2011 Non-Hydrocarbon Spills Non-Hydrocarbon Spills In 2011 there were 88 non-hydrocarbon spills to land 5000 4333 100 totaling 4,333 barrels of fluid. All but two of the spills Volume of Spills (bbls) 88 Number of Spills (#) 4000 3751 80 occurred in our upstream operations; 52 percent of the spills were aqueous drilling and cementing fluids, 3000 60 52 36 percent were produced water and 6 percent were 2000 40 39 treatment chemicals. 1000 20 0 437 0 2009 2010 2011 Criteria Pollutants Normalized Criteria Pollutants Air emissions of nitrogen oxides (NO x ) and sulfur oxides Emissions (tonnes per million BOE) 60 57.1 (SO x ) result from fuel combustion, process operations 50 46.4 and flaring activities. Volatile organic compounds 37.6 40 (VOCs) are emitted during product loading and storage 30 25.7 and fuel dispensing. In 2011 normalized NO x and 22.2 17.7 20 SO x emissions increased 16 percent and 10 percent 7.2 7.6 8.4 respectively from prior year, while normalized VOC 10 emissions decreased 19 percent. 0 2009 2010 2011 VOCs NOx SOx 66 Environment Joint Ventures Waste Waste Generation (metric tons) Approximately 90,000 metric tons of waste was Non-Hazardous Hazardous generated across the four joint ventures in 2011; 93 BEC 69,464 1,024 percent was non-hazardous and 90 percent was HOVENSA 13,464 4,673 recycled, reused or reclaimed. Of this total, 70,488 JDA 337 120 metric tonnes resulted from Bayonne construction site waste, of which 97 percent was recycled. The Malaysia/ SonaHess 727 40 Thailand JDA decreased its waste generation by 48 percent due to a decrease in project work from 2010. Hydrocarbon and Non-hydrocarbon Spills Hydrocarbon Spills (bbls) In 2011 there were four oil spills totaling 17 barrels at 2009 2010 2011 SonaHess, a decrease from last year. At HOVENSA, Count 8 46 54 the number of oil spills was relatively flat year over year Hovensa Volume 5 29 251 while spill volume, although still low, increased. Four of Count 5 12 4 the oil spills were to water, accounting for less than 1 SonaHess percent of HOVENSA’s spill volume. Non-hydrocarbon Volume 9 55 17 spills were not material at either joint venture location. Wastewater HOVENSA Wastewater Discharge (metric tons) HOVENSA discharged 3.4 million cubic meters of 2009 2010 2011 treated wastewater in 2011. Overall, 99.9 percent of the Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) 25.8 35.9 26.8 discharge samples were within permit specifications. Suspended Solids 221.1 128.6 154.9 Oil and Grease 18.5 21.3 13.3 Criteria Pollutants Normalized Criteria Pollutants (tonnes per million BOE) Normalized NOx, SO x, and VOC emissions decreased NOx SOx VOC between 5 and 20 percent in 2011 for the Malaysia/ Hovensa 87 36 32 Thailand JDA. Normalized NOx, SO x and VOC emissions JDA 43 2 8 increased at HOVENSA due to the refinery reconfiguration SonaHess 57 0.3 249 in 2011. At SonaHess, normalized NOx and SO x increased approximately 10%, while VOC’s decreased slightly. 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 67 Bayonne Energy Center, New Jersey Products and Services 21,000 512 Megawatt 7.5% Commercial & Bayonne Energy increase in Industrial customers Center power plant natural gas sales 68 Products and Services Hess provides customers and consumers with energy product storage at our terminals and refinery are labeled related products and services including natural gas, and placarded. Petroleum products sold at our retail refined petroleum products and electricity. Our Hess stations are labeled at point of sale in accordance with Energy Marketing business provides natural gas, applicable regulatory requirements. Each of our products electricity and fuel oil to more than 21,000 commercial has a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) that provides and industrial customers in the Eastern U.S. and services information on chemical, physical and toxicological that can help our energy customers reduce their carbon characteristics, safe handling and spill and emergency footprint and become more energy efficient. Nuvera response measures. Each retail, terminal and refinery Fuel Cells, a wholly owned Hess subsidiary, conducts operating location maintains product MSDSs; these are applied research and development to improve hydrogen also available through Hess Retail and Energy Marketing fuel cell durability and efficiency while reducing cost. The customer service departments and at Bayonne Energy Center, a 512-megawatt, natural gas http://www.hess.com/sustainability. The vast majority of fueled power plant which provides electricity to New York our products are handled in bulk throughout the product City, began operations in mid-2012. lifecycle and do not require packaging materials. In 2011 Hess met product responsibility regulations, labeling We have a dedicated staff that tracks legislative and requirements and voluntary codes applicable to our regulatory developments in each of our business lines. products and services and did not incur any significant Industry trade associations to which we belong also fines or penalties. track legislation and regulation and engage with state and federal policymakers. We conduct reviews of our Hess markets gasoline exclusively in the U.S. and U.S. management systems and compliance programs when territories and complies with all applicable regulations there are new regulatory requirements or when existing concerning fuel content. The EPA’s 1995 Reformulated requirements change. Gasoline (RFG) program, 2004 Tier 2 Standards, 2009 Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS2), and 2011 Mobile Refined Petroleum Products Source Air Toxics program closely regulate gasoline formulations. As a result of these mandates, our gasoline Our principal refined petroleum products are reformulated complies with a 0.62 percent benzene content limit and conventional gasoline, ultra low sulfur diesel fuel and (average) and with 30 ppm/80 ppm sulphur content limits heating oil. The lifecycle impacts of petroleum products (average/cap). EPA also has an ultra low sulfur diesel are well documented by industry, government agencies (ULSD) requirement to reduce emissions from diesel and the scientific community. Through our membership powered vehicles. Compared with conventional gasoline in industry trade associations such as the American and diesel, the EPA reports reduced tailpipe emissions of Petroleum Institute and the National Petrochemical carbon dioxide and toxic and smog forming compounds and Refiners Association and our involvement with from RFG and ULSD (www.epa.gov/otaq). International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association, we stay informed of lifecycle The Port Reading refining facility’s production of RFG assessment results regarding conventional, reformulated increased from 62 percent in 2006 to 96 percent of and renewable fuels and fuel blends. The main total gasoline production in 2011. At the HOVENSA environmental emissions and health related impacts joint venture refinery, 65 percent of gasoline production associated with our products occur during product was RFG with the remaining conventional gasoline use and are highly regulated by the U.S. Environmental shipped to the U.S. East and Gulf coasts and Puerto Protection Agency (EPA). Rico. HOVENSA also made 100 percent ULSD prior to terminating its refining operations in the first quarter We comply with all product and service labeling and of 2012. The facility expects to operate as an oil health and safety impact requirements. Tanks for refined storage terminal. 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 69 HESS EXPRESS, New Jersey Hess branded retail stations sold 161.9 million gallons based ethanol dominates the market supply that Hess of diesel fuel in 2011, all of which was ULSD. RFG and other petroleum retailers rely on to meet federal sales volumes were approximately 1.4 billion gallons renewable fuel mandates. Hess welcomes efforts by and represented 41 percent of total gasoline sales. Our industry and government to advance cost competitive, biodiesel blending operations at Newark, Baltimore, and commodity scale ethanol from non-food crops, such as Bronx terminals in 2011 generated approximately $5 cellulosic and advanced biofuels. million in surplus RFS2 renewable fuels credits which we In 2011 M&R increased biodiesel sales tenfold, from sold to other companies. 1 million to 11 million gallons. In addition, we recently Ethanol is the primary designated renewable fuel under partnered at the Baltimore Terminal with a local the RFS program. Hess Marketing and Refining has gone manufacturer of biodiesel. This arrangement allows us through a system wide conversion at its terminals and to add a variety of biodiesel blends into our conventional retail stores to provide wholesale and retail customers distillate supply and generate salable renewable fuel with ethanol blended fuel. Domestically produced corncredits. The biodiesel that we purchase is produced from Refined Petroleum Product Sales Energy Marketing Sales (Million barrels) 2009 86 49 24 13 2009 674 1328 930 2010 88 44 25 15 2010 642 1408 900 2011 81 45 24 7 2011 660 1500 950 0 40 80 120 160 200 0 700 1400 2100 2800 3500 MMBtu equivalent/day Gasoline Residuals Oil Natural Gas Electricity Distillates Other 70 Products and Services a variety of approved feedstocks, including soybean oil, We have enrolled more than 500 customers in Demand corn oil, canola oil, camelina oil, animal waste, waste Response programs throughout New York, New grease and other sources. England, the Mid-Atlantic region and the Midwest. Hess’ portfolio accounts for about 400 megawatts of Demand Hess is one of many oil and gas companies that has Response, producing income for our customers while been party to resolved and ongoing lawsuits and claims simultaneously improving grid reliability and reducing related to historic MTBE use as disclosed in our annual the need for more costly generation. We also provide Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) Form 10-K filing. opportunities for our Demand Response customers in the The company no longer makes or sells gasoline that capacity, energy (day ahead and real time) and ancillary contains MTBE. markets (synchronous reserves). Energy Marketing Energy Efficiency Services provided to customers by our Energy Marketing Hess Energy Marketing is a leading energy supplier of business include Demand Response and conducting natural gas, electricity and fuel oil to 21,000 commercial, comprehensive energy audits in accordance with industrial and small business customers in 18 U.S. states ASHRAE Level 2 standards, retrofit assessments, and and the District of Columbia. Natural gas and electricity energy benchmarking. We can then provide customers comprise approximately 80 percent of sales volumes on a with an energy reduction plan that can help them to thermal equivalent basis. achieve LEED or EnergyStar certification and comply Since 2008 Hess has offered customers a suite of with applicable local requirements. We can also conduct products and services, including carbon offsets, Demand engineering studies for customer related energy efficiency Response, and Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) to capital projects such as combined heat and power. help them become more energy efficient and reduce their carbon emissions. In late 2010 Energy Marketing formed Hess Energy Solutions to capture new product and service opportunities arising from more favorable pricing of natural gas relative to fuel oil, new regulations and changing customer preferences. Hess Energy Solutions is continuing to build lasting relationships with customers by providing energy advice and helping them reduce their energy use and costs through integrated commodity contracts. Depending on the needs of the customer, these contracts incorporate energy efficiency, renewable energy, and fuel conversion services, including funding where appropriate. Demand Response Hess provides turnkey opportunities for customers to reduce their energy use during peak periods through Demand Response and other load management programs. We work with our commercial clients to provide engineering studies, determine curtailment plans, facilitate enrollments and provide payments for their membership in Demand Response programs. Liberty Island Park, Energy Marketing Customer 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 71 Renewable Energy electricity to power approximately 500,000 homes in the The purchase of RECs helps reduce the environmental New York City area. impact of electricity use and supports the development The NEC is a 655-megawatt gas fired power plant that of new domestic renewable generation capacity. In 2011 will be constructed on a brownfields site next to our Energy Marketing purchased and retired more than Newark terminal. This facility will use waste water from 630,000 Green-e Energy certified RECs for our customers the Passaic Valley Sewage Commission, eliminating the and 180,000 for ourselves. Energy Marketing also need to use fresh water. The NEC’s electricity output, purchased about two million RECs to meet compliance enough to power 700,000 homes, will be delivered to obligations related to our overall electricity sales. the regional grid. By producing energy from natural gas Our REC sales have helped our customers join the and using advanced emissions control technology and U.S. EPA’s Green Power Partnership (GPP), which efficient turbines, the NEC will operate as one of the highlights the annual green power purchases of leading cleanest and most efficient plants of its kind in the United organizations in the U.S. across different sectors. Hess States. It will ultimately reduce the region’s reliance on customers have been included in the GPP’s National Top older, less efficient power plants with higher emissions 50, Top 20 Retail, Top 10 Federal Government, Top 20 of air pollutants. College and University and Top 20 Printers rankings. Customers and Consumers Hess Energy Solutions is also working with customers to integrate renewable energy installations, such as solar, We have customer service and satisfaction programs in and renewable fuels, such as biogas, into their operations. place in our Retail and Energy Marketing businesses to ensure that concerns and complaints are quickly and Electricity Operations adequately addressed. Customer comments, complaints, or compliments can be submitted via a toll free number Energy Operations includes wholesale electric and or online, and a database tracks all issues to final natural gas operations, as well as a new line of business resolution. Hess Retail Marketing has also implemented in independent power generation. In New Jersey, Hess a monthly Customer Service Hero award to recognize completed construction of the Bayonne Energy Center a Retail employee, manager or station for excellent (BEC), a 512-megawatt, natural gas fueled electric power customer service based on feedback we receive from plant jointly owned by Hess Corporation and ArcLight our customers. We wish to continue fostering customer Capital Partners. In 2011 Hess’ proposed Newark Energy loyalty through our commitments to customer satisfaction Center (NEC) was selected as one of three potential and privacy, truth in advertising and compliance with all electric generation projects for New Jersey’s Long applicable consumer laws and regulations. Term Capacity Agreement Pilot Program based on an assessment of socio-economic benefits to New Jersey We recognize and respect our customers’ privacy electric consumers. concerns. The most significant customer privacy issues are payment card security for our retail business, which Hess located the BEC on an underutilized industrial is addressed by a Payment Card Industry Compliance property, as opposed to a previously unused greenspace. program, and internet privacy for our Energy Marketing Moreover, project execution included addressing and general websites, for which there are detailed privacy historical impacts to the property as the site was policies available (www.hessenergy.com/privacypolicy. prepared for reuse. The facility employs the most efficient htm; http://www.hess.com/company/PrivacyPolicy.aspx). and modern combustion turbines in the New York City There were no substantiated customer privacy complaints metropolitan area and is expected to displace older and or significant fines or penalties related to customer less efficient generating assets in the dispatch order. BEC privacy and marketing communications in 2011. began operations in mid-2012 and will generate enough 72 Products and Services Nuvera Fuel Cells Nuvera Fuel Cells (nuvera.com) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Hess, with locations in the U.S. and Italy. Nuvera focuses on applied research and development (R&D) and commercialization of key hydrogen energy technologies for automotive and industrial applications. Technologies include hydrogen fuel cells for electric vehicles and hydrogen generation and fueling systems. Fuel cells and hydrogen energy systems are increasingly recognized for their potential to enable clean and efficient use of domestic energy sources for transportation, stationary and other power applications. Nuvera’s product development and commercialization strategies focus on original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and end use customers. In 2011 Nuvera was awarded seven new patents and has 121 pending patent applications under review worldwide. Nuvera has partnered with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy to advance hydrogen fuel cell technology. Nuvera conducts research with industry partners, academic institutions and the DOE National Energy Labs to improve fuel cell durability and the efficiency of fuel cell stack technology meeting DOE cost and durability targets. To date, Nuvera has been awarded approximately $50 million in grants and cost share allowances, including $8.4 million over the past three years. One of Nuvera’s key technologies is the PowerTap ® hydrogen generator, which is based on the steam reformation of methane. This technology capitalizes on abundant natural gas as a source of clean and cost effective hydrogen and can also use biomass methane and other renewable feedstocks. An Argonne National Laboratory life cycle study of mobile applications indicates that fuel cells powered by steam reformed hydrogen reduce CO 2 emissions by one third, compared with battery powered vehicles charged off the grid. PowerTap ® units are currently deployed in industrial applications, including the material handling industry. Nuvera is working to reduce the size of PowerTap ® and increase the quantity of hydrogen produced. This is crucial to Nuvera’s market goal: PowerTap ® units incorporated into existing gasoline filling stations by mid-decade to support the market penetration of hydrogen fuel cell electric vehicles. New California Air Quality rules which require companies that own / franchise gasoline stations to build hydrogen refueling stations have significant potential to accelerate the commercialization of hydrogen fuel cell vehicles. Nuvera is also working on advanced hydrogen fuel cell systems for mobility, ultimately targeting the automotive market. Nuvera has entered into joint development agreements with leading automotive and aerospace companies to further the advancement of OrionTM, a third generation fuel cell stack design. Nuvera is also involved in off road applications, having provided fuel cell systems to New Holland Agriculture for two generations of a new hydrogen powered tractor. Nuvera Powertap® Hydrogen Generator 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 73 Performance Data This table contains a subset of our publicly reported performance data. Refer to the Operational Highlights section in this report and the company’s 2011 SEC 10-K and proxy statement at hess.com/investors for additional information. Units 2011 2010 2009 Governance Number of members of the Board # 13 13 13 Independent Board members # 10 10 10 Female members of the board of directors % 15 15 15 Minority members of the board of directors % 8 8 8 Board members that are both minority and female # 1 1 1 Board members from outside the U.S. % 0 0 0 Board members in the 50 and above age group % 100 100 100 Business Performance Sales and other operating revenue $ Million 38,466 33,862 29,614 Refined petroleum product sales 000 BOE/D 430 471 473 Net income $ Million 1,703 2,125 740 Total assets $ Million 39,136 35,396 29,465 Total debt $ Million 6,057 5,583 4,467 Stockholders' equity $ Million 18,592 16,809 13,528 Debt to capitalization ratio % 24.6 24.9 24.8 Economic Contributions Capital and exploration expenditures $ Million 7,462 5,855 3,245 Operating costs $/BOE 19.7 14.5 13.7 Income Tax $ Million 785 1,173 715 Royalties and other payments to governments $ Million 947 1,542 414 Cash dividends paid to shareholders $ Million 136 131 131 Employee wages and benefits (U.S.) $ Million 1,057 992 794 Interest expense before income taxes $ Million 383 361 360 Recordable supplier spend* $ Million 6,081 2,407 2,451 Asia Pacific % 15 NC NC Africa % 25 NC NC Europe % 10 NC NC Other % <1 NC NC US % 50 NC NC With small businesses (U.S.) % 29 28 28 With women-owned small businesses (U.S.) % 7 6 8 With minority-owned small businesses (U.S.) % 10 11 10 Community and Social Performance Total social investment $ Million 23 18 13 Education % 33 34 13 Health % 5 12 23 Disaster relief % 5 9 8 Community contributions (non in kind) % 20 19 29 In kind % 28 18 25 Arts and culture % 8 7 — Environment % 1 1 2 74 Performance Data Units 2011 2010 2009 Global Workforce Number of permanent employees (excludes Russia) # 13,021 12,587 12,229 International employees % 10 9 9 Temporary employees # 825 NC NC Part time employees % 24 NC NC Full time employees % 76 NC NC Employees represented by independent trade unions (U.S.) % 6.5 8.7 9.0 Employee turnover voluntary (excluding hourly retail) % 7.2 NC NC Employee lay-offs (excluding hourly retail) % 1 NC NC Female employees (U.S. and International) (includes retail) % 39 40 40 Executives and senior officials % of job category 7 4 6 First and mid-level managers** % of job category 31 31 NC Professionals** % of job category 33 34 NC Minority employees (U.S.) (includes retail) % of job category 37 36 36 Executives and senior officials % of job category 7 7 7 First and mid-level managers** % of job category 25 24 NC Professionals** % of job category 26 26 NC Technical and personal training and development spend $ Million 16 12 11 Training per year per management/professional employee Average hrs 25 25 25 Training per year per hourly retail employee Average hrs 14 14 14 New employees receiving anti-corruption training (excluding hourly retail) % 100 NC NC Safety Performance ∆ Fatalities Employees + Contractors # 0 0 0 Hours worked Workforce (Employee + Contractor) Million hours 53 41 38 Recordable Incident Rate – Employees per 200,000 hrs worked 0.71 0.81 0.83 Recordable Incident Rate – Contractors per 200,000 hrs worked 0.73 0.50 0.45 Recordable Incident Rate – Workforce (Employee + Contractor) per 200,000 hrs worked 0.72 0.68 0.69 Lost Work Time Incident Rate – Employees per 200,000 hrs worked 0.22 0.26 0.31 Lost Work Time Incident Rate – Contractors per 200,000 hrs worked 0.12 0.07 0.15 Lost Work Time Incident Rate – Workforce per 200,000 hrs worked 0.16 0.18 0.25 Injuries # 188 137 131 Illnesses # 5 1 0 Products with Material Safety Data Sheets % 100 100 100 OHSAS 18001-certified operations % of production 1.9 1.9 2.0 Health and safety fines and penalties operated $ Thousand 0 0 98 Health and safety fines and penalties HOVENSA $ Thousand 0 160 0 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 75 Performance Data continued Units 2011 2010 2009 Environmental Performance ∆ Gross operated hydrocarbon production/throughput (normalization factor) 000 BOE/D 1,083 1,150 1,193 Net hydrocarbon production and net refinery throughput (restated–excludes HOVENSA) 000 BOE/D 433 473 471 Port Reading Refinery throughput 000 BOE/D 124 128 145 HOVENSA Refinery throughput 000 BOE/D 284 359 402 Energy use Operated direct energy use 000 GigaJoules 34,021 33,238 33,688 Natural gas 000 GigaJoules 24,836 24,192 24,083 Diesel 000 GigaJoules 3,283 3,587 3,175 Petroleum coke 000 GigaJoules 5,496 4,982 5,922 Fuel oil 000 GigaJoules 406 477 508 Renewables 000 GigaJoules 0 0 0 Significant joint ventures direct energy use (SonaHess and JDA) 000 GigaJoules 12,664 12,666 12,438 Operated indirect energy use (gross) 000 GigaJoules 11,853 11,218 9,850 Net indirect energy use 000 MWh 1,137 1,076 949 Coal % 35 42 49 Natural gas % 37 37 22 Nuclear % 20 12 20 Renewables % NC 6 6 Hydro % 2 NC NC Wind % 5 NC NC Biomass, solar and other renewables % <1 NC NC Petroleum % <0.1 2 2 Production energy intensity GigaJoules/boe 0.12 0.11 0.10 Green-e certified renewable energy certificates (wind power) 000 MWh 180 140 100 Greenhouse gas emissions Flaring mmscf 21,760 15,607 17,125 Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) Million Tonnes CO2e 4.4 3.7 4.0 CO2 Million Tonnes CO2e 4.2 3.5 3.6 CH4 000 Tonnes CO2e 139.6 123.7 294.7 N 2O 000 Tonnes CO2e 21.8 23.6 24.6 Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) by source Flaring / venting % 43 36 40 Fuel combustion % 55 61 57 Other % 2 3 3 Operated indirect emissions (Scope 2) Million Tonnes CO2e 0.7 0.8 0.6 CO2 Million Tonnes CO2e 0.7 0.8 0.6 CH4 000 Tonnes CO2e 0.15 0.15 0.12 N 2O 000 Tonnes CO2e 7.2 6.7 5.2 Significant joint ventures emissions (Scope 1) (SonaHess and JDA) (gross) CO2 Million Tonnes CO2e 3.5 2.9 4.3 CH4 000 Tonnes CO2e 159.4 154.9 205.3 N 2O 000 Tonnes CO2e 12.7 15.0 12.2 Net equity GHG emissions (includes HOVENSA) Million Tonnes CO2e 9.1 9.0 9.5 Net equity carbon intensity (Scope 1 and 2) excludes HOVENSA Tonnes/Thousand BOE 43 36 41 Scope 3 emissions Product end-use Million Tonnes CO2e 35.7 40.2 45.8 Ocean transport 000 Tonnes CO2e 221.0 56.8 55.9 Employee business travel (commercial air carriers) 000 Tonnes CO2e 22.7 19.7 11.6 Fresh water use Groundwater Million m3 8.5 6.6 6.6 Municipal Million m3 4.6 3.7 3.9 Surface water Million m3 0.02 0.04 0.04 Reused/recycled (estimated) % 11.1 NC NC 76 Performance Data Units 2011 2010 2009 Air emissions (excludes GHGs) Sulfur oxides (SOx ) Tonnes 3,300 3,181 3,112 SOx Intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 8.4 7.6 7.2 Nitrogen oxides (NOx ) Tonnes 10,153 9,306 7,695 NOx Intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 25.7 22.2 17.7 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Tonnes 14,861 19,486 24,851 VOC Intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 37.6 46.4 57.1 Particulate matter (PM10 ) Tonnes 318 345 290 PM10 Intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 0.80 0.82 0.67 Exploration & Production Discharges Oil in produced water to sea Tonnes 149 221 136 Oil in produced water to sea ppmv 10 13 19 Produced water to sea Million m3 17.4 20.1 8.3 Produced water reinjected Million m3 19.5 19.5 18.2 US Clean Water Act Discharges – Port Reading Refinery Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) Tonnes 10.7 7.4 36.9 Suspended solids Tonnes 14.3 11.2 41.2 Total petroleum hydrocarbons Tonnes 5.7 4.6 4.8 Waste Nonhazardous waste Tonnes 149,577 83,451 116,458 Recovery/reuse/recycle % 40 50 56 Treatment % 9 22 14 Disposal % 45 18 26 Incineration/energy recovery % 1 1 1 Land farm % 5 9 3 Composting % <1 <1 <1 Hazardous waste Tonnes 4,300 4,185 9,359 Recovery/reuse/recycle % 3 4 2 Treatment % 60 29 44 Disposal % 23 48 51 Incineration/energy recovery % 10 19 2 Land farm % 4 0 1 Composting % <1 <1 <1 Basel Convention (recovery/reuse/recycle) Tonnes 0 0 0 Other Environmental Indicators ISO 14001-certified operations % of production 12 13 16 ISO 14001-certified operations # 3 3 3 Environmental fines and penalties operated $ Thousand 160 96 264 Environmental fines and penalties HOVENSA $ Thousand 5,400 0 0 Capital expenditures $ Million 95 85 50 Environmental expenditures remediation $ Million 19 13 11 Environmental reserve $ Million 60 55 55 One barrel is equivalent to 42 gallons * Recordable supplier spend for 2010 and 2009 is US only ** Corporate classifications changed between 2009 and 2010, so 2009 data is not provided ∆ Where relevant, all data are restated to exclude significant joint ventures NC: Not Collected 2009 and 2010 net indirect energy use has been restated 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 77 GRI Content Index This index refers to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 indicators, with cross-reference to the 10 Principles in the United Nations Global Compact (UN Global Compact) and International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association sector-specific guidelines (IPIECA). Detailed information on GRI indicators related to Board-level governance (4.1–4.7, 4.9, 4.10) and defined benefit plan obligations (EC3) can be found at http://www.hess.com/investors and in our Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) forms 10-K and DEF 14A. GRI Indicator–Core GRI indicator—additional IPIECA only ● Fully reported ▲ Partially reported GRI GRI UNGC IPIECA General Description Page(s) Indicator Status Principle(s) Indicator 1.0 Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Chairman's Letter 2-3 ● 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities (a) 4-5, 13-14 ● 2.0 Organizational Profile 2.1-2.9 Organizational profile (a) 9-11 ● 2.10 Awards received during reporting period 82 ● 3.0 Report Parameters 3.1-3.3, Reporting period, scope and boundary; materiality 6-7 ● 3.5-3.8 determination for content 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding report IBC ● 7, 37, 54-58, 3.9 Data measurement techniques and basis of calculations ● 61-63, 81 3.10, 3.11 Explanation of restatements and significant changes 7 ● 3.12 GRI content index 78-80 ● 3.13 External assurance 81 ● 4.0 Governance 4.1-4.7, Information on highest governance body (a, b) 13-14 ● 4.9, 4.10 4.8 Internal values, codes of conduct, and principles 13-16 ● 4.11 The precautionary approach 13-14 ● 7 4.12 Externally-subscribed or endorsed voluntary initiatives 2-3, 16, 33 ● 4.13 Key memberships and associations 17 ● 17, 20, 25-27, 4.14-4.16 Stakeholders, types of engagement, key topics and concerns ● 30-32 Economic Indicators Disclosure on management approach to economic performance 2-3, 9 ● EC Disclosure on management approach to market presence 9-11, 69 ● Disclosure on management approach to indirect economic impacts 25 ● EC1 Direct economic value 18 ● SE4, SE13 EC2 Financial implications of climate change 53-54 ● 7 EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations (a, b) 48-49 ● EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 18, 73 ● EC5 Comparison of standard entry level wage with local minimum wage 48-49 ● 1 EC6 Local supplier spend at significant locations of operation 18 ▲ SE5, SE7 EC7 Local hiring at significant locations of operation 46 ● 6 SE5, SE6 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 25-31 ● SE4 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts 25-31 ▲ SE6 a See also Annual Report and SEC 10-K b See also hess.com/investors 78 Performance Data GRI GRI UNGC IPIECA General Description Page(s) Indicator Status Principle(s) Indicator Environmental Indicators (UN8) EN Disclosure on management approach to environmental aspects 13-14, 61, 63 ● 7 EN1, EN2 Materials used and percentage recycled input materials 65 ● 9 EN3, EN4 Direct and indirect energy use by primary source 57-59 ● E2 EN5 Energy conservation and efficiency initiatives and improvements 58-59 ▲ 9 E2 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable products and services 71-73 ● 9 E3 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 58-59 ▲ 9 E2 EN8, EN9 Total water withdrawal by source, significantly affected water sources 61-62 ● 9 E6 EN10 Water recycled and reused 61-62 ● 9 E6 EN11, EN12 Proximity of protected areas/areas of high biodiversity 63-64 ● E5 EN13 Habitats protected or restored 63-64 ● 7 E5 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 63-64 ● 7 E5 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List and national conservation list species 64 ● EN16, EN17 Total direct and indirect and other relevant greenhouse gas emissions 54-57 ● E1, E4 EN18 Greenhouse gas reduction initiatives and results 53-54 ● 7, 8 E1 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 65 ● E7 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 66-67 ● E7 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 62-63 ● E9 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 66-67 ● E10 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 66-67 ● E8 EN24 Basel Convention waste management summary 66 ● EN25 Biodiversity value of receiving waters for water discharges and runoff 62-64 ▲ EN26 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 69-72 ● 7,8 EN27 Products sold and packaging reclaimed 65-66, 69-71 ● 9 EN28 Fines, penalties and non-compliances 65 ● EN29 Transportation impacts 57 ● EN30 Environmental expenditures 65 ▲ 7,9 Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on management approach to employment, labor/management 13-14, 45 ● LA relations, training and education and diversity and equal opportunity Disclosure on management approach to occupational health and safety 13-14, 37 ● LA1 Total workforce by employment type, contract and region 45 ● LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region 45 ● 6 Benefits provided to full time employees that are not provided to temporary or LA3 48-49 ● part time employees, by major operations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 35 ● 1,3 LA5 Minimum notice period of significant operational changes 35 ● 3 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in joint safety committees 42 ▲ 1 HS1, SE16 LA7 Injury, occupational illness, lost days, absenteeism, and fatalities by region 37-40 ● 1 HS3 LA8 Disease prevention programs 42-43 ● 1 HS2 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in collective bargaining agreements 42 ● SE16 LA10 Average hours of training per employee by employee category 50-51 ● SE17 LA11 Programs for skills management, lifelong learning and career endings 49-51 ● SE17 LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and development reviews 49-50 ● SE17 LA13 Governing bodies and employees by category according to diversity indicators 45-46 ● 1, 6 SE15 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of women to men by employee category 48-49 ● 1, 6 IPIECA Process Safety 37, 41 — — HS5 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 79 GRI Content Index continued GRI GRI UNGC IPIECA General Description Page(s) Indicator Status Principle(s) Indicator Human rights HR Disclosure on management approach to human rights aspects 13-14, 33-34 ● HR1 Human rights and significant investment agreements 34 ▲ 1—6 SE8 HR2 Significant suppliers/contractors screened for human rights 5, 33-34 ▲ 1—6 SE9 HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning human rights 34 ▲ 1—6 SE8 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 47 ● 1, 2, 6 SE18 HR5 Operations at risk re: freedom of association and collective bargaining 34-35 ● 1, 2, 3 HR6 Operations at risk re: child labor 34-35 ● 1, 2, 5 HR7 Operations at risk re: forced and compulsory labor 34-35 ● 1, 2, 4 HR8 Security personnel trained on human rights 34 ▲ 1, 2 SE10 HR9 Violations of indigenous peoples' rights 34 ● 1, 2 SocietY Disclosure on management approach to corruption, public policy, 13-16 ● 10 SO anti-competitive behavior and compliance Disclosure on management approach to community 13-14, 25, 32 Programs and practices that assess and manage impacts of operations on 17-18, 25-27, SE1, SE2, SO1 ● communities 30-32 SE3, SE4, SE5 SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 15-16 ● 10 SE11, SE 12 SO3 Employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures 15-16 ▲ 10 SE11 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 15-16 ● 10 SE11 SO5 Public policy positions/participation in public policy development and lobbying 16, 53, 69 ● 1, 10 SE14 SO6 Political contributions 16 ● 10 SE14 SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior and outcomes 15 ● SO8 Fines and penalties for noncompliance with laws and regulations 15 ● product responsibility PR Management disclosures 13-14, 69 ● PR1 Life-cycle assessment for health and safety impacts of products/services 69 ● 1 HS4 Noncompliances with health and safety impact requirements for PR2 69 ● 1 HS4 products/services PR3 Product and service labeling requirements for significant products 69 ● 8 HS4 PR4 Noncompliances with product and service labeling requirements 69 ● 8 HS4 PR5 Customer satisfaction practices 72 ● PR6 Marketing communications compliance programs 72 ● HS4 PR7 Noncompliance with marketing communications regulations/voluntary codes 72 ● PR8 Substantiated customer privacy complaints and data loss 72 ● 1 PR9 Fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations re: products and services 69 ● 80 Performance Data Verification Statement Scope and Objectives Additional visits took place to E&P operations in Algeria, Equatorial Guinea, and the Seminole Gas Plant in Texas, ERM Certification & Verification Services (ERM CVS) was U.S.A. to review greenhouse gas related data. commissioned by Hess Corporation to undertake verification of its  Discussions with Hess Corporation’s leaders who exercise 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report (the Report). The objective of the verification was to establish that the information presented overall business responsibility and those with accountability is a reliable representation of Hess Corporation’s performance for data and Report content. and programs, and that the data presented conform to the Global  Visits to offices in Houston, Texas, and Woodbridge, New Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 and also the IPIECA/API Reporting Jersey to assess and review data collection, consolidated Framework guidelines. data management, data interpretation and internal data assurance processes. Respective Responsibilities & Independence Opinion & Recommendations Hess Corporation is responsible for preparing the Report and the information contained within it. Based on the assurance activities undertaken, we conclude that, in all material respects, the information provided and Hess ERM CVS, responsible for reporting to Hess Corporation on its Corporation’s assertion that the report meets the requirements assurance conclusions, is a member of the ERM Group. This of GRI G3 application level A+ are an appropriate presentation of is the tenth year that ERM CVS has been engaged by Hess performance during 2011. Corporation in this role. ERM CVS has also been commissioned to verify Hess Corporation’s GHG data as reported to the Carbon In the opinion of ERM CVS, Hess Corporation has continued Disclosure Project (CDP). to improve the quality and breadth of information, and overall presentation of the sustainability data and we are not aware of the The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related exclusion of any material issues or of any misstatements made in to independent assurance activities and training programmes relation to the information presented. related to auditing techniques and approaches. Our processes are designed to ensure that the work we undertake with clients Observations is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the staff Our key observations are set out below: that have undertaken work on this assurance exercise provide no consultancy related services to Hess Corporation in any respect.  Seek to map data flow from inception through to Corporate consolidation in order to improve data consistency and Verification Approach transparency of the data chain of custody; We based our work on Hess Corporation’s internal guidance and  Continue to implement set methodologies and provide definitions for the reported metrics. Our assurance approach user guidance for calculating and capturing GRI/IPIECA was developed with reference to the International Standard for performance data where those do not currently exist; Assurance Engagements 3000: Assurance Engagements other  Review the sources that require measurement at each than Audits or Reviews of Historical Information issued by the reporting unit to ensure each is captured appropriately; International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (ISAE 3000); as well as principles that ERM CVS has developed and  Apply consistent independent data review processes at the refined for report assurance assessments. reporting entity. Between February and April 2012 we undertook a series of We have provided Hess Corporation with a separate, confidential activities, including: report detailing our assessment of Hess’s 2011 Sustainability Report.  Visits to the following operations to review activities and verify data and data management processes at reporting units; Exploration and Production operations at the Baldpate 260 Platform, Gulf of Mexico, Cameron Shore-base, Louisiana, Leigh Lloyd, Managing Director U.S.A, Ujung Pangkah, Indonesia; Sinphuhorm, Thailand, and June 2012 Marketing and Refining (M&R) oil products storage terminal ERM Certification and Verification Services, London operations in St. Lucia as well as Roseton, New York, U.S.A. www.ermcvs.com | E-mail: post@ermcvs.com 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report 81 Awards and Recognition Sustainability  CDP 2011 Global 500 and S&P 500 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Indexes  Dow Jones North America Sustainability Index  Bloomberg Businessweek Sustainability – Environmental Transparency / Global Energy Sector – Ranked #1  Maplecroft Climate Innovation Index  oekom Research AG Prime Status  Corporate Responsibility magazine top corporate citizens / Energy Sector – Ranked #3  Ranked first in the Energy Sector in the US and fourth globally in Newsweek’s 2011 Green Rankings  Corporate Knights S&P 500 Clean Capitalism Ranking – Ranked #1  Environment Investment Organization (UK) Global 800 Carbon Ranking / Energy Sector – Ranked #1 Workforce  National Safety Council’s 2011 List of CEOs Who ‘Get It’  Woman Engineer Magazine’s Top 50 Employers List  Workforce Diversity Magazine’s Top 50 Employers List Community  U.S. Chamber of Commerce Business Civic Leadership Center Best International Ambassador award finalist Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains projections, future estimates, plans, expectations and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements reflect the company’s current views with respect to future events and the company’s performance. No assurance can be given, however, that these events will occur or that expected results expressed in any forward-looking statement will be achieved, and actual results could differ materially from those expected for a number of reasons, including risk factors affecting the company’s business. A discussion of these risk factors is included in the company’s annual report of Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 82 requests for information For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy, Human Rights Policy or our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, or for more information regarding our operations, please visit our website at www.hess.com. We invite your questions, comments and suggestions regarding this report. To send us your questions or comments, or request more information or additional copies of this report, please contact: Vice President, Environment, Health, Safety and Social Responsibility Hess Corporation 1185 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10036 You can also send us an e-mail at ehs@hess.com. Sandy Alexander Inc., an ISO 14001:2004 certified printer with Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC®) Chain of Custody printed the Hess Annual Corporate Sustainability Report with the use of renewable wind power resulting in nearly zero carbon emissions. This report was printed on FSC®-certified Mohawk Options paper, a processchlorine-free 100 percent post-consumer waste (PCW) paper manufactured entirely with 100 percent certified wind energy and containing 100 percent post-consumer recycled fiber. The savings below are achieved when PC recycled fiber is used in place of virgin fiber: 206 trees preserved for the future 598 lbs water-borne waste not created 87,848 gallons wastewater flow saved 9,720 lbs solid waste not generated 19,136 lbs net greenhouse gases prevented 146,368,735 BTUs energy not consumed Savings from the use of emission-free wind-generated electricity: 9,714 lbs ghg emissions not generated Displaces this amount of fossil fuel: 11 barrels of fuel oil unused In other words your savings from the use of wind-generated electricity are equivalent to: Not driving 9,615 miles or Planting 666 trees 1185 Avenue of the Americas New York, New York 10036 www.hess.com
