Perspectives: Creating our energy future together 2012 summary report on sustainability North America Norway Onshore Golden Eagle Beta Buzzard Stavanger East Coast Canada Aberdeen Oil Sands Edmonton Montreal St. John’s United Kingdom Joslyn Calgary Mississauga White Rose Fort Hills Hibernia Hebron/Ben Nevis Sarnia MacKay Terra Nova River Firebag Denver/ Syria Damascus Syncrude Commerce City Tripoli Libya Voyageur Steepbank/ Millennium Fort McMurray Head office Non-operated Regional office Proposed Operated Suncor Energy’s goal is to be Canada’s premier integrated energy company. Suncor’s operations include oil sands development and upgrading, conventional and offshore oil and gas production, petroleum refining, and product marketing under the Petro-Canada brand. While working to develop petroleum resources responsibly, Suncor is also developing a growing renewable energy portfolio. What’s inside Introduction 1 Social performance 26 About Suncor’s 2012 Report on Sustainability Safety Suncor’s 2012 report includes consolidated social, Performance at a glance 2 Our stakeholders economic and environmental data on our operated 2012 environment progress report Community investment assets. For more information on assets refer to the 2012 social progress report Aboriginal relations Performance Measures section in the online version of CEO’s message 10 our report. Economic data that align with Suncor’s 2011 Human rights Environmental performance 12 annual report are reported in a consistent manner. The Our employees following report on sustainability was created using the Water Economic performance 30 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines to the Air Corporate performance GRI checked A+ application level. GRI’s Application Level Land and biodiversity Contribution to economy Check Statement can be found online in the About Collaboration Suncor section. Selected performance indicators for the Looking ahead An integrated approach to 18 Have you met OSQAR? year 2011 were independently reviewed using the Global climate change Reporting Initiative G3 guidelines. The results of this Legal notice 33 review can be found on the online version of our report 2011 GHG performance Forward-looking statements within the Third Party Assurance section. Climate change crossroads Stakeholder feedback is also an integral part of developing this report. As in previous years, Suncor enlisted the guidance of Ceres, a network of investors, labour, environmentalists and other public interest groups Information contained in this publication is as at July 1, 2012. See the back page for a legal notice regarding forward-looking statements and other information contained in this publication. to help ensure our report is relevant and meaningful. We thank Ceres and the participating stakeholders for their assistance in creating the 2012 Report on Sustainability. For a full report including performance data, as well www.suncor.com/sustainability as a discussion of challenges and opportunities, visit suncor.com/sustainability. Perspectives: Creating our energy future together 2011 was certainly a notable year for Suncor. As we implement our strategic growth plan, Suncor intends to remain true to its long-standing vision of a triple bottom line. That means we will continue to manage our business in ways that enhance social and economic benefits, while striving to minimize the environmental impacts associated with energy development. Suncor’s Report on Sustainability documents our progress on a wide range of environmental and social issues. The report focuses on how we’re striving to make Suncor a sustainability leader in the energy sector. 2012 summary report on sustainability 1 Performance at a glance As a responsible energy developer, Suncor strives for excellence in economic, social and environmental performance. Below is a snapshot of our priorities in 2011 and how we performed. Pursue zero injuries The frequency of employee lost time injuries and recordable injuries continued to decline as employees Lost time injury 06 07 08 09 10 11 frequency* and contractors embraced our Journey to Zero safety (Injuries per 200,000 culture. 2011 was a peak year for implementing a set hours worked) of clear and consistent Process Safety standards across Suncor’s operations, a program we expect to complete Suncor employees 0.09 0.06 0.17 0.11 0.09 0.09 by 2013. Process Safety is targeted at the prevention of Suncor contractors 0.12 0.04 0.09 0.09 0.11 0.05 incidents that can result in significant injuries or fatalities, * Exposure hours and lost time injuries data, beginning in 2009, as well as environmental, health and property damage. includes consolidated post-merger data. Reduce our environmental footprint Suncor made progress on each of its four environmental performance goals to improve energy efficiency, achieve absolute reductions in fresh water consumption and air emissions, and increase land reclaimed by 2015. We continued to implement our TROTM tailings management approach that is expected to dramatically accelerate the reclamation of tailings ponds and mined lands and reduce the need for future tailings ponds. We also made significant advances in our Oil Sands Water Strategy – 2 Suncor Energy Inc. a systems-wide approach aimed at reducing our water withdrawal, increasing recycling of wastewater and tailings water and limiting overall tailings containment. Air 06 07 08 09 10 11 Address the climate change challenge emissions (thousand tonnes/year)* Absolute greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions at Suncor’s mineable Oil Sands stayed relatively stable in 2011, while emissions intensity declined by 13 per cent compared to Oil Sands 68.4 73.2 76.3 70.4 72.7 58.6 2010. Achieving these results in a year when Oil Sands Natural Gas 7.0 5.5 4.6 26.1 16.9 11.5 Refining & Marketing 6.1 6.0 5.5 21.8 16.0 17.5 posted record production reflects improved reliability and In Situ – – – 2.0 2.4 2.6 productivity of our operations – key objectives of International & Offshore – – – 7.6 6.9 5.3 our corporate-wide operational excellence strategy. St. Clair Ethanol Plant – 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.3 Suncor Energy 81.6 84.7 86.4 128.1 115.1 95.8 Suncor completed a $120 million expansion of our * Air emissions include SO2, NOx and VOC emissions. ethanol production facility and brought two additional wind power projects on stream in 2011 as part of our ongoing commitment to invest in renewable energy. Suncor sponsored a series of public workshops in 2011 to advance energy literacy and a systems-based approach to addressing energy and environmental challenges, including climate change. 2012 summary report on sustainability 3 Promote social responsibility Water withdrawal 06 07 08 09* 10 11 Suncor launched a bold new approach to investing in and consumption communities that will be phased in over the next five (million m3) years. The focus of our strategy is to target investments to help communities near Suncor’s operations grow, thrive and become sustainable. We also developed and adopted Water withdrawal 84.6 82.2 79.4 120.8 139.0 137.6 a new strategy to provide a more co-ordinated approach Water consumption 34.4 29.7 41.8 56.0 50.1 39.9 to working with Aboriginal businesses and communities * Beginning in 2009, includes consolidated post-merger data. to advance mutually beneficial economic development. Suncor adopted and began implementing a new Human Land use 06 07 08 09 10 11 Rights Policy across our operations. We also participated at Oil Sands in a United Nations Global Compact pilot project that (cumulative hectares) helped us identify and address gaps in our stakeholder relations and community investment practices, particularly as these related to operating in high-risk and conflictLand disturbed 13,093 15,447 17,749 17,161 19,737 20,023 (1) Land reclaimed 856 917 930 1,095 1,303 1,439 (2) affected areas. Per cent reclaimed 6.5 5.9 5.2 6.4 6.6 7.2 Generate prosperity and opportunity (1) Reduction in 2009 land disturbed is a result of the removal of In Situ data. In 2011, royalties paid by Suncor totalled approximately (2) Following Alberta Environment’s issuance of standards for Geographic Information Systems (GIS) spatial data reporting in 2010, Suncor re-digitized $2.27 billion, including $779 million directed to Alberta all permanent reclamation areas and removed disturbance feature types (such as roads, power lines, pipelines, etc.) that occurred post-reclamation. government oil sands royalties. Suncor also paid more This resulted in a removal of 96.3 hectares of re-disturbance from the total than $900 million in taxes to governments in Canada of reclaimed areas prior to 2010. As such, the changes in the reclamation areas for each year and the total area permanently reclaimed to the end of 2010 have been updated to reflect these changes. Suncor is aiming to reduce fresh water consumption by 12 per cent by 2015. 4 4 Suncor Energy Inc. and internationally, and spent $10.9 billion* on goods and services. Our supply chain spending showed we Net production 06 07 08 09 10 11 had vendors in all 10 Canadian provinces as well as (thousands of boe/day) the Northwest Territories and the Yukon. Advance collaboration Oil Sands 260.0 235.6 228.0 306.7 318.2 2 339.3 As part of the Oil Sands Leadership Initiative (OSLI), (including Syncrude) Suncor worked closely with five like-minded companies to Other 34.8 35.8 36.7 149.3 296.9 9 206.7 advance new technologies aimed at improving industry’s environmental and social performance. This collaboration continued with the formation of Canada’s Oil Sands Installed wind 06 07 08 09 10 11 Innovation Alliance (COSIA) earlier this year. For details capacity (megawatts)* on COSIA, please see page 16 of this report. * Excludes spend on goods and services in Libya and Syria. 71 147 147 147 147 255 * Production capacity at wind farms in which Suncor is a partner or operator. On the web: For our full report on our performance, including performance data, visit suncor.com/sustainability. Healthy Strong environment economy Sustainable development Social well-being Suncor pursues a “triple bottom line vision” of sustainable development: we maintain that energy development should occur in a way that provides economic prosperity, promotes social well-being and preserves a healthy environment. 2012 summary report on sustainability 5 2012 environment progress report FOCUS AREA 2011–12 GOALS Environment • Continue EEP development. • Provide numerical updates on progress toward Environmental environmental excellence goals. excellence plan • Integrate growth into the EEP plan. Water • Develop an oil sands regional water strategy implementation plan. Reduce fresh water • Assess potential for using EIMS to capture Goal consumption retail site, office building water data. by 12% by 2015* Land and • Plant five millionth tree on reclaimed lands. Increase reclamation** biodiversity • Assess potential for using EIMS to capture land use data. Goal of disturbed land area by 100% by 2015* Energy efficiency • Implement energy management system at Montreal, Edmonton refineries. Improve energy and climate change • Revisit future growth project designs to evaluate Goal efficiency*** GHG reduction opportunities. by 10% by 2015* • Advance work on GHG abatement technologies through CMC, ICO2N, CCP3 and other groups. Air emissions • Use EIMS to generate air-related emissions data for reporting purposes. Reduce air emissions (nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides Goal • Continue to invest in equipment and technology to achieve emissions reductions. and volatile organic compounds) • Continue to improve air emissions inventory. by 10% by 2015* Renewable energy • Bring Wintering Hills, Kent Breeze projects on stream. • Use EIMS to track the carbon amounts displaced from wind projects. Tailings • Complete commercial implementation across existing operations. • Work toward fluid tailings reduction targets. • Advance tailings management through collaboration. * The base year for the planned improvements is 2007. The goals were established in 2009. Goals are for operated assets only. ** Reclaimed oil sands lands have not been certified as such by government regulators. For further details on definition of reclaimed, see legal notice at the end of this publication. *** Suncor has developed a 2015 energy efficiency performance target and a complementary longer-term energy intensity goal. For further details please visit the website below. On the web, suncor.com: Further details on each goal and the associated performance metrics: About Suncor/What Guides Us/Environmental Performance Goals and Progress. 6 Suncor Energy Inc. These progress reports provide details on Suncor’s environmental and social performance. For detailed information about Suncor’s economic performance visit suncor.com and read our 2011 Annual Report. 2 0 1 1 – 1 2 R E S U LT S 2012–13 GOALS • First progress report on environmental performance goals included in • Continue EEP development and implementation. 2011 Report on Sustainability. • Execute projects identified to support • Oil Sands Ventures representatives added to Environmental Excellence environmental performance goals. Leadership steering team. • Begin process to develop next round • Increased utilization of the Environmental Excellence Fund (EEF) in 2011. of environmental performance goals. • Projects supporting environmental performance goals identified. • Considered Water Principles implementation in the context of • Develop an oil sands regional water strategy company-wide water strategy. implementation plan. • Identified water risks, opportunities at oil sands. • EIMS implementation continuing, with all • Expanded recycling treated wastewater to reduce fresh water use at oil sands. sites slated for water module completion • EIMS implementation of water module deferred to 2012. by end of Q1 2013. • Successfully marked planting of five millionth tree on oil sands site using • Advance reclamation techniques at oil sands local seed stock. mining operations. These include contouring • Wildlife observed returning to reclaimed lands include red fox, mule the land for a natural appearance, providing deer, sharp tailed grouse, black bear and Canadian Toad. suitable drainage and minimizing erosion by planting native trees, grasses and shrubs. • Implemented energy management system at Commerce City refinery. • Implement energy management system • Active on CMC board – and placed industry representative on research at Montreal and Edmonton refineries. management committee. • Revisit future growth project designs to evaluate GHG reduction opportunities. • Advance work on GHG abatement technologies through CMC, ICO2N, CCP3 and other groups. • Schedule the assessment of using EIMS for GHG forecasting. • EIMS implementation of air emissions module completed at most sites. • EIMS implementation continuing with remaining sites slated for completion by Q1 2013. • Continue to invest in equipment and technology to achieve emissions reductions. • Continue to improve air emissions inventory. • Completed ethanol plant expansion. • Evaluate new opportunities to build • Wintering Hills, Kent Breeze wind power projects brought online. renewables portfolio, with projects in • EIMS tool leveraged to track wind project carbon displacements. various states of development. • On track to complete more than $1 billion of infrastructure work to • Continue work toward fluid tailings reduction implement TRO TM process at oil sands. targets, and advance tailings management • Approach has enabled cancellation of plans for five additional tailings ponds. through collaboration with groups like OSTC, • Shared some proprietary rights to TRO TM process with OSLI. OSLI and COSIA. ™ Trademark of Suncor Energy Inc. 2012 summary report on sustainability 7 2012 social progress report FOCUS AREA 2011–12 GOALS Social • Continue to implement, sustain Journey to Zero through networks, leading/lagging metrics and governance. Safety, health • Continue to implement, sustain PSM through networks, leading/lagging metrics and governance. and security • Implement sustainability employee engagement plans. Social responsibility • SIMS implementation across all businesses. • Implementation of Aboriginal affairs strategy with a focus on human resources, business development. • Complete sustainable development and human rights policy, frameworks. • Implement external issues management process. Community • Implement new community investment strategy internally, externally. investment • Implement key action plans for the Wood Buffalo Capacity Building Initiative in conjunction with University of Waterloo and Wood Buffalo community leadership. • Facilitate collaborative community dialogues in at least two key focus areas. 8 Suncor Energy Inc. These progress reports provide details on Suncor’s environmental and social performance. For detailed information about Suncor’s economic performance visit suncor.com and read our 2011 Annual Report. 2 0 1 1 – 1 2 R E S U LT S 2012–13 GOALS • The lost time injury frequency among Suncor employees • Seek to eliminate all workplace incidents. and contractors declined from a rate of 0.11 in 2010 to • Continue to implement, sustain Journey to Zero through a rate of 0.06 in 2011 – an improvement of 45%. networks, leading/lagging metrics and governance. • The recordable injury frequency rate also declined, from 0.85 in 2010 to 0.73 in 2011 – a 14% improvement. • Suncor’s Process Safety program hit its peak in 2011 as the first site completed its implementation and the final three sites ramped up their plans for 2012. • Continued implementation of Stakeholder Information • Develop separate guidelines to address the challenges Management System (SIMS) in business units. of implementing Suncor’s Human Rights policy in • In 2011, Suncor began implementing a new Aboriginal conflict-affected areas. Relations policy and also developed a new Aboriginal • Create formal grievance mechanism within Stakeholder Economic Collaboration strategy. Relations framework. • Adopted a new Human Rights policy and began • Continue to develop and refine an effective tool for implementing it across operations as part of a broader assessing social risks. Human Rights framework and Sustainability framework. • Develop and launch Aboriginal training programs. • Participated in a United Nations Global Compact pilot • Develop Aboriginal employment strategy. project that helped identify gaps in existing human rights, stakeholder relations and community investment policies • Develop an implementation plan and pilot the Aboriginal and procedures. Economic Collaboration strategy. • Stakeholder training modules and Stakeholder Relations • Participate in the development of an end-to-end process guidelines developed. for issues management. • Worked with Sustainable Development to align an external • Conduct stakeholder research. issues management process. • Launched new approach to investing in communities in • Continued implementation of the new community 2011 (for further information, including more examples investment strategy in Suncor’s business units and of projects already being funded under our five priority areas, key communities. visit our website at suncor.com/community). • Strengthen communities by cultivating community leaders. • The SunCares Employee Grants program provided more • Support building skills and knowledge for the current and than 1,900 grants to help 990 organizations by distributing future workforce. nearly $1.03 million. • Foster the ability to think creatively through inspiring • In 2011, Suncor’s United Way campaign raised more innovation. than $6.2 million, including contributions from the Suncor Energy Foundation. • Build employee and volunteer capability by engaging citizens in community activities. • Suncor’s contribution to humanitarian relief efforts in 2011 totalled more than $258,000. 2012 summary report on sustainability 9 CEO’s message Suncor’s latest Report on Sustainability arrives at a pivotal Sustainable development – the visionary concept that moment. Rarely have the challenges – and opportunities advocates resources being produced and used in ways – of energy development been as clear-cut as they are that generate economic growth, create social benefits today. Yet the debate over our shared energy future and minimize the impact on the environment – has guided has never been so polarized. Clearly, it’s time for decision-making at Suncor for almost two decades. fresh perspective. A lot has changed during that time, as Suncor grew into Global energy demands are rising, but constructive, Canada’s largest integrated energy company. But through fact-based dialogue about meeting those demands it all, a sustainability vision served us well, encouraging seems sorely lacking. Whether the subject is climate early and proactive moves on climate change and change policy, pipelines or preferred energy sources, renewable energy; investment in technology to improve everyone is so busy taking sides we forget that, when operational reliability and environmental performance; it comes to responsibly developing tomorrow’s energy and firm commitments to stakeholder engagement, mix, we all need to be on the same team. community investment, and respecting human rights wherever we operate. All of us – industry, governments, researchers, consumers, environmental and social advocates and The genius of sustainable development is that it forces other stakeholders – have a role to play in mapping everyone to consider energy challenges and opportunities our energy future. What’s required is a renewed from multiple perspectives. That’s because the model is commitment to serious engagement, improved a three-legged stool: cut any of those legs short and the collaboration and mutual respect as we seek common balance required to support it is gone. solutions to shared challenges. So if too much emphasis is put on short-term economic As a starting point, I believe we need to get “back to gain at the expense of promoting strong communities or a the basics” by focusing on sustainable development, healthy environment, long-term economic costs are almost namely the triple bottom line. certain to occur. Frankly, our industry flirted with this kind of imbalance in the middle part of the last decade when oil sands producers, along with the rest of the Alberta economy, got caught up in a period of hyper-inflated, unsustainable growth. 10 Suncor Energy Inc. Similarly, if we look at energy development solely through For such a strategy to succeed, we will need to engage an environmental lens, other untenable implications every sector of our economy and all of our citizens in emerge. For example, if calls to severely curtail oil sands an informed dialogue about the role responsible energy development were heeded, it could have unintended development can play in supporting the kind of society consequences. The economic wealth generated by we want to create. How can our energy strengths today responsibly developing this resource base provides today’s – including the massive potential of the oil sands – bridge social benefit of good jobs and government revenues – us to a stronger energy future? And in addition to making while also generating the investment capital needed to all forms of energy production more sustainable, how can help realize tomorrow’s environmental technologies and we use energy more wisely as we plan our cities, heat our new energy sources. homes and offices and operate our transportation vehicles? So if the sustainability model is our strongest tool for Suncor’s continued support for the United Nations Global achieving a more sustainable energy future, how do Compact (UNGC) and the implementation of the UNGC’s we best wield that tool? In one word: collaboration. 10 principles led to another kind of collaboration in 2011 as we participated in the Global Compact’s pilot project It’s so easy to remain in our respective silos, defending on Responsible Business to ensure we are meeting the our own interests. It’s much harder to imagine what true guideline principles in the most robust way possible. progress looks like and build the bridges that will allow The pilot project also helped inform Suncor’s new us to move forward together. Human Rights policy, which we adopted and began One important level of collaboration in relation to the implementing in 2011. environment is with industry peers. The recent formation While we explore avenues for improved collaboration, of Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) is an Suncor will continue to lead by example. Our annual outstanding example. Report on Sustainability is a thorough and candid account COSIA brings together 12 of the largest companies of Suncor’s performance and the challenges we continue involved in Canada’s oil sands with a direct focus on to face. It also updates Suncor’s progress on our own performance improvements on four key environmental performance goals to achieve “beyond compliance” challenges: tailings, water, land and greenhouse gas reductions by 2015 in four key areas: water use, emissions. Member companies have agreed to break land disturbance, energy efficiency and air emissions. down some of the barriers of funding, intellectual At Suncor, we’ve always seen this report as more than property and human resources that sometimes impede just a corporate document; our hope is that it can also the discovery and implementation of breakthrough stimulate constructive dialogue on the challenges and technologies in these areas. choices associated with energy development. To that COSIA is building and expanding on the progress made in end, we’ve taken steps to make this year’s report more recent years by several industry research and development interactive so you can give us your feedback and keep organizations. By setting clear environmental goals, and the discussion going. working together to achieve real solutions, this new and I’ve always believed the best conversations start by larger alliance is taking collaboration and sustainable listening to the other person’s point of view. And though development to the next level. we may not agree on everything, we must agree on But collaboration on our shared energy future must this: no one has a monopoly on good ideas. With a go well beyond industry alliances. That’s why Suncor commitment to excellence and innovation, together participates in a number of multi-stakeholder we can build the sustainable energy future we all desire. organizations focused on continuous improvements in environmental and social performance. It’s also why our company remains a proactive advocate of developing a Canadian sustainable energy strategy – one that assesses the nation’s long-term energy requirements and identifies the mix of proven and potential energy sources Steve Williams that can best meet those demands. President and chief executive officer 2012 summary report on sustainability 11 Perspectives Environmental performance Responsible energy development means minimizing our impact on precious water, land and air resources. 12 Suncor Energy Inc. Water Suncor’s environmental performance goals Water affects every aspect of Suncor’s business. We use In 2009, we committed to a series of strategic water to separate the bitumen from the oil sands in our environmental performance goals. All of the proposed mining operations. In some cases, we use ground water reductions are absolute, except for energy efficiency, and treated wastewater to help provide steam at our which is intensity-based. These performance goals in situ oil sands facilities. Our refineries draw on various are challenging and will require significant resources water sources – including, in the case of our Edmonton (capital investments and people) and focus. Our refinery, recycled municipal wastewater from a nearby approach will be to assign the right resources at the treatment plant. Our offshore operations rely almost right time. Projects and initiatives supporting the entirely on seawater. goals have and will continue to be identified. Project Suncor is committed to using water wisely and well. execution and operational excellence is key to closing We recycle, reuse and look for alternative water sources gaps and achieving the goals. whenever possible. About 75 per cent of the water used at our oil sands mining operations is recycled tailings Indicator Environmental performance goal* water. More than 90 per cent of the water at our in situ facilities is recycled, and we use mostly saline groundwater Water Reduce fresh water consumption or recycled wastewater from our oil sands mining by 12% by 2015 operations as makeup sources. Oil sands mining represents Suncor’s biggest draw on Land Increase reclamation of disturbed fresh water resources. But we’ve made significant progress land area by 100% by 2015 in reducing our water demand. Suncor’s gross fresh water withdrawal from the Athabasca River has declined by Energy Improve energy efficiency 50 per cent since 2004. Water withdrawal is below 1998 efficiency** by 10% by 2015 levels, even though bitumen production has nearly tripled. In 2011 alone, Suncor’s fresh water withdrawal from the Air Reduce air emissions Athabasca River decreased 22 per cent from 2010. emissions by 10% by 2015 A key benchmark of progress is the amount of water * The base year for the planned improvements is 2007. The goals were consumed for each barrel of oil produced – or water established in 2009 and our business units address them in the annual consumption intensity. Water consumed is the quantity business and capital allocation planning cycles. of water used and not returned to its proximate source ** Suncor has developed a 2015 energy efficiency performance target and a complementary longer term energy intensity goal. For further details or no longer available for use. In 2011, Suncor’s oil sands please visit the website below. mining operations consumed 1.25 cubic metres of river water and groundwater to produce one cubic metre Emerging climate change policies indicate that of oil – a 70 per cent reduction in water consumption our goal of improving energy efficiency at our intensity since 2003. Suncor’s water consumption intensity facilities remains a relevant and appropriate goal. in 2011 was 39 per cent lower than in 2010. Advancement in technology is essential to making larger improvements in the long term. Suncor (continued on next page) is working with industry partners through organizations such as COSIA to accelerate the pace of improvement in environmental performance. On the web: Further details on each goal and the associated performance metrics: About Suncor/What Guides Us/Environmental Performance Goals and Progress. 2012 summary report on sustainability 13 In 2011, Suncor made significant progress in advancing We also took positive steps in 2011 toward developing our Oil Sands Water Strategy, aimed at achieving continuous a regional approach to optimize water management improvements in water use across our mining, in situ and practices well beyond our plant gates. In particular, upgrading operations. In particular, we are working to we worked with other oil sands producers to advance further reduce freshwater withdrawal; increase recycling opportunities to recycle tailings water from a number of wastewater and tailings water; and limit tailings water of oil sands mining operations to replace groundwater containment. We are beginning to execute a suite of currently used as makeup water to generate steam projects to help us achieve those objectives. at most of the region’s in situ operations. For example, in 2011 we commissioned a project to take Air wastewater from our upgrading ponds and reuse it as Suncor is committed to managing air quality near our makeup water in a delayed coker. A second project recycled operations and is working on achieving a 10 per cent water from our upgrading ponds for utility water. The next absolute reduction in air emissions (nitrogen oxides, step is to build the infrastructure to send treated tailings sulphur oxides and volatile organic compounds) by 2015 water from our oil sands mine for reuse in our Firebag as compared to 2007. Overall, total reported air emissions operation – a project slated for implementation in 2013. in 2011 decreased by 17 per cent compared to 2010 That same year, we expect to begin operating a new levels. This was primarily due to the full effect of the $150 million wastewater treatment facility that will allow 2010, and partial realization of the 2011, divestments us to take wastewater from our upgrading pond and of non-core assets within our Exploration & Production reuse it in our operations or return it to the environment. business unit, as well as the installation of a key air At that point, we expect to have reduced our river water pollution control technology within our In Situ business withdrawal by about 75 per cent compared to 2007. unit – and an improved methodology update for a significant emissions source within our oil sands business. Suncor’s performance goals are challenging and will require significant resources and focus. 14 Suncor Energy Inc. In 2011, Suncor marked the planting of the five millionth tree on our oil sands site. Land and biodiversity In 2011, Suncor continued to work collaboratively with the other five member companies of the Oil Sands Since oil sands production began in 1967, Suncor has Leadership Initiative (OSLI) to address the cumulative disturbed 20,023 hectares of land through our mining impacts of development. OSLI continued to refine a new operations. As of the end of 2011, we had reclaimed* database and modelling tool to better understand how 1,439 hectares, or about seven per cent of the total. today’s reforestation and reclamation work will affect the Our goal is to return all disturbed lands to as close health of tomorrow’s boreal forest. We also participated to a natural state as possible. in several initiatives to address forest fragmentation, which Between 2010 and the end of 2012, Suncor expects is caused by linear disturbances such as seismic lines and to have spent more than $1 billion to implement our pipeline corridors, and affects the habitat of woodland new TROTM process, which is expected to significantly caribou and other wildlife. In 2011, OSLI strategically accelerate the rate of land and tailings reclamation, planted 600,000 trees in disturbed areas across the eliminate the need for new tailings ponds at existing mine oil sands region. operations and, in the years ahead, reduce the number of tailings ponds at the present mine site. Suncor is targeting * Reclaimed lands have not been certified as such by government regulators. For further details on definition of reclaimed, see legal notice at the end of this publication. a 100 per cent increase in land area reclaimed* by 2015. In September 2011, Suncor marked the planting of the five millionth tree on our oil sands site. Canada’s boreal forest is home to the oil sands, and Suncor On the web: More details on Suncor’s strives to protect this valuable ecosystem. We work with environmental performance, including the Alberta Conservation Association to voluntarily conserve water management and water quality environmentally sensitive boreal habitats. Suncor is also a strategies, our TROTM tailings management member of the Boreal Leadership Council, comprised of process and spills and waste management conservation groups, First Nations, resource companies procedures: Environment. and financial institutions with a stake in the future of ™ Trademark of Suncor Energy Inc. Canada’s boreal forest. Council members are signatories to the Boreal Forest Conservation Framework – a groundbreaking national conservation vision. 2012 summary report on sustainability 15 Collaboration Creating our energy future together As Suncor prepared its latest Report on Sustainability, of engaging industry, governments, consumers and it was impossible to ignore the increasingly polarized everyone else with a stake in our energy future in nature of the public debate over energy policy. At a a reasonable, fact-based dialogue on the path forward. time of significant energy and environmental challenges, The good news is that, at the industry level, the collaboration often seemed to be taking a back seat to momentum toward positive collaboration on the confrontation. As a result, we decided to focus on the environment has never been stronger. This was reinforced theme of “Creating our energy future together.” by the March 2012 formation of Canada’s Oil Sands In this print edition of our 2012 Report on Sustainability Innovation Alliance (COSIA), an alliance of 12 companies – and in much greater detail in the website version of the representing 80 per cent of Canadian oil sands same report – readers will find several examples of how production. COSIA will build on the work of other energy companies are collaborating with each other, environmental collaborative industry organizations, and with stakeholders, to improve environmental and including the Oil Sands Leadership Initiative, which Suncor social performance. There has been significant progress, helped found in 2010. But we believe COSIA involves a but much more needs to be done, particularly in terms level of collaboration that’s unprecedented anywhere in the global energy industry. Why do we think that? First, there’s the potential to share research and best practices. Then there’s the commitment “ to set and meet specific environmental performance Whether you are an oil sands goals – until now, Suncor has been the only oil sands company to do that. Finally, oversight of COSIA will, for producer or a Greenpeace the first time, come directly from the CEOs of the member activist, we all basically want companies – people with a knack for getting things done. the same things – to build a Significantly, COSIA is also expected to draw on the input and knowledge of governments, scientists, academics and strong society with vibrant Aboriginal and community groups, among others. This communities, a healthy is critical because, in recent years, there’s actually been a decline in effective multi-stakeholder engagement environment and educational in the energy policy sphere – an unfortunate casualty and job opportunities for our of the polarization that sometimes sees short-term kids. When it comes to our tactical considerations prevail over what makes sense in the longer term. shared energy future, we need to get beyond our differences to what unites us. We need to ” build bridges rather than walls. Gord Lambert Suncor’s vice president, Sustainability 16 Suncor Energy Inc. “ I also firmly believe that having a positive, optimistic vision of what the future can look like really helps when working to solve difficult challenges.” Gord Lambert What’s still largely missing is broad public engagement “I’m concerned so much recent public discourse has taken in the debate over our shared energy future. That’s why, a negative tone,” says Suncor’s Gord Lambert, vice president, for example, Suncor has been such a strong proponent Sustainability. “It’s so easy to stay in our silos, lobbing of a national discussion on a long-term sustainable energy verbal grenades at each other. It’s much harder to work on strategy for Canada. What we all have in common is real solutions to our energy and environmental challenges that we use energy in various forms every minute and and have a positive vision of what the future can look like. every day. Therefore, we should all have a say in mapping It’s harder – but it’s also essential.” our energy future. Suncor has a strong track record of engaging with the communities where we operate and with all our stakeholders, including critics of the oil sands industry. We believe no one has a monopoly on good ideas and that a big part of our job is to listen closely to stakeholders’ concerns and respond in a timely and appropriate manner. But engagement is a two-way street. On the web: A conversation with Gord Lambert on the opportunities and challenges of collaboration: About Suncor/Corporate Governance/Collaboration. 2012 summary report on sustainability 17 Perspectives An integrated approach to climate change Suncor believes addressing the climate change challenge is both a corporate and a societal responsibility. We work within our plant gates to improve energy efficiency, invest in renewable energy and better manage our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 18 Suncor Energy Inc. Increasingly, we also collaborate with industry peers, 5. Collaborate on policy development: Suncor continued governments, researchers, academics and other to consult with provincial, state and federal governments stakeholders on emissions-reducing technologies and on energy and climate change policy (for details see opportunities. We understand that making meaningful the Public Policy Participation section below). progress on climate change involves fundamental choices 6. Educate employees and the public: Suncor about how societies produce, use and distribute energy. sponsored a series of Pollution Probe workshops designed to advance energy literacy and a systemsSuncor’s climate change action plan based approach to thinking about energy. Suncor recognized early on that climate change would be 7. Measure and report our progress: Suncor files an important issue for our company and our stakeholders. annually on our GHG emissions to provincial, state and That’s why we introduced a seven-point action plan in federal authorities. We continue to report our overall 1997. Guided by this plan, we’ve made substantial progress on managing GHG emissions to all stakeholders progress in reducing the overall carbon intensity of through our annual Report on Sustainability and the our operations (i.e., the amount of carbon emitted for Carbon Disclosure Project. each barrel or cubic metre of oil produced). We’ve also made significant investments in renewable energy and Public policy participation in research on potential long-term solutions to deal with increases in absolute GHG emissions associated As Canada’s largest energy company – and the fifth largest with industry growth. in North America – Suncor is an active participant, and engaged stakeholder, in public policy discussions on A snapshot of our progress on the seven-point plan energy and the environment. in 2011: In advocating on energy policy issues, Suncor seeks to 1. Manage our own emissions: Continued balance our role in providing a safe, affordable and secure improvements in reliability and productivity, particularly supply of energy to society with the need to produce in our Oil Sands operations, produced further emissions and use energy in a more sustainable manner – as well intensity reductions (for details see the 2011 GHG as remaining economically competitive as an industry Performance section). and recognizing our fiduciary duty to our shareholders. 2. Develop renewable sources of energy: Suncor We strive to be a responsible partner in the energy system opened two new wind power farms in 2011; we now and we seek out opportunities to promote constructive operate six wind projects in three provinces. We also dialogue on transforming that energy system and doubled the capacity of our ethanol production plant improving sustainability. near Sarnia, Ont. Suncor believes strongly in the promise of technology 3. Invest in environmental and economic research: and innovation to mitigate the environmental impact Suncor continued to work through organizations of both producing and using fossil fuel-based energy, as like the Integrated CO2 Network (ICO2N), Carbon well as enabling alternative energy. Suncor also supports Management Canada (CMC) and the CO2 Capture initiatives and policies to promote energy efficiency and Project (CCP) to advance potential long-term climate conservation – key leverage points for reducing energychange solutions, including carbon capture and related greenhouse gas emissions. storage (CCS). Suncor continues to be a strong advocate of a national 4. Use domestic and international offsets: Suncor’s sustainable energy strategy for Canada. We believe wind farm joint ventures continued to generate offset that, as a nation, we should assess our likely energy credits, and we remained involved in a number of requirements 10, 20 and even 50 years down the road, emissions trading initiatives. and determine the mix of proven and potential energy resources that can best meet those requirements. 2012 summary report on sustainability 19 Targets and goals for reducing GHG emissions would be Real progress can only be realized if all three aspects an integral part of such a national strategy – and it would of emissions are addressed – namely fuel properties, need to look at how energy is both produced and used. vehicle efficiency and total demand for transport. Improved vehicle efficiency, better building construction As an energy producer, Suncor can directly address the standards and more mass transit could all be key elements. issue of fuel properties – or more specifically, fuel carbon In this way, a sound national energy strategy would also intensity. Approximately 20 to 25 per cent of the full life serve as a national climate change strategy. cycle emissions of transportation fuels occur during the In 2011, Suncor advanced this discussion through the extraction, upgrading and refining, and transportation Energy Policy Institute of Canada and several other of the fuel. That is why Suncor places a high priority on forums. This work resulted in engaging the provincial energy efficiency. Blending biofuels into transportation Energy Ministers in a dialogue at Kananaskis, Alta., fuel also reduces its carbon intensity. Suncor has been in July and a commitment to develop several ideas for a supporter of biofuels since 1992 and is currently the the 2012 Energy Ministers meeting. largest biofuel producer in Canada. Suncor continued to be a participant in a consultation But to make a step change in reducing production-end process with Environment Canada on sector-specific GHG emissions will require game-changing technologies. climate change regulation. We believe setting a carbon Suncor continues to investigate research in potential price through a technology fund is a key mechanism solutions around in situ recovery, steam generation, to promote the long-term competitiveness of Canada’s geothermal energy and gasification. energy industry. A second key lever is improving the efficiency of fuel use Suncor participated in a public consultation process in of vehicles. Approximately 75 to 80 per cent of the life 2011 that led to Quebec approving new regulations on cycle emissions of gasoline or diesel occur when the fuel a cap-and-trade system for GHG emission allowances. is combusted in the vehicle engine. Driven by government We also provided input on amendments and reviews regulation, vehicle manufacturers are steadily optimizing related to low carbon fuel standard (LCFS) initiatives fuel use efficiency. At the same time, Suncor continually in British Columbia and California. invests in improving the quality of its fuels so that, by burning cleaner, they will help maintain the overall Tackling the mobility challenge efficiency of vehicle engines. One of the biggest single emissions-producing components The third critical element is reducing the total distance of the energy system is the transportation sector. In that vehicles travel. Good public transit and urban planning Canada, approximately 29 per cent of GHG emissions are both key. Suncor is a supporter of QUEST, an organization come from the transportation sector, and just over half of that promotes an integrated, community-based approach that is personal transportation. Reducing emissions from to resolving energy and environmental challenges. this sector is, therefore, a critical piece of any national Tackling mobility emissions will be perhaps the biggest single climate change and energy strategy. It’s also the toughest energy challenge of the coming decades. Few other sectors sector to tackle as mobility is at the core of our economy rely so heavily on personal choices. As a partner in our and quality of life. shared energy future, Suncor actively supports advancing energy literacy and a systems-based approach to designing, planning and developing mobility in the future. On the web: More details on all of the above at Environment/Climate Change. 20 Suncor Energy Inc. 2011 GHG performance Our Report on Sustainability provides an annual accounting volumes. For the purposes of our sustainability report, of Suncor’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, both in total production in 2011 was approximately 49 million terms of absolute emissions and emissions intensity. The cubic metres (300 million boe), compared to 51 million latter is calculated by using full-year net production and cubic metres (320 million boe) in 2010. the carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emitted. Please note: the sum of the Suncor facilities production will not equal the reported net corporate production. Production Interand intra-business unit product transfers (hydrocarbon As reported in our 2011 Annual Report, total upstream streams that pass through more than one Suncor facility) production averaged 546,000 barrels of oil equivalent are removed from the corporate and business unit (boe) through the course of 2011, compared to totals to give the net production. This is done to prevent 615,000 boe in 2010. The decrease was primarily due double-counting of hydrocarbon streams sent for further to dispositions of non-core natural gas and international processing within the company. Individual facility intensities assets. Oil Sands production (excluding Syncrude) are calculated based on gross facility production; business averaged a record 304,700 barrels per day in 2011. unit intensities are calculated based on gross production totals minus intra-business unit material transfers, and Production numbers in Suncor’s Annual Report are for the corporate GHG intensity is calculated based on net upstream volumes only, and include production from corporate production, which also removes inter-business non-operated assets. This differs from production numbers unit transfers. used in Suncor’s Report on Sustainability, which include only operated facilities, but also include downstream Using globally accepted GRI protocols, Suncor’s reported absolute corporate GHG emissions intensity dropped slightly in 2011 over 2010. 2012 summary report on sustainability 21 Absolute emissions and emissions intensity Oil Sands Absolute full-year CO2e emissions in 2011 totalled Absolute emissions at Suncor’s mineable Oil Sands 18.7 million tonnes, compared to 19.3 million tonnes operations decreased by three per cent in 2011. Emissions in 2010 – a 2.7 per cent or 520-kilotonne decrease. This intensity decreased by 13 per cent compared to 2010. was mainly due to asset dispositions in Exploration & The intensity reductions were primarily due to improved Production, improved performance and reliability at reliability and productivity. In sum: a reliable, highly utilized Oil Sands and decreases at some Refining & Marketing plant is much more energy efficient than an unreliable, facilities. These factors helped offset emissions increases under-utilized plant. due to the commissioning of the Firebag 3 and St. Clair Ethanol plant expansion projects. In Situ Using globally accepted GRI protocols, Suncor’s reported Both absolute emissions and emissions intensity at our corporate GHG emissions intensity increased by 1.5 per cent in situ oil sands operations increased by 26 per cent and in 2011 from 2010. Intensity increases at our In Situ 20 per cent respectively in 2011 due to the commissioning operations due to the commissioning of Firebag 3 were of our Firebag 3 expansion project. The rise in absolute partially offset by intensity decreases at Oil Sands and emissions reflects extra steaming to warm the new North American Onshore. reservoirs that had only increased production by five per cent at year end; this is expected to improve to historical intensity levels in subsequent years. (continued on page 24) Suncor Energy GHG emissions 90 00 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 actual (1990 – 2011) and estimates (2012 – 2016) (1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7)(8)(9) thousand tonnes CO2 equivalents (CO2e) Actual Estimated CO2e emissions (thousand tonnes CO2e) 4,832 7,783 11,829 12,120 11,508 19,854 19,260 18,739 19,138 20,480 20,448 21,333 21,884 Suncor Energy GHG emissions intensity 90 00 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 actual (1990 – 2011) and estimates (2012 – 2016) (1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7)(8)(9) tonnes CO2e/cubic metres of oil equivalent (m3OE) Actual Estimated CO2e emissions intensity (tonnes CO2e/m3OE) 0.570 0.402 0.440 0.454 0.438 0.375 0.378 0.383 0.302 0.310 0.299 0.307 0.314 (1) Estimates are based on current production forecasts and methodologies. The tables contain (7) The Business-As-Usual (BAU) line shown in previous years has been removed as it is no forward-looking estimates and users of this information are cautioned that the actual longer applicable to the merged company. A new BAU line may be added in the future GHG emissions and emission intensity may vary materially from the estimates contained once a new baseline has been developed. in the table. (8) The Suncor-wide emissions intensity uses Net Production, which is the sum of Gross Facility (2) Data from 1990 to 2000 does not include Suncor’s U.S. operations. Production minus all internal intraand inter-BU product transfers, to remove any double (3) Data includes direct and indirect CO2e emissions. counting. The sum of the BU intensities will therefore not equal the Suncor-wide intensity. (4) Data and estimates for 2007 forward include the St. Clair ethanol plant. (9) The 2010 number reported in 2012 is different from the 2010 number reported in 2011; emissions from purchased hydrogen have been reclassified from Scope 2 to Scope 3 on (5) Data and estimates have changed from previous year’s reports due to Oil Sands the recommendation of our external third party verifier. methodology changes that reflect the inclusion of biomass, a methodology change in the calculation of fugitive emissions using LDAR data, and revisions to emissions factors based Definitions: upon AENV’s request. These changes are also consistent with the methodology used for Direct GHG emissions: Emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the SGER Bill 3 reporting. reporting company. (6) Data for 2009 and future years includes the full-year emissions for all Petro-Canada Indirect GHG emissions: Emissions that are a consequence of the operations of the operated properties acquired in the 2009 merger, even though the merger did not close reporting company, but occur at sources owned or controlled by another company until August 1, 2009. This is to allow for a consistent comparison to past and future years. (e.g., purchased electricity, steam, or hydrogen). For certain business units (BU’s), combined Suncor / Petro-Canada data is provided for some years prior to 2009 but this is not reflected in the Suncor-wide roll-up. Absolute (total) emissions: The total GHG emissions (direct and indirect emissions) of a facility or reporting company. Emission intensity: Ratio that express GHG impact per unit of physical activity or unit of economic value (e.g., here it is tonnes of CO2e emissions per unit of gross processed 22 Suncor Energy Inc. volume in cubic metres). Suncor strongly believes in the promise of technology and innovation to mitigate environmental impact. Oil Sands GHG emissions 90 00 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 actual (1990 – 2011) and estimates (2012 – 2016) (1)(2)(3)(4)(5) thousand tonnes CO2 equivalents (CO2e) Actual Estimated CO2e emissions (thousand tonnes CO2e) 3,631 5,564 9,307 9,552 9,056 9,188 8,837 8,560 10,019 10,077 10,252 10,298 10,050 Business as usual (BAU) CO2e emissions 3,631 8,150 18,340 16,686 16,252 19,315 17,938 19,987 22,960 22,120 24,328 24,797 23,187 (thousand tonnes CO2e) Oil Sands GHG emissions intensity 90 00 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 actual (1990 – 2011) and estimates (2012 – 2016) (1)(2)(3)(4)(5) tonnes CO2e/cubic metres of oil equivalent (m3OE) Actual Estimated CO2e emission intensity (tonnes CO2e/m3OE) 1.196 0.817 0.607 0.685 0.667 0.569 0.589 0.512 0.522 0.545 0.504 0.497 0.518 Business as usual (BAU) CO2e emissions intensity 1.196 1.196 1.196 1.196 1.196 1.196 1.196 1.196 1.196 1.196 1.196 1.196 1.196 (tonnes CO2e/m3OE) (1) Estimates are based on current production forecast and methodologies. The tables contain (4) Historical Environment data for Oil Sands from 2005 to 2008 includes our Firebag forward-looking estimates and users of this information are cautioned that the actual in situ operation, where appropriate, as well as our mining operations. In 2009 GHG emissions and emission intensity may vary materially from the estimates contained In Situ (Firebag and MacKay) began reporting as its own business unit. Data for 2009 in the table. and 2010 includes only Oil Sands base plant mining / extraction / upgrading and cogen (2) Data includes direct and indirect CO2e emissions. operations. The Poplar Creek cogen is owned and operated by a third party but is part of the Suncor operating agreement and air licence, and therefore all cogen emissions (3) Data and estimates have changed from previous year’s report due to Oil Sands count toward our total direct emissions. methodology changes that reflect the inclusion of biomass, a methodology change in the calculation of fugitive emissions using LDAR data, and revisions to emission factors (5) The GHG volumes from 2009 have been restated due to a change in hydrogen plant based upon AENV’s request. These changes are also consistent with the methodology allocation and diesel emission methodology. used for SGER Bill 3 reporting. 2012 summary report on sustainability 23 In 1997, Suncor introduced a seven-point action plan to help us reduce the overall carbon intensity of our operations. (continued from page 22) The rise in emissions intensity is due to the fact that, increased by 47 per cent. As oil fields mature, the total during the initial months of a new in situ plant, significant amount of fluid produced is often roughly stable but the steaming is required to condition the “cold” reservoir, water fraction increases; oil production decreases but the but production rates are limited. As production ramps up, equipment needed to move the total fluid still has to emissions intensity should decline. Reported MacKay River work as hard as ever to accommodate the extra water. emissions have increased somewhat due to a change in North American Onshore emissions dropped mainly due to reporting methodology for indirect offsite emissions; asset sales of older properties, and improved performance direct emissions dropped slightly. at Hanlan Robb gas plant. Absolute emissions dropped by Both absolute emissions and emissions intensity rates at 39 per cent and intensity improved 21 per cent over the Firebag 1 and Firebag 2 remained relatively stable in 2011. previous year. Exploration & Production Refining & Marketing Terra Nova emissions were essentially unchanged over Emissions in 2011 at our R&M facilities decreased by 2010, but production was lower due to natural reservoir 2.8 per cent compared to 2010, while GHG intensity declines and 27 days of planned downtime for maintenance; decreased by less than three per cent. therefore, the emissions intensity per cubic metre of oil On the web: For more information on Suncor’s GHG performance see: our web report at Environment / Climate Change. 24 Suncor Energy Inc. Climate change crossroads The United Nations Durban Conference of the Parties As Canada’s largest integrated energy company, Suncor in late 2011 made surprising progress toward an recognizes it’s part of the problem when it comes to the international climate change treaty to succeed the Kyoto climate change challenge, but we also firmly believe we Protocol. Whereas only 37 countries agreed to binding can be part of the solution. We see a positive role for targets under Kyoto, the Durban agreement saw all 194 the oil sands industry to play in providing much-needed countries agreeing to formally commit to a “bottom up” energy, economic growth and social benefits for today approach, whereby each country may set its own policies while generating the investment revenue and tax revenues to reach their respective greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions required to develop tomorrow’s alternative energy sources reduction targets. and progressive environmental technologies. It will take a lot of negotiations between now and 2015 But a company like Suncor represents just one end of to put in place, by 2020, a new legally binding treaty. the energy system spectrum. A much broader societal It is not yet clear that the major economies are really on consensus will be required to transform the energy board – a necessity if the United States is to participate. system in ways that significantly affect climate change. China and India are concerned about the impact of emission We will also need to unleash the innovation that’s at reduction targets on economic growth. Executing climate the heart of the proposed Durban process – each nation change strategies fair to the developed and developing leveraging its respective energy strengths to protect worlds alike remains a critical challenge. competitive advantages while also addressing social So where to from here? Much of the frustration at the and environmental shortfalls. By making progress on failure of Kyoto arose from the assumption that climate many fronts, we have the opportunity to make progress change is simply an environmental problem. It’s time to where it really counts. seek a new perspective. Climate change is largely an energy problem, and one of the keys to managing this issue is transforming the energy system – the way we produce, use and distribute energy. Complicating the transition is what Suncor has often described as “the energy dilemma” – the fact global energy “ demand is rising while supply of conventional crude oil is increasingly restricted. How do we responsibly produce and We need to move beyond seeing use the energy our economies require while also mitigating environmental concerns, including climate change? climate change simply as an Resolving the energy dilemma begins with looking environmental issue; it’s about through a systems-wide lens and making some tough, transforming an energy system yet critical, choices. So, for example, it’s not as simple as saying, “Let’s get rid of coal in favour of wind power.” that links us all. The challenges You have to weigh the trade-offs involved and the impact are complex, but the good news ” on end users – in other words, all of us. At the end of the day, we need our cities to function and the lights to go is that progress is possible. on when the switch is flicked. Fiona Jones Suncor’s director, Energy and Climate Change Policy 2012 summary report on sustainability 25 Perspectives Social performance Suncor strives to be a good corporate citizen. That includes ensuring workplace safety, respecting human rights, investing in strong communities and working constructively with our Aboriginal neighbours. 26 Suncor Energy Inc. Safety Since 1998, Suncor Energy and the company’s charitable foundation, the SEF, have contributed more than $130 Suncor always ranks safety as our top priority, and safety million to communities. But Suncor’s 2009 merger with leadership is one of the six core Suncor values. We believe Petro-Canada created a unique opportunity to re-evaluate all workplace incidents are preventable and no job is too our existing community investment strategy and consider urgent or routine that it cannot be done safely. Suncor how we might work collaboratively with key communities seeks to eliminate all workplace incidents – a goal summed and partners to have the most positive long-term impact. up in the title of our “Journey to Zero” safety program. Suncor’s new Community Investment Strategy defines a Suncor continues to make progress on reaching our safety sustainable community as a place where there is a high goals. The lost time injury frequency among employees quality of life that attracts people and keeps them there; and contractors declined from a rate of 0.11 in 2010 to an abundance of clean, natural resources; and ample a rate of 0.06 in 2011, an improvement of 45 per cent. economic opportunity. The recordable injury frequency rate declined from 0.85 in 2010 to 0.73 in 2011, an improvement of 14 per cent. By leveraging Suncor’s strengths as an integrated energy However, the death of an FT Services employee at Suncor’s company, we believe we can be an effective partner in Firebag in situ site in August 2011 reminds us that our supporting sustainable communities. That’s why, going Journey to Zero is far from complete. forward, Suncor will focus its investments in five key areas to support integrated initiatives that: 2011 was a peak year in the implementation of Suncor’s comprehensive Process Safety program, part of our • strengthen communities by cultivating corporate-wide operational excellence strategy. Process community leaders Safety is targeted at the prevention of incidents that • support building skills and knowledge can result in significant fatalities and injuries as well for the current and future workforce as environmental, health and property damage. By • foster the ability to think creatively through the end of 2013, all of Suncor’s major facilities will inspiring innovation have implemented action plans for improved performance • build employee and volunteer capability based on a set of consistent Process Safety standards. As by engaging citizens in community activities this four-year program nears completion, focus is shifting to sustaining safety gains over the long term. • actively engage employees and communities in collaborating on our shared energy future. Our stakeholders Collaboration is at the heart of our new approach. 2011 was a pivotal year for Suncor in terms of how we Working collaboratively will help us find and realize engage and interact with our stakeholders. It marked the possibilities together for pursuing long-term solutions that culmination of a series of policy and strategy reviews that can positively affect communities, future generations and began in the wake of the 2009 merger between Suncor our company. It will also ensure we continue to understand and Petro-Canada. In 2011, we began to implement new each other’s interests, issues, needs and concerns. Stakeholder Relations and Aboriginal Relations policies. We expect it could take upwards of five years to fully We also developed and adopted a new Community shift the focus of our community investments in this Investment strategy and a new Human Rights policy. new direction. All existing commitments to charitable This was all part of a concerted effort to ensure that, and not-for-profit groups will be honoured; however, wherever we operate, our stakeholder, community and renewal requests and new funding requests will be human rights practices reflect consistent values and assessed to ensure they align with the five priority complement and reinforce each other. areas described above. Community investment After much reflection, research and consultation, Suncor and the Suncor Energy Foundation (SEF) launched a bold new approach to investing in communities in 2011. The By the end of 2013, all of Suncor’s major focus of our strategy is to target investments in ways facilities will have implemented action plans intended to help communities near Suncor’s operations for improved performance based on a set of grow, thrive and become sustainable. consistent Process Safety standards. 2012 summary report on sustainability 27 Aboriginal relations in December 2011, we developed a new Aboriginal Economic Collaboration strategy that focuses on four Many of Suncor’s operations are located on or near the key objectives: increasing procurement and commercial traditional lands of Aboriginal peoples. As a responsible activities with established, capable and competitive energy developer, Suncor takes into account Aboriginal Aboriginal businesses; becoming a leader in capability issues and concerns about the effects, positive and development with emerging Aboriginal businesses; negative, of energy development on communities and investing Suncor resources in community-driven Aboriginal current uses of land and resources. We are committed to economic development; and establishing strategic working closely with Aboriginal peoples and communities alliances with external organizations. to build and maintain effective, long-term and mutually beneficial relationships. Human rights In 2011, Suncor began implementing a revised Aboriginal In 2011, Suncor adopted a new Human Rights policy and Relations policy that is guided by the following principles: began implementing it across our operations. Our policy respect for the unique legal and constitutional rights of recognizes Suncor has a responsibility to respect human Aboriginal peoples as well as for their history, customs, rights and to ensure we are not complicit in human rights beliefs and traditions; timely communication and abuses. Our responsibility to respect human rights applies consultation; sharing the economic and social benefits to all of our activities and to our business relationships of energy development; and a strong commitment to with others. environmental responsibility. Suncor participated in 2011 in a United Nations Global Since 1992, Suncor has spent more than $1.9 billion Compact pilot project that helped us identify and address on goods and services from Aboriginal companies that gaps in our stakeholder relations and community investment serve the Wood Buffalo region. But we recognize that policies and procedures, particularly as these related to supporting Aboriginal economic development is about operating in high-risk and conflict-affected areas. more than purchasing goods and services. That’s why, We are committed to working closely with Aboriginal peoples and communities. 28 Suncor Energy Inc. Building a culture and workplace where employees take pride in their success is an important part of our journey. Recommendations flowing from the pilot project helped Our employees inform the drafting of our Human Rights policy and are Our 13,000-plus employees are an important part of our being implemented as we move forward on refining journey to become Canada’s integrated energy company, and standardizing our social responsibility practices in focused on operational excellence and growth – with the politically sensitive jurisdictions. assets, people and financial strength to compete globally. In February 2011, we suspended our oil operations in Libya Building a culture and workplace where employees take and evacuated all of our expatriate staff, due to growing pride in their success is an important part of our journey; conflict in that country. We began a gradual return to the our employees continue to play a central role by living country during the fourth quarter following a change in the values and behaviours we need to achieve Suncor’s the political regime and the lifting of sanctions. business goals and ensure we continue to be a great Through much of 2011, we responded to escalating place to work. conflict in Syria by working though a number of safety and security protocols, while also maintaining a strong focus on corporate social responsibility. Ultimately, we suspended our natural gas and oil operations in Syria to comply with sanctions announced in December. In both countries, we will continue to closely monitor the situation, and ensuring the safety of our employees remains our top priority. We have been consistent in our On the web: François Langlois, senior position that we will not operate in either country, unless vice president, Exploration & Production, talks we can do so safely, responsibly and in compliance with about the challenges of operating in higherinternational law. risk jurisdictions: Social/Social Responsibility/ Operating Internationally. Also: more features and details on Suncor’s new Stakeholder Relations, Aboriginal Relations, Community Investment and Human Rights policies and strategies. 2012 summary report on sustainability 29 Perspectives Economic performance A vibrant energy industry acts as an engine for the larger economy, creating well-paying jobs, promoting economic growth and providing governments and suppliers with valuable revenues. In Suncor’s case, economic success also allows us to make significant investments in our renewable energy business and in new technologies to improve environmental performance. 30 Suncor Energy Inc. In 2011, Suncor’s integrated business model demonstrated • Suncor reported net earnings of $4.304 billion in 2011, its full value. Our capacity to upgrade bitumen and refine compared to $3.829 billion in 2010. Operating earnings crude oil in-house allowed us to maximize the margin were $5.674 billion, compared to $2.634 billion in on the barrels of oil we produce, contributing to record 2010, while cash flow from operations was $9.746 annual operating earnings and cash flow from operations. billion, compared to $6.656 billion in 2010. These In the last two years, Suncor has reduced its net debt by record financial results were primarily due to higher nearly half, to just below $7 billion. Going forward, our upstream price realizations and downstream refining strengthened balance sheet positions us to fund base margins, as well as increased production from Oil Sands. operations and capital growth primarily through internally • Suncor’s common share price closed at $29.38 on the generated revenues. Toronto Stock Exchange on December 31, 2011. Our Suncor continued to invest in its renewable energy focus remains on building long-term shareholder value. portfolio in 2011, adding two new wind power projects and doubling the capacity of our ethanol production Contribution to economy facility. By the end of 2012, we expect our existing and • In 2011, royalties paid by Suncor totalled $2.271 billion, planned investments in renewable energy to total about including $799 million directed to the Alberta government $750 million. By the same point, we expect to have spent related to oil sands royalties. As well, Suncor paid income more than $1 billion over two years to implement new taxes of approximately $900 million to governments in technologies to rapidly accelerate the reclamation of oil Canada and internationally. sands mine tailings. • Capital spending in 2011 totalled $6.9 billion, 2011 also marked the first full year of Suncor’s 10-year compared to $6.0 billion in 2010. growth strategy to increase our total production to more • Suncor spent $10.9 billion* on goods and services in than one million barrels of oil equivalent per day by 2020. 2011. A look at our supply chain spending shows we Of that planned production, it’s expected approximately had more than 11,000 Canadian vendors spanning all four of every five barrels will flow from the oil sands. 10 provinces as well as the Northwest Territories and By sharing and sequencing the investment on some major the Yukon. The United States was our next biggest projects with joint venture owners, and by staging our supplier (more than 2,000 vendors), although we also stand-alone projects in manageable pieces, we are setting purchased from 43 other countries. The range of goods the stage for a period of disciplined, lower-risk growth. and services is extensive and includes: heavy equipment, As we grow, Suncor will remain focused on safe, reliable drilling, construction, engineering, environmental and environmentally responsible energy production that services, trucking, chemicals, steel, electrical, catering, delivers value to our shareholders. pipes and tires. Here is a snapshot of Suncor’s corporate performance, • Whenever possible, Suncor prefers to use local vendors. as well as the contribution to the economy from our In 2011, we spent $290 million on goods and services operations in 2011: from Aboriginal businesses serving the Wood Buffalo region, home to our oil sands business. Since 1992, Corporate performance Suncor has directed more than $1.9 billion in goods and services spending to Aboriginal businesses. • Total upstream production averaged 546,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day (boe/d) in 2011, compared * Excludes spend on goods and services in Libya and Syria. to 615,000 boe/d in 2010. The decrease was primarily due to dispositions of non-core natural gas assets in Western Canada and the U.S. Rockies, non-core North Sea assets, and Trinidad and Tobago assets. Oil Sands production (excluding Syncrude) averaged a record 304,700 barrels per day in 2011, reflecting improved reliability and increased bitumen feedstock from mining and in situ operations. Production results included the 2011 marked the first full year of Suncor’s impacts of the largest planned maintenance event in 10-year growth strategy to increase total the company’s history, which was completed safely and on schedule. production to more than one million barrels of oil equivalent per day by 2020. 2012 summary report on sustainability 31 As Canada’s largest energy company, Suncor has an important role to play in helping advance discussions on energy. Looking ahead Have you met OSQAR? Suncor entered 2012 with a plan for We’ve heard from our stakeholders that you want more information about the oil sands and overall industry disciplined, but significant growth. performance, especially given increasing public concern and media attention. In November 2011, Suncor’s Board of Directors approved a $7.5 billion capital spending plan for 2012, As the company with the greatest production in the oil with approximately $3.6 billion expected to go sands, we are taking the approach that we need to do toward growth projects. While about 60 per cent a much better job of sharing information. And that’s of the growth funding in 2012 is focused on the why we’re pleased to offer Oil Sands Question and company’s core oil sands resource base, more than Response, or OSQAR, to support constructive dialogue $1.1 billion is targeted for growth projects in Suncor’s about the oil sands. Exploration & Production business. Over half of this Each edition of OSQAR addresses a topical, timely subject amount is expected to advance new developments often providing references and links to both positive like Golden Eagle in the U.K. sector of the North Sea, and not-so-positive third-party commentary. Through Hebron on Canada’s East Coast and exploration its conversational tone, OSQAR is intended to support and delineation in Norway. constructive, balanced conversations about Suncor The company also plans to continue growing its and the industry. renewable energy portfolio. OSQAR began as an email newsletter subscription for people interested in our company, the oil sands and other energy issues. It has since evolved to include a blog – another venue for healthy discussion. You can access OSQAR in two ways: 1. Visit the blog at: http://osqar.suncor.com 2. Subscribe to the email newsletter at: On the web: More details on Suncor’s http://osqar.suncor.com economic performance can be found at Economic/Economic Performance. 32 Suncor Energy Inc. Legal notice Forward-looking statements – Certain statements contained in this publication contain forward-looking statements and other information based on Suncor’s current expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions that were made by the company in light of information available at the time the statement was made and consider Suncor’s experience and its perception of historical trends, including expectations and assumptions concerning: the accuracy of reserves and resources estimates; commodity prices and interest and foreign exchange rates; capital efficiencies and cost savings; applicable royalty rates and tax laws; future production rates; the sufficiency of budgeted capital expenditures in carrying out planned activities; the availability and cost of labour and services; and the receipt, in a timely manner, of regulatory and third-party approvals. In addition, all other statements and other information that address expectations or projections about the future, and other statements and information about Suncor’s strategy for growth, expected and future expenditures or investment decisions, commodity prices, costs, schedules, production volumes, operating and financial results, future financing and capital activities, and the expected impact of future commitments are forward-looking statements. Some of the forward-looking statements and information may be identified by words like ‘‘expects’’, ‘‘anticipates’’, ‘‘estimates’’, ‘‘plans’’, ‘‘scheduled’’, ‘‘intends’’, ‘‘believes’’, ‘‘projects’’, ‘‘indicates’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘focus’’, ‘‘vision’’, ‘‘goal’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘proposed’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘objective’’, ‘‘continue’’ and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements in the publication include references to: Suncor’s goal to be Canada’s premier integrated energy company; Suncor’s environmental goals to be achieved by 2015 (as compared to a baseline year of 2007), including improving energy efficiency by 10 per cent, achieving absolute reductions in fresh water consumption by 12 per cent and air emissions by 10 per cent and increasing land reclaimed by 100 per cent; Suncor’s TROTM tailings management approach, which is expected to, among other things, dramatically accelerate the reclamation of tailings ponds and mined lands and reduce the need for future tailings ponds; Suncor’s environmental and social goals for 2012-2013; Suncor’s expectation that it will begin operating a new $150 million wastewater treatment facility that will allow Suncor to take wastewater from its upgrading pond and reuse it in its operations or return it to the environment by 2013 (at which point, Suncor expects to have reduced its river water withdrawal by about 75 per cent compared to 2007); Suncor’s expectation that between 2010 and the end of 2012, it will have spent over $1 billion to implement its new TROTM tailings management approach; plans to be undertaken by organizations Suncor is involved with, including COSIA and OSLI; anticipated future GHG emissions and intensities; planned investments in renewable energy by Suncor, which are expected by the end of 2012 to total $750 million; Suncor’s 10-year growth plan announced in 2010, which is expected to boost Suncor’s total production to more than one million barrels of oil equivalent per day by 2020; and Suncor’s $7.5 billion capital spending plan for 2012, with approximately $3.6 billion expected to go toward growth projects and the plan that 60 per cent of growth funding in 2012 will be focused on the company’s core oil sands resource base, with more than $1.1 billion targeted for growth projects in Suncor’s Exploration & Production business. Forward-looking statements and information are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, some that are similar to other oil and gas companies and some that are unique to Suncor. Suncor’s actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by its forward-looking statements, so readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on them. The financial and operating performance of Suncor may be affected by a number of factors. Risks, uncertainties and other factors that could influence financial and operating performance of all of Suncor’s operating segments and activities include, but are not limited to, changes in general economic, market and business conditions, such as commodity prices, interest rates and currency exchange rates; fluctuations in supply and demand for Suncor’s products; the successful and timely implementation of capital projects, including growth projects and regulatory projects; competitive actions of other companies, including increased competition from other oil and gas companies or from companies that provide alternative sources of energy; labour and material shortages; actions by government authorities, including the imposition of taxes or changes to fees and royalties, and changes in environmental and other regulations; the ability and willingness of parties with whom we have material relationships to perform their obligations to us; the occurrence of unexpected events such as fires, equipment failures and other similar events affecting Suncor or other parties whose operations or assets directly or indirectly affect Suncor; the potential for security breaches of Suncor’s information systems by computer hackers or cyberterrorists, and the unavailability or failure of such systems to perform as anticipated as a result of such breaches; our ability to find new oil and gas reserves that can be developed economically; the accuracy of Suncor’s reserves, resources and future production estimates; market instability affecting Suncor’s ability to borrow in the capital debt markets at acceptable rates; maintaining an optimal debt to cash flow ratio; the success of the company’s risk management activities using derivatives and other financial instruments; the cost of compliance with current and future environmental laws; risks and uncertainties associated with closing a transaction for the purchase or sale of an oil and gas property, including estimates of the final consideration to be paid or received, the ability of counterparties to comply with their obligations in a timely manner and the receipt of any required regulatory or other third-party approvals outside of Suncor’s control that are customary to transactions of this nature; and the accuracy of cost estimates, some of which are provided at the conceptual or other preliminary stage of projects and prior to commencement or conception of the detailed engineering that is needed to reduce the margin of error and increase the level of accuracy. The foregoing important factors are not exhaustive. Many of these risk factors and other assumptions related to Suncor’s forward-looking statements and information are discussed in further detail throughout Suncor’s Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A), Suncor’s Annual Information Form and Form 40-F for the year ended December 31, 2011, on file with the Canadian securities commissions at www.sedar.com and the United States Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov. Readers are also referred to the risk factors and assumptions described in other documents that Suncor files from time to time with securities regulatory authorities. Copies of these documents are available without charge from the company. Non-GAAP measures – Certain financial measures in this publication – namely cash flow from operations and operating earnings – are not prescribed by Canadian generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). All non-GAAP measures presented herein do not have any standardized meaning and therefore are unlikely to be comparable to similar measures presented by other companies. Therefore, these non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. All non-GAAP measures are included because management uses the information to analyze operating performance, leverage and liquidity and therefore may be considered useful information by investors. Cash flow from operations and operating earnings for 2011 are defined and reconciled in the Non-GAAP Financial Measures Advisory Section of Suncor’s MD&A for the year ended December 31, 2011. Reclamation – Reclamation at Suncor is a carefully monitored process with two distinct components: (i) transformation of the area, including tailings ponds, into a solid material that can support vegetation, wildlife and landscape restoration, which includes landform design and oil placement; and (ii) re-vegetation in a way that the reclaimed landscape can support vegetation and wildlife as a self-sustaining ecosystem. When Suncor claims that it has reclaimed land or plans to reclaim land, the reclaimed land will have met or is intended to meet the two distinct components identified in this paragraph. BOEs – Certain natural gas volumes in this publication have been converted to barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) on the basis of one barrel to six thousand cubic feet. BOEs may be misleading, particularly if used in isolation. A conversion rate of one barrel of crude oil or natural gas liquids to six thousand cubic feet of natural gas is based on an energy equivalency conversion method primarily applicable at the burner tip and does not necessarily represent value equivalency at the well tip. Suncor is working hard to generate economic growth, minimize environmental impacts and create community well-being. $ 1.9 billion in goods and services spending with Aboriginal businesses 50 % decline in Suncor’s water withdrawal from the Athabasca River since 2004* $ 130 million invested in communities by Suncor and Suncor Energy Foundation since 1998 Tell us what you think If you have comments or questions about this report, contact: Suncor Energy Inc. 150 – 6th Avenue S.W. Calgary, Alberta, Canada T2P 3E3 Tel 1 866 786 2671 Email info@suncor.com www.suncor.com *As at December 31, 2011. Published July 2012 ™ Trademark of Suncor Energy Inc.
