REPUTATION DRIVES VALUE 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report About Inmet Inmet is a Canadian-based global mining company that produces KEY 2011 FACTS copper, zinc and gold. We are headquartered in Toronto and listed Gross sales: $979 million on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol IMN. Net income: $348 million www.inmetmining.com Permanent and contract employees: 1,446 Paid in wages and benefits: $107.78 million Invested in community programs: $4.10 million Government payments made: $91.78 million Amounts are in Canadian dollars ($). PYHÄSALMI, FINLAND Ownership: 100% owned Primary metals: copper-zinc-pyrite Mine type: underground Mine life: 2018 COBRE LAS CRUCES, SPAIN Ownership: 100% owned Primary metal: copper Mine type: open pit ÇAYELI, TURKEY Mine life: 2022 Ownership: 100% owned Primary metals: copper and zinc Mine type: underground Mine life: 2019 COBRE PANAMA, PANAMA Ownership: 100% owned Primary metals: copper and gold Mine type: open pit Mine life: 30+ years Development Property Operating Properties Closed Properties: Copper Range – Michigan, USA; Delbridge – Quebec, Canada; Millenbach – Quebec, Canada; Lac Shortt – Quebec, Canada; Norbec – Quebec, Canada; Samatosum – British Columbia, Canada; Sturgeon Lake – Ontario, Canada; Troilus – Quebec, Canada; Winston Lake – Ontario, Canada At Inmet, we strive to be a leader in corporate responsibility (CR). We believe that the reputation we build for operating in a responsible, ethical manner matters greatly. It opens doors to new opportunities, facilitates access to capital, attracts top employees and partners, helps us to minimize risk, and earns us the privilege to operate and grow. In short, responsible business drives reputation, which in turn drives value for our Company, our shareholders and society at large. Table of Contents Introduction 01 Corporate Responsibility: Çayeli 24 Letter to Stakeholders 02 It’s How We Do Business 12 Cobre Panama 26 Business Case for Corporate Responsibility Closed Properties 30 Corporate Responsibility 04 Framework 14 Exploration 32 Targets and Achievements 06 2011 Performance Overview 18 Performance Data 33 2012 Targets 08 Operations TSM Indicators 34 About This Report 09 Las Cruces 20 Company Indicators 35 Stakeholder Engagement Matrix 10 Pyhäsalmi 22 GRI Index 38 1 LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS At Inmet, being a leader in corporate responsibility (CR) is simply the way we choose to do business. By conducting our affairs transparently and with integrity, treating our employees fairly, ensuring that our communities benefit and protecting the environment, we best serve our many stakeholders and society. We strive to do what’s right. As importantly, we create value for our Company and our The ESIA helped us better understand existing socio-environmental shareholders. Our reputation as a leader in corporate responsibility conditions in the project area and likely impacts and benefits gives us access to capital, new development opportunities, top that will result from the project. Conducted over 42 months, the employees, natural resources and partners. It helps us to achieve study involved more than 40,000 person-hours of field time and our commercial targets and minimize risk. It earns us the privilege to input from more than 100 Panamanian and international experts operate. In short, CR drives reputation, which in turn drives value. as well as numerous meetings with community groups and As readers of our 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report will non-governmental organizations. readily see, 2011 has been a watershed year on Inmet’s corporate The approval of the ESIA represents an important milestone for responsibility journey. Cobre Panama and an important endorsement of the fundamental commitments we have made to address impacts, deliver benefit PANAMA to local communities and create net positive biodiversity impact. In December, the Autoridad Nacional del Ambiente, the Panamanian Another positive development occurred when the communities and environmental regulatory authority, approved our Environmental individuals who will be resettled signed resettlement agreements. and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) for our Cobre Panama development project. Like many large extractive projects today, OPERATIONAL SUCCESS Cobre Panama, which would be the largest private sector investment In Turkey, we worked to resolve a near-mine housing issue at our in Panamanian history, has a considerable number of significant Çayeli mine. Last summer, we commissioned a subsidence study socio-environmental challenges. It is situated in the environmentally by independent experts in response to complaints of local residents sensitive Mesoamerican Biological Corridor and will affect a small that blast vibrations from the mine had damaged their houses. While number of indigenous communities that will be resettled to allow the study concluded that no cause and effect could be established, development of the project. we still took it upon ourselves to introduce a comprehensive Resettlement Action Plan for addressing community concerns. “The approval of the ESIA represents an INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT important milestone for Cobre Panama and an important endorsement of the fundamental commitments we have made to address impacts, deliver benefits to local communities and create net positive biodiversity impact.” Jochen Tilk, President and Chief Executive Officer 2 Stakeholder engagement, Cobre Panama In Spain, we worked to improve the quality of treated water by ADVANCING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY installing additional wells to increase dewatering capacity and FRAMEWORK commissioning a new water treatment plant. Cobre Las Cruces also To achieve our goal of being a recognized leader in CR, we introduced the Five Nines Award, a €30,000 prize given annually strengthened our internal CR management system in 2011. to a local entrepreneur whose project is judged to best promote We also entered into a number of new partnerships with leading socioeconomic development in the region. CR organizations and initiatives. Inmet formally joined the In Finland, we have achieved marked progress in our safety Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights last year. performance by applying Operational Excellence, our behaviour-based We also applied to become a member of the International Council safety management approach. Last year, employees and contractors on Mining and Metals. at our Pyhäsalmi mine set a new record for the longest lost time injury–free period in the 50-year history of the operation, which was A WORD OF THANKS 428 days. Our achievements would not have been possible without the In Peru, we hired a community relations manager to travel regularly dedication of the CR professionals across our Company who bring a INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT to our 10 Peruvian exploration sites to meet with community leaders passion to their work and breathe life into the standards that we set and hold public meetings on issues of mutual concern. Continuous corporately. Their hard work and that of all employees are what make community engagement is now a best and standard practice Inmet the company we are. I extend to them my heartfelt thanks. wherever our exploration team operates. I have no doubt that the strong foundation we have built together will In Canada, we continued to oversee the closure of our Troilus mine in well serve our Company and our many stakeholders as we continue Quebec. From the development stage onward, all our properties have on our shared journey. closure plans that meet or exceed local regulatory requirements and comply with international best practices. Jochen Tilk President and Chief Executive Officer, Inmet 3 BUSINESS CASE FOR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Inmet believes that reputation drives value. Our commitment to meeting leading standards of health, safety and environmental management, contributing to the development of sustainable communities, and being open and transparent in our operations enhances our reputation. This, in turn, makes Inmet a company that people, communities and governments trust and want to do business with, and that creates increased value for all of our stakeholders. ENTRY INTO NEW JURISDICTIONS ATTRACT AND RETAIN TOP TALENT A strong CR track record opens doors to new resource development People are the key to our success. The company that practises good opportunities and supports permitting and regulatory approval CR, upholding values that are aligned with employees’ personal processes. Notably, our entry into Spain in 2005 was facilitated in values, investing in its people and supporting them in their careers, part by our responsible management of our closed properties in is better able to attract and retain the talent it needs to execute North America. its business strategy. Inmet’s consistently low turnover rate of approximately 3% per year is a good indicator of our success. ACCESS TO CAPITAL Growing numbers of investors and financial analysts evaluate CR BE A PARTNER OF CHOICE FOR SUPPLIERS, practices, recognizing that CR issues are material to a company’s GOVERNMENTS AND NON-GOVERNMENTAL long-term financial performance and that a sound approach to CR ORGANIZATIONS (NGOs) is a sign of the quality of management. To ensure that we’re on the We need to work collaboratively with suppliers, governments and right track with the Cobre Panama project, Inmet has committed to NGOs to achieve our business goals and deliver sustainable societal meeting the International Finance Corporation (IFC) performance value. Good CR practices enable us to attract like-minded, credible standards for large capital investments. partners in our endeavours and to increase our prospects for success. MANAGE BUSINESS RISK REDUCE LONG-TERM OPERATING COSTS Rigorous analysis of CR risks makes us more aware of issues that Across the Company, we continuously seek to implement energy could result in personal injuries, environmental damage, production conservation and efficiency improvement projects, which have the interruptions, community opposition, increased costs, financial potential to lower costs as well as reduce our environmental impact. losses, legal liability or adverse government action – and puts us in For example, our exploration group in Turkey reduced its fuel the best position to manage them. consumption and saved 2,700 litres of diesel by installing a pipeline at one of the drill sites rather than hauling water by truck. Although INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT “Demonstrating a commitment to corporate responsibility is becoming a competitive advantage and, increasingly, a condition precedent to securing the privilege and regulatory approvals necessary to operate and grow in our industry.” D. James Slattery, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 4 Miner at Çayeli, Turkey it is a small step in itself, it demonstrates how we approach and and our prospects for the future. At Cobre Panama, extensive manage our business. stakeholder engagement, which began in 2007, has been the key to our progress thus far. Early and regular dialogue has EARN AND MAINTAIN OUR PRIVILEGE TO OPERATE enabled us to internalize affected communities’ needs, hopes and Good CR practices help us build trust and credibility and demonstrate circumstances into our corporate views and decision-making. Living broader benefits from our presence. This, in turn, improves our up to our commitments will be critical to maintaining long-term relations with host countries, governments and communities, community support. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Good CR practices enable us to attract like-minded, credible partners in our endeavours and to increase our Consultation on community design for Nuevo Chicheme, Panama prospects for success. 5 TARGETS & ACHIEVEMENTS FIVE-YEAR TARGETS Our five-year CR strategic objectives and targets were established in 2008 and will be in their final year in 2012. Objective Result 2011 Detail Safety Protect lives Zero fatalities in 2011. Target: Eliminate fatalities Reduce injuries Lost time injury frequency (LTIF) decreased by 33% and Target: 10% year-over-year improvement in injury frequency was at our lowest level since we began keeping detailed and severity statistics in 2000. Total injury frequency (TIF) declined by 13%, disabling injury frequency (DIF) declined by 33% and injury severity declined by 81%. Environment Protect the environment No significant environmental incidents at our operations or Target: Eliminate significant environmental incidents closed sites in 2011. Reduce incidents Reportable environmental incident frequency decreased Target: 10% year-over-year improvements in reportable by 11%, largely due to the commissioning of a purification and non-reportable environmental incidents, Dewatering and Re-injection System (DRS) at Las Cruces, notices of violation (NOVs) and warnings which has markedly improved performance. However, Las Cruces received nine NOVs in 2011 related to water discharges between April 2009 and July 2010. Reduce fresh water use There was a 5% absolute water withdrawal increase over Target: 20% reduction from 2007 levels 2010 levels. However, we have reduced our fresh water withdrawal by 10% since 2007. Reduce energy use and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Energy intensity decreased by 12% over 2010 but emissions Target: 10% year-over-year improvements in both intensity rose by 1%. Community Affairs Know our communities All sites have developed and updated their community Target: Review and update socioeconomic assessments relations and development plans, based on the needs every year identified through the socioeconomic assessment tool (SEAT) Updated target: Use the findings from our socioeconomic process, as well as emerging best industry practice. assessments to update our community relations and development plans each year Listen to other voices Inmet and the Fund for Peace (FFP) signed a partnership Target: Develop a constructive relationship with at agreement in 2009 and have since worked together to build least one non-governmental organization a trustworthy and transparent relationship. FFP has been INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT invaluable in providing Inmet with creative input, feedback and advice on a range of issues associated with community relations, development, security and human rights. Share the benefit Inmet invested more than $4.1 million in community Target: Allocate 0.5% of annual after-tax profits to programs in 2011, equalling 1.2% of after-tax profits. It community development priorities should be noted that this investment was mainly directed to community development at Cobre Panama. Achieved On track Setback Partially achieved Did not achieve 6 TARGETS & ACHIEVEMENTS 2011 TARGETS Objective Result Detail Progress in the Operational Excellence (OE) journey by All business units have integrated OE into their developing systems that demonstrate OE effectiveness CR management frameworks. Develop a CR roadmap as a planning tool to better Developed a roadmap that identifies the key CR aspects, communicate our five-year strategic direction the associated international standards to which we have committed, the link to internal policies and standards, how they are tracked and the accountable executive leader. The tool is regularly updated to ensure that it captures all CR and reputational issues. Continue to build the corporate CR strategy and organization Government relations are managed at the operational level, by developing a company-wide government affairs strategy with all business units having their own government aligned with operational risks and priorities affairs strategies. Develop and implement a company-wide community All sites now have formal grievance mechanisms in place. grievance system incorporating accepted international best practice Progress with implementation of the Voluntary Principles (VPs) Inmet is a member of the VPs. Both Minera Panama on Human Rights and Security, focusing on Panama and Çayeli have formal security management plans that and Turkey incorporate the VPs. Develop and implement a comprehensive CR All business units participated in a CR training development training package workshop in September 2011. Given the range of skills and specific site needs, training will continue within each business unit in 2012. Develop and implement a company-wide, comprehensive Although we did not develop a complete system, we added industrial hygiene and occupational health system a corporate occupational health and hygiene manager, conducted air quality monitoring and sampling at all operations, and conducted an occupational health and hygiene audit at Çayeli, and a risk assessment at Pyhäsalmi in 2012. Develop and implement process hazard Although this objective was not fully achieved, progress was management systems made on the implementation of field-level risk assessments, job hazard analyses and site/project risk registers. A hazard and operability (HAZOP) study was also completed at Las Cruces. Improve tailings performance through rigorous operations, Due to management changes in 2011, this target was maintenance and surveillance (OMS) implementation pushed back to 2012. Progress on biodiversity partnerships and in developing We are committed to net positive impact on biodiversity biodiversity plans at the operations on all new projects, including Cobre Panama. We include biodiversity protection in environmental management plans. Develop and implement a company-wide water use and A new water management procedure has been included protection standard in Inmet’s updated CR management system, which will be implemented starting in early 2012. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Advance development of a comprehensive set of external A new external relations management standard, procedures relations indicators and guidance have been added to the CR management system. Indicators have been included and will be formally tracked starting in 2012. Support the ongoing development of Cobre Panama by Ongoing support is provided to the Cobre Panama team developing and implementing robust CR management systems in the areas of security, health, safety, environment and that position us for effective management of CR issues external relations to ensure that Inmet’s CR commitments through construction, and work with the project teams to are manifested at the project. ensure basic engineering design incorporates our expectations 7 TARGETS & ACHIEVEMENTS 2012 TARGETS In addition to working towards our five-year targets, we will focus on the following activities: 1. Ensure that Cobre Panama achieves its CR commitments as it enters the construction phase. 2. Progress in the Operational Excellence (OE) journey by developing systems that demonstrate OE effectiveness. 3. Finalize the CR roadmap by incorporating all CR and reputation issues that require systems, management, tracking and reporting. 4. Develop and implement a practical CR assurance system that addresses management system implementation, adherence to commitments and reporting. 5. Improve the CR annual reporting system to ensure to the greatest degree possible a functional system that produces good data quality for reporting and assurance purposes. 6. Endorse the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative (EITI) and build awareness and capacity to meet its requirements. 7. Complete full implementation of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights across the enterprise. 8. Participate in International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) business, progress on addressing the gaps against the 10 ICMM Principles and ensure alignment between our values and systems and ICMM’s expectations. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Toucan, Panama 8 ABOUT THIS REPORT This report discusses Inmet’s approach to corporate responsibility and presents economic, health, safety, environmental and social performance data for the 2011 calendar year, which corresponds to our fiscal year. Our last report, published in November 2011, disclosed information about our 2010 performance. In this report, “Inmet” means Inmet Mining Corporation and “we”, from our stakeholder advisory panels, the Mining Association of “us” and “our” mean Inmet and/or its subsidiaries and joint ventures. Canada’s Towards Sustainable Mining initiative, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards and the Global SCOPE Reporting Initiative – to help us determine significance and materiality. This report includes information about all of our operations and closed properties, except where noted otherwise. In general, we ASSURANCE include five years of performance data to show performance trends. Inmet employees collect, compile, review and approve all sustainability and corporate responsibility data. We self-assess our DEFINING REPORT CONTENT Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) performance annually, and In preparing this report, we have prioritized topics or issues with have the data externally verified once every three years. Our next the potential to affect the long-term success of our business or the TSM verification year is 2012. You can read a summary of our sustainability of the economies, environments and communities in TSM results at www.mining.ca. which we operate, i.e., our most material issues. We also have an external verifier review this report each year to These issues are brought forward through our risk management assess our compliance with G3.1 reporting. The 2011 verification processes and our ongoing consultation and engagement with statement can be found on page 34. communities of interest (COIs) at each site. The most significant topics of concern raised by our COIs in 2011 are listed on page 10 QUESTIONS, COMMENTS OR FEEDBACK of this report. We have addressed each of these topics within the We invite your comments and questions about this report. relevant operations pages of this report. Please contact Craig Ford, Vice President, Corporate Responsibility, We use our experience, judgment and knowledge of the mining 416.860.3960, craig.ford@inmetmining.com. industry and the communities where we operate to decide whether an event, circumstance or information is material. We also use industry 201120112011 201120112011 201120112011 This B A+ report fulfills the requirements for level A+ reporting 201120112011 GRI REPORTthe Global Reporting Initiative. under and corporate responsibility best practices – for example, guidance 201120112011 201120112011 “Inmet has put together an External Stakeholder Advisory Panel with considerable expertise and a variety of perspectives. This is indicative of INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT the Company’s interaction with its wider set of stakeholders. Inmet is open to hearing different views and constantly challenges itself to improve.” Krista Hendry, Member, Inmet External Stakeholder Advisory Panel; Executive Director, Fund for Peace Our 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report is available in PDF format on our corporate website. A printed summary version of this report is available on request by contacting Esma Marcuz, 416.860.3981, esma.marcuz@inmetmining.com. We have also published easy-toaccess performance data and select case studies on our website at www.inmetmining.com. 9 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Stakeholder engagement is a key component of our CR program. By creating opportunities to listen to our employees, shareholders, communities, governments, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and external experts, we create opportunities to learn and better understand and respond to the needs and expectations of those whose lives are affected by our business. Particular emphasis was placed on advancing relationships with our local communities last year. We introduced advisory panels at all our sites to better engage our communities on issues of mutual interest. Inmet continues to host twice yearly meetings of our External Stakeholder Advisory Panel (ESAP), which we established in 2007. Made up of representatives from civil society organizations, industry associations, sustainability experts and the investment community, the ESAP enables us to hear new views and ideas. The most significant topics of concern raised by our stakeholders are outlined in the table below. Issue Relevant Stakeholders Our Response 2010 fatality at Las Cruces Immediate family, employees Conducted internal and external investigations to determine root cause and followed up on 100% of subsequent recommendations; all but two are closed out. Near-Mine Housing project at Çayeli Local residents Created a voluntary resettlement program for affected residents. See page 25. Resettlement at Cobre Panama Ngöbe-Buglé settlement Secured the free, prior and informed consent of communities and Latino affected settlements; working collaboratively in the communities design and execution of their resettlement. See page 29. Environmental and Social Impact Assessment Governments, NGOs, Panamanian ESIA met or exceeded Panamanian laws, international (ESIA) approval at Cobre Panama people, local communities best practice and International Finance Corporation Performance Standards. ESIA details impacts of our project and our commitments to deliver net positive benefits. See page 27. Socioeconomic development at Cobre Panama Government, Panamanian people, Social Development Action Plan developed to local communities leverage positive impacts, including a local training and skills development program, local procurement INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT and community development strategy. See page 28. Water quality at Las Cruces Local environmental regulators, Commissioned a new water treatment plant that organizations and communities, purifies water to drinking quality through a reverse NGOs osmosis process. See page 21. Deep sea tailings at Çayeli Environmental regulators, Deep sea tailings disposal is the most responsible communities form of disposal, under the circumstances. See page 25. Biodiversity at Cobre Panama Government, people of Panama, Commitment to landscape-scale conservation, local communities and off-site reforestation and species conservation. Indigenous Peoples 10 Local stakeholders, Madenli, Turkey 11 INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY: IT’S HOW WE DO BUSINESS Corporate responsibility is a journey that we embarked on at Inmet more than a decade ago. Over the years, the experiences we have had around the world, both positive and challenging, have cemented our values and informed our approach. We are the product of the cumulative lessons and experiences that all our people have contributed over the course of our journey. EVOLUTION OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Our experience at Troilus proved invaluable for our Company. Twelve years ago, the focus of Inmet’s CR program was on health Particularly, it grew our reputation as a resource company committed and safety as well as the environment. Making sure our people to building respectful relationships and delivering positive development return home to their families each night still remains a top priority. outcomes to our communities. It demonstrated the business value Equally, we are steadfast in our ongoing commitment to minimize in working closely with communities to achieve mutual benefit. our impact on the environment and, to the extent possible, PANAMA: A TURNING POINT achieve a net positive environmental outcome. As our concept of CR evolved, we began to focus our attention on how our activities Panama represents another significant turning point on our affected communities where we operate and on the benefits of CR journey. It’s where we decided to be not just a practitioner community engagement and improved transparency and openness. of corporate responsibility but a clear leader. Frankly, we were convinced that the social and environmental challenges of Cobre In 1995, Inmet signed the Troilus Agreement with the Mistissini Cree Panama demanded such leadership, and we embraced those Nation in northern Quebec. One of the first accords of its kind in challenges. Our efforts have been rewarded with the approval of the Canada, the agreement was designed to address concerns of families Environmental and Social Impact Assessment as well as the signing whose traditional trapping and hunting grounds were affected by the of resettlement agreements with affected families and communities. development of our mine, as well as issues of mutual interest, such as environmental protection, direct and indirect employment and We are grateful for the trust that the local residents have placed in the contracting. This agreement was a precursor of the comprehensive resettlement process and in us, particularly when public confidence impact benefit agreements that are now part of virtually all extractive in business is at a low ebb. We admire local residents’ decision to projects in Canada where First Nations are involved. embrace a brighter future, and understand the responsibility we have to help them achieve that future. Making good on those commitments The decision to work in partnership with our First Nations neighbours is a very personal mission for people like me who have been involved served as a catalyst for change in the Mistissini community. During in this process and outcome. the 15 years that our mine was in operation, we trained and employed more than 200 members of the local Cree band. Our presence also led Our success in Panama is establishing a best practice approach to to the creation of a number of new local businesses, and left behind a CR across our Company. positive legacy on which the community continues to build. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT “Panama represents another significant turning point on our CR journey. It’s where we decided to be not just a practitioner of corporate responsibility but a clear leader.” Craig Ford, Vice President, Corporate Responsibility 12 Near-Mine Housing Project consultation, Çayeli, Turkey STRENGTHENING OUR FRAMEWORK Global Compact and International Finance Corporation’s As we have broadened the scope of our CR program, so too have Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability, we developed our CR management and reporting framework. we have recently signed on to the Voluntary Principles on Security In 2003, we formalized our Safety, Environment and Community and Human Rights and the Business and Biodiversity Offsets Affairs (SECA) program. Since that time, our 33 SECA Standards, Program. Most recently, we have applied to become a member of along with our Leadership Charter and Code of Business Conduct the International Council on Mining and Metals. and Ethics, have helped us articulate our expectations and I am proud of the company that Inmet has become through this entrench corporate responsibility into our culture and throughout journey. I am also confident that our commitment to corporate INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT our organization. responsibility will continue to contribute to our reputation, Today, we are strengthening and expanding our corporate to the value we deliver to all stakeholders, and to the growth of responsibility framework to better manage our evolution. We our business. are moving toward a broader CR management system that will encompass an expanded set of standards and procedures. As well, we have signed on to a number of additional initiatives that have business value and that drive performance and reputation. In addition to our longstanding commitments to the Mining Association Craig Ford of Canada’s Towards Sustainable Mining initiative, the United Nations Vice President, Corporate Responsibility 13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY FRAMEWORK To ensure that corporate responsibility is a living part of our culture, we continue to develop a robust CR strategy and framework – one that is evolving to meet our needs and effectively guide our actions. GUIDING PRINCIPLES with executive management personnel at our head office and Whether the focus is daily operations or long-term planning, operations. Together, they work to ensure that our strategy reflects our behaviour is governed by our four core values: best practices and our performance lives up to our SECA Standards. • Operate safely CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STANDARDS • Make a profit Inmet’s SECA Standards address key areas of risk for health and • Protect the environment safety, environment and community affairs, and extend to contractors • Treat people and communities well working at Inmet operations. Building on evolving international good These values are supported by our Code of Business Conduct and mining practice and informed by North American and European Ethics, which contains rules and guidelines for ethical behaviour regulatory and legislative requirements, we have broadened our and reinforces our commitment to conducting our affairs to the SECA Standards into more robust CR Standards, which will be rolled highest standard of honesty and integrity. Meanwhile, our Leadership out in early 2012. The CR Standards establish the minimum operating Charter sets out principles related to behaviour, decision-making, requirements for all our business units. communication and risk management that apply to all employees and their interactions with other employees and all other stakeholders. AUDITS Our CR standards are strengthened by regular health and safety and CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT environmental (EHS) audits that are performed by accredited thirdInmet’s Board of Directors has the prime responsibility for overseeing party consultants at each operation on alternate years. In addition to the implementation of our corporate responsibility (CR) program. EHS audits, Inmet conducts corporate financial audits, operational The CR Committee of the Board (formerly Safety, Environment and engineering risk audits, compliance audits and vulnerability Community Affairs (SECA) Committee) meets quarterly to review our analyses. We compile CR data and perform an internal review and CR performance and how we are managing key issues, including validation function for annual reports. Inmet also requests external taking the necessary steps to minimize risk and operate in a way that verification of our performance reporting, including our Towards is consistent with our values. Sustainable Mining performance (every three years) and our The day-to-day management of Inmet’s CR program is the Corporate Responsibility Report (annually). responsibility of our Vice President, Corporate Responsibility, along INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Our standards are strengthened by regular health and safety and environmental audits performed by accredited third-party consultants at each operation on Water monitoring, Cobre Las Cruces alternate years. 14 Fauna collecting, Cobre Panama RISK MANAGEMENT Our risk management program also includes 10 high consequence Our risk management system is designed to identify hazards and protocols (HCPs) that address common hazards that have a high assess potential material risks at all our sites throughout their life potential to result in serious injury or death at our work sites. The cycles. We are currently reviewing our existing risk management HCP guidelines give technical guidance on how to manage these system to develop a revised program that brings a more disciplined, hazards properly to minimize risk and keep workers safe. objective and documented approach to risk identification and We recently broadened our risk identification to include a wider management processes. range of vulnerabilities, such as community relations, human rights, INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Operational Excellence (OE) is a crucial component of risk community health and safety, and development. As part of this management. Through OE, we are changing behaviours and effort, we implemented a Corporate Responsibility Vulnerability modifying our workplace culture to deliver sustainable improvements. Assessment (CRVA) at all of our operations, development properties OE combines traditional risk management tools with systems that and closed sites last year. The CRVA identified the inherent encourage leadership and behavioural change. For instance, vulnerability of each site to a wide range of CR issues based on the through our Field Leadership initiative, supervisors and managers knowledge of the socio-environmental context of the operation. We regularly observe work and interact with employees and contractors then evaluated the significance of the vulnerability and the strength to measure performance and identify improvements. Employees of the management systems that are in place to address the issues. are expected to use practical tools for recognizing hazards and Our risk management tools, including our SECA Standards, help us assessing risk to plan their work, with a target of achieving zero harm. address the concepts embodied by the precautionary principle. 15 CR FRAMEWORK “Understanding the context within which we work and the impact our business has on people and the environment is good risk management. Simply put, a company that manages its risks prudently creates shareholder value.” David R. Beatty, Non-Executive Chair, Inmet Board of Directors Ngöbe-Buglé stakeholders, Cobre Panama HUMAN RIGHTS VOLUNTARY INITIATIVES We continue to strengthen our approach to human rights. After With the objective of continually improving our performance, approving our Human Rights Policy in 2010, Inmet formally joined Inmet partners with a number of organizations and initiatives the Voluntary Principles (VPs) on Security and Human Rights last recognized as leaders in the field of corporate responsibility. year. The VPs provide a clear set of expectations, systems and Among them: Mining Association of Canada’s Towards Sustainable procedures that will help ensure we properly manage this important Mining initiative; UN Global Compact; Carbon Disclosure Project; aspect of our business. We are committed to implementing the Devonshire Initiative; Fund for Peace Human Rights and Business VPs across our organization, particularly where our Corporate Roundtable; Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights; Responsibility Vulnerability Assessment suggests there is an Business and Biodiversity Offsets Program; and International elevated risk of human rights or security concern. Finance Corporation Performance Standards on Social and As well, last year, we implemented a community response mechanism Environmental Sustainability. This year, we also applied to that allows communities to register complaints. This grievance become a member of the International Council on Mining and INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT process ensures a thorough investigation is completed and Metals. Please see our website for a full list of our affiliations that timely feedback occurs. It is aligned with the UN’s Guiding (www.inmetmining.com/corporateresponsibility). Principles on Business and Human Rights. Policies and Standards Please visit the Governance and Corporate Responsibility sections of our website for key policies, standards and charters, including the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Leadership Charter and Safety, Environment and Community Affairs (SECA) Standards. 16 17 INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW In a watershed year on Inmet’s corporate responsibility journey, here are the key company-wide safety, community and environmental statistics. Details can be found within the individual operations pages that follow and in the Performance Data section of this report. SAFETY AND HEALTH For more information, see our Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Making sure our people return home to their families each night is performance indicator tables (Labour category) on pages 63–65. a top priority. To achieve zero harm – always our goal – we provide all employees with safety work practice and procedure training and Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) (per 200,000 work hours) work to ensure that our CR safety standards are applied across our operations. 1.5 Inmet’s 2011 safety performance was outstanding – a reflection, we believe, of our unrelenting focus on safety: 1.2 • Zero fatalities • Lost time injury frequency (LTIF) decreased by 33% and was at 0.9 our lowest level since we began keeping detailed statistics in 2000 • Total injury frequency (TIF) declined by 13% 0.6 • Disabling injury frequency (DIF) declined by 33% • Injury severity declined by 81% 0.3 • Record for the longest lost time injury–free period in Pyhäsalmi’s 50-year history 0.0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 We stepped up our efforts to promote a safety culture, holding 16,750 employee safety meetings, on average 46 per day, a 93% increase LTIF declined by 33% in 2011. LTIs are work-related injuries or illnesses that over the previous year. There was also a significant increase in the result in an individual being unable to work. Frequency is based on working hours, and is a strong indicator of how safe our workplaces are and how we number of workplace inspections, from 4,096 in 2010 to 6,379. We are improving safety conditions. view this as a positive indicator, illustrating greater safety awareness. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Maintenance employee, Çayeli, Turkey 18 Revegetation efforts, Cobre Panama ENVIRONMENT Total GHG emissions (CO2e/Cu equivalent) – Intensity (Inmet majority-owned operations) Inmet is committed to minimizing the environmental impact of our operations throughout the life cycle of our mines. Our environmental 1.5 management program starts at the very outset of a project, when we conduct an environmental impact assessment, and continues 1.2 through project planning and closure. Our overall environmental performance as measured by reportable incident intensity is 0.9 disappointing, primarily as a result of continued compliance challenges at Las Cruces. We did see improvements in the second 0.6 half of 2011 and expect to see this trend continue. Among our key 2011 statistics: 0.3 •  eportable environmental incident frequency decreased by R 11%, largely due to a new purification system commissioned at 0.0 Las Cruces and improvements at Çayeli 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 • Fresh water withdrawal increased by 5% due to increased Our absolute GHG emissions increased by 11% over 2010 and 18% over 2007, due primarily to production at Çayeli and Las Cruces, and more exploration increased production at Las Cruces. However, on an intensity basis, which is the amount of GHG drilling projects emitted per tonne of product sold, there was a slight decrease in emissions from 2010 to 2011. • Absolute greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions increased by 11% COMMUNITY over 2010, due primarily to increased production at Las Cruces; however, on an intensity basis, which is the amount of GHG We take pride in our reputation as a resource company committed emitted per tonne of product sold, there was a slight decrease to building respectful relationships with, and delivering positive • Energy use on an intensity basis decreased by 12% development outcomes to, our host communities. • Safely disposed of 18.5 million kilograms of non-hazardous waste Inmet’s presence brings economic opportunities to regions around and 7.2 million kilograms of hazardous waste our mines and projects. In 2011, this included: •E  mploying 1,446 permanent and contract workers, the large One of our most significant highlights came in December 2011 when the Autoridad Nacional del Ambiente, the Panamanian majority of whom live in the local communities • Paying $107.8 million in wages and benefits environmental regulatory authority, approved the Environmental • Purchasing 47% of total goods and services from local vendors INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) of our Cobre Panama development project. The approval of the ESIA represents and contractors • Providing an average of 33 hours of training per employee an important milestone for Cobre Panama and an important • Investing $4.1 million in community programs, representing 1.2% endorsement of the fundamental commitments we made to address environmental and social impacts. of after-tax profits For more information, see our GRI performance indicator tables Stakeholder engagement is a key component of our CR program. (Environmental category) on pages 45–57. In addition to our many informal interactions, we conducted 494 formal community meetings, a 13% increase over 2010, and implemented community feedback mechanisms at all sites. For more information, see our GRI performance indicator tables (Economic and Society categories) on pages 42–44 and 68–72. 19 KEY 2011 FACTS Location: Spain Expected mine life: 2022 Employees: 244 Contractors: 744 Wages and benefits: $17.8 million Community investments: $413,000 Payments to governments: $1.87 million LAS CRUCES Cobre Las Cruces is an open pit copper mine located in the Andalucía region of southern Spain. It’s surrounded by rolling hills and near the Rio Guadalquivir, one of Spain’s most important rivers, and Sevilla, one of the country’s oldest cities. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Las Cruces pit, Spain 20 “Through our intense focus on improving our safety management at Las Cruces – and across our Company – we are strengthening Inmet’s safety culture. Our performance is beginning to reflect our hard work.” John LeClair, Director Safety, Health and Security Environmental stewardship is a prime focus of our corporate limits include some elements that the purification system was not responsibility program at Las Cruces. Our efforts are also directed designed to treat effectively. We have begun working with regulators at helping the local economy through community development. to establish new limits, specifically for the DRS. Las Cruces also experienced challenges with leakage at various site SAFETY AND HEALTH ponds. To address this, we are relining secondary containment areas We continued to progress with actions stemming from an incident at and process ponds with double high-density polyethylene liners with Las Cruces that resulted in the death of a maintenance contractor leak collection and recovery systems. Our monitoring indicates that from burns in May 2010. At the time, we completed internal and environmental impacts are not occurring. external investigations to analyze and determine the root cause of the incident. Recommendations have since been implemented, COMMUNITY including the completion last year of a $700,000 project to enhance Andalucía has one of the highest unemployment rates in Spain. and relocate the emergency showers. To help our communities deal with this, Las Cruces promotes local We have stepped up our efforts to have workers continually hiring. A full 80% of our employees are from the local area. We identify safety hazards in accord with our Operational Excellence also pursue a program of local procurement. Over 91% of goods management program. Last year, this resulted in a significant used at Las Cruces are purchased from within Spain. Last year, this increase in hazard reporting at Las Cruces. Coupled with a good amounted to US$484 million in spending. overall safety record, we view this as a positive indicator, illustrating Serving as a catalyst of economic development is also the goal of the important behavioural changes and greater safety awareness. Cobre Las Cruces Foundation. Through the foundation, we are working with local economic and social leaders to promote positive change. With ENVIRONMENT that in mind, we launched the annual Five Nines Award last year to To protect the Niebla-Posadas aquifer, which lies above the promote entrepreneurship. (See Encouraging Entrepreneurship, below.) Las Cruces ore body, a Dewatering and Re-injection System (DRS) is used to move ground water away from the vicinity of the mine. BIODIVERSITY Water is drawn from wells that surround the open pit and re-injected As part of our commitment to returning all our properties to their back into the aquifer. In 2011, we built additional wells to increase natural state, we established a nursery at Las Cruces last year. dewatering capacity and commissioned a new water treatment We also continued to assist local farmers with developing and plant that purifies water to drinking quality standard through a implementing sustainable agriculture practices that are mindful of reverse osmosis process. Since the plant became operational, wildlife and conducted studies of steppe birds and turtles, some of compliance performance has improved markedly. However, we which are protected. are still experiencing reportable DRS exceedences because the Encouraging Entrepreneurship Felix Antonio Fernandez Perez is a goat farmer and INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT entrepreneur from the Sevillian village of Castilblanco de los Arroyos. He is also the initial recipient of Cobre Las Cruces Foundation’s inaugural Five Nines Award. The €30,000 juried prize, whose name refers to the 99.999% Engaging Our Community purity of the copper produced at Las Cruces, will be given In 2011, Las Cruces established a new Stakeholders annually to the entrant whose project is judged to best Advisory Panel, a forum that enables us to share promote socioeconomic development in the region. Perez information with and listen to our community. The panel intends to use the prize to grow Cheese Shop Priest met twice during the year and established a good Orchard, his start-up artisanal cheese business, creating foundation of dialogue that will continue in the future. We both new business opportunities and employment. also welcomed over 1,890 visitors to the mining complex. 21 KEY 2011 FACTS Location: Finland Expected mine life: 2018 Employees: 221 Contractors: 71 Wages and benefits: $21.27 million Community investments: $91,000 Payments to governments: $34.91 million PYHÄSALMI Pyhäsalmi is an underground copper-zinc-pyrite mine located in the lake lands of central Finland. One of the oldest and deepest metal mines in Europe, it lies four kilometres southeast of the town of Pyhäjärvi and just north of a protected portion of Lake Pyhäjärvi. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Pyhäsalmi mine, Finland 22 “Community input is integral to our environmental management process. At Pyhäsalmi, we are working with the local fishing association to help protect and improve habitat in Lake Pyhäjärvi. We have also developed an environmental communications strategy to inform community members about our actions.” Christopher Scholl, Director of Environmental Affairs Pyhäsalmi has been an integral part of the community of Pyhäjärvi ENVIRONMENT and surrounding region for nearly 50 years. The mine has provided Pyhäsalmi draws and discharges treated process water from Lake employment to generations of local people and contributed directly Pyhäjärvi. The southern part of Lake Pyhäjärvi is protected by the through corporate donations and indirectly through taxation and Natura 2000 European Union conservation network. The water we procurement. As well as our ongoing focus on the environment and discharge enters the lake well north of the protected area. Last year, safety, we are directing our corporate responsibility efforts toward the operation experienced sporadic challenges with the discharge helping those whose lives have been touched by our operation as water quality, particularly with zinc and pH. To address this issue, we prepare for closure in 2018. we are evaluating treatment alternatives. SAFETY AND HEALTH To reduce the quantity of contaminants entering the lake on a more permanent basis, we have developed an ambitious water recycling Pyhäsalmi employees and contractors set a new record for the and conservation plan. In 2011, 23% of the water consumed was longest lost time injury–free period in the history of the operation. recycled. We hope to increase the amount to 30% over the next few It’s a record that demonstrates the progress being made to change years. Successful recycling has reduced the amount of fresh water behaviour and improve our safety culture. withdrawal by nearly 10% at this site since 2007. We have worked hard at Pyhäsalmi to apply Operational Excellence. As part of that process, we are introducing new methods to recognize and address hazards, identify root causes of incidents and make recommendations for actions that will prevent future incidents. Community: Planning for Closure Almost 60% of our employees at Pyhäsalmi are from the nearby town of Pyhäjärvi. Approximately 12% of the materials and services we purchase are from local suppliers. As we look toward the end of the mine’s life in 2018, we are mindful of the important role we play in the community – and the need to do what we can to help our employees, their families and local communities deal with the effects of closure. In the time remaining, we will continue to help employees, contractors and vendors build transferable INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT skills, and catalyze economic opportunities that may lead to future employment. We have also partnered with the Oulu Southern Technical Institute and the Pyhäjärvi Economic Development Office to introduce mine closure into their regional development plan. We are supporting an exciting proposal that the Pyhäsalmi mine be considered as one of the locations for the new LAGUNA collaborative scientific project. If chosen, the mine will host a deep underground neutrino detector for fundamental research in particle and astroparticle physics. 23 KEY 2011 FACTS Location: Turkey Expected mine life: 2019 Employees: 556 Wages and benefits: $26.88 million Community investments: $547,000 Payments to governments: $51.10 million ÇAYELI Çayeli is an underground copper and zinc mine located six kilometres from the Black Sea in Turkey’s northeastern Rize province. The largest metal mine in the country, it is bordered by the Büyükdere River, tea plantations and a lush mountain landscape. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Madenli community, near Çayeli mine, Turkey 24 Near-Mine Housing For a number of years, local residents have complained that blast vibrations from the Çayeli mine have damaged their homes. To address the issue, we commissioned a study by independent experts. While the study concluded that no cause and effect could be established, we decided to resolve the issue as a community development project. In collaboration with the community, we initiated a process for coming to agreement with owners of the most severely damaged homes to purchase their houses for fair market value and ensure that they have replacement housing that is better than the damaged homes they had been living in. In-kind and/or cash settlements are offered, depending on the circumstances of the residents. Agreements have already been reached with several residents. The relocation process, which is expected to last for several years, is being conducted under evolving international best practice and in compliance with Turkish law. At Çayeli, we are focused on dealing with environmental and At our loading facility at the Rize port, the spread of concentrate social concerns that, in many cases, are related to the operation’s in the form of fugitive dust was previously causing elevated unique location. concentrations of some metals. In 2011, we constructed a water treatment facility and made improvements to concentrate transport ENVIRONMENT and storage practices. Since the upgrade, there have been very few As a result of Çayeli’s small footprint, high rainfall, steep slope instances of non-compliance. and frequency of landslides, as well as its proximity to mountains Over the past several years, Turkish environmental regulations have and local farms, it is undesirable to store tailings on land. To deal been evolving to align with those of the European Union. Our Çayeli with this, we built a pipeline that transports tailings to the Black management team is participating in discussions to ensure that Sea, where they are discharged three miles off shore at a depth of the technical aspects of our operation are protected and that our 275 metres. At this level, the Black Sea is hydrogen sulphide-dominant operation remains in compliance with applicable regulations. and oxygen-free, preventing tailings from oxidizing and generating acid. In partnership with the Turkish Ministry of Agriculture’s Marine COMMUNITY Institute, Inmet monitors water quality in the area surrounding the We continued to broaden the scope of our corporate responsibility tailings outfall on a quarterly basis. To date, none of the 68 surveys program to further promote community engagement and have indicated discernible changes in water quality. Based on these development. Specifically, we are exploring ways to increase direct results, we continue to believe that deep sea placement of tailings is and indirect employment so as to build greater capacity in the a safe and optimal choice for the mine. community. This is an important community focus, given that Çayeli In 2011, Turkey’s Ministry of the Environment reiterated its support is scheduled to close in 2019. for our deep sea tailings disposal program by exempting us from To facilitate this transition, Çayeli hired an External Relations requirements that were not intended to apply to deep sea tailings Manager who will oversee our efforts to reduce community disposal. Çayeli also received an integrated environmental permit dependency on Çayeli donations, increase local procurement and from the Rize Environmental Directorate. This permit, coupled with ensure that, moving forward, all social investments are sustainable. the exemption from the Ministry, resolves a longstanding technical compliance issue for Çayeli. BIODIVERSITY Çayeli has a number of holding ponds for water used in mine In 2011, we completed an initial biodiversity site survey in conjunction processes. Although water from these ponds is recycled back into the with experts from Hacettepe University in Istanbul. This work will process, the pumping system proved unable to deal with excess water ensure that local flora and fauna will be considered in our mine during heavy rainfall. To resolve this situation, Çayeli constructed closure planning. additional pond capacity in 2011. As a result, the number of releases of impacted storm water has been greatly reduced. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Being a Good Neighbour When a devastating 7.2 magnitude earthquake occurred in southern Turkey’s Van province last October, a mine rescue team from Çayeli travelled 600 kilometres to participate in the rescue effort. For three days, the 10-person team worked tirelessly to help locate and rescue people trapped by collapsed buildings. Çayeli employees also elected to cancel their annual With Çayeli scheduled to close in 2019, party in favour of making a donation to a leading aid organization that we are exploring ways to increase direct and provided temporary shelter to earthquake victims. indirect employment so as to build greater capacity in the community. 25 KEY 2011 FACTS Location: Panama Expected mine life: 2016–2042+ Employees: 219 Contractors: 790 Wages and benefits: $20.28 million Community investments: $2.64 million Payments to governments: $541,000 COBRE PANAMA Cobre Panama is an open pit copper and gold development project located 20 kilometres from the Caribbean coast and 120 kilometres from Panama City, the capital of Panama. The 13,000 hectare exploration and mining concession is within the environmentally sensitive Mesoamerican Biological Corridor, an area of high biodiversity value. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Cobre Panama development project 26 Community education programs, Panama One of the largest undeveloped copper deposits in the world, organizations. In December 2011, the Autoridad Nacional del Cobre Panama is seminal to Inmet’s growth strategy. It is also Ambiente, the Panamanian environmental regulatory authority, highly significant to the people of Panama. The project represents approved our ESIA. This approval brings legal standing to our the largest private sector investment in Panama’s history and, once extensive social and environmental commitments and allows us to operational, would be the country’s largest exporter. seek permits to begin full-scale construction. Development and operation of Cobre Panama would provide a As well as detailing the impacts and benefits of our project to the strong stimulus to the regional and national economy directly Panamanian authorities, the ESIA establishes a foundation on through job creation and indirectly through procurement, taxation which we are building a robust and leading corporate responsibility and support for community development. While it is a fact that management program. Our intent is not only to maximize positive any project of this size would affect the surrounding environment and minimize negative impacts but also to serve as a catalyst for and local communities, we are committed to managing the issues change in Panama by ensuring that the country and its people share particular to Cobre Panama and to delivering net positive benefit. the benefits of Cobre Panama. We believe that by helping to alleviate poverty, create economic development and protect biodiversity, we ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL can be an important force for positive change in Panama – and best IMPACT ASSESSMENT serve Minera Panama. To better understand the implications of the project, we commissioned an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA), as required ENVIRONMENT by Panamanian law and international best practice. The ESIA As a result of its climate, topography and location as a land represents one of the most intensive studies ever undertaken of bridge between North and South America, Panama has a rich and the socio-environmental context of the Atlantic slope of Panama. diverse mix of plants, animals and geologic resources. Through Conducted over a period of 42 months, the assessment involved our environmental management plan, Cobre Panama will work 40,000 person-hours of field time and input from more than to minimize any negative impacts caused by our operation and 100 Panamanian and international experts as well as numerous achieve net positive benefit in biodiversity. meetings with community groups and non-governmental Developing a Workforce INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT One of the most effective ways Cobre Panama will help create strong communities is through providing local employment and helping to develop local enterprises. During construction and operation, we will need approximately 7,000 and 2,500 workers, respectively, and we have targeted to hire 75% of our workforce from Panama. To prepare the workforce we need, we have introduced Our Neighbours Come First in partnership with Joint Venture Panama Inc., which is overseeing the engineering, procurement and construction of the project. Through the initiative We aim to serve as a some 2,000 workers from the communities adjacent to the project will participate in a basic catalyst for change in skills training program with a focus on health, safety and the environment. We are also helping Panama by ensuring to establish a pool of highly skilled employees. For instance, we are annually sponsoring five that the country and its Panamanian students studying engineering and geology at North American universities. people share the benefits of Cobre Panama. 27 COBRE PANAMA Parrot, Cobre Panama Environmental education, Panama For instance, we intend to compensate for the loss of forest by locating all high-priority species of concern in at least three widely developing and implementing an off-site reforestation program that separated conservation areas off-site. would reforest two hectares for every net hectare of original forest Cobre Panama would also contribute to the scientific knowledge lost. Adverse effects would also be reduced by the phased nature of flora and fauna in the region through project studies, including of the project and progressive reclamation of sites when they are no studies to be conducted in collaboration with independent longer needed. consultants, academics and NGOs. BIODIVERSITY COMMUNITY Although the location of Cobre Panama is remote, in-migration is Promoting socioeconomic sustainable development is a key priority increasing and with it deforestation, as people with few economic at Cobre Panama. Since 2008, we have been working intensively opportunities move into the area and clear the land. We believe with numerous communities as well as the government of Panama that the best way to address this issue is to introduce sustainable and third-party organizations to develop our Social Development economic development to the area. Through our biodiversity Action Plan. action plan, we are committed to having a net positive impact The plan outlines our immediate and future commitments to on biodiversity in Panama. The plan includes our stewardship communicate, protect and potentially improve the social wellof protected areas now threatened by ongoing deforestation, being of stakeholders. A main focus is to improve local conditions including support for the management of two national parks and by supporting community development in several areas including a new protected area encompassing more than 290,000 hectares education and training, agriculture, health and wellness, and civic of primary forest. We have introduced an innovative species safety. It also calls for the creation of a community development conservation plan and are committed to no loss of critical habitat foundation that will invest in sustainable development opportunities that is essential for the survival of a species. We will achieve this by in consultation with project-area communities. Our vision is that the INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT We have introduced an innovative species conservation plan and are committed to no loss of critical habitat that is essential Flora rescue and relocation, Cobre Panama for the survival of a species. 28 COBRE PANAMA “When the External Stakeholder Advisory Panel visited the Cobre Panama project in November 2011, we saw first-hand the practical ways in which sustainability issues – safety, community, environment, ecosystem management – are integrated into the functional responsibilities of employees and into the way that Inmet is approaching the project.” Gordon Peeling, Member, Inmet External Stakeholder Advisory Panel foundation, with a steady income stream from the project during establishment of public-private partnerships. This initiative reflects operations, will be able to catalyze sustainable economic and our belief that sustainable development will be best achieved community development over the mine’s estimated 30-year life, and, through the participation of all stakeholders. At the same time, if managed responsibly, for many years after the mine is closed. we are developing an Indigenous People’s Development Plan that We are actively supporting local communities during the prewill guide our ongoing relationship with local Indigenous Peoples. construction phase by funding education, scholarship, school We expect this plan to be implemented in 2012. Our community nutrition and agricultural programs. We have also established development programs will continue to evolve as we move into a micro-credit program. As well, we have developed a Strategic construction and operations. Plan for Sustainable Community Development that focuses on the Resettlement Action Plan Resettlement can be a difficult and complex subject, particularly when Indigenous Peoples are involved. When it became clear that the development of Cobre Panama would involve the displacement of a number of people, including Indigenous Peoples, we established a resettlement process that adhered to the highest international standards of fairness and transparency. As part of that, over the past three years we conducted in-depth consultations and negotiations with those affected under the leadership of experienced third-party experts. Although we changed our project layout to significantly reduce the size of our footprint, some 500 people in six areas will undergo resettlement at Cobre Panama. Four of these areas are made up of farmers. The remaining areas are primarily inhabited by Ngöbe-Buglé people, who immigrated to the area in recent years. The affected people formed six Resettlement Negotiation Committees with representatives appointed by the people themselves to make decisions on INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT behalf of the broader group. In partnership with these committees, we developed a multiyear and multifaceted Resettlement Action Plan that sets out our commitments, principles, procedures, organizational arrangements, provisions for monitoring and evaluation, framework for participation and mechanisms for addressing grievances. All of the affected groups have now signed the plan and we are working to fulfill commitments involving construction, education, health programs and land ownership. Ngöbe-Buglé stakeholder engagement, Cobre Panama 29 KEY 2011 FACTS Number of closed properties under active management: 9 Lost time injuries: 0 Notices of violation: 0 Number of reportable environmental incidents: 38 Community meetings: 29 Number of employees: 9 CLOSED PROPERTIES Health, safety and environmental performance remains a priority at our closed properties. Inmet views closure as a core part of our business. From the development stage onward, all our properties have independently prepared closure plans that meet or exceed local regulatory requirements, and comply with Canadian standards and international evolving best practices. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Winston Lake closed property, Ontario, Canada 30 “Inmet places high priority on the responsible management of our closed mining properties. By demonstrating our commitment to ongoing stewardship, we grow our reputation as a responsible company, thereby opening doors to new business.” Tracy Anderson, Senior Manager, Closed Properties Troilus pit being flooded, May 2011 Troilus, October 2011 Each closure plan includes, at a minimum, objectives for physical CLOSING TROILUS and chemical stability, public safety, appropriate post-closure land In preparation for the closure of our Troilus mine in northern use and, where appropriate, sustainable benefits to the community. Quebec, Inmet sought input from numerous stakeholders, before In the interests of transparency and recognition of the potential we submitted our closure plan and cost estimate to the provincial social, economic and environmental impacts that may be involved, regulatory authorities. As well, we involved Environment Canada plans must include a process for dialogue with communities. to help establish biodiversity initiatives as part of our revegetation Inmet reviews closure concepts and costs each year during the program. We also worked closely with the nearby James Bay Cree annual budget process. Our actions are governed by our Safety, Nation of Mistissini to ensure that our closure plan would address Environment and Community Affairs (SECA) Standards, which environmental and social concerns of the nearby community. outline commitments for managing waste in a manner that protects Today, two members of the Mistissini band are part of our the environment and the safety and well-being of employees, seven-member closure team at Troilus, which is responsible for contractors and the communities where we operate. We also report reclamation, maintenance, inspection and monitoring the property on tailings management practices relative to the Mining Association on an ongoing basis. In 2011, the team hosted a visit by the of Canada’s (MAC) Guide to the Management of Tailings Facilities. Comité d’Examen (COMEX) of the Quebec Ministry of Sustainable We are planning to adopt an external audit process to better Development, Environment and Parks, which oversees environmentassess our actions in this area. Inmet is also a member of the MAC related issues on lands of the James Bay and Northern Quebec committee working toward a new policy framework on mine closure. Agreement. COMEX announced that it was impressed with our Additionally, we incorporate the International Finance Corporation reclamation work, commitment to transparency and willingness to Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability in work cooperatively with the Cree. planning, design, operation and closure. Closure: A Constant Focus Whether decades away or near at hand, closure is a focus throughout the entire life of each mine. It is an important component of development planning at our Cobre Panama property. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT As stipulated by our Environmental and Social Impact Assessment, we are committed to rehabilitating impacted areas during the operational phase when possible and monitoring, inspecting and maintaining the property when mining has ceased, for as long as necessary to achieve the closure objectives. We are also working to help build sustainable communities that can continue to thrive beyond our presence. Fostering sustainable communities is also a focus at our mines in Turkey and Finland, both For the closure of Troilus, we of which are approaching the end of production. At Çayeli, we are actively exploring ways to worked with the James Bay Cree increase direct and indirect employment so as to build greater capacity in the community. Nation of Mistissini to ensure At Pyhäsalmi, we have partnered with the Oulu Southern Technical Institute and Pyhäjärvi that our plan would address Economic Development Office to introduce mine closure into their regional development plan. environmental and social concerns of the community. 31 KEY 2011 FACTS Number of sites being explored: 36 Number of joint venture exploration sites: 7 Employees: 188 Community meetings: 39 Reportable environmental incidents: 0 EXPLORATION Inmet’s exploration activities are crucial to our growth strategy. At Çayeli and Pyhäsalmi, we are exploring within our current operational areas to potentially extend the life of our mines. And we are exploring for new deposits at sites in Chile, Peru, Mexico, Australia and the United States. There are many risks involved in exploration. Safety and security are standards and practices. Most recently, we have focused on providing ongoing concerns. Exploration personnel must also deal with matters first contact training to ensure that all exploration employees are related to environmental and social risk. On an ongoing basis, we well equipped to develop and maintain positive relations with our provide training to our exploration staff to help them deal with such communities from the outset of our activities. issues and better understand and apply our corporate responsibility Continuous Engagement Early last year, two busloads of demonstrators pulled up to our Nahuin exploration project in Peru’s Pararin district. Among them were residents from a nearby agrarian community that some months before had negotiated an agreement with Inmet. The agreement outlined our responsibility to protect the surrounding environment and make a contribution to a local public works project. However, the community had recently elected a new president and he did not support the agreement. Fortunately, the troubling incident was soon resolved after exploration staff took visitors on a tour of the camp and explained our activities. Inmet INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT also agreed to direct our financial support toward the development of new community water wells. At Nahuin, we learned first-hand the importance of establishing open and ongoing communication with our neighbours. At the same time, we must work hard to manage unrealistic expectations during this very early phase of the mining life cycle. We have since hired a Manager of Community Relations in Peru, who travels regularly to our 10 Peruvian exploration sites to meet with community leaders and hold public meetings on issues of mutual concern. Wherever our exploration team operates in the world, continuous community engagement is now a best and standard practice. 32 PERFORMANCE DATA We measure and report CR performance against our own company targets and indicators, The Mining Association of Canada’s Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) indicators and the Sustainability Guidelines (G3.1) developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), including mining industry specific indicators incorporated in the Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. We also report on where you can find information relevant to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 10 principles. Our five-year and annual targets and achievements can be found on pages 6–8 of this report. All other performance data follows in this report and is available on our CR website at www.inmetmining.com. 201120112011 201120112011 201120112011 201120112011 B A+ 201120112011 GRI REPORT 201120112011 This report fulfills the requirements We benchmark our performance against We support and strive to meet for level A+ reporting under the GRI. TSM, an initiative of the Mining Association the 10 principles of the UNGC. See page 34. of Canada. See page 34. See page 38. REPORT DATA ENERGY AND WATER USE Data for the performance indicators are collected and compiled Our operations are often connected to community water, sewer using information submitted by each site on a standard template. and electricity supplies, so much of the performance data for water We provide instructions and criteria for G3.1, the Mining and Metals and energy come from the metered quantities shown on our utility Sector Supplement, and TSM, and also supply a greenhouse gas bills. Where we have installed our own transmission systems by (GHG) emissions worksheet (developed by the Mining Association of connecting to power from the nearest point on regional electrical Canada). Data are measured or estimated, and operations are asked grids, our report includes performance data for these systems. to explain significant deviations in year-over-year trends and any With the exception of diesel-powered backup generators, we do not challenges in meeting their performance targets. Our performance generate power at any of our majority-owned operations. Minera data are generally disaggregated and reported at the business unit Panama will build and operate a coal-fired power station that will level, as this reflects our management structure. Where needed, generate 300 megawatts of electricity for the project. we roll up data to the corporate level to help us manage safety, environmental and community affairs across the Company. VERIFYING DATA Notes on the performance data amounts are in Canadian dollars ($) We verify our sustainability data internally and have an external unless otherwise indicated. A blank means there are no data or verifier review our narrative report and key performance indicator represents the period before Inmet’s ownership. (KPI) tables to assess our compliance with G3.1 reporting. Our TSM reporting must also be externally verified every three years. Our SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS AND TSM data were last reviewed and verified by a third party in 2008. GHG EMISSIONS Our 2011 annual audited consolidated financial statements are We provide safety and environmental incident ratings and definitions INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT available at www.inmetmining.com or at www.sedar.com. so that all operations report incidents consistently. We also calculate GHG emissions using published factors for emissions. 33 PERFORMANCE DATA 2011 VERIFICATION STATEMENT Through a review of Inmet’s Sustainability Report verification clear, complete, and comparable metrics consistent with conventional activities, we confirm that Inmet Mining Corporation has provided data reporting and the report contains content related to several of the necessary G3 Profile Disclosures, G3 Management Approach Inmet’s challenges including mine waste, safety, community relations, Disclosures, and G3 Performance Indicators & Metals and water and energy use, and greenhouse gas emissions. Mining Sector Supplement Performance Indicators to meet the We confirm using GRI principles in our assurance of Inmet’s report requirements of Level A+ reporting. and we disclose our relationship with Inmet as providing assurance, A review of the materiality, content, and quality of the report audit and verification processes. indicates that Inmet has provided a balanced report consisting of measurements from required GRI disclosures and performance indicators. Inmet’s data collection system is robust and has a disciplined process to identify and determine material content for inclusion in the report including data from all of Inmet’s operating and Robert Duda, P.Eng., M.B.A., CRSP, CHSMSA closed sites. A sampling of data indicated that the data provided was Managed Process Consulting Inc. TOWARDS SUSTAINABLE MINING (TSM) INDICATORS The Mining Association of Canada’s TSM performance elements help Canadian mining companies set goals, establish policy and measure their performance in six key areas: TSM performance element Measures a company’s management systems for Tailings management • D  ealing with tailings (the materials left over after valuable minerals and metals have been separated from ore) Energy use and greenhouse gas • Using less energy and releasing less greenhouse gas emissions management Aboriginal and community outreach • Maintaining dialogue with the communities near the company’s operations Crisis management planning • Being prepared, throughout the company, for emergencies Biodiversity conservation management • Conserving flora and fauna Safety and health • Protecting the safety and health of the company’s workers, contractors and visitors The Mining Association of Canada is also seeking ways to develop performance standards or objectives concerning: • relationships with indigenous communities; • health and safety; • biodiversity; and INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT • mine closure. You can learn more about TSM and review our latest TSM performance statistics at www.mining.ca. 34 COMPANY INDICATORS Our company indicators are leading indicators developed to help us control priority hazards and drive performance. INT1 – ENVIRONMENTAL INSPECTIONS Number of inspections Location 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Çayeli 0 7 5 7 4 Cobre Las Cruces 732 759 789 780 834 Cobre Panama 9 3 3 5 Pyhäsalmi 1 1 4 2 0 Troilus 4 1 2 2 1 Closed properties 10 12 10 8 4 Exploration 1 1 6 4 4 Inspections are conducted by federal or state/provincial/regional environmental law officers completing their periodic and documented audits against permits and applicable legislation. The number of inspections generally follows our submittal of project proposals, permit amendment proposals or legislative changes. Las Cruces’ values were restated to include daily inspections by an environmental inspector and a water inspector from Confederación Hidrográfica del Guadalquivir. INT2 – FORMAL COMMUNITY MEETINGS Number of formal community meetings Location 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Çayeli 55 65 113 156 111 Cobre Las Cruces 45 55 66 88 70 Cobre Panama 10 120 108 125 233 Pyhäsalmi 4 4 4 11 12 Closed properties 13 30 37 31 29 Exploration 257 6 15 28 39 Inmet majority-owned properties 384 280 343 439 494 All of our business units have formal stakeholder identification and engagement management plans to include those interested in and affected by our business presence, including local residents, non-governmental organizations, government and religious figures, Indigenous Peoples, media, and businesses. The purpose of these management plans is to communicate business impacts and opportunities in an open and transparent manner, engage stakeholders both formally and informally on a consistent and ongoing basis, and consider the needs of stakeholders for capacity building to allow them to engage more effectively. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Number of formal community meetings 500 500 400 400 300 Exploration Closed properties 300 200 Pyhäsalmi Cobre Panama 200 100 Cobre Las Cruces Çayeli 100 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 35 COMPANY INDICATORS INT3 – FORMAL SAFETY MEETINGS Number of safety meetings Location 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Çayeli 2,709 2,594 2,686 1,976 2,088 Cobre Las Cruces 97 287 3,814 1,587 8,874 Cobre Panama 2,503 3,799 4,188 Pyhäsalmi 722 652 680 658 457 Troilus 296 296 186 86 55 Closed properties 430 518 566 426 410 Exploration 17 30 156 678 Inmet majority-owned properties 4,254 4,364 10,465 8,688 16,750 Safety meetings include pre-shift daily, weekly crew and contractor meetings with a supervisor, lead hand, captain, coordinator or manager. They also include formal safety meetings that are documented, have action items and require follow-up. The number of exploration safety meetings coincides with the significant increase in the number of drilling projects over the previous year. Las Cruces’ meetings increased due to more daily safety meetings by both employees and contractors. INT4 – WORKPLACE INSPECTIONS Number of workplace inspections Location 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Çayeli 30 86 479 1,530 1,899 Cobre Las Cruces 189 440 885 605 2,189 Cobre Panama 81 1,088 1,270 Pyhäsalmi 257 226 242 234 230 Troilus 64 64 44 24 22 Closed properties 757 905 612 427 576 Exploration 38 55 188 193 Inmet majority-owned properties 1,297 1,759 2,398 4,096 6,379 Workplace inspections are planned inspections of work areas, or mobile or stationary equipment. They are usually supported through the use of checklists and are focused on identifying workplace hazards that, when left uncorrected, could create the risk of injury to people and/ or damage to facilities. They are usually conducted by workers, supervisors, managers, and joint health and safety committee members. The number of inspections at Las Cruces has increased due to greater efforts by both employees and contractors to mitigate workplace hazards. Çayeli’s inspections have increased due to the maturing workplace inspection program. Number of workplace inspections 6,500 5,200 INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Exploration 6500 3,900 Closed properties 5200 Troilus 2,600 Pyhäsalmi 3900 Cobre Panama 1,300 Cobre Las Cruces 2600 Çayeli 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 1300 0 36 COMPANY INDICATORS INT5 – JOB HAZARD ANALYSES Number of job hazard analyses performed and documented Location 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Çayeli 339 332 860 2,837 1,105 Cobre Las Cruces 27 32 844 3,039 1,826 Cobre Panama 562 541 2,692 Pyhäsalmi 16 0 16 67 47 Troilus 60 60 15 6 8 Closed properties 47 56 44 51 15 Exploration 1 38 22 9 Inmet majority-owned properties 490 480 2,379 6,563 5,702 As part of our Operational Excellence initiative, each site conducts Job Hazard Analyses (JHAs) for complex or hazardous tasks where consistency is required and for new tasks where controls have not yet been identified. JHAs define the job steps for conducting the work, potential hazards and the controls required to reduce the risk to as low as reasonably achievable. JHAs are completed by the workers and supervisors involved in the work. The number of JHAs corresponds to the implementation of the program at each site, planned assessments and the number of new tasks. The reason for the decrease of JHAs at Çayeli and Las Cruces in 2011 over 2010 is both sites have been conducting more field-level risk assessments (SLAMs), therefore replacing the need for JHAs. INT6 – REPORTABLE ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS Number of reportable environmental incidents Location 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Çayeli 0 1 0 71 27 Cobre Las Cruces 0 30 23 578 594 Cobre Panama 0 0 0 2 1 Pyhäsalmi 0 15 7 3 7 Troilus 5 10 18 7 36 Closed properties 1 0 0 2 2 Exploration 0 0 0 0 0 Inmet total 6 56 48 663 667 Intensity/kilotonne copper (eq) 0.06 0.53 0.46 6.77 6.02 Intensity/working hours (eq) 12.0 106.6 91.4 1,353.1 1,203.0 Copper equivalent (tonnes) 100,220 105,086 105,036 98,000 110,886 Working hours 4,123,061 5,698,903 4,661,613 4,892,947 6,163,819 The number of reportable environmental incidents is one of the key trailing indicators that we track to assess the effectiveness of our programs. Incidents are reported to regulatory agencies if effluent breaches a prescribed threshold or if an off-site release occurs. Where such standards do not exist, we apply our own thresholds, taking into account potential toxicity and whether there is risk of an adverse INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT environmental impact occurring. In 2011, the number of incidents stabilized after experiencing a significant increase at Las Cruces in 2010. The rise in reportable incidents was due in large part to the strict limits that were imposed on the re-injection of ground water. Midway through 2011, a purification system was commissioned and performance has improved markedly. The exceedences had no adverse environmental impact as the ground water was removed and re-injected in a closed system. The increase at Troilus is due to exceedences of iron from a tailing impoundment. As of 2011, Troilus has initiated the collection of water with high iron, pumped it back into the tailing impoundment and eliminated discharge points to mitigate this issue. Troilus has also commissioned a study to determine the source of the iron as well as to determine if the iron levels are natural to the area. The total number of reportable incidents was restated from previous reports to account for the divestment of Ok Tedi. 37 COMPANY INDICATORS INT7 – GRIEVANCES RESOLVED WITHIN 30 DAYS Location Total number of grievances in 2011 Percentage of grievances resolved within 30 days Çayeli 34 24% Cobre Las Cruces 3 66% Cobre Panama 48 50% Each site has established a community feedback mechanism to manage concerns and grievances from stakeholders. Based on the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: Implementing the United Nations ‘Protect, Respect, Remedy’ Framework, the mechanisms include a process to identify stakeholders, including local residents and representatives from civil society, to participate in the feedback mechanism, as appropriate, and a reporting format for feedback to be recorded that is generally accessible and accounts for variables such as literacy, language or infrastructure. Each site has adequately and appropriately publicized and communicated the feedback mechanism to stakeholders to facilitate understanding of the mechanism’s existence, how to submit feedback and the process involved. Each site responds to feedback from stakeholders in a timely manner and according to a pre-established timeframe. As of late 2011, all sites have been asked to track the number of grievances resolved within 30 days. Most unresolved community issues pertain to longstanding problems that cannot be resolved within 30 days and require long-term solutions, such as near-mine housing issues and noise from our operations. GRI AND GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX This table shows where you can find Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators and performance information relevant to the United Nation’s Global Compact 10 principles. GRI G3.1 protocols were followed for all indicators, except where indicated otherwise. GRI Index Where to find it Global Compact principle Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Executive viewpoint Page 2 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Page 4 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name Inside front cover 2.2 Principal activities and products Inside front cover 2.3 Operational structure Inside front cover 2.4 Head office Inside front cover 2.5 Countries of operation Inside front cover 2.6 Nature of ownership Inside front cover 2.7 Markets www.inmetmining.com/ourmarkets 2.8 Scale of reporting organization Inside front cover, www.inmetmining.com/aboutinmet 2.9 Significant changes N/A 2.10 Awards N/A Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period Page 9 INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT 3.2 Most recent previous report Page 9 3.3 Reporting cycle Page 9 3.4 Contact Page 9 3.5 Defining report content Page 9 3.6 Boundary of report Page 9 3.7 Specific limitations Page 9 3.8 Joint ventures N/A 3.9 Data measurement Page 33 38 GRI INDEX GRI Index Where to find it Global Compact principle 3.10 Restatements INT1, INT6, EN3, EN8, EN10, EN16, EN17, EN22, MM10 3.11 Changes in reporting parameters N/A 3.12 GRI content index Page 38 3.13 External assurance Page 34 Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure www.inmetmining.com/governance (see proxy circular) 4.2 Board chair www.inmetmining.com/governance (see proxy circular) 4.3 Board independence www.inmetmining.com/governance (see proxy circular) 4.4 Engagement with the board www.inmetmining.com/governance (see proxy circular) 4.5 Executive compensation www.inmetmining.com/governance (see proxy circular) 4.6 Conflict of interest www.inmetmining.com/governance (see proxy circular) 4.7 Board qualifications www.inmetmining.com/governance (see proxy circular) 4.8 Mission, values, codes of conduct Page 14 Principle 10: Anti-corruption 4.9 Board oversight of sustainability Page 14 4.10 Board performance review www.inmetmining.com/governance (see proxy circular) 4.11 Precautionary principle Page 14, 15 Principle 7: Environment 4.12 External codes and initiatives Page 16 4.13 Industry associations Page 16 4.14 Stakeholder groups Page 10, Page 68 4.15 Stakeholder identification and selection Page 10, Page 68 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Page 10, Page 68 4.17 Stakeholder topics of concern Page 10 Economic Disclosure on management approach Page 42 EC1 Economic value Page 42 EC2 Implications of climate change Page 43 Principle 7: Environment EC3 Employee pension plans Page 43 INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT EC4 Government assistance Page 43 EC6 Local spending Page 44 EC7 Local hiring Page 44 Principle 6: Labour EC8 Infrastructure investments and services Page 44 Environment Disclosure on management approach Page 45 Principles 8 and 9: Environment EN1 Materials used Page 45 Principle 9: Environment EN2 Recycled materials Page 45 Principles 8 and 9: Environment EN3 Direct energy consumption Page 46 Principle 8: Environment 39 GRI INDEX GRI Index Where to find it Global Compact principle EN4 Indirect energy consumption Page 47 Principle 8: Environment EN5 Energy conservation Page 48 Principles 8 and 9: Environment EN7 Indirect energy reduction Page 48 Principles 8 and 9: Environment EN8 Water withdrawal by source Page 48 Principle 8: Environment EN9 Water sources affected Page 49 Principle 8: Environment EN10 Water recycling and reuse Page 49 Principles 8 and 9: Environment EN11 Protected and high-biodiversity areas Page 50 EN12 Impacts on protected areas Page 50 MM1 Land disturbed or rehabilitated Page 51 EN13 Habitats protected or restored Page 51 EN14 Managing impacts on biodiversity Page 51 Principle 8: Environment MM2 Biodiversity management plans Page 52 Principle 8: Environment EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions Page 52 Principle 8: Environment EN17 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions Page 53 Principle 8: Environment EN18 Greenhouse gas reduction Page 53 Principles 8 and 9: Environment EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Page 53 EN20 Significant air emissions Page 53 EN21 Water discharge Page 54 Principle 8: Environment EN22 Waste disposal Page 54 Principle 8: Environment MM3 Mine waste Page 55 Principle 8: Environment EN23 Spills Page 56 Principle 8: Environment EN25 Water sources and habitats affected by water discharge Page 56 EN26 Environmental impact mitigation Page 56 Principles 7, 8 and 9: Environment EN27 Product recycling Page 56 EN28 Environmental fines and sanctions Page 57 EN30 Environmental expenditures Page 57 Principles 8 and 9: Environment Human Rights Disclosure on management approach Page 58 Principles 1 and 2: Human Rights HR1 Agreements with human rights clauses Page 58 Principles 1 and 2: Human Rights HR2 Human rights screening Page 58 Principles 1 and 2: Human Rights HR3 Human rights training Page 59 Principles 1 and 2: Human Rights HR4 Discrimination Page 59 Principles 1, 2 and 6: Human Rights HR5 Freedom of association Page 59 Principles 1, 2 and 3: Human Rights HR6 Child labour Page 59 Principles 1, 2 and 5: Human Rights INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT HR7 Forced or compulsory labour Page 60 Principles 1, 2 and 4: Human Rights HR8 Security training on human rights Page 60 Principles 1 and 2: Human Rights HR9 Indigenous peoples Page 60 Principles 1 and 2: Human Rights HR10 Operations subject to human rights review or impact assessments Page 60 Principles 1 and 2: Human Rights HR11 Grievances related to human rights Page 60 Principles 1 and 2: Human Rights MM5 Operations in or adjacent to indigenous peoples’ territories Page 60 40 GRI INDEX GRI Index Where to find it Global Compact principle Labour Disclosure on management approach Page 61 Principle 6: Labour LA1 Workforce Page 61 LA2 Employee turnover Page 62 LA4 Collective bargaining Page 63 Principle 3: Labour LA5 Notice regarding operational changes Page 63 MM4 Strikes and lock-outs Page 63 Principle 3: Labour LA6 Occupational health and safety Page 63 LA7 Illnesses, injuries and fatalities Page 63 LA8 Health programs Page 66 LA10 Training Page 66 LA13 Diversity of governance bodies and workforce Page 67 LA14 Gender-based salary ratios Page 67 Principle 6: Labour LA15 Parental leave Page 68 Society Disclosure on management approach Page 68 SO1 Managing impacts on community Page 68 SO2 Corruption screening Page 69 Principle 10: Anti-corruption SO3 Anti-corruption training Page 69 Principle 10: Anti-corruption SO4 Actions in response to corruption Page 69 Principle 10: Anti-corruption SO5 Public policy development Page 69 SO6 Contributions to political parties Page 70 SO8 Fines and sanctions Page 70 SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Page 70 S10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented at operations with negative impacts Page 70 MM6 Significant community disputes Page 71 MM7 Use of grievance mechanisms Page 71 Principles 1 and 2: Human Rights MM8 Artisanal and small-scale mining Page 71 MM9 Resettlement Page 71 Principles 1 and 2: Human Rights MM10 Mine closure Page 72 Product Stewardship INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Disclosure on management approach Page 72 PR1 Life cycle analysis Page 72 PR3 Product information Page 72 Principle 8: Environment PR6 Marketing Page 72 PR7 Compliance with marketing regulations Page 73 PR9 Fines and sanctions Page 73 MM11 Materials stewardship Page 73 41 GRI INDICATORS Economic Inmet’s strategy is to grow responsibly as a base metal mining company, providing superior returns to shareholders. Strong financial performance gives us the means to continue to invest in people, communities and the future growth of the Company. Our business model focuses on base metals, primarily copper, which we continue to believe is a very attractive business over the long term. We take a disciplined approach to increasing our copper reserves, continually improving our performance as a responsible corporate citizen while we create shareholder value. Creating safe workplaces, engaging with people in the communities where we operate and adhering to high environmental standards are all important to our future. Operationally, we focus on the things we can control: operating effectively, assessing and managing risk to make sure we meet or exceed our production targets, controlling our costs, being good corporate citizens and developing our human resources. This helps us manage the things we cannot control, like metal markets and changes in the world economy. More information about our corporate strategy and financial performance can be found in our Annual Report to shareholders, which is available at www.inmetmining.com. EC1 – ECONOMIC VALUE (CAD$ 000s) Economic value generated 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Revenues $ 947,095 $ 798,544 $ 818,824 $ 702,327 $ 869,747 Economic value distributed Operating costs $ 296,000 $ 331,000 $ 297,000 $ 236,000 $ 303,000 Payments to providers of Funds $ 10,866 $ 10,967 $ 11,771 $ 12,358 $ 15,029 Employee wages and benefits $ 102,684 $ 98,610 $ 125,245 $ 90,932 $ 107,777 Community investments $ 6,218 $ 8,650 $ 10,025 $ 2,601 $ 4,103 Payments to governments: Inmet total $ 204,583 $ 160,244 $ 184,340 $ 120,742 $ 91,773 $ Canada 3,363 $ Finland 34,906 $ Panama 541 $ Spain 1,865 $ Turkey 51,098 Economic value retained $ 326,744 $ 189,073 $ 190,443 $ 144,694 $ 348,064 Community investments include contributions to charities, non-governmental organizations and research institutes (unrelated to Inmet’s commercial research and development), funds to support community infrastructure (e.g., recreational facilities) and direct costs of social programs. All investments are conducted through community consultations. The areas of focus are education, health and well-being, economic and social development, and infrastructure. Payments to governments include all taxes and royalties. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Inmet’s pending admission to the International Council on Mining and Metals also requires disclosure under the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). None of the countries where we operate are currently either candidates for, or are considered to be compliant with, EITI. 42 GRI INDICATORS EC2 – IMPLICATIONS OF CLIMATE CHANGE Climate change risks and opportunities are integrated into our multi-disciplinary company-wide risk management processes. As part of the risk evaluation of our business, we incorporate general climate change-related issues. At Cobre Panama, where the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment and basic engineering have taken climate change-related aspects into account, this is especially important given the long life (30 years plus) of the project. Because energy consumption is a source of many greenhouse gases (GHGs) and is a large component of our operating costs, we have incorporated a five-year objective of reducing energy and GHG intensity by 10% from 2007 levels. At this time, climate change does not present reasonably anticipated physical or regulatory risks to our Company. Climate change research suggesting increased storm intensity is not well established at this time and relies on complicated models based on many assumptions that have considerable inherent uncertainty. Until such predictions are borne out, we cannot see how climate change could present physical risks to our Company. Regulatory requirements do not present significant risk to our Company at this time as there are no regulatory requirements in the areas where we operate. Risk of carbon becoming regulated in the future exists; however, we anticipate the probability of this occurring to be low and have not quantitatively estimated the financial implications (e.g., cost of insurance and carbon credits) of climate change. We do, however, continually seek new opportunities to reduce energy usage as a way to reduce operating costs and consequently reduce GHG emissions. Climate change also presents an opportunity for the industry to demonstrate its commitment to social responsibility, by adopting more proactive GHG emissions strategies early in the project life cycle. EC3 – EMPLOYEE PENSION PLAN OBLIGATIONS The Retirement Plan of Inmet Mining Corporation (the “Plan”) is a registered pension plan in the Province of Ontario and is open only to Canadian employees of Inmet Mining. It is our only funded pension plan and there are no other company plans in other jurisdictions. Inmet has no obligation under the Defined Contribution (DC) portion to pay a specified pension benefit to employees. Its obligation is to make contributions based on an employee’s earnings and length of service. These contributions are then invested in any of 15 funds reflecting various asset classes available under the DC portion. Such investments are made at the direction of the employee and accrue to the employee’s account. This is administered by a third-party financial institution and DC portion assets are held separately from Inmet’s assets. Inmet’s obligation to pay pensions under the Defined Benefit (DB) portion is met through investments held separately from Inmet’s assets under a trust administered by a third-party trust company. As of December 31, 2010, the DB portion’s assets were estimated to be 83% of actuarial liabilities with a funding shortfall of $809,800. The solvency basis shortfall can be mainly attributed to the net investment return that Inmet’s investments received in the three years since the prior valuation. The return Inmet experienced is in keeping with the reality of the market and many DB plans reported a similar position in their valuations. The DB portion is expected to return to fully funded status on a solvency basis in 2012. For more information on our financial position and Inmet’s ability to meet the plan’s liabilities, refer to Inmet’s audited financial statements, which can be found on our website. EC4 – GOVERNMENT ASSISTANCE (CAD$ 000s) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Tax relief credits $ 1,251 $ 2,507 $ 3,821 $ 856 $ 1,249 Subsidies $ 67 $ 4,101 $ 71,635 $ 1,133 $ 393 Çayeli receives annual payroll tax credits and credits to offset the unit price increase and interruptions of electricity. In 2011 Las Cruces received subsidies for geological exploration, research and productivity enhancement from the Spanish government and the European INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Union. Pyhäsalmi received subsidies as a participant of the Pro Mine Project. For more information on the Pro Mine Project visit http://promine.gtk.fi/index.html. Governments are present in Inmet’s shareholding structure. Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited is an investment company owned by the government of Singapore. Temasek is a common share shareholder, holding approximately 11.2% of Inmet’s common equity. Korea Resources Corporation (KORES) is a government-owned mining and natural resource investment company that is a member of the Korea Panama Mining Corporation (KPMC) joint venture with LS-Nikko Copper Inc. KPMC has provided notice of its intent to exercise its option to acquire a 20% interest in the Cobre Panama project through ownership in MPSA. Inmet has not received any other grants, awards or financial assistance from export credit agencies. 43 GRI INDICATORS EC6 – LOCAL SPENDING Proportion of spending locally Location 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Çayeli 34% 19% 20% 34% 40% Cobre Las Cruces 90% 91% 90% 91% 87% Cobre Panama 30% 50% 39% 87% 48% Pyhäsalmi 90% 12% 11% 12% 17% Troilus 21% 53% 44% 57% 31% Closed properties 63% 55% 43% 47% 60% All operating sites, closed properties and our exploration team give preference to local vendors and contractors. Contractors are required to abide by Inmet’s Safety, Environment and Community Affairs (SECA) Standards. The geographic definition of “local” varies between each operation. Generally our sites define “local” as within the same region. Las Cruces and Cobre Panama define “local” as within the same country. EC7 – LOCAL HIRING Proportion of senior management Proportion of facility’s total from local community workforce from local community Location 2011 2011 Çayeli 0% 84% Cobre Las Cruces 50% 95% Cobre Panama 20% 82% Pyhäsalmi 71% 83% Closed properties 31% 65% Exploration 0% 100% We are committed to supporting local hiring through our Local Resource Development Initiative (LRDI), which is focused on increasing the representation of the local community in the workforce. Each site employs local residents for entry level work. Çayeli uses progressive hiring practices with input from the community in selecting local workers. Local hiring has increased at Las Cruces in recent years and we have been able to hire new managers from communities near the mine. Our exploration team uses Inmet employees for project management and technical work. Non-technical workers are hired locally. Service providers and qualified drill and geophysical contractors are hired from within the country, if available. Senior management refers to director level and above at each site. In Panama, local workers are defined as Panamanian nationals. EC8 – INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS AND SERVICES At Cobre Panama, infrastructure investments included a rural aqueduct, two new schools in indigenous communities and the expansion of a local secondary school. At Çayeli projects included road rehabilitation, new municipal garbage containers and a new heating system for a local training centre. Las Cruces made improvements to several municipal parks and a sports facility. All infrastructure investments are pro bono and identified through a community needs assessment using the socioeconomic assessment tool (SEAT) process. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT 44 GRI INDICATORS Environment We are committed to protecting the environment by minimizing the impact of our operations and rehabilitating affected areas when we are done. Our work starts at the outset of a project, in our impact assessment and project planning, and continues throughout the life cycle of our mines. We aim to protect air, soil and water quality and to maintain biodiversity. Our actions are consistent with industry best practice as outlined by the Mining Association of Canada’s Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) guiding principles and the International Finance Corporation Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability. Inmet has a formal environmental management system (EMS) that is consistently implemented across our operations. The system provides for independent environmental audits at each operating site every second year. Sites must submit corrective action plans within 60 days of receiving their audit results. Five-year and one-year environmental performance improvement targets are also in place, in areas such as water use, energy use and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Our SECA Standards establish the minimum operating requirements for each operation. They include standards for environmental management and procedures, measuring and enhancing biodiversity conservation, responsible site closure practices, mine waste management, and solid and hazardous waste management. In addition, our mine waste management policy establishes a set of commitments for managing waste that protects the environment and the safety and well-being of employees, contractors and the communities where Inmet operates. EN1 – MATERIALS USED 2011 Cobre Cobre Closed Çayeli Las Cruces Panama Pyhäsalmi Troilus properties Exploration Total materials purchased from external suppliers (m3) 1,981 20,831 2,144 1,290 93 82 531 Total materials obtained from internal sources (tonnes) 1,195 776 0 1,386 0 0 0 Total volume of non-renewable materials used (m3) 1,981 20,831 2,144 1,290 93 82 531 Total weight of direct materials used (tonnes) 76,800 42,100 0 851,200 0 0 0 Our base metal operations mine ore to produce copper cathode, and copper, zinc and pyrite concentrates. The total materials obtained from internal sources reflect the weight of ore milled in our operations. The volume of non-renewable materials includes the amount of diesel, gasoline, distillate fuels, oils, natural gas and propane consumed during 2011. Direct materials used reflects the weight of copper, zinc and pyrite produced. Pyhäsalmi is significantly higher than the other operations due to the large amount of pyrite produced. The total materials purchased reflects the amount of non-renewable materials. We intend to improve tracking and reporting of materials purchased from external suppliers and other non-renewable materials consumed in our next report. EN2 – RECYCLED MATERIALS Our operation in Finland used 4,520 tonnes of sulphuric acid and 35 tonnes of copper chloride sourced from other industries that produce them as byproducts of their main production. This represented 38% and 5%, respectively, of Pyhäsalmi’s total 2011 consumption of these chemicals. Pyhäsalmi also used 15,085 tonnes of slag and 798 tonnes of ash byproducts from the steel industry as binders in backfill slurry. Las Cruces used 27,446 tonnes of sulphuric acid sourced from another industry and 34,169 cubic metres of water from a sewage treatment INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT facility in its processes. 45 GRI INDICATORS EN3 – DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION Direct energy (GJ) Location 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Çayeli 71,438 67,318 62,969 61,123 64,052 Cobre Las Cruces 822,610 836,235 345,317 400,126 417,088 Cobre Panama 13,558 42,911 60,314 82,353 Pyhäsalmi 23,078 23,393 23,980 22,849 24,267 Troilus 423,315 493,954 222,445 78,881 3,461 Closed properties 6,261 7,544 7,902 6,251 6,822 Exploration 2,866 5,558 8,127 20,419 Inmet total 1,346,702 1,444,868 711,082 637,670 618,462 Intensity/tonne copper (eq) – majority-owned operations 5.17 5.56 4.59 5.34 4.56 Copper equivalent (tonnes) 100,220 105,086 105,036 98,000 110,886 Volume of non-renewable materials (m3) Diesel, gasoline and distillate fuels Oils Natural gas Propane Inmet total 16,492 565 9,858 37 Direct non-renewable energy sources include natural gas, gasoline, diesel, propane, light (distillate) fuel oil, etc. The increase at Cobre Panama is largely due to road construction. Exploration’s direct energy use increased because of the higher number of drill projects. Closed site values were restated due to a calculation error. Our operations do not currently consume direct energy from renewable sources. Total energy use – Intensity (Inmet majority-owned operations) Direct energy use (Inmet majority-owned operations) GJ/tonne copper (eq) GJ millions 15 1.5 15 12 1.2 12 9 0.9 9 6 0.6 6 3 0.3 3 0 0 2007 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Indirect energy use Direct energy use Direct energy use INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Location 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Location 2007 2008 5.17 5.56 4.59 5.34 4.56 11.49 11.30 11.71 12.65 11.20 1,346,702 46 GRI INDICATORS EN4 – INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION Indirect energy (GJ) Location 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Çayeli 258,911 275,662 261,399 262,390 277,713 Cobre Las Cruces 3,042 24,418 174,248 522,613 666,833 Cobre Panama 0 0 0 0 853 Pyhäsalmi 297,307 305,440 295,740 305,532 297,204 Troilus 594,996 605,952 585,753 298,894 24,433 Closed properties 6,415 7,545 7,456 6,255 6,823 Exploration 0 0 0 0 19 Inmet total 1,160,671 1,219,017 1,324,596 1,395,684 1,273,878 Intensity/tonne copper (eq) – majority-owned operations 11.49 11.30 11.71 12.65 11.20 Copper equivalent (tonnes) 100,220 105,086 105,036 98,000 110,886 The indirect energy consumption of our operating properties corresponds closely with the amount of ore milled annually. Values for Cobre Panama include energy consumed at the administrative office in Panama City. Exploration values reflect energy of a heating system provided by an external source in Finland. Power is consumed at our closed properties for water management and therefore correlates closely with the amount of precipitation. The improvement in our indirect energy intensity can largely be attributed to higher production at Las Cruces and modest improvements in electricity consumption per milled tonne by Çayeli. The power supply mix differs by region. In Turkey, electricity is supplied primarily by natural gas, coal and hydroelectric sources. Hydroelectric sources also generate the majority of Panama’s electricity and that of several of our closed properties, including Troilus. Spain’s supply mix consists largely of natural gas. Our operation in Finland purchases electricity from a supplier that uses a nuclear source and is certified carbon neutral. The estimated amount of primary energy needed to generate the electricity consumed by Çayeli in 2011 was 833 terajoules, and by Las Cruces was 2,000 terajoules. The difference between the amount of energy needed to produce the electricity and the amount consumed by our operations reflects estimated grid and efficiency losses when converting and transporting energy. Indirect energy use – Intensity (Inmet majority-owned operations) GJ/tonne copper (eq) 15 15 12 12 9 9 6 6 3 3 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Indirect energy use INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Location 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 5.17 5.56 4.59 5.34 4.56 11.49 11.30 11.71 12.65 11.20 47 GRI INDICATORS EN5 – ENERGY CONSERVATION (DIRECT) Direct energy saved (GJ) Location 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Çayeli 4,635 4,120 4,349 1,846 0 Cobre Las Cruces 0 0 0 0 0 Cobre Panama 0 0 323 0 0 Pyhäsalmi 0 0 1,200 1,133 0 Troilus 0 0 0 0 0 Closed properties 0 0 0 0 0 Exploration 0 0 0 0 104 Çayeli implemented conservation projects including lowering power rated blowers, fans and pumps, and improving lighting. An energy reduction survey was completed at Las Cruces in 2011, which identified opportunities for improving consumption at the hydrometallurgical plant. Las Cruces also installed a photovoltaic cell system and will be monitoring lighting in 2012 for potential opportunities. These improvements were not quantified. Our exploration group in Turkey was able to reduce their direct energy consumption by 104 gigajoules by installing a pipeline at one of the drill sites, which reduced the need for water haulage by truck. EN7 – INDIRECT ENERGY REDUCTION Our sites do not currently track upstream or downstream indirect energy use, or have initiatives to reduce indirect energy use. We plan to report on such initiatives in future reports. EN8 – WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE Total water withdrawal (m3) Location Source 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Çayeli Ground water & river water 4,802,996 4,636,082 3,973,955 3,903,772 5,047,686 Cobre Las Cruces Ground water, wastewater & pit contact water 107,766 0 1,407,944 1,373,720 1,814,920 Cobre Panama Ground water & river water 81,800 111,816 126,530 Pyhäsalmi Lake & town’s water utility 5,141,938 6,106,883 5,362,142 5,097,282 4,643,981 Troilus Lake 3,086,075 2,488,649 2,895,540 1,754,200 2,852 Closed properties Rivers 803,040 805,200 805,200 803,000 803,240 Exploration Lakes & rivers 27,257 3,876 7,705 17,100 Inmet majority-owned properties 13,941,815 14,064,071 13,359,700 11,830,431 12,456,309 TARGET: in millions of m3 11.15 11.15 11.15 11.15 11.15 Intensity/tonne copper (eq) – majority-owned operations 130.0 125.9 117.6 102.4 90.5 Copper equivalent (tonnes) 100,220 105,086 105,036 98,000 110,886 INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT 48 GRI INDICATORS Water withdrawal by source 2011 Cobre Cobre Closed Çayeli Las Cruces Panama Pyhäsalmi Troilus properties Exploration Surface waters 739,935 0 44,280 4,610,210 0 803,240 17,100 Ground water 4,307,752 346,313 82,250 0 0 0 0 Rainwater 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Wastewater 0 34,169 0 0 0 0 0 Municipal water 0 0 0 33,771 2,852 0 0 The increase in water consumption at Çayeli and Las Cruces reflects changes in the amount of annual milled throughput. Las Cruces values were restated to account for wastewater sourced from another organization and contact water from the bottom of the open pit used to minimize the need for fresh water. Pyhäsalmi has reduced its water consumption by roughly 9% since 2010. Water withdrawn by our exploration team increased because of the higher number of drill projects in 2011. Cobre Panama is the only site that estimates its water withdrawal, all others are measured. The amounts of water withdrawn from municipal sources by Las Cruces and Çayeli were not quantified in 2011. We plan to discuss this in future reports. EN9 – WATER SOURCES AFFECTED No water sources are significantly affected by our operations and we do not withdraw more than 5% of the annual volume of a source. Also, no water sources are considered to be protected and none of our properties are located near Ramsar listed wetlands, a network of wetlands designated as being of international importance for global biodiversity and sustaining human life. Although Las Cruces is located in an arid region of southern Spain, where water resources are scarce and of great importance to local communities, systems are in place to protect the Niebla-Posadas aquifer, which lies above the Las Cruces ore body. A Dewatering and Re-injection System (DRS) is used to move ground water away from the mine by drawing water from wells that surround the open pit. Before water is returned to the aquifer, it is treated to drinking quality using a highly efficient reverse osmosis process and tested for potential contaminants. EN10 – WATER RECYCLING AND REUSE Water recycling (000s m3) Location 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Çayeli 152 0 830 545 641 Cobre Las Cruces 108 0 695 1,032 1,571 Cobre Panama 0 0 0 0 0 Pyhäsalmi 1,046 1,047 1,037 1,093 1,080 Troilus 8,293 7,027 7,728 3,650 0 Closed sites 4 104 104 104 104 INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT 49 GRI INDICATORS Proportion of water recycled Location 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Çayeli 3% 0% 23% 14% 11% Cobre Las Cruces 0% 0% 49% 75% 86% Cobre Panama 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Pyhäsalmi 20% 17% 19% 21% 23% Troilus 81% 75% 75% 77% 0% Closed sites 1% 13% 13% 13% 13% In 2011, Las Cruces was able to re-use 86% of the water needed for its processes. Pyhäsalmi continued to improve its water recycling and moved closer to achieving its target of recycling 30% of the water consumed. Although our exploration activities account for only a fraction of our total water use, efforts are taken to recycle water used to flush rock cuttings from diamond drill holes. Water is captured at surface, allowed to settle in a dug sump and returned to the drill to be re-used in the drilling process. The amount of water recycled in our exploration activities is not quantified. Closed property values were restated due to a calculation error. The amount of water recycled is measured at all sites except at Pyhäsalmi and our closed properties, where it is estimated. Recycling process water can have drawbacks. If not properly managed, chemical precipitates can block pipelines, valves and couplings and can reduce the amount of metal we can recover. Our process teams continually look for ways to mitigate these challenges, such as mixing water from different sources and exploring pre-treatment options. EN11 – PROTECTED AND HIGH-BIODIVERSITY AREAS Our greenfield development project, Cobre Panama, is located within the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor, an area of high biodiversity value. We are developing this sensitive site using the International Finance Corporation Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability and other internal and external standards that ensure our project effectively manages its impacts and enhances opportunities to conserve species of concern in the project area and beyond. We currently own 44 square kilometres and lease 129 square kilometres of the project area, which is 10 kilometres from the nearest protected area (Omar Torrijos National Park). There is a diverse resident bird population near our 2.25 square kilometre Las Cruces operation that is home to several important steppe birds, including the Great Bustard, Little Bustard, Stone-Curlew, Black-Bellied Sandgrouse, Pin-Tailed Sandgrouse and Lesser Kestrel. A project is underway in Spain to increase the numbers of the Great Bustard near Las Cruces. The southern part of Lake Pyhäjärvi, near our two square kilometre site in Finland, is protected by the Natura 2000 European Union conservation network. Although Pyhäsalmi’s discharge enters the lake well north of the protected area and the lake does not contain endangered species, we are supporting the town and local fishing association by working with them to protect and improve fish habitat in the lake. Our other operations, including exploration sites, are not located in or adjacent to, and do not contain, protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 – IMPACTS ON PROTECTED AREAS Cobre Panama will include the transformation of 5,900 hectares of land over the 30 or more years of expected mining. At closure, 3,100 hectares will be restored to similar conditions previous to the mine, and 2,800 hectares will be transformed into four artificial lakes, roads and grassy slopes. The lakes will progressively change into natural lakes, increasing the habitat heterogeneity of the area. The Environmental and Social Impact Assessment completed for the project concluded that the clearing of land could potentially affect INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT threatened, endangered or endemic species of plants and animals that occur within the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor. Ongoing deforestation in the Project region due to in-migration of people and clearing of land for agriculture and ranching is a complicating factor. To assure the viability of ecological process and wildlife populations, Minera Panama (MPSA) is committed to developing flora and fauna rescue and relocation in areas to be cleared, action plans for prioritized species, including captivity breeding and repopulation, off-site reforestation, and independent monitoring. Upon completion, MPSA is committed to having a net positive impact on biodiversity. Our operations in Finland and Spain, which are located close to areas of high biodiversity value, are not considered to have significant direct or indirect impacts on biodiversity. 50 GRI INDICATORS MM1 – LAND DISTURBED OR REHABILITATED 2011 Total land disturbed and not Land newly Land newly rehabilitated Location yet rehabilitated (hectares) disturbed (hectares) (hectares) Çayeli 45 0.05 0.03 Cobre Las Cruces 506.8 7.7 29.1 Cobre Panama 4.7 13.3 728.6 Pyhäsalmi 175 0 0 Closed properties 917 0 150 Exploration 5 10 5 To address the sensitivity of the area surrounding our Cobre Panama project we have developed reforestation and restoration plans. Clearing of the project footprint will occur over a number of years and restoration will be progressive during the life of the mine, rather than awaiting final mine closure. EN13 – HABITATS PROTECTED OR RESTORED Cobre Panama has committed to supporting the conservation of two official protected areas (Santa Fe and Omar Torrijos national parks) and an area close to the project as an offset for biodiversity. This proposal was reviewed by independent consultants and an internal advisory committee, and approved by the national Environment Authority (ANAM) as a component of the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA). Las Cruces has restored 8.1 square kilometres of land through biodiversity compensatory measures, restoring areas used for storing marl from the open pit and other areas including local streams and roads previously used for livestock. These restoration measures were approved by the domestic regulatory agency, the Andalusian Administration. Since 2007, five square kilometres of land affected by Troilus’ operations has been restored. Established vegetation is abundant and is favourable for waterfowl. Our Copper Range closed property in Michigan has restored 14.7 square kilometres, including two tailings areas that are progressing well. At Samatosum, 72 hectares of area disturbed by tailings has been restored by a water cover and native vegetation. Our exploration group in Peru restored 10 hectares of land with native grasses that were disturbed by drilling. Where our operations have impacts on biodiversity, our approach is to use biodiversity offsets to have no net loss, or preferably a net gain, of biodiversity where achievable. EN14 – MANAGING IMPACTS ON BIODIVERSITY Our formal approach to managing biodiversity was developed in 2008 and all of our operations work to maintain levels of biodiversity throughout the mining life cycle. Both our active operations and our closed properties carry out regular environmental monitoring to assess and manage potential impacts from our activities. We also participate in the Business and Biodiversity Offsets Program (BBOP) and aim to achieve no net loss, or preferably a net gain, of biodiversity where achievable. We plan to improve our biodiversity planning and activities at all operations to align with the Mining Association of Canada’s Biodiversity Protocol and International Council on Mining and Metals Principle 7. Biodiversity conservation and offset strategies have been evaluated as a key part of the Cobre Panama ESIA. The ESIA includes a Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP), which is updated annually to ensure that our commitment of having a net positive impact on biodiversity is met. To achieve this objective, the BAP addresses initiatives on a landscape and species population scale. At the landscape level, Cobre Panama has committed to supporting the conservation of approximately 290,000 hectares of rainforest, which is over 40 times the size of the project footprint. At the species level, we are developing studies on flora and fauna prioritized species (species of concern), to improve knowledge of distribution in and out of the project area. The BAP also covers additional habitat creation, capacity building, and promoting empowerment INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT of the national capacity for conservation of biodiversity. Opportunities for biodiversity protection and enhancement form an integral part of Las Cruces’ operating plans. Although we meet all the requirements and address impacts on all animals, our focus is on the regional and resident bird population because the area provides an important habitat for steppe birds, some of which are protected. Las Cruces assists local farmers with implementing sustainable agriculture practices and, in 2011, included compensatory measures in its Biodiversity Action Plan. These measures include the creation of natural grasslands, improving the heterogeneity of natural features such as water sources, hedgerows and trees. Studies are also underway to understand the effects of our electrical lines and roads on various birds and animals in the area. Çayeli completed biodiversity surveys and developed a conservation plan in 2011. This was a coordinated effort between Çayeli and Hacettepe University in Turkey. 51 GRI INDICATORS Pyhäsalmi has developed a water recycling and conservation plan to reduce the quantity of contaminants it adds to the lake to better protect fish habitat. Pyhäsalmi also actively assists in the rehabilitation of the northern part of Lake Pyhäjärvi, which involves improving oxygen levels and treating for acidity. In 2011, our closed sites completed biodiversity plans for the properties that did not already have them. MM2 – BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT PLANS Inmet is committed to having a net positive impact on species and ecosystems, where achievable. This applies to new development projects, including Cobre Panama, and our operating and closed sites, all of which have formal biodiversity management plans. We plan to align these biodiversity activities with the Mining Association of Canada’s Biodiversity Protocol and International Council on Mining and Metals Principle 7. EN16 – GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS Total GHG emissions (tonnes CO2 equivalent) Location 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Çayeli 48,349 50,826 48,137 48,177 50,957 Cobre Las Cruces 59,233 62,485 45,035 89,726 107,867 Cobre Panama 0 1,058 3,172 4,305 6,024 Pyhäsalmi 3,835 3,619 3,792 4,153 3,710 Troilus 32,554 37,405 17,431 6,376 305 Closed properties 695 456 308 225 231 Exploration 0 204 396 579 1,500 Inmet total 144,666 156,053 118,271 153,541 170,594 Intensity/tonne copper (eq) – majority-owned operations 0.85 0.87 0.87 1.48 1.47 Target 0.76 0.76 0.76 0.76 0.76 Copper equivalent (tonnes) 100,220 105,086 105,036 98,000 110,886 Overall, our GHG emissions were 11% higher than 2010 levels, and 18% higher than 2007 levels. Most of this increase can be attributed to the higher production achieved at Las Cruces. Other factors included road construction in Panama, an expanded exploration drilling program and a modest increase in milled throughput at Çayeli. Improvements in consumption at Pyhäsalmi did not significantly influence GHG emission levels because it uses electricity from a carbon neutral certified source. Çayeli values were restated to reflect GHGs caused by explosives. We voluntarily report our emissions every year to the Carbon Disclosure Project. Calculations are based on site-specific data and emission factors are consistent with those of Environment Canada. GHG emissions – Intensity GHG emissions – Intensity (Inmet majority-owned operations) (Inmet majority-owned operations) GHG emissions – tonnes CO2 per tonne copper (eq) GHG emissions – tonnes CO2 per tonne copper (eq) 1.2 1.5 1.2 INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT 1.2 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.3 0.3 0.3 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0.0 Indirect Target Direct Indirect Direct 52 Location 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Location GRI INDICATORS EN17 – OTHER INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) 2009 2010 2011 Inmet air travel 299 360 454 The amount of other indirect emissions reflects the tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent created by the corporate office’s business travels. We restated values that were previously reported under EN16 using a more reputable emission factor from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. EN18 – GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION REDUCTIONS Çayeli implemented conservation projects, including lowering power rated blowers, fans, pumps and lighting. An energy reduction survey was completed at Las Cruces in 2011 that identified opportunities for improving consumption of the hydrometallurgical plant. Las Cruces also installed a photovoltaic cell system and will be monitoring lighting in 2012 for potential opportunities. These improvements were not quantified. Our exploration group in Turkey achieved a 7.7 tonne reduction in CO2e by installing a pipeline at one of the drill sites, which reduced the need for water haulage by truck. EN19 – EMISSIONS OF OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES Inmet produces no ozone-depleting substances. The Company uses small amounts of chlorofluorocarbons in refrigeration and cooling systems. During dismantling of facilities at Troilus all gases in air conditioning systems were recovered by a certified professional. EN20 – SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS Air emissions (tonnes) Tailings Other NOx SOx Cu Pb Cd Zn As dust PM (CO) Inmet total 8,300 5.2 0.18 0.47 0.01 0.22 0.03 3,600 540 880 Inmet’s mining and hydrometallurgical processes generate various emissions that have the potential to affect the atmosphere, ecosystems and surrounding communities if not carefully managed. Our approach to air management is to use the best available technology to minimize the impact on the environment, while considering the cost implications to a project’s economic sustainability. In accordance with our air management standard, we constantly monitor emissions, search for ways to improve performance, and implement controls to minimize environmental and health related impacts. Our most significant emission to air, apart from GHG, is NOx, which is produced by our hydrometallurgical plant in Spain. Las Cruces also emits a significant amount of carbon monoxide from the burning of natural gas. The amount of tailings dust can be almost completely attributed to our closed property, Troilus, where controlling the amount of dust has been challenging. The Troilus tailings impoundment covers an area of approximately 350 hectares. The relatively strong winds during the summer and fall when the tailings are exposed have resulted in dust issues as well as a notice of violation for dust in 2010. As part of our closure plan, Troilus has initiated revegetation of the tailings impoundment and has tested the use of sprinklers to promote vegetation growth as well as suppress the dust during the summer/fall period. Approximately 75% of the tailings impoundment has received initial seeding and fertilization and shows indications that revegetation will be successful in reducing the dust. Our operations do not release persistent organic pollutants, volatile organic compounds or compounds known as hazardous air pollutants. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT All criteria air pollutants are emitted in accordance with applicable permit limits. Starting in 2012, we will provide disaggregated data by business unit. 53 GRI INDICATORS EN21 – WATER DISCHARGE 2011 Average annual water 2011 Annual loading quality (mg/L) Receiving Discharge Treatment Copper Zinc Suspended Calcium Sulphate location volume (m3) method (kg) (kg) solids (kg) (tonnes) (tonnes) Cu Zn TSS Ca SO4 Çayeli: 5,025,346 Deep sea Black Sea tailings deposition 6,338 11,231 0 0 0 0.29 0.77 0 0 0 Cobre Las Cruces: 806,182 Reverse Rivers osmosis 32 79 8,198 614 2,550 0.04 0.01 10 762 3,163 Cobre Panama: 109,650 Water not Rivers treated yet 1.1 0.1 80 0 197 0.01 <0.001 0.73 0 1.8 Pyhäsalmi: 4,824,519 Lime Lake Pyhäjärvi treatment 238 2,147 55,318 3,558 8,849 0.05 0.44 11.5 738 1,834 Troilus: 4,463,939 TSS – Actiflo Effluents to lac A treatment system 12 35 23,240 138 460 0.01 0.01 7.72 39 130 Closed sites: Rivers 8,127,771 Varied 359 879 37,661 977,648 1,897,001 0.01 0.12 2.64 186.7 893.8 We monitor the quality of receiving water at all of our operating sites and closed properties, measuring for quantities of copper, zinc, calcium, sulphate and suspended solids in water, among many other chemical constituents. We also conduct biological studies to monitor changes to aquatic ecosystems. Monitoring results are reported to regulatory authorities, as required by domestic legislation. In 2011, there were no adverse changes in the quality of water we discharged to. Our effluent is not re-used by another organization. EN22 – WASTE DISPOSAL Total weight of waste by type Location Units 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Çayeli Non-hazardous kg 965,180 930,760 853,860 953,388 996,765 Hazardous kg 99,803 115,768 140,944 116,640 188,405 Cobre Las Cruces Non-hazardous kg 1,573,363 553,230 260,320 596,793 769,826 Hazardous kg 409,459 352,826 464,889 2,158,924 4,982,856 Cobre Panama Non-hazardous kg 25,214 93,600 203,579 Hazardous kg 20,615 55,000 37,329 Pyhäsalmi Non-hazardous kg 788,000 715,000 590,655 621,457 536,606 Hazardous kg 58,601 42,153 45,701 78,595 68,783 Troilus Non-hazardous kg 389,150 1,873,768 3,303,133 2,785,170 7,894,600 Hazardous kg 215,920 186,159 1,290,333 210,175 1,902,714 Closed properties Non-hazardous kg 5,918,580 11,672,429 9,960,215 6,590,774 8,131,886 Hazardous L 129 227 220 175 Exploration Non-hazardous kg 5,746 2,565 3,000 3,800 Hazardous kg 120 INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT 54 GRI INDICATORS 2011 The total amount of waste in tonnes for Non-hazardous (kg) Hazardous (kg) Composting 0 0 Re-use 0 0 Recycling 6,231,161 1,878,094 Recovery – energy recovery 37,440 685,414 Incineration – mass burn 71,620 0 Landfill 9,149,091 4,617,593 Deep well injection 0 0 On-site storage 3,047,750 0 Inmet total 18,537,062 7,180,381 Waste disposal is either done on-site in an approved facility (non-hazardous waste only) or off-site in certified recycling or disposal facilities, depending on domestic regulations and our own permits. The increase of waste at Troilus occurred because of the removal of facilities from the site during decommissioning. Large quantities of the materials were recycled. The remediation of Troilus also required a significant amount of contaminated soils to be treated. There was high production of residues at Las Cruces because of the increase in milled ore and problems controlling the amount of suspended solids that accumulate during solvent extraction. This site is making improvements to the control of suspended solids to minimize the amount of hazardous waste generated. Non-hazardous exploration waste was restated and drill cuttings are now reported under MM3. All our sites measure the amount of waste disposed of except our exploration group. MM3 – MINE WASTE 2011 (tonnes) Location Mass of tailings discharged Mass of waste rock disposed Mass of other mine waste* 404,279 Çayeli 244,858 545,724 Cobre Las Cruces 593,207 3,530,160 15,171,183 Cobre Panama 0 0 214,500 473,010 Pyhäsalmi 619,599 139,836 Troilus 0 0 0 Closed properties 0 0 0 Exploration 0 275 0 Mine waste (overburden, waste rock, tailings, sludges and residues) at all our majority-owned operations are carefully managed following all regulatory and permit requirements, as well as our own mine waste management policy and Safety, Environment and Community Affairs (SECA) Standards. We generally contain tailings and residues in specially engineered structures. Waste rock and tailings are used as backfill in our underground mines or are stored in containment facilities. Waste from our closed properties consists mainly of water treatment residuals from Norbec. Waste management at our exploration sites mainly involves disposal of drill cuttings. Drill cuttings are collected in sumps dug away from water courses. Cuttings are allowed to settle, and are then either buried or transported to authorized disposal sites. At operations where tailings from sulphide ores are present, there is a risk that ores could generate acid and leach metals harmful to the environment. To mitigate this risk, we take steps to reduce oxidation, contain any possible contaminants and treat water before we release it back into INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT the environment. At Çayeli, tailings are safely discharged into the oxygen-free Black Sea at a depth of 275 metres where oxidation does not occur. In 2011, we continued to upgrade our tailings management systems to meet the Mining Association of Canada’s Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) standards. Operations, maintenance and surveillance (OMS) manuals are either available, being revised or under development. Las Cruces and our closed sites completed their OMS manuals in 2011. Çayeli plans to complete its in 2012. All other sites have already implemented their manuals. *Other mine waste includes overburden and pastefill, and topsoil moved to create roads at Cobre Panama. 55 GRI INDICATORS EN23 – SPILLS 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Location Number Volume (m3) Number Volume (m3) Number Volume (m3) Number Volume (m3) Number Volume (m3) Çayeli 0 0 1 1,530 0 0 0 0 0 0 Cobre Las Cruces 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 155 1 300 Cobre Panama 1 0.25 2 0.1 0 0 Pyhäsalmi 2 1 1 0.5 0 0 1 10,600 1 7,000 Troilus 1 3 2 4 5 3.3 1 0.5 0 0 Closed properties 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Exploration 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 We consider a spill significant if it is large enough to have a material impact on the environment or the local community, or if it is a spill involving a very hazardous substance. In 2010, we formalized a five-point severity scale for environmental incidents and implemented it across the Company to better standardize the way our operations report. According to our classification scale, we had two unusually large environmental spills in 2011. A spill at Las Cruces occurred during a high rain event when both a permanent and a backup pump failed, causing an overflow of 300 cubic metres of contact water onto soil. We reported this spill to regulatory agencies because a portion reached the Garnacha stream, but based on subsequent monitoring, we do not believe that it had an adverse effect on the environment or the local community. Regrettably, Pyhäsalmi experienced a spill similar to the one that occurred in 2010, where a surface runoff collection sump was overwhelmed during a period of heavy runoff that reached Lake Pyhäjärvi. Additional temporary pumps were added to control the overflow and Pyhäsalmi has since significantly increased pumping capacity. This release also did not have a significant impact on the environment. None of these spills are considered to have a material impact on the Company or are reported in any of our financial statements. EN25 – WATER SOURCES AND HABITATS AFFECTED BY WATER DISCHARGE No water bodies are significantly affected by our operations and we do not discharge more than 5% of the annual volume of a source. No water sources are considered to have high amounts of biodiversity or to be protected or located near Ramsar listed wetlands, a network of wetlands designated as being of international importance for global biodiversity and sustaining human life. Although Las Cruces is located in an arid region of southern Spain where water resources are scarce and of great importance to local communities, systems are in place to protect the Niebla-Posadas aquifer, which lies above the Las Cruces ore body. A Dewatering and Re-injection System (DRS) is used to move ground water away from the mine by drawing water from wells that surround the open pit. Before water is returned to the aquifer, it is treated using a highly efficient reverse osmosis process and tested for potential contaminants. EN26 – ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MITIGATION Inmet produces copper, zinc and pyrite concentrates as well as copper cathode. Our concentrates are fine grained and have low moisture content (approximately 10%). They contain metals, sulphur and small proportions of silica and other trace elements. Concentrates can be toxic to aquatic organisms and people if improperly handled. To prevent the exposure of concentrates, they are transported with material safety data sheets that are updated every three years in most jurisdictions. Copper cathode does not present significant environmental hazards. Our operations have measures in place to control the airborne spread of concentrate as fugitive dust by controlling spillage at transfer points. We also have emergency plans which include protocols for responding to concentrate spills. In 2011, no specific measures were taken to mitigate the environmental impacts of our products other than to improve the quality of our concentrate, which may reduce the impacts associated with smelting. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT EN27 – PRODUCT RECYCLING This indicator is not applicable to our business as our products are shipped in bulk. Our concentrate products are sold to international smelting companies and are not reclaimable. Copper cathode from our Las Cruces operation is sold to market and likely has a high recycling rate. 56 GRI INDICATORS EN28 – ENVIRONMENTAL FINES AND SANCTIONS 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Location Fines ($) NOVs Fines ($) NOVs Fines ($) NOVs Fines ($) NOVs Fines ($) NOVs Çayeli 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Cobre Las Cruces 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 3 0 9 Cobre Panama 0 0 100,000 0 Pyhäsalmi 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Troilus 0 2 0 3 0 3 0 3 0 0 Closed properties 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 2 0 0 Exploration 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 An NOV is a notice of violation or other documented governmental warning or enforcement action. Las Cruces received nine NOVs in 2011. Eight were related to daily and monthly exceedences of copper, sulphates and pH in discharges to the Guadalquivir River periodically between April 2009 and July 2010. Las Cruces also received an NOV because the re-injection of ground water that we remove from the proximity of the open pit contained arsenic exceeding naturally occurring levels in the Niebla-Posadas aquifer. Since the commissioning of the water purification system midway through 2011, we have reduced the frequency of non-compliance. Cobre Panama received a $100,000 fine in 2011 related to drilling and roadwork occurring in 2009 prior to the approval of the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment. EN30 – ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURES Environmental expenditures (CAD$ 000s) Location 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Çayeli total 643 464 746 1,740 2,036 Waste, emission treatment and remediation 1,187 Prevention and environmental management 849 Cobre Las Cruces total 2,438 4,865 4,796 5,852 7,996 Waste, emission treatment and remediation 1,745 Prevention and environmental management 6,251 Cobre Panama total 3,640 7,271 10,200 9,081 Waste, emission treatment and remediation 641 Prevention and environmental management 8,440 Pyhäsalmi total 1,213 1,318 1,764 1,292 1,709 Waste, emission treatment and remediation 1,294 Prevention and environmental management 415 Troilus total 625 1,486 4,418 6,670 6,949 Waste, emission treatment and remediation 3,081 Prevention and environmental management 3,868 Closed properties total 2,054 1,410 1,407 1,730 1,653 INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Waste, emission treatment and remediation 919 Prevention and environmental management 734 Exploration total 20 17 19 29 Waste, emission treatment and remediation 1 Prevention and environmental management 28 Inmet majority-owned properties 6,973 13,203 20,419 27,503 29,453 57 GRI INDICATORS Environmental expenditures at our operations this year addressed waste and water management, monitoring and analysis, repairs and improvements to existing equipment and systems, external services for environmental management, as well as remediation activities and related personnel costs. Increased costs at Çayeli are related to the recently commissioned Rize Port dust and water management systems, which have led to lower occurrences of water exceedences. Also, changes were made to Çayeli’s on-site storm water systems that were implemented in late 2011. Las Cruces environmental expenditures comprised mainly lab analysis and land remediation. The increase in production at Las Cruces correspondingly generated more hazardous residuals needing to be treated, increasing costs. Most of our 2011 environmental budget at Panama was spent on reforestation, the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment evaluation rounds, which were successful, air and water monitoring and analysis, as well as several biodiversity initiatives. Environmental expenditures at Pyhäsalmi are mostly composed of wastewater treatment and waste (hazardous and domestic) handling costs. Environmental spending increased at Troilus as we ramped up activities to dismantle buildings and infrastructure, and rehabilitate disturbed areas at this newly closed site. Environmental spending at the other closed sites did not change significantly in 2011. Human Rights Inmet treats all stakeholders with whom we engage fairly and respectfully through open and transparent dialogue and adherence to evolving best practices. Our Human Rights Policy, which is consistent with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, includes commitments to: ensure fair remuneration and work conditions for all employees; not use forced, compulsory or child labour; implement policies and practices designed to eliminate harassment and unfair discrimination in all aspects of our activities; and respect the culture and heritage of local communities. We formally signed on to the Voluntary Principles (VPs) on Security and Human Rights in 2011. We are committed to implementing the VPs across our enterprise, particularly where there is an elevated risk of human rights or security concern. As well, last year, we implemented a community feedback mechanism that allows communities to register complaints and ensures timely feedback. It is also aligned with the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Inmet is also a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, which includes principles related to human rights. HR1 – AGREEMENTS WITH HUMAN RIGHTS CLAUSES In 2011, we conducted a human rights gap analysis, and Minera Panama began including human rights clauses in all its contracts starting in January 2012. None of our operating or closed sites have significant investment agreements which include human rights clauses or undergo human rights screening. HR2 – HUMAN RIGHTS SCREENING (SUPPLIERS AND CONTRACTORS) We do not currently have a formal policy or procedure for human rights screening. However, the countries where we operate have human rights laws in place and our contracts have general requirements for compliance with all legislation. In addition, our operations include specific safety, health and environmental clauses in their contracts and review contractor performance in these areas. At Cobre Panama, our security contractor underwent human rights screening. In 2011, none of our contracts included human rights clauses. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT 58 GRI INDICATORS HR3 – EMPLOYEE TRAINING ON HUMAN RIGHTS Total hours Percentage of employees trained on human rights spent training Location 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 Çayeli 4% 6% 4% 3% 3% 48 Cobre Las Cruces N/A N/A 0% 0% 74% 178 Cobre Panama N/A N/A 20% 0% 57% 42 Pyhäsalmi N/A N/A 0% 0% 0% 0 Closed properties N/A N/A 0% 0% 92% 30 Exploration N/A N/A 0% 0% 0% 0 Cobre Panama numbers include employees that received training on the VPs and Ngöbe Indigenous Culture Training. In 2012 Cobre Panama will implement a mandatory Human Rights Module for all employees through its e-learning program. Cobre Panama contractors also received an introduction to community relations. We do not have information from previous years on the total number of hours devoted to training concerning aspects of human rights. HR4 – DISCRIMINATION (INCIDENTS AND ACTIONS) Three incidents occurred at Cobre Panama. Employees reported an incident of discrimination against indigenous community members. After an extensive investigation by Security and Human Resources, it was determined that no discrimination took place. The employee accused was asked to modify his behaviour toward others and sent to coaching. No further action was needed. Two incidents of sexual harassment were reported. After an extensive investigation, one case was dismissed. The second case resulted in the termination of employment of the accused Cobre Panama employee. Remediation plans are created and internally reviewed for all instances of alleged or observed human rights abuses in accordance with Inmet’s CR incident rating matrix. HR5 – FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION We support our employees’ rights of freedom of association and collective bargaining. There are no impediments that prevent other employees or contractors from joining or becoming affiliated with unions. None of our employees’ or significant suppliers’ right to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining is considered to be at risk. HR6 – CHILD LABOUR Age of youngest worker Location Legal age 2009 2010 2011 Çayeli 18 25 26 23 Cobre Las Cruces 16 20 22 22 Cobre Panama 18 22 19 20 Pyhäsalmi 18 21 19 21 Closed properties 18 >40 24 21 INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Exploration 15 25 25 19 There were no incidents of child labour reported in 2011, nor were any operations considered to have significant risk for incidents of child labour. Our operations respect the minimum legal working age at all our sites for hiring employees and contractors. Inmet does not employ anyone under the age of 16. Students are hired for summer work and other short contracts in accordance with domestic laws but are not exposed to hazardous work and are not permitted to go underground. No specific measures were taken in 2011 to contribute to the elimination of child labour. 59 GRI INDICATORS HR7 – FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR Inmet does not engage in, or condone, forced or compulsory labour. None of our operations are considered to have significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour. There were no incidents of forced or compulsory labour reported in 2011. No specific measures were taken in 2011 to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour. HR8 – SECURITY TRAINING ON HUMAN RIGHTS Percentage of security trained on human rights Location 2008 2009 2010 2011 Çayeli 0% 3% 100% 100% Cobre Las Cruces 0% 0% 0% 0% Cobre Panama 0% 9% 9% 100% Pyhäsalmi 0% 0% 0% 0% Closed properties 0% 0% 0% 0% Exploration 0% 0% 0% 0% Security personnel at all of our operating sites receive training on domestic laws and regulations, including aspects of human rights. In 2011, 75% of Cobre Panama security personnel also received training on the Voluntary Principles (VPs) on Security and Human Rights. Our security contractor will add a module on the VPs to its human rights training in 2012. HR9 – INDIGENOUS PEOPLES (INCIDENTS AND VIOLATIONS) Two grievances were filed by indigenous stakeholders at Cobre Panama. One grievance resulted from the late payment of wages. Wages were paid by the contractor and the grievance was resolved. The second grievance involved an indigenous stakeholder who claimed his property would be impacted by the project but was not considered in the relocation process. The claim is under review. HR10 – OPERATIONS SUBJECT TO HUMAN RIGHTS REVIEW OR IMPACT ASSESSMENTS Cobre Panama conducted a human rights review in 2008 as part of the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment process. In 2011, an external consultant was hired to review our security policy and ensure compliance with the VPs. HR11 – GRIEVANCES RELATED TO HUMAN RIGHTS Three grievances involving human rights are reported under HR4. All three of these grievances were filed by employees and all were addressed in 2011. This was the first year that community feedback mechanisms were used; however, no human rights issues remained outstanding from previous years. MM5 – OPERATIONS IN OR ADJACENT TO INDIGENOUS PEOPLES’ TERRITORIES Three areas where we previously operated lie within or adjacent to Indigenous Peoples’ territories. Our recently closed operation, Troilus, lies within the traditional trapping lands of the Cree of Mistissini. Troilus and the Cree Grand National Authority signed the Troilus Agreement in INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT 1995, prior to the start of mining at the site. Two other closed properties are less than 20 kilometres from such territories. The Cobre Panama project is neither on nor adjacent to indigenous territories. However, there are several indigenous settlement communities in the project development area and we recognize customary use of such lands. In 2011, we signed a Resettlement Action Plan with two such communities. We expect to sign an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan with two nearby communities in 2012. 60 GRI INDICATORS Labour Practices We depend on our employees to achieve our business goals. We set out to attract and retain talented people, hiring according to the skills and experience required for a position, without discrimination based on gender, race, age, sexual orientation, religion, nationality or any other factor except where a bona fide occupational requirement for which no reasonable accommodation can be developed exists. Our employees are treated with respect and dignity, they are paid good wages and benefits tailored to their region, and they are given opportunities to develop their skills through a variety of training programs or career advancement. Across our operations, we work to build a culture that fosters leadership from all employees and upholds high ethical standards. This is the foundation of our Leadership Charter and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Due to the geographic and cultural diversity of our workforce, many of our human resources policies and programs are regional or site-specific. This is particularly true in the areas of compensation and benefits, training and labour relations. This approach enables us to address unique labour markets and social conditions. HEALTH AND SAFETY Our goal is to bring every employee and contractor home healthy and safe every day. We work to establish a culture and an environment where incident-free work is business as usual, no matter what a person’s role or where in the world they work. We do this through a combination of safety standards, safe work practices and procedures, incident reporting and tracking, knowledge sharing, safety audits and Operational Excellence (a management approach that engages our workforce in identifying hazards, assessing risk and managing it to as low as reasonably achievable on the job). Across the Company, we manage health and safety through our risk-based Safety, Environment and Community Affairs (SECA) Standards. Managers at our operations are responsible for implementing these standards, and it is their responsibility to ensure work practices and procedures that support the standards are in place. Our key focus areas are high consequence protocols (protocols to address incidents that carry a high risk of serious harm), field leadership, near miss and incident reporting, leading and lagging key performance indicators, safety and health audits, and safety task forces. LA1 – TOTAL WORKFORCE 2010 2011 2011 2011 Temporary/ Total workforce Total workforce Permanent employees contract employees Location Male & Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Çayeli 451 533 23 449 22 84 1 Cobre Las Cruces 235 201 43 175 38 26 5 Cobre Panama 170 161 58 161 57 0 1 Pyhäsalmi 215 192 29 184 26 8 3 Troilus 25 11 1 11 1 0 0 Closed 9 6 0 6 0 0 0 Exploration 90 177 11 21 6 156 5 On average at our operating sites, about 5% of employees are managers, about 10% are supervisors and about 15% are trainees. Approximately 70% of employees at our active sites are hourly employees, most of whom are directly involved in either production or maintenance activities. During the last year we did not track the amount of supervised workers, contractor employees, or the amount of INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT people by employment type. We intend to report on these statistics in the next reporting cycle. 61 GRI INDICATORS LA2 – EMPLOYEE TURNOVER 2011 Age <30 30–50 >50 Location Male Female Male Female Male Female Çayeli Number of new employee hires 22 2 33 0 2 0 Number of employees leaving 0 1 29 1 7 0 Cobre Las Cruces Number of new employee hires 5 2 13 7 0 0 Number of employees leaving 2 1 7 4 1 0 Cobre Panama Number of new employee hires 8 11 32 15 19 2 Pyhäsalmi Number of new employee hires 6 2 13 0 1 0 Number of employees leaving 1 0 5 0 11 1 Troilus Number of new employee hires 0 0 1 0 2 0 Number of employees leaving 0 0 4 0 8 0 Closed properties Number of new employee hires 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of employees leaving 0 0 0 0 0 0 Exploration Number of new employee hires 3 0 0 0 0 0 Number of employees leaving 0 0 0 0 0 0 2011 Age <30 30–50 >50 Location Male Female Male Female Male Female Çayeli Rate of new employee hires 4% 0% 6% 0% 0% 0% Rate of employees leaving 0% 0% 5% 0% 1% 0% Cobre Las Cruces Rate of new employee hires 2% 1% 5% 3% 0% 0% Rate of employees leaving 1% 0% 3% 2% 0% 0% Cobre Panama Rate of new employee hires 4% 5% 15% 7% 9% 1% Pyhäsalmi Rate of new employee hires 3% 1% 6% 0% 0% 0% Rate of employees leaving 0% 0% 2% 0% 5% 0% Troilus Rate of new employee hires 0% 0% 8% 0% 17% 0% Rate of employees leaving 0% 0% 33% 0% 67% 0% Closed properties Rate of new employee hires 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Rate of employees leaving 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Exploration Rate of new employee hires 2% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Rate of employees leaving 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Company-wide employee turnover is relatively low, which reflects how we measure up as an employer of choice. The rate of employees leaving Troilus is high because it is a recently closed property. These statistics are not representative of contractors employed by our exploration teams. Additionally, Minera Panama (MPSA) did not track employees by age prior to their leaving; however, 19 employees left MPSA during 2011. We intend to report on these statistics in the next reporting cycle. 62 GRI INDICATORS LA4 – COLLECTIVE BARGAINING All Pyhäsalmi and Las Cruces employees, 58% of Çayeli employees, 18% of Cobre Panama employees and 2% of exploration employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Both Troilus and Çayeli have labour relations committees, including representatives from various departments who meet regularly with site management. LA5 – NOTICE REGARDING OPERATIONAL CHANGES Collective bargaining agreements and provincial labour legislation in Canada require one to eight weeks’ minimum notice for layoffs. This depends on length of employment and the duration of the layoff. In Turkey, there is a two-week minimum required and in Spain four weeks is required to give notice. Other changes to our business may require more extensive notice periods and negotiation between parties. Our other jurisdictions do not have legislated notification periods. Before temporary layoffs, our policy is to advise employees and/or their elected representatives. However, terms and conditions for layoffs remain as previously negotiated and/or as defined by Inmet’s policy. Employees and/or their elected representatives have the opportunity to seek consultation during the notice period. The notice period and/or provisions for consultation are specified in collective agreements. MM4 – STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS There were no strikes or lockouts in 2011. LA6 – OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY All employees at all of our majority-owned operations are covered by joint occupational health and safety committees. These committees operate company-wide and with the purpose of sharing information to mitigate potential safety and health risks and also to report on performance and other issues. The Safety Task Force comprises general managers and safety staff from our operations and meets biweekly by conference call. LA7 – ILLNESS, INJURIES AND FATALITIES Total working hours 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Location Male & female Male & female Male & female Male & female Male Female Çayeli 1,181,512 1,204,808 1,010,464 1,105,569 1,093,316 47,179 Cobre Las Cruces 1,674,662 2,903,472 1,617,328 1,847,664 1,756,104 217,000 Cobre Panama 78,710 563,224 1,028,134 1,103,843 1,930,883 340,744 Pyhäsalmi 441,460 455,645 477,605 473,981 446,409 65,861 Troilus 685,590 475,058 475,294 265,387 99,514 8,504 Closed properties 19,203 17,669 15,014 18,735 15,464 1,300 Exploration 41,924 79,027 37,774 77,768 132,907 8,634 Inmet total 4,123,061 5,698,903 4,661,613 4,892,947 6,163,819 WSN 34,029,192 34,029,193 27,174,755 21,032,751 26,454,667 INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT 63 GRI INDICATORS Lost time injury frequency 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Location Male & female Male & female Male & female Male & female Male Female Çayeli 0.7 0.5 1 0.9 0.7 0 Cobre Las Cruces 1.9 0.8 0.9 0.9 0.4 0 Cobre Panama 5.1 2.1 1.3 0.7 0.7 0 Pyhäsalmi 0.5 1.8 0.4 1.3 0 0 Troilus 0.3 0.9 1.3 0.8 0 0 Closed properties 0 0 0 0 0 0 Exploration 4.8 2.5 0 7.8 2.8 0 Inmet total 1.2 0.9 1 0.9 0.6 WSN 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.7 Severity rate (working days lost) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Location Male & female Male & female Male & female Male & female Male Female Çayeli 1,029 24 28 4 42 0 Cobre Las Cruces 40 47 19 696 37 0 Cobre Panama 34 2,320 31 3 14 0 Pyhäsalmi 19 60 10 100 2 0 Troilus 33 124 34 11 0 0 Closed properties 0 0 0 0 0 0 Exploration 19 101 0 2 7 0 Inmet total 319 236 24 270 25 WSN 132 54 74 11 242 Total injury frequency 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Location Male & female Male & female Male & female Male & female Male Female Çayeli 2.4 3.2 2.6 2.5 3.5 0 Cobre Las Cruces 4.4 4.2 3.1 4.1 3.6 0.01 Cobre Panama N/A 2.9 6.8 2.4 1.7 2.3 Pyhäsalmi 3.2 6.6 2.5 3 1.2 0 Troilus 1.5 2.1 2.5 1.5 0 0 Closed properties 0 0 0 11.3 0 0 Exploration 4.8 15.2 0 7.8 2.8 0 Inmet total 3.1 4.6 3.6 3.1 2.7 INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT 64 GRI INDICATORS Number of fatalities 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Location Male & female Male & female Male & female Male & female Male Female Çayeli 1 0 0 0 0 0 Cobre Las Cruces 0 0 0 1 0 0 Cobre Panama N/A 1 0 0 0 0 Pyhäsalmi 0 0 0 0 0 0 Troilus 0 0 0 0 0 0 Closed properties 0 0 0 0 0 0 Exploration 0 0 0 0 0 0 Inmet total 1 0 0 1 0 Occupational Lost day rate Working hours Injury rate (IR) diseases rate (ODR) (LDR) Employees – Inmet Perm. & Inmet Temp./Contract 2,797,515 7.9 0.08 24 Independent Contractors – Contractor Perm. & Contractor Temp. 3,366,304 7.8 0 22 All of our sites have employee health check systems and workplace monitoring systems in place. Identified health hazards are controlled at the source. The closed properties have workplace monitoring systems. In 2011, Çayeli conducted an audit of its occupational health and hygiene programs and put measures in place to enhance the quality of its health and hygiene programs. Çayeli also reported one case of stage one pneumoconiosis, which is an illness that develops over time and is associated with exposure to certain dusts. There were no fatalities of employees or contractors at any of our operations in 2011. Our sites record and report accident statistics in compliance with domestic laws in regions where we operate. They also incorporate the International Labour Organization (ILO) Code of Practice on Recording and Notification of Occupational Accidents and Diseases. These statistics include minor (first-aid level) injuries but do not include absenteeism. Lost time injury frequency and severity (working days lost) are per 200,000 employee hours. Total injury frequency includes all medical aids, modified work and lost time injuries. The return to limited duties (modified work) is included in the lost day rate. A lost day refers to scheduled work days and begins the day after an incident has occurred. A fatality accounts for 6,000 lost working days. Workplace Safety North (WSN) is included in the tables above as an industry performance benchmark. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT 65 GRI INDICATORS LA8 – HEALTH PROGRAMS 2011 Education/Training Counseling Prevention/Risk control Treatment Location Program recipients Yes/No Yes/No Yes/No Yes/No Çayeli Workers Yes No Yes No Workers’ families No No No No Community members No No No No Cobre Las Cruces Workers Yes Yes Yes Yes Workers’ families No No No No Community members No No No No Cobre Panama Workers Yes Yes Yes Yes Workers’ families No No No No Community members Yes No Yes Yes Pyhäsalmi Workers Yes Yes Yes Yes Workers’ families No No No No Community members No No No No Closed properties Workers No Yes No Yes Workers’ families No Yes No Yes Community members No No No Yes Exploration Workers No No No No Workers’ families No No No No Community members No No No No Our operations have ongoing workplace exposure monitoring and occupational health programs. Workplace exposures consist of dust, air quality, noise and vibration. The medical clinic at Pyhäsalmi conducted workplace reviews to identify potential risks associated with work and work station design. Çayeli conducted an audit of its occupational health and hygiene programs and put measures in place to enhance their quality. Çayeli reported a case of stage one pneumoconiosis, which is an illness that develops over time and is associated with exposure to certain dusts. The medical team at Cobre Panama conducts pre-employment medical examinations and provides ongoing training on leishmaniasis and other natural hazards specific to exposures in Panama. LA10 – TRAINING Average hours of training 2011 Employee category (Inmet average) Male Female Senior management 32 51 Middle management 39 60 Technical 34 20 Production 39 22 INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Administrative 11 20 Training is a fundamental and necessary method for shaping behaviours and developing the competence of our employees. It also ensures our employees are able to achieve their full potential and further improve their skill set, which is fundamental to Inmet’s strategy. We continuously monitor training needs, evaluate training methods, and provide training in an effective and cost efficient manner. 66 GRI INDICATORS LA13 – DIVERSITY OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND WORKFORCE Percentage by gender 2011 Employee category (Inmet average) Male Female Senior management 4% 1% Middle management 15% 2% Technical 17% 3% Production 48% 2% Administrative 3% 5% Board of Directors 100% 0% Percentage by age group 2011 Employee category (Inmet average) <30 30–50 >50 Senior management 0% 4% 1% Middle management 0% 11% 5% Technical 4% 14% 2% Production 15% 26% 9% Administrative 1% 6% 1% Board of Directors 0% 11% 89% We are committed to supporting women and other under-represented groups to reach their full potential through our Local Resource Development Initiative (LRDI). This initiative is focused on increasing the representation of the local community in the workforce, which includes women and indigenous groups. We do not have data on minority groups but will begin tracking this information for future reports. LA14 – GENDER-BASED SALARY RATIOS Ratio men to women 2011 Location Salary Remuneration Çayeli Senior management 85% 93% Middle management 95% 100% Technical 100% 100% Production 100% 100% Administrative 100% 100% Cobre Las Cruces Senior management N/A N/A Middle management N/A N/A Technical N/A N/A Production 100% 100% Administrative 100% 97% Cobre Panama Senior management – Panamanian 100% 100% INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT Middle management – Panamanian 100% 100% Technical – Panamanian 100% 100% Production N/A N/A Administrative 100% 100% Pyhäsalmi Senior management N/A N/A Middle management 98% 100% Technical 103% 100% Production 100% 100% Administrative N/A N/A 67 GRI INDICATORS Inmet follows standard business practice whereby employees with the same qualifications, experience and performance receive equal pay for equal work. Exploration and our closed site employees do not have comparable positions for men and women. LA15 – RETURN TO WORK AND RETENTION RATES AFTER PARENTAL LEAVE 2011 Inmet Male Female Number of employees entitled to parental leave 61 16 Number of employees that took parental leave 61 16 Number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended 61 14 Number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended who were still employed 12 months after their return to work 14 8 Percentage of employees who returned to work after leave ended 100% 88% Society We are committed to building respectful relationships and delivering positive development outcomes to the communities who grant us our privilege to operate. Three Safety, Environment and Community Affairs (SECA) Standards guide our community consultation and engagement processes – (CA 1) Community of Interest Outreach and Dialogue Planning and Implementation, (CA 2) Community Response System, and (CA 3) Community Advisory Panel. Together these standards set requirements for the identification of communities of interest (COIs), open and transparent dialogue processes, response to and incorporation of COI views and concerns in our plans, and reporting on our performance. Progress on the SECA Standards is tracked and reported quarterly for each operation to the CR Committee of the Board of Directors. Our Human Rights Policy commits us to develop formal community feedback (grievance) processes at each site. It also includes a commitment to contribute to community development through programs that enhance the economic, social, civil and cultural well-being of individuals and communities by our activities. We allocate 0.5% of annual after-tax profits to community development priorities. We have established community foundations at Çayeli and Las Cruces, and we are in the process of doing so in Panama. SO1 – MANAGING IMPACTS ON COMMUNITIES Responsible mining is a joint responsibility of our corporate office and our operations. Every majority-owned operation is expected to meet our minimum social, environmental and community affairs criteria and standards for safe, responsible operation. All of our majority-owned operations have implemented local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs. At Çayeli, the socioeconomic assessment tool (SEAT) report is regularly updated and used as a guideline for our Community Affairs department. SEAT is a framework for identifying and assessing community development needs developed for the mining sector, to guide their community engagement and development efforts. Stakeholders’ concerns are addressed based on our management and monitoring plan. We initiated a participative process with the near-mine housing communities to find permanent solutions to longstanding problems, which involved convening the 11-member Near-Mine Housing Committee, including eight permanent representatives chosen by the communities, agreeing on a housing valuation framework that conforms to International Finance Corporation standards, assessing the condition of over 100 houses, making offers to 15 families based on the valuation framework, reaching agreement with seven families and demolishing three houses with two pending. We also completed a socioeconomic baseline survey. As this operation nears end of mine life, assessment of our impacts on the community will be addressed through community advisory panels and collaborative decision-making processes. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT At Las Cruces, we launched the inaugural Five Nines Award, which will be given annually to the local entrant whose project is judged to best promote socioeconomic development in the region. We have various local employment programs underway for environmental tasks and people with disabilities. In 2011, we launched a stakeholder advisory panel of company employees and residents from four nearby towns. Cobre Panama has a comprehensive participatory community engagement program in line with the degree and type of affected communities. Our external relations program comprises the following departments: community relations, community development, resettlement, indigenous community relations, local government engagement and community response (grievance) program. The degree and type of stakeholder engagement with communities in the Cobre Panama project footprint depend primarily on the environmental and social impact assessments. Cobre Panama is currently in the process of developing monitoring and evaluation mechanisms to determine the effectiveness of these programs. Pyhäsalmi developed its own community affairs strategy and action plan. As this operation nears end of mine life, assessment of our impacts on the community will be addressed through community advisory panels and collaborative decision-making processes. 68 GRI INDICATORS Our closed properties have a formal, documented system in place for each site to identify local COIs, document outcomes of dialogues, respond to COI concerns, consider COI input when making decisions, and report on community engagement and dialogue activities. The process is ongoing and has evolved to include COI involvement in an emergency preparedness test at several of the sites in 2011. A communication form has also been established to capture day-to-day discussions with local COIs. The COIs have indicated their interest in continuing the process. First contact training is provided for all exploration geologists. Formal community mapping and engagement processes are being developed in Peru. SO2 – CORRUPTION SCREENING Our majority-owned operations have been checked for such risks as part of the annual financial controls used to certify Inmet’s financial disclosure. The Managing Director, or General Manager and Finance Manager, at each operation is required to provide an annual confirmation and acknowledgement to the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Inmet Board of Directors with respect to Inmet’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. SO3 – ANTI-CORRUPTION TRAINING Percentage of employees who reviewed or received training on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which includes anti-corruption training, in 2011 Location Employee type Çayeli Management 100% Non-management 95% Cobre Las Cruces Management 100% Non-management 74% Cobre Panama Management 83% Non-management 23% Pyhäsalmi Management 0% Non-management 0% Closed properties Management 100% Non-management 100% Exploration Management 100% Non-management 0% Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is used at all our majority-owned operations and properties. Each employee received a handbook and pamphlet when we implemented the code and confidential reporting procedures and posters are posted throughout each site. New employees receive a copy of the code as part of their orientation. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT SO4 – ACTIONS IN RESPONSE TO CORRUPTION There were no incidents of corruption reported at any of our majority-owned operations and closed properties. SO5 – PUBLIC POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND LOBBYING We do not make donations or contributions to any political party or candidate for public office. We do not, either directly or through an agent, pay, offer to pay or promise to give anything of value to governments or public officials with the goal of influencing decisions that may affect Inmet. We do cooperate with governments in the jurisdictions where we operate, to identify and resolve issues pertaining to our operations, either directly or through memberships in business associations such as the Mining Association of Canada, the Canadian Turkish Business Council, the Finnish Mining Association, and Spain’s national mining association (CONFEDEM). You can read more about our codes and policies online at: www.inmetmining.com/governance/charterspolicies/default.aspx. 69 GRI INDICATORS SO6 – FINANCIAL AND OTHER POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS There were no financial or in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians or related institutions at our majority-owned operations and closed properties. SO8 – FINES AND SANCTIONS Non-environmental fines and notices of violation (NOVs) (CAD$ 000s) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Location Fines NOVs Fines NOVs Fines NOVs Fines NOVs Fines NOVs Çayeli 988 2 0 0 92 0 0 0 1 0 Cobre Las Cruces 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 39 0 Cobre Panama 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Pyhäsalmi 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Troilus 0 0 0 0 50 1 0 0 0 0 Closed properties 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 Exploration 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Las Cruces received a CAD$39,272 fine in 2011 due to an on-site accident that occurred in 2008. The Spanish Employment Authority ruled that there were insufficient safety measures in place to prevent a contractor from falling from the top of a reactor. Cobre Panama received a notice of violation for exceeding legal noise levels during night work. SO9 – OPERATIONS WITH SIGNIFICANT POTENTIAL OR ACTUAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS ON LOCAL COMMUNITIES At Çayeli, impacts include operational and exploration noise, the impact of ground movement on near-mine housing communities, competition among contractors causing social and legal issues, competition among communities for employment causing social issues, and the visual impact of the waste dump area. At Cobre Panama, resettlement communities include Chicheme, Petaquilla, Rio Bajo, Rio Medio and Quebrada Vega. Communities that are susceptible to project-induced in-migration (PIIM) include Coclesito, Rio Caimito, Villa del Carmen and San Benito. Resettlement communities will be relocated. PIIM communities are expected to be impacted the most by in-migration, which is expected to put a strain on local services and infrastructure. Exploration activities can result in noise and minor spills of drill cuttings. SO10 – PREVENTION AND MITIGATION MEASURES IMPLEMENTED AT OPERATIONS WITH NEGATIVE IMPACTS At Çayeli, we have improved practices in accessing exploration sites and installed noise barriers around exploration drilling machines. Benefits to landowners are now provided on a monthly basis instead of lump sum payments, which caused grievances. A new procedure for managing the donations budget was developed to minimize community complaints. A retention wall was built to prevent flows onto agricultural lands around the site. Speed reducing lines were painted on roads to minimize safety risk to community members. Other noise reduction measures included upgrading the mill door to isolate some of the noise, closing the doors to the mechanic workshop and INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT changing the reverse signals of mobile equipment into light signals to minimize noise at night. At Cobre Panama, we signed a Resettlement Action Plan with 86 affected households. In 2011, 83% of relocation properties (1,150 hectares) were secured for families of the indigenous communities of Chicheme (301 people) and Petaquilla (101 people). In 2012, replacement properties, seed capital and the Livelihood Restoration Program will be implemented. By acquiring additional easement for road works (a 40 kilometre public road for project access), Cobre Panama removed approximately 15% of the community impacts of the original engineering design. The easement acquisition process resulted in the relocation of two families who have been provided new and improved homes. One family has been resettled, and the second is in the process. A preliminary study of the planned 120 kilometre electrical transmission line has identified the number and degree of impacts to households and property. The findings will be incorporated into the detail engineering to remove or mitigate the impacts. Exploration noise prevention measures are implemented where needed. All additives utilized during drilling operations are assessed in advance to ensure that any accidental spill of drill cuttings would be non-hazardous to the environment. Many of these measures were implemented to achieve a standard beyond legal compliance. 70 GRI INDICATORS MM6 – SIGNIFICANT COMMUNITY DISPUTES Our exploration team recorded three incidents in Turkey relating to excessive noise produced from our drilling activities. The incidents involved a complaint from nearby landowners, to which our response was to curtail drilling activities during the night, make compensation payments and erect sound deadening structures around the drill rig. Also in Turkey, there was an incident related to a small spill of sludge from our drilling operations, which covered an area of approximately 270 square metres of low vegetation including tea plants. The spill was non-toxic and cleaned up without further incident. There was one exploration incident in Peru relating to a change in opinion by community leadership on appropriate levels of sponsorship for community works. This change of opinion coincided with a change in political leadership following an election. The incident involved a demonstration at the exploration camp of members of the local population. Once local representatives obtained a better appreciation of the scope of the work being carried out, the original dollar amount of sponsorship was reconfirmed, priorities reassigned, a new sponsorship agreement was reached and the matter was resolved. The criteria for classifying disputes as “significant” derive from Inmet’s Corporate Responsibility Incident Severity Rating Matrix. Significant disputes are defined as (i) multiple grievances for the same issue, (ii) an incident that results or could have resulted in damage to external relationships and has not been resolved at a local or regional level in 30 days, or (iii) any protest directly targeting the Company or directly affecting the Company. MM7 – USE OF GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS At Çayeli, the community feedback mechanism was operational for the entire year. However, during the second half of the year, the recorded number increased dramatically. The main issues recorded concerned near-mine housing, blast vibration, operations and exploration noise, employment expectation, contract issues and the visual impact of the waste dump area. Most issues required long-term solutions such as the implementation of the Near-Mine Housing program, a noise abatement program and a community development program for employment opportunities. Other grievances were normally addressed through dialogue and small actions. Three minor claims were addressed through the community feedback mechanism at Las Cruces. At Cobre Panama, eight grievances were related to the impact of construction activities, four of which resulted from trespassing by contractors and one of which related to an indigenous community member. All grievances were resolved or are expected to be resolved through the Cobre Panama community feedback mechanism. All exploration concerns were resolved through dialogue and mutual agreement. MM8 – ARTISANAL AND SMALL-SCALE MINING Artisanal and small-scale mining takes place adjacent to the Cobre Panama project development area. A plan will be developed in 2012 to address risks and mitigation measures. On one exploration property in Chile, small-scale mining was being illegally conducted. Participants were notified and subsequently vacated the lands. MM9 – RESETTLEMENT Çayeli follows International Finance Corporation Performance Standards for its resettlement policy. Four families with houses in the resettlement project area received benefits. The families are monitored for livelihood conditions. Cobre Panama has a resettlement process in place, affecting two communities (Chicheme and Petaquilla). A total of 86 households will be relocated as part of the program. The resettlement program will begin in 2012. We have signed a formal Resettlement Action Plan with INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT 100% of affected households. The Plan calls for a livelihood restoration program that will begin in 2012 and last three years. There have been no significant disputes related to our resettlement activities. 71 GRI INDICATORS MM10 – MINE CLOSURE Asset retirement obligations (CAD$ 000s) As at December 31, 2011 2010 2011 Closed sites (Canada & U.S.) $ 69,931 $ 77,791 Çayeli $ 15,402 $ 11,713 Las Cruces $ 56,439 $ 55,626 Cobre Panama $ 0 $ 0 Pyhäsalmi $ 26,817 $ 30,877 Total $ 168,589 $ 176,007 All of our operating sites have closure plans that address social, environmental and economic aspects of closure. Plans must be revised every five years to meet our CR Standards. Our closure objectives are to ensure that our sites are safe, physically and chemically stable, and remediated in a way that promotes ecosystem integrity and acceptable land use. Values for 2010 were restated because we adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) from January 1, 2011, as required for publicly accountable enterprises in Canada. Our transition date is January 1, 2010, and we have adjusted the 2010 comparative information from what was previously reported under Canadian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in order to conform to IFRS. Product Stewardship Given Inmet’s position in the copper value chain, where it mines and concentrates metals that it then markets to smelters and refineries owned by third-party customers, the Company has not been very active in the area of product responsibility. As we grow, we plan to investigate opportunities to engage more deeply in product life-cycle initiatives and will consider joining organizations, such as the International Copper Association or the International Zinc Association, that address these issues. PR1 – LIFE CYCLE ANALYSIS We have not performed a life-cycle analysis or assessed the health and safety impacts of our products for improvement. In 2011, Inmet developed a management standard for product stewardship to address this gap, which will be implemented throughout the organization over the next three years. We believe life-cycle assessment to be an effective method to gain an understanding of the benefits and impacts of our products along the full value chain, and to explore where shared responsibility exists beyond the production gate. All of our products are covered by, and will be assessed for, compliance with the standard. PR3 – PRODUCT INFORMATION Our material safety data sheets (MSDS) disclose information on product health and environmental effects as well as providing information on safe methods of handling and disposal in accordance with international standards. The sourcing of components of the product is not relevant to our business and is not included in our labeling. All of our long-term customers have a copy of our MSDS and receive updated copies when there is change of any sort. We do not give them a copy with each shipment, but for spot sales and when dealing with traders we provide MSDS for each shipment when it arrives. All of our products are covered by our Product Stewardship Standard, which is part of our new CR management system, and will be assessed for compliance as the standard is implemented over the next three years. INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT PR6 – MARKETING Our marketing communications comply with applicable laws. Our Leadership Charter, which applies across our organization, requires us to act transparently and ethically and to clearly communicate in a way that promotes informed decision-making. None of our products are banned or the subject of stakeholder questions or public debate. 72 GRI INDICATORS PR7 – COMPLIANCE WITH MARKETING REGULATIONS There were no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. PR9 – FINES AND SANCTIONS There were no significant fines for non-compliance at our majority-owned operations or closed properties concerning the provision and use of products and services. MM11 – MATERIALS STEWARDSHIP Given Inmet’s position in the copper value chain, where it mines and concentrates metals that it then markets to smelters and refineries owned by third-party customers, the Company has not been very active in the area of product responsibility. In 2011, Inmet developed a management standard for product stewardship to address this gap, which will be implemented throughout the organization over the next three years. Inmet has adopted this standard to promote manufacturing, transportation, use and disposal practices of our products that respect environmental and human health, safety, security, and human rights related issues. Through product stewardship, Inmet aims to increase product value, decrease waste and conserve resources in the best interests of customers, the workforce, shareholders and the community. Inmet is also supportive of life-cycle assessments, will monitor international standards to ensure legal conformance and will engage with scientific, regulatory and political arenas in support of science-based decision-making and responsible product stewardship. Of utmost importance, we are committed to addressing issues related to the health and safety of our product, processes and their environmental effects. Concept and Design: THE WORKS DESIGN COMMUNICATIONS LTD. www.worksdesign.com “Corporate responsibility has long been an element of sound governance and management. Today, CR policies, standards and practices are even more important as resource industries increasingly expand in developing parts of the world and resource technologies are ever more powerful in their scope and impact. In this context, effective CR requires strong alignment of the Board INMET MINING CORPORATION | 2011 CR REPORT of Directors, management and employees to understand the environmental, social, cultural and economic impacts of the Company’s activities and a deep commitment to developing and implementing the means to minimize risks and provide meaningful benefits for the affected communities.” Paul Gagné, Chair, CR Committee, Inmet Board of Directors 73 INMET CORPORATION 330 Bay Street, Suite 1000, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5H 2S8 www.inmetmining.com BENCHMARKING AGAINST THE HIGHEST STANDARDS 201120112011 201120112011 201120112011 201120112011 B A+ 201120112011 GRI REPORT 201120112011 This report fulfills the requirements We benchmark our performance against We support and strive to meet the for level A+ reporting under the Global Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM), 10 principles of the United Nations Reporting Initiative. See page 34. an initiative of the Mining Association Global Compact. See page 38. of Canada. See page 34. QUESTIONS, COMMENTS OR FEEDBACK? We invite your comments and questions about this report. To learn more, please visit our website (www.inmetmining.com/sustainability) or contact: Craig Ford, Vice President, Corporate Responsibility T: 1.416.860.3960, E: craig.ford@inmetmining.com FPO  )URPbZHOOತ All greenhouse gas emissions from the paper used to produce this PDQDJHGbIRUHVWV & document have been neutralized with Zerofootprint carbon offsets.
