Sustainability Report The Road to SUSTAiNABiLiTY AnnuAl RepoRt 2011 Sustainability Report The Road to Sustainability Annual report 2011 Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all Same as G3 Profiles 1.1 criteria listed for requirement for OUTPUT 21.-2.10 Level C plus: Disclosures 1.2 Level B 3.1-3.8, 3.10-3.12 3.9,3.13 4.1-4.4, 4.14-4.15 4.5-4.13, 4.16-4.17 STANDARD DISCLOSURES Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Not Required Management Management G3 Management Approach Approach Disclosures for Disclosures for OUTPUT Approach Disclosures each Indicator each Indicator Category Category Report on a minimum Report on a Report on each minimum of 20 core G3 and Sector G3 Performance of 10 Performance Performance Supplement * Indicators & Indicators, Indicators, at Indicator with due OUTPUT Sector Including at least least one from regard to the one from each of: each of Materiality Supplement Economic, Principle by either: Performance Economic, Social Environmental, a) and Environmental. Human rights, Reporting on the Indicators Labor Society, Indicator or Product b) Responsibility Explaining the reason for its omission. As part of its commitment to sustainability, Banco Popular was the first Costa Rican financial institution to sign the United Nations Global Compact. It is currently a party to the actions undertaken by this initiative that fosters respect for Human Rights, Environmental issues, Labor Standards, and Anti-Corruption efforts. Contacts for inquiries and observations: Expert Collaborators: Cynthia Vargas Cerdas MBA. Juan Carlos Li cvargas@bp.fi.cr Lic. Jorge Brenes Artavia MBA. Luis Diego Zamora Castro Alonso Jiménez Zúñiga Lic. Sergio Calderón Rivas aljimenez@bp.fi.cr Lic. Alonso Jiménez Zúñiga Lic. Martha Hidalgo Durán Editorial Council: Lic. Priscilla Ramírez Mora Gerardo Porras Sanabria, Corporate General Manager Lic. Silvia Álvarez García Maurilio Aguilar Rojas, Director of Corporate Management Cynthia Vargas Cerdas, Advisor for Corporate General Management Editing and Production Maritza Fuentes Salas, Human Development Director a.i. Agencia Interamericana de Comunicación S.A. 2 Table of Contents Chapter I The Family Bank............................................................................................5 Chapter II Our Organization....................................................................................... 15 Chapter III The Purpose of our Work........................................................................ 21 Chapter IV A Trustworthy Report............................................................................... 33 Chapter V Allies for the Environment..................................................................... 37 Chapter VI We Create Value......................................................................................... 47 Chapter VII Our Services make us excel, our Products differentiate us from the rest...................................... 53 Chapter VIII Our Commitment to the Community................................................ 71 Chapter IX Our Human Capital................................................................................... 77 Chapter X Audited Financial Statements............................................................... 81 Correspondence Index of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).......................... 89 The Road to Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 3 Chapter I The Family Bank The Family Bank At Banco Popular we provide financial products and services within the framework of social politics and ethical values. Our raison d’être is to serve the working population, principle which we have responsibly observed during these 42 years. Mission We are a Financial Conglomerate whose ultimate purpose is the sustained social welfare of all the nation’s inhabitants. Vision We aim to become a leading Corporation in providing integrated financial products and services for the economic and social development of persons, large companies, institutions, micro-, smalland medium-scale businesses, and social organizations of the country. Our Values In its everyday business ventures Banco Popular includes values that represent the joint aspirations of our conduct as a banking institution toward its clientele. Leadership Excellence Customer service Integrity Innovation 6 Legal Status of Banco Popular Banco Popular was founded on July 11, 1969, pursuant to Law 4351, during the administration of former President José Joaquín Trejos Fernández, who pinpointed the need of having a banking institution aimed at satisfying the financial needs of the working class. The bill was ratified by the Legislative Assembly and it assigned priority to certain sectors of the social economy by promoting savings and credit offerings. Banco Popular is a non-state public law institution with corporate identity and its own patrimony, under full administrative and operating autonomy. This financial institution has a trait that makes it unique in the Costa Rican financial market: it is the bank whose shareholders are the country’s working class. The Road to Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 7 President of the Board of Directors Message Exercising accountability on the part of those of us who are assigned temporary posts in public institutions is a sound practice that has started spreading in the Costa Rican mentality. This new style of relating to people generates transparency and provides more and better information to the general public, especially the users of services. In our case, this obligation is of great moral importance, since our customers are, generally speaking, the owners of the Bank; in other words, the country’s working population. 8 It should be recalled that we are development of the great mass of growth in the placement of credit subject to an ongoing monitoring the Costa Rican population who has close to 22%, in the areas of personal by qualified organizations, aimed placed their trust in us. loans, development and housing, as at verifying the stability of our well as consolidating our position in institution. In addition to the control In fact, during the year 2011, Banco the social financial sector. that the General Superintendence Popular stood at first place within of Financial Entities (SUGEF, by the Costa Rican financial system as In order to attain these goals, its Spanish acronym) exerts on far as net profits are concerned. With a total of 77.1 million dollars, this we propose achieving a greater our activities by law, we have incorporated the “Sustainability accomplishment represented an efficiency, maximizing the use of increase of over 50% as compared Report”, prepared under the technology and generating new to the year 2010. The profit obtained methodology of the Global Reporting revenue through other channels by this institution are unsurpassed in Initiative (GRI), in order to disclose the course of its history and exceed different to intermediation, always to the public our most significant by over 24 million dollars the profit with the purpose of achieving achievements and progress in a more achieved by the financial institution open and secure manner. It also the main objectives that provide that stood in second place. reports on the sound financial health a raison d’être to Banco Popular: of the Bank and the rating obtained, Anyone who may review Banco contribute to the wellbeing and after being subjected to a careful Popular’s financial reports will find evaluation on the part of the risk happiness of those who forge indisputable strengths: the sustained rating agency Fitch Ratings. growth of the credit portfolio, the national development day in and excellent profit indicators and a most day out. As evidenced in this report, the solid capital adequacy. All these good tidings that we bring are many. Working toward these goals not achievements are not necessarily We are undertaking a thorough aimed at making a profit, but rather only generates an important source management of the savings portfolio at satisfying the fundamental needs of gratification for those who of the working class and we have of those who approach us seeking temporarily conduct the destiny consolidated the Bank’s patrimony, to resolve immediate problems or of this Institution, but at the same thanks to our profits. This ensures making their dreams a reality. time nourishes the Bank’s own our strength and, above all, allows management. It makes it wealthy us to increase our credit offerings The 2012 objectives are aimed from the human perspective, more and contribute in a more efficient at providing sustainability to the worthy of trust, more accessible to manner to the social and human successes achieved and promoting the people. The Road to Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 9 Throughout its existence—especially a very promising outcome for the in the last few years—Banco Popular women benefiting from this, as well has strengthened its common as for the Bank’s own finances, due to vision and its joint action with the the low default rate observed in this social sectors which presently are case. the spearheads in the economic growth of the country, and in the Upon reaching our 42nd anniversary, democratization process of national we have become a sound institution wealth. We are referring to the within the Costa Rican banking following sectors: traditional and scenario, both due to our institutional self-managed cooperatives, unions, and financial strengths, as well as professional, community and artisan, to the merit of having translated independent, education, professional our mission into concrete actions. and solidarity unions. We have in fact contributed in a sustained manner to the people’s The vision of the Board of Directors wellbeing, lending a hand to those and Management has allowed us who knock on our door in search of to broach complementary fields solidarity; hence we are contributing beyond the financial field, such as the to national development but with development of credit lines, projects and actions of an ecological nature, a social purpose. This has led me to with very satisfactory results. We state once and again: “God forbid that have also attained full gender equity Banco Popular would fail to exist.” and equality in the Bank’s executive positions and have included this Mr. Francisco Antonio Pacheco outlook in our credit programs, with President of the Board of Directors 10 Corporate General Manager Message The year 2011 was characterized by the substantial instability of the international financial systems, and by a low—if not negative—economic growth rate worldwide. While it is true that the U.S. financial system has been showing signs of recovery, in Europe the banks were seriously threatened by the well-known Euro crisis generated by the tax problems in some of the member countries. The Road to Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 11 Costa Rica’s Central Bank summarized its performance (AA to the long-term that provide guidance in order to the situation by pointing out that: issues, and F1+ to the short-term have access to banking services and ”In 2011, the international economic issues with a stable perspective). that, in turn, represent productive environment was characterized by an projects for his or her welfare, that of economic slowdown with an inflation In its analysis of Banco Popular, the their families, and the country. slightly higher than the previous rating agency recognized five key year, uncertainty and volatility in the elements that merited this high All the foregoing is valid, but one financial markets, and the existence rating: a strong capital position, its must not forget the importance of of tax restrictions in the majority of social interest function, its high level supporting the sectors in the greatest developed nations.” (BCCR, 2011 of support as a public institution, the need. This is why it is a source of Annual Report, p. 4). sound financial performance, and a pride for BP that the Fitch Ratings stable funding structure. These results agency expressly recognized in its Costa Rica experienced a relatively undoubtedly evidence the adequate report the following point: “…every more stable situation, despite the management of the institution as year the institution earmarks up to 15% uncertain international scenario far as risk management and internal of its profits to special development described above, and the fact that it control are concerned, as well as the funds. These funds have been created is an open economy makes it highly strict compliance of the regulatory with the purpose of satisfying the vulnerable to world events. management indicators. financing needs of indigenous peoples, women, youth, disabled persons, and Banco Popular was able to carry out The fact that Banco Popular has low-cost housing. In addition, an extra its operations within this local and obtained excellent indicators during 5% is earmarked for strengthening international economic context of these times of great volatility in the the resources of the Special Fund for the year 2011, with results that were international financial markets, is an the Micro-, Smalland, Medium-Scale not only very positive, but record accomplishment that confirms the Businesses…” (Fitch Ratings: “Rating breaking, having achieved the capital soundness of the institution Basis” Report, p. 3). maximum net profits among all the and the trust that the working class National Financial System entities: has placed in the Bank. These results serve as guidelines 77.1 million dollars, an increment of that set our course and tell us how 50.9% as compared to the previous Since its creation back in 1969, to improve on a daily basis in order year. This is an increase founded on Banco Popular has had a very clear to adapt to the changing conditions solid bases, as evidenced by the vision of its nature and true social of the domestic and international fact that the risk rating agency Fitch objective: taking care of the financial economies, without losing sight of Ratings after dispensing a rigorous needs of the Costa Rican families and our vision and mission, inherent to evaluation of the institution’s financial companies with high-quality tools the Bank’s articles of association. status, granted it a high rating due to that are both efficient and effective, These results also allow us to 12 contribute to the generation of I am deeply appreciative of the a more just and solidarity-based contributions and excellence of economy, that is inclusive of vulnerable groups and those sectors the valuable human talent in our of the population that —without organization, which has been Banco Popular— would otherwise key to the success in each of the be excluded from the traditional financial system. programs that we have developed; I am also grateful for the trust Banco Popular is fully aware of the importance of taking into awarded by our male and female consideration the environmental employees throughout the country criteria in its operations, which who, according to the Articles of contribute to an improved quality of life. To this end, in the year 2011 we Incorporation, are the actual owners supported projects that were in line of the institution. with ecological standards, by funding companies that were focused on sustainable production and granting The World Bank, the International credits for eco-efficiency, thus aiding Monetary Fund, and many other administrative associations of rural economic organizations all predict water systems to improve their difficult times for the economies and economic, social and environmental the financial systems worldwide. sustainability, among others. That Costa Rica shall not be exempt from year, these projects received over the difficulties foreseen; however, 970,000 dollars in loans. Furthermore, the Bank has taken steps internally the Costa Rican workforce may rest of reinforcing its actions to minimize assured that they can continue the impact of greenhouse effect gas counting on a solid, innovative emissions, and promoting among Bank that focuses on the future by its personnel systematic recycling protecting their interests today. campaigns and awareness programs concerning the adequate disposal of waste, to name a few of the this year’s Mr. Gerardo Porras accomplishments. Corporate General Manager The Road to Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 13 Chapter II Our Organization Our Organization What sets us apart is that we offer a service of inclusive nature and ample coverage that responds to principles of social and environmental responsibility. Brands, Products Banco Popular features a and Services broad array of products and services, all developed with the intention of satisfying the needs of a very diverse population in the national arena. Some of the products and services that make up this portfolio are: 16 Credit Financial Savings Solutions The Bank offers a wide array of credits for housing that The uptake products offer the advantage that the interests satisfy the needs of all the population strata. These generated are exempt by law from income tax payment*. financial solutions include: The Special Housing Fund, The offering of savings products has market interest rates Total Housing Credit, Regular Housing Credit, Family Bond and some of the existing modalities are: Housing Credit, and Credit for Home Remodeling, Repair • Term savings* and Expansion, with or without guarantors. • Checking accounts With regard to personal lines of credit, the Bank • Programmed savings (Christmas and multi-savings) provides an ample portfolio of financial products such • School salary savings of the private sector as: Extinguishing financial liabilities, purchase of a used • At-call savings car, Popular Crediton, personal fiduciary credit, personal credit for independent workers, personal credit without guarantors for persons in the public sector, personal credit for medical expenses and education with guarantors, Backto-back credit, credit on jewelry, and personal mortgage loans. * The term savings certificates in dollars are not exempt from this tax. The Road to Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 17 Popular Debit Card Visa Plus Debit Card The O2 Youth Debit Card These cardholders can manage funds The Visa Plus debit card is a means of The O2 Youth Debit Card targets deposited in one or several savings payment for persons whose salary is young people between the ages of accounts, so the money can be used deposited with Banco Popular. It is 12 and 20. In order to obtain it, the to make purchases in authorized linked to their savings account, thus person needs to open a voluntary sales points or withdraw cash from allowing the cardholder to purchase personal savings account, at call and the ATM network throughout the goods or services in over 22 million in colones. With this service, young country. The VISA Electron debit establishments locally or abroad; it people that wish to save are offered card is another option, which has access to its own ATM network, attractive benefits, such as a Virtual allows purchasing and making cash the ATH network, and the PLUS Mall specializing in this specific sector. withdrawals in ATMs internationally. network, and offers special benefits Today, over 6,500 persons benefit such as travel accident insurance and from this product. the possibility of acquiring the Visa credit card with a preferential rate, in Credit Cards addition to credits and savings under At present Banco Popular offers special conditions. two types of credit cards. The first is a personal credit card offering Popular Kids Debit Card diverse modalities suited to the The Popular Kids debit card targets requirements and traits of the users, persons under 12 years of age, and among which are: National Visa requires the user to open a voluntary credit card, International Visa credit savings account under his or her card, Visa Gold credit card, and Visa own name, at call and in colones. Platinum credit card. Visa Gold and Today, over 35,000 girls and boys are Visa Platinum cardholders may have learning the good habit of saving. access to a virtual credit card that With this card they also have access allows them to shop online both to telephone banking and to the locally and abroad in a safer and more Bank’s website to check balances and reliable way. The second type is a make wire transfers. corporate credit card, which in turn is divided into two modalities pursuant to the scope of the business: Visa Mypymes credit card (for micro-, smalland medium-scale businesses) and Visa Corporate credit card. 18 The support and financing provided by Development Banking has allowed Yenory Obregón to strengthen her company La Cuchara Tica de Yeno. The Banco Popular credit cards are accepted in over 70,000 Other Services: • On-line customer service commercial establishments throughout the country and • Large ATM network are also accepted abroad. Besides, they offer a competitive • Investment fund management market interest rate with the possibility of cashing in on • Pension fund management the points accumulated to purchase consumer goods, vacation and travel packages, among other benefits. • Insurance portfolio • Stock exchange post Development Banking • Automated salary payment Development Banking is an area specialized in providing • Public utilities payment financial solutions to the micro-, smalland medium-scale • Tax payments businesses. Due to its social and productive orientation, • International wire transfers it holds a very special place within the management of • Sale of tax forms Banco Popular. • Purchase and sale of foreign exchange The Road to Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 19 20 Chapter III The Purpose of our Work The Purpose of our Work The purpose of our work at Banco Popular is the people. Our institutional spirit is reflected in the effort that each employee puts into his or her work to satisfy the needs of his or her the clientele. The lodestar of our work, as a • The development of the social financial institution with a strong economy sector social commitment, is marked by the • Financial instruments of Banco general guidelines and orientation Popular and its subsidiaries set forth by the Workers’ Assembly. • Streamlining of management and This orientation comes as the result an improved institutional efficiency of various processes of consensus, • Banking policies for regional consultations and agreements development between multiple social sectors of the The foregoing guidelines national economy. At present, Banco promote—through its actions—the Popular revolves around four basic wellbeing of Costa Rican families, pillars: the strengthening of the social 22 Façade of Banco Popular’s economy, and the generation of with the business areas and the Headquarters building. job opportunities and development support areas. This close liaison for those sectors of the population allows us to pinpoint, through the excluded from the traditional financial process of ongoing research, the system. groups’ relevant topics and concerns Banco Popular integrates the regarding institutional performance, expectations of the groups of which translates into action and interest to the internal management communications plans that help by means of their normal relations resolve the requirements applied for. The Road to Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 23 Operating Structure The Board of Directors and Workers’ Assembly Management of Banco Popular are This body is in charge of guiding governed by Organic Law No. 4351. the Bank’s general policies. It is Pursuant to Article 15 it is establishes made up of persons who represent the National Board of Directors as the working class of the country the superior body of the financial appointed directly by the ten institution. This Board is made up social sectors, (namely artisan, of seven persons, three of which community, traditional cooperatives, are appointed by the Executive and self-managed cooperatives, four are designated by the Workers’ independent, education, professional, Assembly. confederation and non-confederation models of unions, and solidarity unions). National Board of Directors Banco Popular implements a The members of this body are governance system with the purpose appointed with a gender equality criterion in mind. As such, at least of providing economic protection 50% of the members are women, and wellbeing to groups of interest thus complying with the respective throughout the country. Accordingly, institutional policy. during 2011, in the interest of strengthening its government structure, it published its Corporate Governance Code, as well as its Annual Report on Governance Management. 24 Organizational Structure Banco Popular Workers’ Assembly National Board of Directors Internal Audit National Board of Directors Secretariat Corporate General Management Human and Information Organizational Technology Development Management Management Corporate Management Deputy General Deputy General Business Operations Management Management Corporations Retail Social and Products Central Northern Southern Administrative Financial Banking Corporate and Services Region Region Atlantic Support Support Management Development Administration Management Management Region Management Management Banking Management Management Management The Road to Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 25 National Board of Directors Francisco Antonio Pacheco María Lydia Sánchez Marvin Arias Aguilar, Fernández, President Valverde, Vicepresident Director In order to achieve an optimum performance, the National Board of Directors relies on the work of several commissions made up of managerial staff, with the purpose of being able to study the Institution’s projects and transformations at greater depth. The following are the existing commissions at present: 26 Luis Enrique Garita Bonilla, José Eduardo Alvarado Silvia Gabriela Morales Victoria Hernández Mora, Director Campos, Director Jiménez, Director Director • Corporate Policies Commission, Policy • Risk Committee • Corporate Auditing Committee, guidance from the Workers’ Assembly and a pertinent internal control body • Compliance Committee the Local Credit Boards that reinforces and supports • Information Technology the management of corporate • Business and Special Funds Commission Commission governance • Plan, Budgetary and Financial Statements Commission The Road to Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 27 Managerial Team and Internal Audit Pursuant to Article 26 of its Organic Law, Banco Popular is in charge of one general management and two deputy managements, which are made up as follows: Gerardo Porras Sanabria, Magdalena Rojas Manuel González Geovanni Garro Mora, Corporate General Figueredo, General Deputy Cabezas, General Auditor General Deputy Manager, Manager Manager, Operations Business Conduct Based on Transparency Pursuant to the internal Code of Ethics, Banco Popular training policies applicable to members of the board, abides by a clear set of rules of conduct that must be management and deputy management, auditors, observed by Management, the Attorney General’s office, members of the support committees, and personnel. It and the persons who legally represent and counsel the also sets forth policies concerning the relationship with temporary or permanent staff members in the Institution. customers; suppliers, and shareholders with regard to the access and disclosure of information, rotation, and follow On the other hand, the Corporate Governance Code up on the part of Corporate Governance. establishes the selection, retribution, qualification, and 28 Distribution of Agencies in the Country Banco Popular boasts 100 business offices covering all the provinces in the country. 14 Alajuela Liberia heredia guanacaste 8 Heredia 12 21 5 33 Puntarenas Alajuela 7 Puerto San José Limón Cartago cartago san josé limón puntarenas The Road to Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 29 Markets Served Banco Popular serves four segments of the market, namely: Retail Banca Working individuals from the public and private sectors deBanking personas Self-employed workers Includes all physical persons doing banking with the institution or that are likely Investors and students to do so in the short term. Savings and loan cooperatives Micro-, Industry Institutional Banca Solidarity associations Banca Smalland Agriculture and corporate Professional associations de de Unions Medium-Scale banking personas personas All the productive Commerce Development associations Services Social economy Workers’ funds sectors businesses Public companies Private companies (financial, services and products) Women (heads of household) Social Banca Indigenous peoples banking de perso Youth nas Sectors with non-existing Senior citizens Entrepreneurs or low commercial Disabled persons banking usage 30 Business Dimensions: The Conglomerate The formation of the Conglomerate is composed of Banco Popular—as financial institution—and its four corporations, all of which are subject to the supervision of the corresponding regulatory entities, namely: Operadora de Pensiones Popular Pensiones Pension Operator authorized and supervised by the Pension Superintendence (SUPEN, by its Spanish acronym). Puesto de Bolsa Popular Valores Stock Exchange supervised Gerardo Porras, Corporate General Manager; Maureen Clarke, President of National Institute for by the Securities General Women (INAMU, by its Spanish acronym); Sandra Superintendence. (SUGEVAL, Piszk, Minister of Labor; and Francisco Antonio Pacheco, President of the Board of Directors, by its Spanish acronym). during the presentation of the SIGEG Certification. Popular Sociedad Agencia de Seguros Distinctions This is a company marketing SIGEG Certification insurance accredited by the In the year 2011, Banco Popular managed to be the National Insurance Institute first Central American institution in being awarded the (INS, by its Spanish acronym). Certification by the System of Labor Management and Gender Equity (SIGEG, by its Spanish acronym), granted Popular Fondos de Inversión by the National Institute for Women (INAMU, by its Spanish Investment fund created based acronym), and based on the ISO Standards format. on the Securities Exchange Regulatory Act, aimed at The SIGEG Certification ratifies the significant and ongoing managing the investment progress in gender equality and equity achieved by the funds registered with Bank almost two decades ago, which reflects in practice Registro Nacional de Valores the proportionality principle between male and female e Intermediarios Financieros workers in its labor force. This fact has guaranteed the (National Registry of Securities equitable participation of women in directive and and Financial Intermediaries). administrative positions in the Institution. The Road to Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 31 Chapter IV A Trustworthy Report A Trustworthy Report Banco Popular considers the Sustainability Report as a tool that facilitates a strategic analysis of the social, environmental and economic performance of this financial entity, in order to comply with its responsibility toward current and future generations. 34 Second Sustainability does not present significant changes Report in scope, coverage or evaluation methods. Although this current effort This second consecutive annual does not include external verification endeavor reports the results achieved by groups of interest, the purpose of between January 1 and December implementing it in future editions is 31, 2011 in Costa Rican territory. It not ruled out. was prepared following the level C parameters of the Guide for the This Report includes indicators that Preparation of Sustainability Reports, are pertinent to the Bank, without version 3.1 of the Global Reporting including the Corporations, which Initiative (GRI). also are a part of the Banco Popular’s Conglomerate. The information and data submitted in this document are the result of a multi-disciplinary work by a team that headed, compiled, and studied the documentation based on materiality principles, participation of groups of Strategy interest, sustainability and exhaustive nature regarding the contents submitted, which include aspects such as organizational strategy, the Institution’s profile, and general Organization’s performance indicators, as well as indicators specific to the financial Profile sector. Departing from the comparability Economic, criterion, this report revisits the Environmental, Financial contents broached in the 2010 GRI and Social Services Report; nonetheless, the number of Performance performance indicators has been Indicators increased with a view to promoting the progressive development of the evaluation tool in coming years. Thus, the 2011 Sustainability Report The Road to Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 35 Chapter V Allies for the Environment Allies for the At Banco Popular we are committed to Environment protecting nature as a strategic partner. Thus, its wellbeing is our wellbeing and our institutional actions are in keeping with this train of thought. 38 From Policies to Action on Environmental Matters “The interesting The Bank is living up to its commitment with the thing about an environment from an overall perspective in the institution’s day-to-day business. The implementation of environmental the strategy that promotes sustainable production and management good environmental practices arises as a result of a fivesystem that prong approach, as follows: engages people is 1. Environmental Sustainability Policy that it makes them It sets forth the frame of action that incorporates responsible for environmental management within the global strategy and the operating and business their own carbon footprint management. and commits them to 2. Business Perspective undertaking specific actions.” It is aimed at the creation of environmentallyJuan Martínez Aguirre, responsible financial products. Environmental brigade 3. Institutional Environmental Management System (SIGAI, by its Spanish acronym) The operational instrument that aims to ensure that the institutional management is consistent • 100% of the staff—or 3,233 with the environmental policy. It has a four courses of action. persons from the 100 agencies • Water management throughout the country— • Energy management participated in awareness • Paper and office supplies management • Use of fossil fuels campaigns and eco-efficient 4. Knowledge on Sustainability Management environmental training. Promotes an environmental awareness through capacity building actions among staff members, • 300 members of the green which fosters the institutional coordination in order to implement good environmental practices. brigade and staff members 5. Eco-efficient Operating Implementation from strategic areas have Executes actions for the progressive reduction of participated in campaigns to environmental costs generated during the Bank’s normal business. raise environmental awareness. The Road to Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 39 Internal Capacity-Building: The road to knowledge on sustainability management Head of the Sustainability and Environmental Program Person coordinating the Brigade Members Members of the Environmental Brigade: 300 employees from the entire organization watching over the implementation of the Environmental Management System Solid Waste Management Green Purchases In the year 2011 areas were designated at the different After having implemented amendments in the Bank agencies for the placement of 30 recycling bins to procurement regulations, the Bank was able to promote collect paper, cardboard, plastic and aluminum. As an green purchases. Consequently, during the year 2011, 15% additional effort, recycling campaigns were launched. of the articles that make up the catalog for the purchase After five days, over 23,000 Kg of waste matter were of office supplies for the Bank had a reduced carbon collected for recycling. These campaigns not only footprint for the environment. involved Bank personnel directly, but also engaged the communities surrounding the Institution’s Central Energy Consumption Offices. The reception of waste products was held on The Bank changed 100% of the light bulbs in all its 8th Avenue in San José at the Collection Center for the business centers for more energy-efficient alternatives. In Responsible Management of Residues, constituting the fact, preventive maintenance plans for electric networks first recycling center in the Costa Rican banking industry. were implemented and energy-efficient devices were added. These efforts are evidenced by the 5% reduction in the annual energy consumption 40 Fossil Fuels: Committed toward The Reduction of CO2 Emissions the reduction and compensation by Encouraging the Use of Public of the carbon footprint on Transportation transportation Aiming to encourage the use of A 535,000 dollar investment was public transportation as a mechanism made in order to replace 100% of the for reducing carbon dioxide (CO2) vehicles in operation for over five years. emissions, the Bank provided The old units were replaced with 15 its support to the Costa Rican vehicles endowed with more efficient Railroad Institute (INCOFER, by its combustion systems. In addition, the Eco-efficient faucets at Banco Popular. Spanish acronym) by sponsoring its Bank acquired a hybrid vehicle that campaign “Urban Train.” This means of Water Management guarantees a reduction of almost 50% transportation was used by 2,109,886 Improving the efficiency in water in CO2 emissions, implying substantial persons in the year 2011, alleviating the consumption on the part of the savings in fuel consumption. congestion of the main thoroughfares customers and personnel of Banco of the Greater Metropolitan Area (GAM, Popular was a priority for the year by its Spanish acronym). 2011. With this in mind, a series of investments were promoted: • The replacement of 100% of the faucets in the Bank headquarters. In addition, a plan was drawn for the gradual installation of 273 watersaving faucets at the different business centers. • 100% of the toilets were replaced with modern gravity-operated units. In total, over 25 ecoefficient toilets were installed, which represent, according to the supplier’s certified data, annual savings of 150,000 liters of water per toilet. The support given to the Urban Train has helped reduce gas emissions in the country’s capital. The Road to Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 41 Sustainability from the Operations’ debit card that offers a tiered interest Core rate, depending on the account There are currently balance. The Bank allocates 100% of Banco Popular considers that 37 million dollars the resources raised by this account sustainability must be tackled from to environmentally-friendly projects. placed in credits with the core of the entire operations. This product has 250 accounts with some environmental Thus, products and services that an average balance of approximately are in line with sustainability have component. These 50 million colones. been added to the financial offering. funds correspond to Among the actions undertaken Eco credits: Eco-Credits are a 83 loan operations, we may underscore the marked product that targets mainly smallimprovement in digital transaction particularly from and medium-scale businesses whose services, which diminishes the Development line of business is aimed at the quantity of paper and ink used, and sustainable use of natural resources. Banking. promotes a preference for ecoThis type of loan, with a term of up to efficient services among customers. 180 months, encourages and finances investment plans such as: Environmentally-Responsible Products • Clean energy generation The Green Card: Banco Popular • Management and disposal of solid offers its Green Savings Account in waste colones and dollars. It consists of a • Reduction of CO2 emissions • Energy efficiency • Environmental conservation • Water resource management • Other economic activities with a positive impact on the environment From the Development Banking division, Banco Popular has generated financial solutions for the Aqueduct Administration Associations (ASADAS, by their Spanish acronym). These organizations manage water resources in rural or semi-rural areas and have limited access to financial resources. The Bank’s contribution 42 of over 1,000,000 dollars has allowed them to finance improvements in their rural aqueducts as well as in the protection of watersheds, conservation and recuperation of water sources, as well as improvement in the drinking “As a retired educator, water filtering systems for public consumption. I am proud that the Green Investments for the Home Bank where I am a The Bank has also created a special financial solution customer is helping addressed to enable improvements in environmental to save water. This is management in homes and companies, such as: an excellent measure • Purchase of solar panels because in addition to • Replacement of incandescent light bulbs for fluorescent its many employees, ones many other people • Transformation of traditional fuel to LPG, or similar also use water in their building. I hope • Replacement of toilet tanks for units requiring less water this measure can be implemented in capacity other institutions.” • Acquisition of water-saving devices in showers, Nidia Ortiz Viales, Retired Educator washbasins and sinks • Waste product treatment and recycling • Purchase of electric appliances with lower electricity and water consumption Additional Contributions toward Environmental Management Casa Alemana Project The Casa Alemana project was promoted by the Costa Rican-German Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The Bank was a sponsor and lecturer in this effort whose Wilfried Hülstrunk, Director of the German International Cooperation purpose was to present before the population, Agency; Hermann Heise, President of the Costa Rican-German Chamber of Commerce and Industry; Ernst Martens, German Ambassador to Costa Rica; entrepreneurs and government agencies, Alfio Piva, Vice-President of Costa Rica; and Gerardo Porras, General Manager a model of an eco-efficient house with the of Banco Popular, during the inauguration of the Casa Alemana project. potential to be implemented in the country. The Road to Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 43 Sustainable Housing Contest Thanks to an alliance with International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), the Ministry of Housing and Human Settlements (MIVAH, by its Spanish acronym) and the Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Telecommunications (MINAET, by its Spanish acronym), Banco Popular was the central axis in the development of the 1st Sustainable Housing Contest. This architecture competition gathered 40 multidisciplinary teams. In addition to raising awareness on sustainable construction, the activity refuted the urban Authorities of Banco Popular, IUCN, Ministry of the Environment, myth that this construction solution is not accessible to and Ministry of Housing, during the presentation of the 1st the middle class. Sustainable Housing Contest. 1st Environmental Conference on Green Production The 1st Environmental Conference on Green Production held in Costa Rica was an initiative promoted and sponsored by Banco Popular, in the framework of “With its recycling its commitment toward sustainable development and the environment. This initiative was aimed at policies, Banco Popular is promoting efforts to generate a greater commitment becoming a role model for and environmental awareness among the Costa Rican all the public institutions. production sector. I think it is great that they Young People Trained on Renewable Energy Sources recycle paper, something After signing an agreement with the spaceflight so commonly used in this engineering company Ad Astra Rocket Company located institution, but even more in the province of Guanacaste and headed by the Costa remarkable is the fact Rican scientist Franklin Chang, Ph.D., Banco Popular developed a series of workshops held in technical that it’s now a collection center for recyclable professional colleges in that area. waste products, helping out while educating its customers to be more friendly with our In addition, it promoted the realization of an innovative contest called “For a Carbon Neutral School.” This program environment.” undertook a campaign aimed at carbon neutrality among Luis Gustavo León, Graphic Designer public schools in Santa Cruz, based on the design of clean 44 Marco Vinicio López, a young Maleku Indian, is received by Messrs. Ronald and Franklin Chang at the Ad Astra Rocket laboratory. energy wind turbines, with the participation of students and professors from the following three schools: 27 de Abril, Cartagena, and Santa Cruz. Also, consistent with its philosophy of supporting innovation, Banco Popular sponsored an internship at the Ad Astra Rocket Company for Marco Vinicio López Elizondo, a young Maleku Indian. After a two-month internship, he was able to create a biodigestor with which he solved two of the greatest problems affecting his indigenous community: the disposal of waste from septic tanks and the generation of clean energy. The Road to Sustainability Sustainability Report 2011 45 Environmental Investments in Figures Credit Portfolio and Avals with an Environmental Component in millions of dollars Credit Avals Total Investments for the generation of renewable 33,40 33,40 energy or improvements in distribution lines Water management: ASADAS Protection of 1,96 0,55 2,51 watersheds and improvement of rural aqueducts Energy efficiency 0,49 0,49 Waste products management 0,31 0,31 Organic agriculture 0,20 0,20 Total 36,36 0,55 36,91 Banco Popular has made a series of investments whose objective has been to improve its environmental performance standards. These endeavors are reflected in a series of improvements such as: the efficient use of water resources, the reduction of the carbon footprint, and energy efficiency. These investments are shown in the following chart: Investments in Infrastructure and Equipment for Eco-Efficiency Type of investment Cost 25 WATER FREE-type toilets $ 6.650 237 water-saving faucets $ 20.000 15 eco-efficient vehicles and a hybrid automobile $ 535.000 Eco-efficient air conditioning units $ 664.840 46
