UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 1. Schaffner Energy Efficiency and Reliability The Schaffner Group is an international leader in the development and production of solutions which ensure the efficient and reliable operation of electronic systems. The Group's diverse range of offerings includes EMC components, harmonic filters and magnetic components as well as the development and implementation of customized solutions. Schaffner components are used in energyefficient drive systems and electronic motor controls, in wind power and photovoltaic systems, rail technology, machine tools and robotics as well as in power supply systems for a wide range of electronic devices in sectors such as medical technology or telecommunications. For the automobile industry Schaffner develops and produces both EMC and power quality components for electric drive systems in vehicles and for the charging infrastructure, as well as components for comfort and safety electronics. Schaffner provides on-site service to customers around the world through an efficient, global organization and makes ongoing investments in research, development, production and sales to strengthen its position as international market leader. 2. Statement of Continued Support “Schaffner is a global corporate citizen with Swiss heritage. This heritage comes with strong principles to protect the rights of the individual, to preserve the environment, and to conduct business according to high ethical standards. Our whole organization strives to treat all of our employees with equal respect. We are mindful that we share a responsibility to provide opportunities for individuals and contribute to the well-being of our communities. I personally am committed to apply such principles equally in each location where Schaffner is represented. This is why I whole-heartedly support the principles of the UN Global Compact.” Alexander Hagemann Chief Executive Officer 3. Actions 3.1 Human Rights and Labor (Principle 1 to 6) The Schaffner Group strives towards a non-discriminatory company culture based upon responsibility and respect, which builds upon the talents of its global workforce. It is the policy of the Schaffner Group to treat all current or potential employees fairly and without prejudice. Schaffner is committed to eradicating any unfair or discriminatory practices should they occur. All employees will be given the opportunity to progress within the Schaffner Group regardless of their gender, marital or parental status, ethnic or national origin, sexual orientation, religious belief, political affiliation, age (subject to contractual retirement age), or disability. 120424_Schaffner UNGC COP.doc Page 1 of 4 UNGC COP Team Luterbach Recently completed actions Target Action Results All units of the Perform global checks of all local employment All Production Units Schaffner Group must contracts. Global Human Resources Management (PRU) reviewed and comply with the (GHRM) checks all Management Units (MU) approved in 2011. Group's policies for randomly. If necessary, external experts shall Sales Units Karlsruhe human rights and labor approve the contracts, rules and regulations. and Nürtingen laws according to the reviewed and UN Global Compact. approved in 2012 Other units pending All units shall have a Define and implement standard KPIs and GRI Switzerland (pilot) and yearly employee indicators for employee review such as: Production Units review according to Fluctuation rate (PRU) implemented defined standard Key Age and gender overview Other units pending Performance Education overview Indicators (KPI) and Training KPIs Global Reporting Performance and succession planning Initiative (GRI) overview Planned actions Target Action Expected Results All units of the Annual internal Audits in all PRU Units. All units completed by Schaffner Group must Start with the first check-up according to the Code end of 2012 comply with the of Conduct promoted by the Electronics Industry Group's policies for Citizenship Coalition (EICC) human rights and labor laws according to the (Thailand and Hungary done) UN Global Compact. All units shall have a Align the needs of the new divisional Organization Division EMC yearly employee and start implementation completed by end of review according to 2012 defined standard Key Other divisions Performance completed 2013 Indicators (KPI) and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 120424_Schaffner UNGC COP.doc Page 2 of 4 UNGC COP Team Luterbach 3.2 Environmental Management Actions taken to reduce energy consumption and CO2-emission 3.2.1 Energy Consumption Recently completed actions Target Action Results Reduce electricity Replace existing IT servers with efficient, state-of65% savings in consumption for IT the-art models (no air conditioning of server room electricity used for IT hardware operation required) at Schaffner locations Wittelsheim, server operations Schaffner worldwide Argenteuil, Wytheville and Edison Reduce energy Moved European Logistics Center to new building 3% savings in gas consumption for with economical and efficient insulation system usage cooling/heating at Schaffner facilities Planned actions Target Action Expected Results Reduce electricity  Replace existing IT servers with efficient, 65% savings in consumption for IT state-ofthe-art models (no air conditioning of electricity used for IT hardware operations server room required) at Schaffner locations server operations Schaffner worldwide Lojhia, Büren and Kecskemet  Replace existing desk top computers with 65% savings in efficient, state-ofthe-art models (no moving electricity used for IT parts) at Schaffner locations Wittelsheim and hardware operations Lamphun 3.2.2 CO2-Reduction Recently completed actions Target Action Results Reduce CO2-emission Changed from air-freight to sea-freight (20% of (calculation method during transportation total volume) not yet defined) of goods 120424_Schaffner UNGC COP.doc Page 3 of 4 UNGC COP Team Luterbach 3.2 Anti-Corruption Neither the Schaffner Group nor any of its employees shall make illegal or improper payments or bribes and will refrain from participating in any corrupt business practices. Neither Schaffner nor any of its employees may accept payments, gifts or other kinds of remuneration from a third party that could affect or appear to affect their objectivity in business decisions. Recently completed actions Target Action Results No corruption cases Analyze business units for risks related to Analysis done July within the Schaffner corruption 2011 Group Planned actions Target Action Expected Results No corruption cases  Define Schaffner Anti-Corruption Policy Done by end of 2012 within the Schaffner Group  Define Schaffner’s own Code of Conduct and To be completed 2013 include Anti-Corruption Policy  Roll out and implementation of Schaffner End of 2013 Code of Conduct including Anti-Corruption Policy 120424_Schaffner UNGC COP.doc Page 4 of 4 UNGC COP Team Luterbach
