COMPANY NAME: GRUPO CLARÍN S.A. COP TITLE: GRUPO CLARÍN AND ITS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2011 PERIOD: JAN-2011 / DEC-2011 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT: Since its foundation, Grupo Clarín has been conscious of its social responsibility as a company and as a member of the media, and has strived to assume such responsibility abiding by the laws, honoring its active and sustained social and community involvement and, especially, fulfilling its duty to inform with honesty and accuracy. A commitment to society is an inherent and essential part of Grupo Clarín’s vision and mission statement. The Company attaches special importance to the relationship with its different audiences, which acknowledge and validate its activities each day and, over time, have established multiple communication and interaction channels with Clarín’s stakeholders. From the standpoint of its audiences, readers and society in general, Grupo Clarín’s media and journalists work day after day towards respecting and consolidating citizens’ right to information; combining high credibility, quality content and a comprehensive journalistic and entertainment offering. We hereby ratify our support and commitment to the Global Compact and submit our COP which is an essential part of our yearly Annual Report. José A. Aranda Vice Chairman Grupo Clarín SA 1 GRUPO CLARÍN AND ITS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY TRANSPARENCY, STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES Through its renewed commitment to the Global Compact, Grupo Clarín seeks to intensify and, to a greater extent, systematically embody the values and principles that guide the Company’s daily work, especially those concerning labor, sustainable development, and human rights. Communication on progress related information is included in the Company’s Annual Report printed and online version. Grupo Clarín also participates in several groups and organizations, which gather other Argentine, Latin-American and global media players and stakeholders to share experiences, identify best practices, and foster cooperation on the specific issues that media companies address as part of their social responsibility strategies. During 2011, the Noble Foundation renewed its presence in the “Grupo de Fundaciones y Empresas”, a space to share knowledge and set standards in the field of strategic social investment. During the period of 2009-2012, Grupo Clarín committed its participation and contributed to the multi-stakeholder development of the Media Sector Supplement for the Global Reporting Initiative. The GRI guidelines act as a reference for an extensive process, currently underway at the Company, to further consolidate, identify and report relevant information regarding the environmental and social impacts, while establishing new goals to strengthen its related initiatives and strategy. Grupo Clarín’s observance to the principles included in all those guidelines is also outlined in the Company’s Code of Ethics and “Guía para la Acción”, a document which proposes models for management, organization and roles, while outlining Grupo Clarín´s policies and procedures concerning labor, the environment and human rights. Freedom of expression and transparency are values which are indispensable to the Company and its professionals. Both principles are particularly relevant in areas linked to news services. At Grupo Clarín, each company commits to the quality, rigor and transparency of its information and content. News coverage and programs aim to be plural and fair, reflecting the journalists’ efforts to inform on facts and events in a balanced manner, while allowing opinion regarding the parties involved. Style guides, ethics manuals, news coverage guidelines -including some for kidnapping and hostage situationsand several other self-regulations and commitments guide the different activities of news and entertainment oriented companies. This does not mean that every issue, especially regarding content and editorial view, is addressed as expected. For that reason Grupo Clarín’s media companies are continuously designing new means to engage with its readers and audiences. As the previous years, 2011 proved to be a specially challenging year for freedom of expression in Argentina. The Company supported numerous initiatives to create awareness on the subject and demonstrated its sustained commitment to defending and promoting it. Presently, most media in Argentina are either state-owned or a significant portion of their income directly depends on the increasing government advertising expenditure. Those are adverse conditions that can often pose a threat for journalistic independence, freedom of expression, access to information and plurality of voices, all vital conditions for a sustainable and democratic society. Therefore, the Company pays special attention to guaranteeing its economic independence by pursuing a sustainable business model with diversified sources of income. During this period, as historically, Grupo Clarín’s revenues from government advertising have only represented around 1% of the Company’s total income. 2 In furtherance of transparency, the following table, already included in the Company’s 4Q&2011 Earnings Release and Financial Statements, shows Grupo Clarín’s sales breakdown by source of revenue as a total figure and by business segment. Sales breakdown by source of revenue – December 2011 (In millions of Ps.) Cable TV & Printing & Broadcasting Digital Content Eliminations Total % Internet Access Publishing & Programming & Others Advertising 77.6 1,184.3 978.8 21.6 (129.5) 2,132.8 21.9% Circulation 650.5 650.5 6.7% Printing 249.7 (35.9) 213.8 2.2% Video 4,478.9 4,478.9 45.9% Subscriptions Internet 1,364.4 (3.2) 1,361.2 14.0% Subscriptions Programming 355.0 (128.0) 227.0 2.3% Other Sales 416.0 74.2 129.9 261.4 (193.1) 688.5 7.1% Total Sales 6,336.9 2,158.7 1,463.7 283.0 (489.8) 9,752.5 100.0% PEOPLE’S VOICES The proliferation of new media, Internet based networks and the web 2.0 phenomenon, started a revolution in journalism and in terms of how people consume news and other types of content. This requires a serious assessment on how to face the challenges of the digital era, adapting the Company’s business models to satisfy Grupo Clarín’s audiences, and at the same time sustaining the Company’s leadership position. Grupo Clarín’s media companies have a long history of audiences’ and readers’ engagement. The ability to anticipate trends together with a profound knowledge of media consumers and the ability to interpret their needs and meet their demands, explain the Company’s sustained leadership and favored place amongst consumers’ preferences. The pace of change calls for new and creative means of interaction. Clarín’s newspaper segments such as “El juicio final”, “Cartas al país” and daily readers’ surveys, all traditional means of engaging readers, are complemented by more recent initiatives to accompany peoples’ needs to participate in the news process. Over the last few years, the Company has launched a growing number of new blogs, and generated greater interaction not only with journalists, but also between our users. Interactivity opens space for informative content deriving from readers, listeners and web users. ‘TN y la gente’ is a web-based tool developed by the Company’s news channel, where audiences send photos or video footage captured from personal and mobile cameras, as another way of introducing citizen journalism and increasing end-user participation in our media. The Company also pays special attention to giving voice to small or underserved communities and providing for the development of local content. Cablevisión and Artear are working together to gradually renew local TV channels and newscasts in several cities in Argentina. The program takes into consideration access to local information and culture, while providing them with stateof-the–art technology and training. SOCIAL AND SUSTAINABILITY COVERAGE To better assess the influence the media can have on different audiences, Grupo Clarín establishes goals to ensure the quality and pluralism of its content. Grupo Clarín’s newspapers and television newscasts have a long and highly praised record in investigative reporting, and provide comprehensive news coverage and insightful pieces on relevant social and environmental issues. Reflecting the diversity of society through its news coverage and entertainment content lies in the core of its unique capacity to engage with audiences and readers. Special supplements, expert and academic voices and editorials, onsite coverage and skilled journalists and infographics complete an extensive offering on topics that vary from health, consumption and development to science, education and conservation. Weekly TV Programs 3 such as ‘TN Ecología’ and ‘TN Ciencia’, in Todo Noticias, Grupo Clarín’s 24 hour news channel and the leading cable channel in Argentina, have become leaders in their fields. During 2011, the Company´s media paid special attention to issues related to climate change and the environment. Radio Mitre, its main broadcasting radio station, combined 24 hour coverage of these issues through an environment specialized journalist and a campaign to promote people’s involvement. The newspaper La Razón launched the monthly supplement Gestión Sustentable (Sustainable Management) to promote awareness about the most prominent issues of the sustainable development global agenda and to report on social and environmental responsibility actions carried out by companies and organizations of the civil society. Among the most significant initiatives, the Company started to work in association with Vida Silvestre, Farn, Greenpeace and other 7 environmental organizations from Argentina or with active presence in the country to develop a collectible named Salvemos Nuestra Tierra (Let’s save our planet) published together with Diario Clarín in March 2012. The product seeks to raise awareness on major environmental issues and their potential solutions, while offering a guide to learn how to help the planet and activities to work at school or at home. The Company also continued to draw attention to weblogs that create social awareness within Clarín.com. Some examples are “¿Estás?” in association with Red Solidaria, “Espacio Positivo”, with Fundación Huésped and “El Otro, el Mismo”, with Universidad Católica Argentina and social organizations engaged in fostering the inclusion of people with disabilities. Moreover, the “Calendario del Compromiso con la Comunidad” (Calendar of Commitment to the Community) was published in Revista Viva for the sixth consecutive year. Education is deeply rooted in the Noble Foundation’s mission and history of community involvement since its origin, and is also one of the key social issues frequently addressed by Grupo Clarín’s editorial coverage. During the last few years, third party, academic and the company’s own monitoring processes have all registered a gradual, yet sustained increase in social topics coverage. During 2011, NGO Periodismo Social and Austral University produced an independent report on television news coverage regarding childhood in Argentina. Telenoche, the Company’s main newscast and leader in terms of audience, was identified as the one that allocated more space to news and information regarding children and youth, reaching 32,4% of their total coverage. Also, the report concluded that more than 54% of the sources referred were children and their families. This relates to an initiative that the Company launched in 2009 by which is breaking new ground in Argentina: an ambitious training program oriented to audiovisual journalists, that seeks to achieve excellence and raise awareness of the particular features of the main social topics in order to promote responsible coverage in the news. In its initial stages, the project involved training for journalists who work on newscasts related to Cablevisión and Artear, mainly in the interior of the country and reaching most coverage areas. Recognizing the importance of reflecting diversity, promoting social justice, protecting youth, encouraging minority recognition and preventing racial and gender discrimination, the company is already moving ahead in its goal for the next period to continue to offer training for its journalists. During the first semester of 2012, several workshops are being held directed at journalists, editors, anchors, cameramen and other television professionals from the Company’s main air and cable TV channels to improve coverage and create awareness on these issues. PROMOTING INVOLVEMENT Still, there is much to be done. In this regard, Grupo Clarín aims to continuously enhance its role in promoting public debate, encouraging individual involvement by better and further portraying the challenges of society under social, economic and environmental aspects with a plural view. 4 Grupo Clarín’s different media companies also endorse several initiatives promoting people’s involvement in democracy and responsible citizen control of their representatives’ acts and decisions. Through Artear, the Company set out once more to promote values such as solidarity and community involvement. Thus, it created “Abanderados de la Argentina Solidaria”, an award that recognizes the otherwise silent labor of social entrepreneurs and community leaders, by divulging valuable and replicable initiatives that advance social transformation. The initiative is supported by Ashoka and a remarkable panel comprised by outstanding people from the social, academic and cultural sectors. In its second edition in 2011, the award was granted to Leila Abdala, president of Minka foundation, an organization dedicated to the inclusion of people with disabilities in the province of Tucumán. Also, during the year, special news reports and tributes were aired regarding late Sigfrido Moroder, a catholic priest that transformed the lives of the aboriginal community of Quebrada del Toro, in the province of Salta, and that had won the first award. In 2011, Clarín supported the first edition of Expo Solidaria, an event that under the motto “helping the helpers” convened more than 170 NGOs from different regions of the country, and showed the public the daily efforts made by thousands of persons committed to helping children and teenagers. In May, Genios magazine launched “Te Abrigo”, its first institutional campaign aimed at restoring the value of collective construction. The magazine invited families and homes from the country to knit square woolen pieces that were then assembled by Red Solidaria volunteers and distributed among the homeless. The families donated more than 60,000 woolen squares that were used to make 1,400 blankets. During 2011, Clarín renewed its partnership with Missing Children and Red Solidaria to publish photographs of missing children in La Razón newspaper and raise awareness about the role of the community in dealing with this problem. The Company also helped to broadcast the events held to remember and create awareness in relation to the anniversary of the terrorist bombing of the AMIA. Grupo Clarín also provided renewed support to the traditional campaign “Un sol para los chicos”, together with Artear and UNICEF. The campaign reached in 2011 its 20th edition, and promotes private social investment –still lower in Argentina and Latin America compared to the US and Europeand is one of the key sources of income for UNICEF in the country. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND SOCIAL ADVERTISING Grupo Clarín’s impact and relation with communities and individuals exceed those of its editorial coverage. Support for vulnerable communities, mentoring education projects, campaigning for disaster affected regions and different types of donations and expertise are only some examples of the many initiatives organized and fostered jointly or separately by Grupo Clarín’s different media companies. In terms of social advertising, during 2011, through the Noble Foundation and several of its media companies, Grupo Clarín contributed with advertising time and space to promote social, civic and environment related causes, through its own programs or within strategic alliances with renowned NGOs. During 2011, the amount of air time in broadcast television and radio donated reached 278 thousand seconds, which represents a figure of more than Ps.15 million. The impact made by these and other specific contributions to projects and campaigns by other subsidiaries can be added to the 2.2 million pesos budget of the Noble Foundation for the 10/11 period, and the 3,2 million pesos represented by the donations of connectivity services. Nevertheless, the total figure cannot be yet estimated at a group level since information collection systems are being set in place to be able to provide detail. 5 As well as contributing with its own funding, knowhow and expertise, Grupo Clarín aims to leverage support from others by seeking matching funding and regular donations from individuals and partner organizations for supported initiatives. In response to civil society organizations growing communication needs and demands, Grupo Clarín launched a multiple approach program that combines spreading and raising active awareness of public and social interest topics through advertising, design and communication services for NGOs and the development of web based blogs and sites. During 2011, the Company strived to further contribute to the improvement of social advertising and communication skills in civil society organizations. One of the ways to engage this issue involved increasing the scale and impact of “Segundos para Todos”, an advertising contest for NGOs organized by Cablevisión, which combined broadcasting spots with coaching sessions in Buenos Aires, Córdoba, Santa Fe, Salta and Neuquén. During 2011, the company continued to invest in the TV program “Segundos para todos TV”, that reflected their outreach to the community and focused on public interest topics. An additional issue in which Grupo Clarín has a sustained and strategic commitment is in reducing the digital divide and promoting digital inclusion. This is addressed by raising awareness through news coverage and TV programs in different media outlets. Also during 2011, Cablevisión extended its free cable TV and Internet access connections program to a growing number of schools, hospitals and other institutions, reaching almost 19 thousand connections by the end of the year. This represents an annual contribution of approximately Ps.3.2 million, and is completed with specific programs such as a “social fee” for low income neighborhoods. FOSTERING EDUCATION AND CULTURE As part of the Company’s initiatives to support education, Grupo Clarín used its cross-segment position and ability to communicate with society to raise awareness of education’s importance as a right and as a critical driver of social development in Argentina’s future. In this sense, the Company tried to foster equal opportunities in education through the generation of updated, affordable and quality educational materials for students, teachers and schools throughout the country, through its publishing company Tinta Fresca. Also, the company created Voz Activa, a publishing house that recently launched the first Dictionary ever published that is entirely focused in the Spanish language spoken in Argentina. This historic contribution to culture and education was widely acknowledged by academics and society in general. For the eleventh consecutive year, the Company successfully organized the campaign entitled “Digamos Presente”, an initiative focused on education involvement and rural education, together with APAER, Red Solidaria, Cimientos Foundation and in alliance with Telecom. Among the main alliances are specific initiatives such as the public-private project entitled “Escuelas del Bicentenario” (Bicentennial Schools). This project seeks to assist public elementary schools to which children in vulnerable social circumstances attend throughout the country, and to contribute to public policy, by developing scalable, sustainable and replicable school improvement mechanisms. Another alliance is the program Potenciar Comunidades Rurales (Empowering Rural Communities) carried out to support several local development projects in certain provincial communities. One of the most important initiatives generated from a collective effort is the “Premio ClarínZurich a la Educación” (Education Awards). The third edition recognized the best projects aimed at improving the quality of natural sciences teaching. For the next period it will select the best project in the field of mathematics. During this period, through the Noble Foundation, the Company continued to offer donations of bibliographical material, and renewed its long time support of several schools which carry the name of the Clarín’s founder, Roberto Noble (‘Escuelas Roberto Noble’). 6 Noble Foundations’ educational donations 2011 2010 2009 YoY Books 53,406 63,542 40,589 -15.95% Magazines 6,625 4,160 7,066 59.25% Booklets 260 550 837 -52.73% Again this year, the Company sponsored the annual Maratón de Lectura (Reading Marathon) initiative, organized by Fundación Leer with the participation of 3,500,000 children. The event received the donation of books published by Clarín and the initiative was promoted through a wide range advertising campaign. Likewise, the cultural commitment was renewed through several sponsorships, reaffirming Grupo Clarín and its subsidiaries’ presence in important events, such as the National Book Fair, Expo Trastiendas, Arte Clásica, Fundación PROA, Arte BA, Teatro Colón, Festival de Otoño, Usuahia's Festival of classical music, the World Tango Festival, the Mozart Fest and Festivalito, among others. Grupo Clarín also supported the presentations of Iñaki Urlezaga and Trío Argentino, the theater performance of “Arturo Illia”, a play starred by Luis Brandoni, as well as the launch of Teatro Maipo's season presenting “El último tour” by Eleonora Cassano and the play “The War of the Roses” and motion pictures such as “El gato desaparece”, “Viudas” and “Vaquero”. The Company also supported the annual award “Premio Clarín de Novela” and “Premio Clarín de Cuentos” and the first edition of the literature program Primavera Independiente at Victoria Ocampo's residence in San Isidro. Through its cable and broadcasting channels, the Company also makes significant efforts to promote the most important cultural, cinema and sports events, and makes an increasing contribution in the field of cultural diversity and local identity. Noteworthy are initiatives such as “Volver”, a cable channel that preserves the most complete Argentine programming archive, or the “Word Archive” at Radio Mitre, which offers an online record of some of the country’s most valuable audio heritage. MEDIA LITERACY AND PROTECTION OF YOUNG AUDIENCES Media has an increasing role in society and especially in the lives of young people. Through several programs, the Company encourages them to develop tools to access media through critical analysis and to take advantage of opportunities presented by media to explore their identities, creatively express their thoughts and opinions, and amplify their voices. Media Literacy is generally defined as the ability to access, analyze, critically respond and benefit from the different type of media. Grupo Clarín´s main tool for fostering media literacy is “Los medios de comunicación y la educación” (‘Education and Media’), a leading and recognized program that has been in place for nearly 30 years. One of the main activities of the Noble Foundation in 2011 was that of renewing the program, which consists of workshops and booklets for teachers and students to promote a critical approach to the media and to utilize them as complementary resources in education. “Education and the Media” Program 2011 2010 2009 YoY Teachers’ workshops: 100 169 111 -40.83% Students’ workshops: 525 581 553 -9.64% These programs are supplemented through other initiatives regarding the promotion of responsible content consumption. Through the Noble Foundation, Grupo Clarín renewed the presence and coordination of the media section at the “Museo de los Niños” (Children’s Museum), and continued to promote visits to its printing facilities. During 2011, 13,452 people (mainly students) had the opportunity to see firsthand what goes on behind the news production and distribution process. Within its Cable TV and Internet access segment, the Company contributes with the protection of young vulnerable audiences, providing tools for parents to keep children from accessing sensitive or age inappropriate programming. This includes several parental control options in 7 Cable TV service and equipment, in addition to guidance tips, awareness campaigns and tools for web access restrictions. On the other side of the screen, children artistic participation in television and films also requires a responsible approach. The Company complies with all regulations and self-imposed guidelines by setting limited time schedules and engaging with parents and tutors. EXCELLENCE IN JOURNALISM Reaffirming its commitment to journalistic excellence, the Noble Foundation also carried out activities to consolidate the training and excellence of current and future communicators. Among them is the support provided to the Masters Degree in Journalism, an international graduate course with the highest academic level, organized by Grupo Clarín and the University of San Andrés, with the participation of the School of Journalism at Columbia University and the University of Bologna, and led by renowned national and international journalists and academics. In this sense, the Company sponsored the achievements (both at the institutional level and through journalistic content) of the Graduate Course in Scientific, Medical and Environmental Communication. This program is organized by the University Pompeu Fabra in Barcelona, together with the Leloir Institute and the cable station Todo Noticias (TN). Another highlight in this area was the launch during 2011 of the Graduate Program in Digital Journalism organized by the University Pompeu Fabra and TN.com.ar. OUR PEOPLE Grupo Clarín's success and leadership is mostly the result of the efforts, talent, professionalism and creativity of its people. It is no coincidence that Grupo Clarín’s media companies are amongst the most preferred working places by communication professionals. The Company strives to offer better opportunities, incentives and tools to sustain and strengthen the firm commitment of the professionals that believe in Grupo Clarín’s project. Total Employees 2011 2010 2009 YoY 17,200 16,277 15,522 5.67% Distribution of company employees by category: 2011 2010 2009 YoY Management 248 280 246 -11.43% Middle management 2,403 2,132 2,075 12.71% Junior management, administration and commercial 2,513 3,706 3,538 -32.19%* Qualified technical personnel 6,988 6,782 6,174 3.04% Journalists 1,357 N/A* N/A* N/A* Others 3, 691 3,377 3,489 N/A* *Note: 2011 figures reflect a new employee category breakdown, identifying journalists as a specific part of the total workforce. Therefore, comparative analysis with previous years -that included a different breakdowncannot be shown. The Company possesses a special make-up in terms of age and gender diversity among its employees. When it comes to gender, the higher proportion of male employees is significantly explained by the large number of technical personnel, which in Argentina is predominantly male, working in the printing facilities and in the Cable TV and Internet access segment. The gender composition in other companies of the Group is balanced, especially regarding content related activities, such as journalism and audiovisual production, where the workforce is diverse. 8 Employees by sex 2011 2010 2009 YoY Men 13,375 12,698 11,554 5.33% Women 3,825 3,579 3,968 6.87% Employees by groups of age 2011 2010 2009 YoY <30 5,442 4,875 4,350 11.63% 31-50 9,920 9,464 9,558 4.93% >51 2,038 1,938 1,614 5.16% In 2011, employee turnover remained at 8%. This figure shows the number of employees that left the Company or its subsidiaries voluntarily or due to dismissal, retirement or death. Turnover by Sex and Age (As a percentage of total employees) 2011 2010 2009 YoY Men 5.32% 5.42% 5.33% -0.10% Women 2.63% 2.64% 2.44% -0.01% <30 3.47% 3.68% 3.43% -0.21% 31-50 3.64% 3.50% 3.18% 0.14% >51 0.84% 0.88% 1.16% -0.04% In addition to strictly abiding by the laws, the Company sets higher than standard conditions for its employees. Of Grupo Clarín’s total workforce, more than 76% of employees are covered by collective agreements. For those who are not, the Company’s policy is to apply the conditions established by the best existing agreement. Taking care of the work environment and conditions, health and job safety and offering training to improve employees’ professional skills and techniques are some of the actions aimed at consolidating the sense of integration and achievement of organizational goals. One of the key ways of obtaining feedback on the Company’s performance is via the global staff survey, carried out every two years. In 2011, the Company created and launched the in-house Volunteer Program of Grupo Clarín and its subsidiaries. Named “Vos también” (You Too), the program included the design and implementation of several actions to engage volunteers with the community. The program was implemented in 9 business units, including the corporate area, with impact on 12 provinces. According to its main indicators, volunteers dedicated 5,373 hours of work (3,354 during working hours), with a global engagement rate of 13.35%, representing 1,466 volunteers. Work was done in association with social organizations; 35 entities that have partnered the several initiatives that helped 1,656 people. Through these initiatives, volunteers had an opportunity to help in a variety of areas, including building emergency homes, organizing employability workshops, collecting toys and food and organizing blood donation efforts, among others. The program had a high satisfaction level among participants: 97% of them stated that they would participate again. Grupo Clarín has paid special attention to the multiple internal communication tools, such as the magazine Nuestro Medio, the Corporate Intranet with participation spaces and forums, the digital newsletter Nuestro Resumen, and the digital newsletters of the Corporate Training Program and the Company Climate Management Program, as well as internal communication spaces and notice boards. Year after year, Grupo Clarín increases its efforts to implement and streamline the information channels on benefit programs, policies and relevant organizational changes, and news concerning the daily development of activities. Benefits and career development Although most benefits are common to the whole Company, each business unit integrates additional benefits that vary in nature according to tasks. Since the last quarter of 2007, the Company, together with its subsidiaries, began to implement a Long Term Savings Plan for directors and managers, which became effective in 2008. 9 During 2011, corporate and business units’ human resources departments have continued to implement different programs to identify internal talent for career development. Also, Grupo Clarín’s and Cablevision’s Young Professionals Program was renewed, creating opportunities for professionals that are taking their first steps in their career paths. In order to develop new skills and build up existing strengths, people need encouragement and support. In addition to increasing the number and variety of training options, during 2011, the Company continued efforts to extend and enhance the employee performance appraisal program in different categories. Grupo Clarín’s employees and professionals can update and expand their knowledge and skills through several training programs, ranging from seminars and courses to graduate degrees and MBAs. Human Resources departments are in the process of consolidating individual training records and training hour’s information One of the main initiatives in this respect is the ‘Corporate Training Program’ which includes a wide variety of courses. A relevant aspect among current training options is that the Company pays special attention to training on new tools and technology developments, in order to properly prepare its workforce for the challenges the media sector is facing. In addition, throughout the business units, there have been seminars and programs on quitting smoking, diseases, and other relevant topics, as well as special action campaigns regarding health and medical check-ups, with special focus on the preemptive measures against seasonal deceases. Also, the Group carries our several different activities designed to prevent job related accidents. Grupo Clarín continued to explore alternatives of interaction or joint approach to common interest issues at the various levels of its value chain. Grupo Clarín focused on the implementation of systems and procedures aimed at the application of best practices for purchases, hiring, and contracting with suppliers, within a framework of supervision and transparency. ENVIRONMENT It is widely recognized that the media industry has a lower impact than most other industrial processes. Within the framework of an environmental management policy aimed at improving eco-efficiency, the Company and its subsidiaries primarily consume energy, wood, newsprint, cable and water and generate waste. During 2011, the Company continued to take steps towards the measurement, planning and improvement of manufacturing processes to optimize results and address possible impacts. Progress was made in achieving the period's goals by introducing sustainable methods to obtain and use resources; implementing policies for investment in equipment and raising awareness for the adequate use of technology. The present report reflects the global impact of the different subsidiaries where the Group has controlling or minority stakes, while indicating some specific effects with regards to the nature of the different business activities. Consumption. Wood, Newsprint and Energy A company that publishes newspapers and magazines with an integrated structure achieves a comprehensive view of product's life cycles. Through its subsidiaries and related companies, Grupo Clarín participates in the production of newsprint, which is then used as a raw material by some of its subsidiaries. Printed products can subsequently be recovered and reused via recycling processes to generate more newsprint. The principal raw materials for the production of newsprint are fresh fiber from round wood and recovered paper. 10 In 2011, Papel Prensa, the paper mill in which Grupo Clarín owns a minority stake, consumed 340.076 tons of fresh fiber and 13.725 tons of recovered paper. The figure for recovered paper was significantly increased in over 55% in relation to the amount reported in 2010. The type of fiber source (Poplar, and Willow) depends upon the availability of materials, as well as economic considerations such as the minimization of transport distances and costs, which is a relevant economic and environmental consideration. Nevertheless, it is important to mention that fresh fiber comes entirely from sustainable plantations. This means that no native forests are involved or endangered. This is combined with continuing research on Salicaceae, related to their genetic improvement and also to ecologic and silvicultural aspects, done by means of agreements made with universities, research centers and experts, with the objective of increasing productivity, reducing costs and assuring the sustainability of the ecosystem. The forestry division undertakes its activities with a sustainability strategy that involves the protection of biodiversity. Protected forestry areas and the banning of hunting activities have led to a sustained increase in bird fauna. These conditions allows for the development of several R&D programs, also in collaboration with universities, which include the introduction, protection and reproduction of certain endangered deer species for their proper and secure development. Most of the other Company activities are undertaken in urban areas with no relation to natural areas, and complying with urban planning standards in force. At the printing plants, paper and ink constitute the main material consumed. Most of the newsprint supply comes from Papel Prensa. The Company also follows established guidelines to ensure the provision of other materials, such as inks and other specific inputs, at quality levels compatible with international standards. In terms of types of inks used, although different printed products require different resources, as an example, the main printing plant usage of vegetable oil based coldset ink reaches almost 60%. Vegetable oil based coldest is environmentally friendlier than other types of ink and allows reducing ink usage by approximately 10% or 15%. This can also be achieved by printing techniques; at the Company’s printing sites the stochastic printing style introduced in 2008 continues to be applied as a way of optimizing ink usage. 2011 2010 2009 YoY Paper 112,290 Tn 111,656 Tn 112,400 Tn 0.57% Ink 2,735 Tn 2,412 Tn 2,335 Tn 13.39% Aluminum plates 236 Tn 272 Tn 233 Tn -13.24% Company qualified teams continuously strive to reduce consumption by identifying and adopting increasingly eco-efficient processes. During this period, the paper consumption increased partially due to higher circulation figures related to new products. The introduction of adjustments on the dimensions of newspapers made in previous years continues to shows its benefits in the use of paper and other materials. The percentage of polybagging in the Company’s newspapers and magazines continues to be of minor significance, although the use of polypropylene in some parts of the dispatching process is regularly assessed. The primary resource used by Grupo Clarín and its subsidiaries is energy. Grupo Clarín’s consumption comes from both direct and indirect sources; the indirect consumption comes from electricity taken from the grid. Direct and Indirect energy consumption by primary source: 2011 2010 2009 YoY Electricity 431,326 MWh 419.563 MWh 442,670 MWh 2.80% Natural Gas 25,825,636 m3 29.898426 m3 33,688,892 m3 -13.62% Gasoline 29,399 GJ 24.676 GJ 20,550 GJ 19,14% Fuel Oil 159,091 GJ 172.219 GJ 84,593 GJ -7,62% Gasoil 64,509 GJ 76.043 GJ 72,387 GJ -15.17% LP Gas 2,449 GJ 2563 GJ 2,887 GJ -4.45% 11 Energy consumption is significant in the paper related and printing activities and, to a lesser extent, in the business units which operate with technology, such as cable television and Internet services, broadcasting, etc. In this area, some initiatives developed by Artear include the introduction of cold lighting in all new and renovated television studios, in order to obtain 5 times less than the regular consumption. During this period, the company continued to invest in equipment -manufactured within environmentally friendly parametersin order to meet the needs of the generation and distribution of content in High Definition. Also, in addition to reaching the goal of replacing 100% of Artear’s live unit vehicles for low consumption vehicles, thus considerable reducing emissions, this business unit focused on a multiple stage scheme to replace other lighting materials. Emissions and discharges In terms of emissions, the main contributors to the Company’s carbon footprint are print sites and the paper mill. Nevertheless, Grupo Clarín’s indicators include other emissions such as those arising from transport and the daily use of its facilities. The Company is constantly exploring alternatives to improve processes and efficiency in these areas, and to continue to enhance the analysis and inventory of Co2 emissions generated by Grupo Clarín’s activities. 2011 2010 2009 YoY CO2 direct emissions 70,090 Tn 79,954 Tn 79,866 Tn -12.34% Indirect emissions arising from electricity usage can only be calculated based on Argentina’s energy matrix. The primary strategies available to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are reducing the consumption or changing the energy sources. Increased use of renewable forms of fuel and bioenergy is a positive strategy. During 2009, Papel Prensa purchased a bark boiler allowing the Company to set a goal of making additional savings in GHG emissions, while better managing waste. Each Grupo Clarín subsidiary and related company identifies and manages waste production and disposal. In 2011, this management included the recycling of 13,725 tons of recuperated paper and cardboard, 14.9 tons of ink and the reuse of nearly 235 thousand cable modem units. Contrary to the production of white paper, the newsprint manufacturing process does not involve the use of chlorine for bleaching. This results in a significantly lower chemical impact. As part of the treatment of industrial waste from the printing process, the Company collects and separates other waste materials (ink, oils, greases and solvents), which are shipped to certified third parties for recycling and reuse. Aluminum plates used in printing can be 100% reused. Hazardous waste is carefully handled and handed over to authorized waste management companies. During 2011 the Company reduced the amount of this type of waste by nearly 21% 2011 2010 2009 YoY Urban or non-hazardous waste 54,291 Tn 53,219 Tn 54,115 Tn 2.01% Hazardous waste 492.3 Tn 622 Tn 619 Tn -20.85% Special care is also maintained regarding the handling of liquid effluents resulting from development processes, subjecting them to rigorous treatments and measurements before disposal. The main water usage, recycling and discharges are related to the paper mill. Since the beginning of its operations in 1978, Papel Prensa’s investments have allowed it to reduce its water usage in more than 40%. Strict procedures are set in place to permanently asses and manage the quality of discharges. Routine testing validates compliance with nationwide regulation in terms of toxicity of the discharges. 12 In addition, Grupo Clarín continued to increase the contribution to the Garrahan Foundation through an office paper recycling program. This was combined with programs for reducing the use of paper in Company offices while seeking to optimize printing techniques, and renewed efforts to raise employee awareness regarding sustainability issues. URL links to 2011 Financial Statements and Annual Report www.grupoclarin.com www.grupoclarin.com/ir (Glossy version in process. Estimated date: June 30, 2012) Grupo Clarín Contact information María Julia Díaz Ardaya mjdardaya@grupoclarin.com 13
