COP for eWork Scandinavia. 2012-10-17 Human Rights Principle 1 – “Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.” Principle 2 – Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Active social’s engagement is an important component of eWork’s corporate culture. Every employee can set aside three working hours a month to charitable organizations. Mentor and The World´s Children´s Prize for the Rights of Children are the two charities that eWork people have selected. Mentor’s aim is to give young people the resources to resist violence and drugs. It works by arranging activities to motivate study, and offer young people adult role models to help enhance their belief in the future, motivation and personal development. One of Mentor’s programs involves engaging adult working role models who meet young people that are graduating from high school. eWork also has a partnership with The World´s Children´s Prize for the Rights of Children (WCPRC), the world's largest annual educational program for children's rights and democracy, based on the UN Child Convention. The World's Children Prize belongs to more than 24 million children in 101 countries. Many children who have had their rights severely violated are taking part in the program, including in the children's Global Vote deciding who receives the children's prestigious award for outstanding contributions to the rights of the child. Patrons include HRM Queen Silvia of Sweden and Mr Nelson Mandela. eWork contributes to the annual price money that is used to better the lives of some of the world's most vulnerable children. Labour Principle – 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle – 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle – 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. rinciple – 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. eWork supports the Global Compacts principles on labour standards and we follow Swedish labour laws. All employees are free to join independent trade unions and we never use minors for work. One of eWork's goals is to be a role model in terms of customer relations, business ethics and internal relationships, and responsibility in important social issues such as equality and diversity. By diversity we mean that each employee with their different characteristics, skills, experiences, circumstances and situations are part of the collective expertise. Equality and diversity is not in itself purpose of its own. It is the ability to take advantage of different experiences and skills that make diversity a success. Diversity helps to permanently increase profitability and make the company a further attractive employer. Equality and diversity is a key strategic asset in eWork business development. All employees regardless of ethnicity, gender, age, disability, religion or belief, gender identity and sexual orientation should have equal opportunities in terms of jobs and career opportunities. Working conditions, salary, benefits and other terms designed so that they aim to provide equal opportunities and easier for all employees to reconcile work, private life and parenthood. Laws and regulations are minimum levels of equality and diversity at the company. Equality and diversity affects all employees and operated at all levels of the company. Each manager has a responsibility to conduct targeted equality and diversity work which includes implementing change, widespread and continuous monitoring. A leadership that recognizes, understands, appreciates and promotes diversity and similarities among employees give employees more opportunities to utilize their full potential. This allows the company to better meet customers' different needs and thus find new and better business opportunities. Equality and diversity is about knowledge not opinions. Knowledge is essential to find the right measures that contribute to greater equality and diversity. The company strives groups consisting of people with different experiences and backgrounds, as well as an even distribution of men and women at all levels. The company is working actively for a good working environment, both physical and psychosocial. Every year the quality assured by means of an employee survey. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals. It is obvious that we, like all others, must actively participate in environmental activities in all the ways that we can. It is important in many aspects, not least because our customers requires this and that increasingly it is a prerequisite to even be invited to participate in the bidding that we have an active environmental program. Also as human company and with our values rhymes very well with an active environmental thinking. Claes Ruthberg, CEO eWork Scandinavia AB has during the first half of 2012, built a management system for operations in Sweden. This management system is since June 26, 2012 certified to ISO 14001. Our ambition is to certify operations in Denmark, Finland and Norway in 2013. We have assessed our environmental impact and ended up with three main issues. We have set targets to reduce our carbon footprint, and chosen in the current situation to focus on electricity, travel and waste. Our targets for this is as stated below: 1. Electricity Reduce electricity consumption by 5% compared to 2011. Baseline 2011: Average 65 kWh/m2 All electricity (100%) at offices in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Linköping will be labeled Good Environmental Choice . Baseline 2011: Only green electricity in Gothenburg 2. Travel Reduce greenhouse emissions from travel (flight + car) by 30%, compared to 2011. Indicator: kg CO2 / employees Output 2011: 0,63 tons CO2/employee 3. Waste Recycle 80% of the total amount of waste (in Stockholm). Indicator: kg of recycled waste per kg of total waste Baseline 2011: 6430 kg non recycled waste, 977 kg of recycled waste (15%) Reduce the purchase of paper by 15% compared to 2011. Indicator: number of sheets / employee Output 2011: 3 582 sheets / employee Our environmental policy states the following: We strive to reduce our environmental impact, focusing on our office energy consumption, waste and business travel. Our business model allows us to actively disseminate our environmental thinking and provide examples of good practice across a broad front. Environmental work should be a natural part of everyday business and be included in the dialogue with our employees, consultants, customers and partners. We strive to limit and prevent our environmental impact by, for example: • Encourage use of public transportation or carpooling. • Inspire to reduce energy consumption. • Controlling our purchase of less polluting alternative to the greatest extent possible. • Invest in tools to reduce consumption and to support the recycling of consumables which have the greatest impact. We will of course always comply with applicable legal requirements in the environmental field and constantly improve our work. In conjunction with the certification process we have appointed a person, an environmental coordinator who is responsible for our environmental work and coordinates our offices and our actions in the matter. Anti Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery eWork's business model is based on impartiality to both customers and suppliers. This and the fact that we are a value driven company states the fact that we strongly oppose all forms of corruption. Our policy regarding these issues establishes the following guidelines: Generally, representation shall always be kept at a reasonable level, ie representation must not be perceived as luxurious, which can exclude deduction and involve conflict with Swedish laws and regulations. Entries should be on every restaurant bill or other documentation of when and where the representation in question took place. The names of the people who participated in the representation must be included. Lunch representation is encouraged by eWork which calls for employees to take initiative, however, this is also restricted and must not be perceived as luxurious. Representation facing a group of more than 20 people must always be approved by the closest manager. Gifts to business associates and clients: eWork hands out gifts to clients and consultants at the national holidays like Christmas and easter. The marketing department is responsible for planning and ordering of these gifts. Gift shall not constitute “undue influence of business contacts” according to Swedish law. Gifts should also be directly related to business operations, which usually excludes the deductibility of gifts at anniversaries.
