Annual Report 2011 CONTENTS 1. Opening 1.1. Introduction 1.2. Message from the Board of Directors 1.3. Message from the Board of Executive Officers 2. Highlights 2011 3. CPFL Energia Profile 3.1. Vision, Mission and Principles 3.2. Corporate Governance 3.2.1. Corporate Structure 3.2.2. Shareholders’ Meeting 3.2.3. Board of Directors and the Fiscal Council 3.2.4. Board of Executive Officers and Committees 3.2.5. Best Governance Practices 3.3. Management 3.3.1. Corporate Policies 3.3.2. Organizational Competences 3.3.3. Ethics 3.3.4. Risks 3.3.5. Intangible Assets 3.3.6. Quality 3.4. Corporate Strategy 3.4.1. Innovation 3.4.2. CPFL Transformation Program 3.4.3. CPFL Renováveis 3.5. Operations 3.5.1. Distribution 3.5.2. Generation 3.5.3. Commercialization 3.5.4. Services 4. Sustainability 4.1. Economic and Financial 4.1.1. Operating Performance 4.1.2. Operating Revenue 4.1.3. EBITDA 2 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 4.1.4. Net Income 4.1.5. Dividend Distribution 4.1.6. Debt 4.1.7. Investments 4.1.8. Capital Markets 4.1.9. Financial Statements 4.2. Society 4.2.1. Stakeholder Relationships 4.2.2. Personnel 4.2.3. Community 4.2.4. Value Chain 4.2.5. Reflection and Debate 4.3. Environment 4.3.1. Investments 4.3.2. Environmental Impact 4.3.3. Environmental Programs 4.3.4. Management of Resources and Materials 4.3.5. Environmental Control and Mitigation Activities 4.3.6. Environmental Certifications 4.4. The New Economy and Climate Change 4.5. Commitments and Institutional Partnerships 5. Attachments 5.1. Awards and Recognition 5.2. NBCT 15 5.3. IBASE Social Report 5.4. About this Report 5.5. Statement of Independent Audit 5.6. Global Compact 5.7. Global Reporting Initiative Index 5.7. Corporate Information 5.9. Board of Executive Officers 5.10. GRI Team 5.11. Credits 3 4 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Opening 5 Opening 6 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 1.1. INTRODUCTION Among the various initiatives implemented by CPFL Energia during 2011, particularly significant was the constitution of CPFL Renováveis. This is a company focused on generating energy from renewable sources such as small hydro power plants (SHPs), sugarcane biomass-fired thermoelectric power plants and wind farms. The new company is a milestone in the CPFL Group’s trajectory for various reasons. Firstly, it underscores CPFL’s pioneering spirit in this segment, since CPFL Renováveis has already emerged in a position of leadership as the largest company in the segment in Latin America. Secondly, it contributes a more balanced energy portfolio with a diversification of sources, so adding value to the businesses. And lastly, the enhanced activity in renewables contributes to the transforming of CPFL Energia into a leading company in the domestic electricity sector. This operation, in addition to the various other developments in CPFL Energia’s activities last year, is discussed in this Annual Report. The report covers all business areas of the Company (generation, distribution and commercialization of energy and services). It includes the economic, social and environmental performance during 2011, as well as detailing the targets established and the Group’s management practices. It was prepared on the basis of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) methodology, which is an international yardstick for sustainability reports. In turn, the information on economic-financial performance has been adjusted to international accounting standards as set forth in the International Reporting Standards. The electric energy sector plays a critical role in Brazil’s development, involving not only economic and social issues but also preservation of the environment. After all, an electric energy company can impact the ecosystems of the locations in which it operates. It is for this reason that the Company believes that its activities go beyond energy generation, distribution and commercialization. As the largest private sector group in the Brazilian electricity sector, CPFL Energia is aware of the relevance of its activities. This means that its decisions are supported on the basis of a broad and systematic view taking into account the economic, social and environmental variables on an integrated basis in line with its commitment to ensure the longevity of its businesses and to create value for its stakeholders. Enjoy reading! 7 Opening 1.2. Message from the Board of Directors Set against a background of a world economic scenario in 2011 where difficulties and uncertainties predominated, CPFL Energia successfully created value for its shareholders reflecting alignment to the Strategic Plan among the Board of Directors, the Board of Executive Officers and the Company’s nearly eight thousand employees. Thus, during the period, the Group reported growth of 6.2% in net operating revenue (R$ 12,764 million) and an increase of 12.5% in the EBITDA (R$ 3,769 million). Net income was up by 1.4%, reaching R$ 1,582 million. Of particular significance during the fiscal year was the Company’s decision to invest in generation of alternative energy from a largely clean and renewable source matrix. Murilo Passos This movement translated into the constitution of CPFL Chairman of the Board of Renováveis, which upon its incorporation immediately Directors become a leader in its segment in Latin America. This business strategy has been instrumental in the CPFL Group building a portfolio of businesses combining attractive and diversified markets in the distribution of electric energy, a strong presence in traditional generation and, on the basis of renewable sources, a solid customer base in energy trading and services, characteristics which are decisive in differentiating the Group from its competitors. We have a very clear ambition, which is to keep CPFL Energia in the vanguard of the domestic electricity business. The decision to establish a consistent presence in energy generation from renewable sources is one of the levers for attaining this objective. We believe that the market has interpreted positively the decisions underlying CPFL activities. This is certainly reflected in the performance of our shares and ADRs on the stock exchanges. In 2011, shares traded on BM&FBovespa reported an appreciation of 34.0%, well above the performance of the stock indices for the BOVESPA and the Brazilian electric energy sector (IEE), which reported a variation of -18.1% and +19.7%, respectively. Meanwhile, on the New York Stock Exchange, our 8 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia ADRs rose 25.9% as against the Dow Jones Industrial Index which recorded a positive variation of +5.5%. During the year, we also sought to expand our stock exchange liquidity and facilitate the access of the small investor to CPFL’s securities. Mindful of this, we undertook a reverse stock split followed by a stock split. We also altered the exchange ratio between ADRs and common shares. Consequently, we optimized the management of our shareholding base and reduced the value of the standard lot of shares and ADRs, thus engendering increased liquidity. In 2011, we were already able to detect an increase in the interest and demand for the shares and ADRs. CPFL was the private sector company in the electricity industry with the highest stock exchange liquidity, posting an average daily turnover of R$ 31 million with the trading of the Company’s shares and ADRs on both exchanges. And as has occurred ever since CPFL’s IPO, in 2011, we distributed the amount of R$ 1.506 billion, approximately 95% of the Company’s net income. If we backtrack to 2004, the year that CPFL Energia went public, we can record a total of R$ 9.1 billion in distributed dividends, clearly showing our commitment to creating shareholder value. In the light of all this, we can assert that CPFL Energia continues a vibrant company, able to raise funds in the market, expanding its activities and diligently preparing to increase its efficiency in a strategic cycle characterized by the search for innovation in processes and activities developed by the Company in accordance with the business outlook for the Brazilian and world electric energy sector. We reiterate our commitment to the Company’s sustainability and to the creation of value. Indeed, these goals have been conducive to Companhia Paulista de Força e Luz (CPFL Paulista) the energy distributor constituted in upcountry São Paulo and from which the CPFL Group originated reaching its centenary year in 2012. We must thank all those that have been part of this success story who have believed and continue to believe in the direction that CPFL Energia has taken in this century of activities. More especially, we would like to offer thanks the support we have received from the employees, shareholders, suppliers and all the other stakeholders with whom we relate. Here’s to the next 100 years. 9 Opening 1.3. Message from the Board of Executive Officers The Brazilian economy recorded a GDP of 2.7% in 2011 against 7.5% for the preceding year, a reflection of weak industrial output (+0.4%), the deceleration in domestic demand and the volatility in the international markets during the period. The modest growth in the industrial sector reflects the increase in the country’s import bill (+8.9%), driven by an appreciated currency and by intense international competition. Meanwhile, the less vigorous domestic demand was a response to lower credit demand due to high rates of interest, macroprudential measures introduced in late 2010 and higher household debt. The global uncertainty in turn had an Wilson Ferreira Jr. impact on confidence and investments. Chief Executive Officer of CPFL Energia Nevertheless, in Brazil there were signs of robustness: the country is now the sixth largest economy on the planet, generating nearly two million formal jobs and less unemployment during the year, factors which helped drive consumption and were instrumental in the rise in living standards of the class C social grouping on the back of an improved distribution of domestic income. CPFL Energia’s achievements in 2011 were a mirror image of the path taken by Brazil in its development and underscore our successful strategy on seeking to expand our market share of the Brazilian electricity sector based on growth combined with operational efficiency and the creation of shareholder value. This success was reflected in a fiscal year increase in net operating revenue of 6.2% to R$ 12,764 million, while EBITDA rose 12.5% to R$ 3,769 million. Net income posted a 1.4% increase to R$ 1,582 million while our investments were R$ 1,905 million and are forecast at R$ 8,310 million for the 2012-2016 cycle. In distribution, we reported total sales volume of 54,590 GWh, a year-on-year increase of 4.9%. In this segment of the business, we are leaders with a 13% market share and 7 million customers served by our eight distributors located in 569 cities in the states of 10 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia São Paulo and Rio Grande do Sul as well as some municipalities in the states of Paraná and Minas Gerais. I would like to particularly point out the conclusion to the change in methodology of the 3rd Tariff Review Cycle. Regulatory demands on us have been increased, requiring a process of adaptation in the light of the new parameters established by ANEEL (the Brazilian Electricity Energy Agency). This new cycle also represents a major change with respect to the logic of efficiency, its focus being on sharing best commercial and operational practices in order to achieve lower technical and non-technical losses as well as best indicators of service quality, this contingent on our people, systems­ and processes. The Group’s approximate 2% market share of the generation segment has confirmed CPFL Energia’s position today as the second largest generator in the private sector in Brazil. We ended 2011 with 2,644 MW of installed capacity, our strategy in this segment notable for the expansion of investments in generation of energy from renewable sources. In April, we acquired the assets of Siif Énergies do Brasil – including four working wind farms in the state of Ceará, with an installed capacity of 210 MW in addition to a portfolio of wind power projects with a total installed capacity of 732 MW. In the same month we merged our generation assets sourced from renewables with those of ERSA Energias Renováveis. This operation culminated in the constitution of CPFL Renováveis, a company which came into being as leader in its segment in Latin America and which has been extremely active since in its acquisitions ensuring a rate of expansion in line with the business plan. During 2011, among other acquisitions made by CPFL Renováveis, are SHP Santa Luzia with 28.5 MW of installed capacity and two biomass-fired cogeneration projects, TPP Alvorada and TPP Coopcana, each with­ 11 Opening 50 MW. As of December 2011, the new company, in which CPFL Energia has a 63% stake, had a 4,438 MW portfolio of projects either actually in operation or under construction or development. On another front, in the competitive segment of energy commercialization to the free market, the Group ended the year with an 11% market share and 140 free clients, an increase of 8.5% in relation to 2010. Of particular significance during the year was the Group’s adoption of an integrated approach to its services as well as the restructuring of the business area. Given the growing importance that the services segment has been assuming for leveraging value for CPFL Energia, we have set up autonomous and independent units in order to take full advantage of the market potential and in line with the strong synergies with other businesses. Among the companies in this segment, there are three which stand out: CPFL Atende, a solutions contact center with installations in Araraquara and Ourinhos; CPFL Total, a bill collection network and for the capture and intermediation of financial products with approximately 3 thousand accredited outlets; and CPFL Serviços, which offers services in the areas of energy self-production, transmission systems (building of transmission lines and substations), distribution systems (construction and maintenance of primary distribution rooms for third parties) and equipment overhaul. The Group was the recipient of various market awards during 2011, indicative to us that we are on the right track. For the first time in the history of the PNQ – National Quality Award, two companies from the same corporate group – in this case, CPFL Paulista and RGE – received this accolade. The PNQ has been in existence for 20 years now and CPFL has been a participant in the annual awards since 2003. Group companies have won the award five times, CPFL Paulista being its champion, receiving it on three consecutive occasions. Equally important for the Group was CPFL Energia’s 12 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia continued presence as a component for the seventh year running in BM&FBovespa’s Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) portfolio. CPFL is one of the few names to continuously be a part of the stock index since launch in 2005. Among other initiatives, this commitment reflects the fact that CPFL Energia has been a signatory to the United Nations’ Global Compact since 2003. The Global Compact is designed to mobilize the business community into adopting fundamental and internationally-accepted values in the areas of human rights, labor relations, the environment and the fight against corruption and encapsulating the ten principles to which we adhere as a Group. Recognitions such as these would not have been possible without the support and confidence of our shareholders, clients, suppliers and other stakeholders, particularly our employees, whose competence and dedication are critical qualities to meeting the targets and objectives enshrined in our business plan. To all, go our thanks and our commitment to proceed on a path toward being a group which is increasingly more efficient and managed on a sustainable basis. 13 14 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Highlights 2011 15 Highlights 2011 16 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 2. Highlights 2011 ■■ Increase of 4.9% in energy sales within the concession areas; ■■ Growth of 12.5% in EBITDA, reaching R$ 3,769 million; and of 1.4% in net income, to a total of R$ 1,582 million; ■■ Acquisition of Jantus for R$ 1.5 billion, comprising 210 MW in operational wind farms and a 732 MW portfolio of planned projects; ■■ Creation of CPFL Renováveis through a joint venture between CPFL Energia and ERSA Energias Renováveis; ■■ Acquisition of PCH Santa Luzia by CPFL Renováveis in August, with installed capacity of 28.5 MW; ■■ Acquisition of two biomass thermoelectric projects by CPFL Renováveis: TPP Alvorada (50 MW) and TPP Coopcana (50 MW), with a total forecast investment of R$ 311 million; ■■ Start-up of commercial operations of the biomass thermoelectric plants Bio Formosa (September) and Bio Buriti (October), with a total 90 MW installed capacity; ■■ Investments of R$ 1,905 million in 2011. Estimated capex of R$ 8,310 million from 2012-2016; ■■ Total approved financing of R$ 5.1 billion, for debt refinancing, working capital and investments; ■■ Dividend payout of R$ 1,506 million relating to 2011, with dividend yield of 7.1% (LTM). Since the IPO in September 2004, CPFL has distributed 95% of net income in dividends, representing a total payout of R$ 9.1 billion; ■■ Conclusion of reverse stock split/stock split in July on BM&FBovespa and the NYSE; ■■ Appreciation of CPFL Energia shares by 34% on BM&FBovespa, outperforming IBOVESPA (-18.1%) and the IEE (19.7%) in 2011; appreciation of ADRs by 25.9% on the NYSE, outperforming the DJI Br20 (-20.6%) and the Dow Jones (5.5%); ■■ 7th company by increased market value on the exchange in 2011, and ranked first in the electric sector; ■■ CPFL Energia shares remained a component of the ISE (Corporate Sustainability Index) portfolio for the 7th year running. 17 Highlights 2011 18 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia CPFL Energia Profile 19 CPFL Energia Profile 3. CPFL Energia Profile 3.1. Vision, Mission and Principles CPFL Energia Management GRI Foundations 4.8 CPFL Energia’s strategic positioning is directly linked to its Vision, Mission and Principles. It has an ongoing commitment to generate value in all its operations and contribute to the development of society as a whole. Vision “Energy is essential for people’s wellbeing1 and for the development of society2. We believe that the sustainable production and use of energy3 is vital for the future of humanity.” ■■ Energy allows the use of technologies which provide people with satisfaction and comfort by meeting the majority of their needs, from the most basic, such as housing, health, nutrition, transportation and security, to the most complex, such as education, entertainment and communication. ■■ The concept of social development goes beyond the responsibilities inherent in the Company’s businesses; it means understanding this responsibility in a wider sense, and using an integrated, inclusive and interdependent vision to contribute toward raising standards of production, education, health, security, quality of life and human development. In this sense, all the Company’s activities should take into account their potential for creating value for society. ■■ The durability of our business and the future of humanity increasingly depend on the balance between a search for economic gain and the ability of society and nature to support growth. We believe that the integration of these variables in the production and use of energy contributes to a lifestyle that avoids social and environmental inequality, and creates a society that is safe, balanced, healthy and enjoyable to live in. 20 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Perfil Mission “To provide sustainable energy solutions1, competitively and with excellence2, in a manner that is integrated with the community3.” ■■ By providing sustainable energy solutions, we are declaring that we are not just committed to providing electricity generation, distribution, commercialization and services. Our commitments also extend to our expertise in integration and innovation, providing our markets with greater service customization and speed in meeting their needs and expectations. ■■ ‘Competitively and with excellence’ describes the CPFL Energia Group’s way of acting: a search for differentiation and a superior standard of performance in all activities and initiatives. Our positioning as market leader, recognized for operating efficiency and superior governance practices, is essential to our strategy of growth and the long-term survival of our businesses in Brazil’s captive and free electricity markets, and to remaining an attractive proposition to the capital markets. ■■ We recognize that our organization is a living entity and an integral part of a complex ecosystem. Our success depends on the quality of our relationships and the contribution of all the stakeholders with whom we interact, and in particular, the communities that we serve. 21 CPFL Energia Profile GRI 4.8 BUSINESS PRINCIPLES The professional values that guide all of CPFL’s business conduct are: Value creation ■■ The CPFL Group creates value in everything that it does. It exists for this reason: to create value for its shareholders and the stakeholders with whom it interacts. Commitment ■■ To ensure that our corporate actions and professional conduct mirror, faithfully and transparently, the ongoing commitment to complying with CPFL Energia’s Principles and Ethical Guidelines and with the Group’s stakeholder contracts, obligations and agreements. Security and Quality of Life ■■ To act permanently toward controlling and minimizing the risks associated with our work processes, products and services and to assure the integrity and the physical and mental wellbeing of our stakeholders, in environments that encourage co-operation, cohesion, the spread of knowledge and professional and human development. Austerity ■■ CPFL views austerity as a business principle of high ethical value, which should guide all the Group companies’ actions. Consequently, all material and financial resources should be used sparingly without excess or wastage, that is, in a rational and sustainable manner and to the precise extent of their utility in achieving corporate goals. Sustainability ■■ To be concerned with the future consequences of our actions and decisions, seeking always to control and avoid risks that could threaten the longevity of the CPFL Group, as well as any consequences that have not been negotiated with the communities where we operate and with other stakeholders. 22 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Trust and Respect To establish and maintain relationships of trust based on loyalty, respect and balance between our own interests and those of our stakeholders. Going the extra mile To believe that everything is susceptible to improvement and can be implemented in an innovative way that transcends market paradigms and exceeds the expectations of all stakeholders; constantly seeking to overcome apparently insurmountable challenges. Entrepreneurial Spirit To make each CPFL employee an agent of change who constantly seeks to establish competitive advantages in his field of activity; is always alert to trends before they become commonplace; has a pioneering spirit; masters new knowledge, processes and technologies; and develops a strong sense of ownership in relation to his duties and responsibilities in the CPFL Group. 23 CPFL Energia Profile 3.2. Corporate Governance ■■ Corporate governance is a fundamental guiding principle of CPFL Energia’s operating strategy as it contains a range of mechanisms that contribute to shareholder value creation. With this in mind, the Company follows a range of practices designed to promote and preserve good governance, so as to assure transparency in relationships and communication with stakeholders, and guarantee equal and fair dealings with shareholders and other related parties. ■■ These behaviors are elements of Corporate Responsibility, which we interpret as a concern for acting in a sustainable manner and with a long-term vision, leading to a management style that incorporates a series of social and environmental considerations to ensure business longevity. ■■ CPFL Energia’s corporate governance policies and practices adhere to the recommendations of the Code of Best Practice of the Brazilian Institute of Corporate Governance (IBGC) and to the regulations of the Novo Mercado of BM&FBovespa, a listing segment that stands out for demanding superior practices on this issue of companies which voluntarily adhere to it. The Company also complies with the requirements of US legislation, as its Level III American Depositary Receipts are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). ■■ In the light of this governance structure, CPFL has qualified as a member of the Companies Circle, a group formed of 19 listed and unlisted corporations, from six Latin American countries, and which are recognized as benchmarks for adopting superior corporate governance practices. The Companies Circle is an initiative of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) in partnership with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the Global Corporate Governance Forum (GCGF). It was created with the aim of promoting the sharing of experiences in applying good governance principles, both among these companies and the corporate community as a whole, and thus encouraging the advancement of the issue in the region. In line with CPFL Energia’s desire to continually improve its practices, and remain current with existing trends and the ongoing debate on the topic, the Company was the first Brazilian company to gain IBGC certification for members of its Board of Directors, Fiscal Council and Board of Executive Officers. Hence, CPFL is of the belief that it contributes in promoting continual education as a means of developing and updating its executives. A further recognition of the Company’s management and control mechanisms came from BM&FBovespa, which included CPFL in its Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) in 2011, for the seventh consecutive year. 24 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Additional recognition received by the Company includes: GRI 2.10 IBEF Sustainability Award 2011 Brazilian Finance Executives Institute – IBEF Corporate Governance – Annual Report 2009 Blog case study Best Energy Sector Company in Sustainability in Latin America 2011 Latin Finance magazine/ Management & Excellence consultancy Sustainability – 3rd consecutive year Biggest and Best Award 2011 Exame magazine Adjusted Profitability of Assets – Energy sector Intangible Assets Awards Brazil – PIB 2011 Consumidor Moderno magazine and DOM Strategy Utilities XIII ANEFAC Award – Transparency Trophy 2011 ANEFAC – FIPECAFI SERASA Experian Publicly listed company billings in excess of R$ 8 billion XIII ANEFAC Award – Transparency Trophy 2011 ANEFAC – FIPECAFI SERASA Experian Accountancy Professional – Transparency in 2010 Financial Statements (CPFL Paulista) Antônio Carlos Bassalo 25 CPFL Energia Profile 3.2.1. Corporate Structure GRI GRI 4.1 2.6 GRI GRI 2.8 3.8 CPFL Energia is a holding company possessing significant equity stakes in numerous Brazilian energy sector companies which are active in the distribution, commercialization and generation segments. Its shares are traded on the Novo Mercado of BM&FBovespa, a listing segment designed exclusively for companies that voluntarily meet a range of minimum requirements and agree to superior corporate governance standards that go beyond the requirements of existing corporate law. Companies whose shares are traded in this listing segment of the stock exchange commit to adopting certain differentiating practices, such as only issuing shares with voting rights and to maintain a free float of 25% of the shares making up their capital stock. On this point, CPFL Energia goes beyond the requirements of the Novo Mercado with a free float of 30.7%. CPFL Energia’s share ownership structure also includes a major industrial conglomerate and some of Brazil’s largest pension funds: VBC Energia S.A. (VBC) A closely held company which has been wholly owned by the Camargo Corrêa Group since February 2009. BB Carteira Livre 1 Stock Investment Fund (BB CL 1 ) In October 2009, 521 Participações S.A. sold its entire equity stake in CPFL Energia to the BB CL 1 fund. The sole investor in BB CL 1 is Previ – the Banco do Brasil employees’ pension fund, Latin America’s largest pension fund. Bonaire Participações S.A. (BONAIRE) An investment vehicle owned by the following Brazilian pension funds: CESP Foundation (Funcesp), Petrobras Social Security Foundation (Petros), Sistel Social Security Foundation (Fundação Sistel) and Sabesp Social Security Foundation (Sabesprev). 26 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Energia São Paulo Stock Investment Fund (Energia SP FIP) In November 2011 at an EGM, Bonaire shareholders approved a reduction in the company’s equity capital. This operation included transferring ownership of shares issued by CPFL Energia and held by Bonaire, to Energia São Paulo Stock Investment Fund (Energia SP FIP), as sole shareholder of Bonaire. BNDES Participações S.A. (BNDESPar) A wholly-owned subsidiary of BNDES (Brazilian National Economic and Social Development Bank), which aims to encourage the development of companies and new ventures, and to help bolster the Brazilian capital markets. Corporate Organization Chart as of December 31, 2011 COMMERCIALIZATION GENERATION DISTRIBUTION SERVICES Controlling Shareholders (1) Includes 0.1% stock of Camargo Corrêa S.A.; (2) TPPs Termoparaíba and Termonordeste; RENEWABLES 34 SHPs in operation and under construction 3 TPPs in operation and 4 under construction 4 wind farms in operation and 25 under construction (*) Pro-forma – CPFL Energia holds a 63% stake in CPFL Renováveis through CPFL Geração with 35.5% and CPFL Brasil with 27.5% Base: December 31, 2011 27 CPFL Energia Profile 3.2.2. Shareholders’ Meetings Manual for participation in GRI shareholders’ meetings 4.4 ■■ Given its commitment to generating shareholder value without sacrificing transparency, fairness, accountability or corporate responsibility – principles intrinsic to its corporate governance guidelines – CPFL Energia is permanently upgrading its governance practices to remain aligned with the best market benchmarks and trends. ■■ The Company’s distribution of its Manual for Participation in Shareholders’ Meetings is an example of these efforts. Created voluntarily in 2008 before becoming a requirement of the CVM (Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission), the document uses clear and objective language to provide shareholders with information on the issues that will be discussed and voted on at such meetings. This initiative aims to establish a direct and accessible channel of communication between the Company and all shareholders and thereby encourage greater participation in corporate events and greater understanding of significant strategic decisions affecting business development. ■■ Shareholders unable to attend meetings can freely exercise their right to vote and express their opinion by assigning a CPFL executive as their representative. ■■ In order to reach the greatest possible number of shareholders, the Manual is available in English and Portuguese and can be accessed on the websites of CPFL Energia, the CVM and the SEC (US Securities and Exchange Commission). Find out more >> Click here to download the Manual for Participation in Shareholders’ Meetings (http://www.cpfl.com.br/manual_assembleias2011/docs/manual_ acionistas_pt.pdf) 28 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 3.2.3. Board of Directors and the Fiscal Council Decision-making structures GRI GRI 4.1 4.3 GRI GRI 4.6 4.9 The Board of Directors and the Board of Executive Officers are responsible for the management and administration of CPFL Energia. This corporate governance structure also includes a permanent Fiscal Council and three committees – for Personnel Management, Related Parties and Management Processes – which are directly answerable to the Board of Directors. BOARD OF DIRECTORS A collective decision-making body which determines the general business direction of CPFL Energia, its subsidiaries and affiliate companies. It has the commitment to play an active role in promoting the long-term prosperity of the Company, while always taking into account the interests of CPFL and its shareholders, as established in the Corporate Bylaws. The CPFL Energia Board of Directors consists of seven members: three elected by VBC, two by the BB Carteira Livre I Fund, and one by Bonaire Participações/Energia SP FIP. There is also one Independent Board Director, elected in accordance with BM&FBovespa’s Novo Mercado listing regulations. 2011/2012 term of office ■■ Murilo Passos (Chairman) ■■ Ivan de Souza Monteiro (Deputy Chairman) ■■ Francisco Caprino Neto ■■ Claudio Palaia ■■ Renê Sanda ■■ Carlos Alberto Cardoso Moreira ■■ Ana Dolores Moura Carneiro de Novaes (Independent Director) The Board of Directors meets ordinarily once a month and extraordinarily whenever required, as convened by the Chairman. All members have a one-year term of office, with re-election being permitted. On these occasions, Board members also complete a performance selfappraisal questionnaire. 29 CPFL Energia Profile The Board of Directors has established committees to provide support in supervising topics material to the management and performance of the businesses and has defined their scope of activity in an Internal Charter. FISCAL COUNCIL The Fiscal Council is a permanently installed supervisory body. Since 2005, it has also taken on some responsibilities of the Audit Committee as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) which are not in conflict with Brazilian law, in accordance with the exception made for foreign companies listed on US stock exchanges. The Fiscal Council consists of five members with a one-year term of office, re-election being permitted. 2011/2012 term of office ■■ José Reinaldo Magalhães (Chairman) ■■ Adalgiso Fragoso de Faria ■■ Wilton de Medeiros Daher ■■ Daniela Corci Cardoso (financial expert as required by Section 407 of SOX) ■■ Susana Hanna Stiphan Jabra The Fiscal Council meets monthly and has a minimum calendar of activities, which includes periodic meetings with internal and external auditors, the Risk Management and Internal Controls Officer and with the Company’s main executives. Find out more >> Further details on the members of the Board of Directors and the Fiscal Council can be found at www.cpfl.com.br/ri. 30 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 3.2.4. Board of Executive Officers and Committees Board of Executive Officers GRI 4.1 CPFL Energia’s Executive Officers are responsible for the management and representation of the Company, as well as being answerable for its subsidiaries and affiliate companies. They follow the strategic direction established by the Board of Directors, which also elects (or removes) them for a two-year term of office, re-election being permitted. The Board of Executive Officers currently has six members. 2011/2013 term of office ■■ Wilson Ferreira Jr. Chief Executive Officer ■■ Lorival Nogueira Luz Jr. (elected on March 21, 2011) Chief Financial and Investor Relations Officer ■■ Paulo Cezar Coelho Tavares (mandate ended on June 1, 2011) Chief Energy Management Officer (position extinguished by the EGM of December 19, 2011) ■■ Miguel Normando Abdalla Saad (mandate expired on June 1, 2011) Chief Energy Generation Officer (position extinguished by the EGM of December 19, 2011) ■■ Hélio Viana Pereira (mandate expired on May 25, 2011) Chief Operations Officer Distribution position extinguished by the EGM of December 19, 2011) ■■ José Marcos Chaves de Melo Chief Administration Officer ■■ Adriana Waltrick (resigned on January 19, 2012 the CEO is currently accumulating the position) Chief Business Development Officer Position vacant (CEO is currently accumulating the position) Chief Institutional Relations Officer (position created at the EGM of December 19, 2011) ■■ Carlos Marcio Ferreira (elected on August 31, 2011) Chief Operations Officer position created at the EGM of December 19, 2011) 31 CPFL Energia Profile The performance of the Board of Executive Officers is monitored by the Personnel Management Committee and assessed by the Board of Directors. This assessment is based on short-term goals, as established in individual contracts, and long-term goals, established in the Long-Term Incentive Plan, both of which are set in accordance with the Company’s Strategic Plan. 32 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Advisory Committees GRI GRI 4.1 4.7 GRI GRI 4.9 4.11 The Advisory Committees the Personnel Management Committee, Related Parties Committee and Management Processes Committee exist to counsel the Board of Directors, their formation and composition conforming to the requirements of the Corporate Bylaws. The scope of the Committees’ activities is defined exclusively by the Board of Directors. The Advisory Committees to the CPFL Board of Directors are each formed of three members, elected for a one-year term of office, the members being eligible for re-election. The Coordinator of each committee reports on its activities at the Board of Directors’ monthly meetings. However, the committees do not have the authority to make decisions and their recommendations are made independently of the Board of Directors. Whenever necessary, ad hoc commissions are created to advise the Board of Directors on issues such as corporate governance, strategy, budget, energy purchase, new businesses and financial policy. In 2011, commissions were set up to advise on the following subjects: strategy, process evaluation, and budget. Personnel Management Committee Offers advisory support to the Board of Directors in determining compensation policies and assessing the performance of the Board of Executive Officers, coordinating the Succession Plan for senior management executives and monitoring human resources policies and practices within the Company Plan. The Personnel Management Committee’s members are: Ivan de Souza Monteiro (Coordinator) Francisco Caprino Neto Carlos Alberto Cardoso Moreira Related Parties Committee Advises the Board in the preliminary assessment of transactions involving parties related to the controlling shareholder block in order to ensure that usual market practices are observed. These operations may involve the supply or provision of services, the purchase of inputs and services and/or the sale of electricity. 33 CPFL Energia Profile The Related Parties Committee’s members are: Susana Hanna Stiphan Jabra (Coordinator) Daniela Corci Cardoso Luiz Cláudio da Silva Barros Management Processes Committee The purpose of this Committee is to provide advice to the Board of Directors on topics related to business processes and performance management, risk evaluation and guidance regarding the Internal Audit’s activities. The processes examined by the Management Processes Committee cover economic, social and environmental issues of strategic importance to CPFL Energia. Its members are: Francisco Caprino Neto (Coordinator) Ricardo Carvalho Giambroni Luiz Cláudio da Silva Barros Find out more >> Further details on the members of the Board of Executive Officers and the Committees can be found at www.cpfl.com.br/ri (Corporate Governance > Board of Directors and Committees > click on the member’s name to find out about them.) 34 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 3.2.5. Best governance practices Best corporate governance practices ■■ CPFL Energia’s capital stock is composed exclusively of common shares with guarantee of equal conditions for controlling and minority shareholders in the event of the sale of a controlling interest – 100% tag-along rights. ■■ Free float of 30.72%. ■■ Board of Directors with seven members, including one Independent Director, with powers and functions defined by Internal Charter. ■■ Permanently installed Fiscal Council, with powers and functions defined by Internal Charter and in the Fiscal Council Guide (as well as the functions of an Audit Committee, as required by Section 301 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act). ■■ Three advisory committees to the Board of Directors (Personnel Management, Related Parties and Management Processes), as well as ad hoc commissions for dealing with specific issues. ■■ Governance guidelines apply to all CPFL Group companies. ■■ Dividend Policy. ■■ Securities Trading Policy. ■■ Manual for Participation in Shareholders’ Meetings. ■■ Members of the Board of Directors, Fiscal Council and Board of Executive Officers certified by the IBGC (CCI). ■■ Governance Portal exists to provide information on all the CPFL Group companies to board directors and executive officers. ■■ Code of Ethics and Corporate Conduct adapted to the recommendations of the United States Securities Exchange Commission (SEC). ■■ Adherence to the arbitration commitment clause of BM&FBovespa’s Novo Mercado. ■■ Channels for reporting complaints and/ or whistle blowing with respect to financial information and/ or infringements of the Code of Ethics. ■■ Certification of the internal controls by management (CEO and CFO) and the independent auditors. ■■ Preliminary analysis by the Related Parties Committee of transactions involving companies linked to shareholders comprising the controlling block. ■■ Annual self-appraisal program for members of the Board of Directors and Fiscal Council. 35 CPFL Energia Profile ■■ Succession planning for the Board of Executive Officers and other key CPFL Group executives based on a leadership development process. ■■ Annual Report prepared in line with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. 36 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 3.3. Management CPFL Energy maintains the highest levels of efficiency, with high levels of quality in providing services to residential, commercial and industrial clients. This excellence in its operations has been built through policies, practices and methodologies, with two principles of equal importance: processes and people. In process management, there is an ongoing effort to standardize and certify work routines in relation to the dimensions of quality, environment, health, safety and quality of life, sustainability and corporate responsibility. The approach and management of such issues are considered essential to the performance of CPFL, guided by policies widely disseminated to its employees. Intangible assets such as brand, human resources, intellectual property and infrastructure are also important for the Company and its results. Values such as innovation, forward thinking, entrepreneurial attitude, results orientation, sustainability, inspirational leadership and the focus on excellence in customer processes are also widely encouraged. The basis of this relationship between the Company and employees is ethical behavior, understood as an essential value to the sustainability of the CPFL Group. To cultivate it, effective practices have been adopted, such as specific management systems, code of ethics, access and dissemination of best practices. 37 CPFL Energia Profile 3.3.1. Corporate Policies The quest for management excellence is guided by policies which are widely communicated to the employees of CPFL Energia, its subsidiaries and its affiliate companies. The whole organization is engaged and directed toward achieving its desired results, its activities being imbued with these policies, which cover subjects considered of fundamental importance to CPFL Energia’s actions: quality, environment, health, safety and quality of life; and corporate sustainability and responsibility. QUALITY POLICY “To promote the lasting satisfaction of our customers, shareholders, employees and partners through the continual improvement of our products and services.” ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY “To provide energy services to society with complete respect for the environment, complying with environmental legislation, avoiding pollution and promoting continual improvement to the environmental performance of our activities.” HEALTH, SAFETY AND QUALITY OF LIFE POLICY “To seek the permanent wellbeing of employees by providing a healthy environment and safe working conditions in line with the applicable safety and medical workplace legislation, identifying, anticipating, controlling and mitigating any risks that could lead to material or personal incidents and accidents, seeking continually to improve all our work processes and promoting quality of life.” 38 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY POLICY “To include issues of social responsibility and sustainability in the management of CPFL’s businesses on a permanent basis by aligning the economic, social and environmental impacts of the Company’s activities with society’s legitimate interests and in compliance with the applicable legislation.” 39 CPFL Energia Profile 3.3.2. Organizational competences Organizational competences Qualities that CPFL Energia values in its professionals: Innovation The ability to create and provoke changes in current processes and/or business standards that result in value creation for the Company. Vision of the Future The ability to create and recommend strategies based on a solid grasp of social, political, economic and regulatory contexts, local as well as global, with a view to both generating value and maximizing return on investments, as well as to identify, develop and integrate new businesses. Entrepreneurial Spirit A spirit that explores business prospects and possibilities (products, services and solutions) with vigor, showing tenacity in their pursuit and viewing a lack of success as an opportunity for learning. The CPFL professional is audacious and determined in the search for superior results, and consciously assumes risks. Focus on Results An ability to obtain results and overcome challenges to guarantee the achievement of the goals that have been set. This involves action planning, monitoring performance indicators and observing the variables of safety, cost, quality and timing. Commitment to Value Creation The ability to draft consistent plans including analysis of current and future situations, assuming calculated risks and taking decisions which guarantee the achievement of strategic objectives, and profitable and sustainable growth for CPFL. 40 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Commitment to Sustainability Takes ethics and transparency into account in activities and relationships with stakeholders, prioritizing the longevity of the business and of society, and the preservation of natural resources. Actions are based on CPFL’s principles and values, applicable legislation, the responsibilities imposed by certifications, and a commitment to future generations, so as to promote the sustainable growth of CPFL and society as a whole. People Management A determination on the part of the manager to develop people’s potential with an aim to sustaining and developing the Company. Understands the abilities and attitudes necessary to attract, retain and develop professionals aligned to CPFL’s requirements, values and culture. Commands a high level of respect from people and creates an environment favorable to the personal and professional realization of all team members. Inspiring Leadership Earns commitment and motivation from teams by combining demands with a degree of sensitivity. Inspires through personal example, transparency and by simple and direct communication which highlights goals and the paths to their achievement. Understands that skilled teams and leaders are key to the success of the Company’s business. Passion for Winning Has a passion for challenges and faces them tenaciously. Is engaged with the cause of the Company, the business and co-workers, always seeking more and going the extra mile. Constantly seeks to exceed personal limits and give the best of himself. Takes pleasure, passion and pride in what he does, and conveys these feelings to those around him. Focus on the Customer Gains and retains internal and external customers through delivery of high value added products and/or services; efficient, cordial service; and an ethical, transparent approach. Excellence in Processes Seeks continual improvement and excellence through ongoing monitoring of indicators of performance and improvement in processes. 41 CPFL Energia Profile 3.3.3. Ethics The term ‘ethics’ has of recently emerged strongly in organizational vocabulary and practices. Its widespread usage could almost suggest that it is but a passing fad. However, if this is examined in a little greater depth, it can been seen that, in fact, ethics is an essential value for corporate longevity. From a philosophical and moral standpoint, ethics are fundamental to life in all its aspects. Their principles guide and sustain personal, family, social and professional relations. It is no different in the corporate world, as the driving force behind any company, irrespective of its area of activity or specialism, is its people. It is therefore not an exaggeration to state that the ethical behavior of employees can put a company’s reputation at considerable risk and negatively impact the success of its businesses. It is not too much to state that the issue of ethics has become central to our time, given that it can influence future events. It is believed that the survival and growth of a company are related to its ability to develop a strong consensus around its own ideals, so that they permeate relationships between the people that form part of it, thus driving not only the satisfaction and motivation of its employees, but also solid business results. CPFL is aware of the importance of an ethical approach to its activities and has sought to turn its beliefs into effective practices. The Ethics Management and Development System (EMDS) is one such example. It consists of a range of mechanisms implemented in all of CPFL Energia’s subsidiary companies, including CPFL Renováveis and power generation installations, to anticipate, monitor, assess, rework and refine the company’s individual and institutional actions possessing an ethical dimension, be it wholly or in part, directly or indirectly. These same mechanisms are made available and accessible to ventures in which the CPFL Group possesses a stake. 42 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Features of the Ethics Management and Development System (EMDS) Mechanisms 1. Ethics Committee 2. Code of Ethics and Corporate Conduct 3. Access Channels 4. Ethical Consultancy 5. Dissemination and Induction seminars 6. Communications 7. Ethics Network portal Find out about the Ethics Management and Development System (EMDS) Mechanisms 1.Ethics Committee The Committee aims to maintain, promote, protect and improve the culture of ethics within the organization, in addition to overseeing and monitoring its implementation and development in the CPFL Group companies. It also acts as a forum to examine suggestions, complaints and whistle blowing from the Company’s stakeholders as to infringements of the Code of Ethics. Required qualities of Ethics Committee members: ■■ ETHICALLY RESPECTABLE AND RELIABLE: A trustworthy citizen with an unblemished record, about whom no fact or rumor exists which might suggest unethical or illegal practices. ■■ REPRESENTATIVE: The ability to use an understanding of CPFL Energia’s corporate objectives and the demands and interests of the Company’s and subsidiaries’ stakeholders, to assess corporate actions, and to intervene and defend these parties’ interests within the organization. ■■ COMMITMENT: A commitment to the cause of promoting ethical values and human rights within society for the purpose of creating fairer and more equal relationships. The Ethics Committee is formed of eight members (see below). In 2011, it gained a representative from civil society, Professor Clóvis de Barros. Professor de Barros is a Doctor of Law from the University of Paris and a Doctor of Communications from the University of São Paulo, possesses credits from the University of Navarra, is a Faculty Member (livre-docente) at the ECA-USP and an Ethical Consultant for UNESCO. His role in the Committee is to act as the critical conscience of Brazilian civil society and therefore guarantee 43 CPFL Energia Profile that all decision-making processes have considered the interests and rights of collectivity. Another highlight among the Committee’s membership is the presence of the Employee Representatives Council (CRE), the body for employee participation in the Company’s management process. Its presence in the Ethics Committee is therefore a means of reconciling employee interests with those of the organization. In 2011 the Committee met on 11 occasions, approving and later publishing two papers summarizing the CPFL Position on Fair Competition and Labor Relations. These documents are designed to guide the decisions, attitudes and behaviors of all CPFL Group employees. Every month, the Internal Audit Advisory Unit sends a report on the Ethics Committee’s actions to the Board of Directors. Find out more at 3.2.4. Members: ■■ Corporate Communications Department representative ■■ Human Resources Department representative ■■ Legal Department representative ■■ Internal Audit representative ■■ Executive Divisions representatives (Institutional Relations, Business Development, Financial and Investor Relations, Administration, and Operations) ■■ Employee Representatives Council (CRE) representative ■■ Civil Society representative ■■ Executive Office of the Ethics and Corporate Conduct Committee for the Ombudsman’s unit 2. Code of Ethics and Corporate Conduct The Code was launched in 2006 following a lengthy review process that began in 2002 with the first round of Seminars for Reflection on CPFL Corporate Ethics and continued with the second round of seminars in 2003. These events, which reached 50% and 35% of the CPFL workforce respectively, gathered employee suggestions and proposals for revising the Code of Ethics, which had been in place since 2001. In additional to Ethical Principles, the current version of the Code includes sections on CPFL Energia’s Business Activities Guidelines, Institutional Commitments, Business Conduct Guidelines, and Access Channels for Criticism, Suggestions, Whistle Blowing and Complaints. 44 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia The Code also covers the requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), enacted in the USA in 2008 and to which CPFL is subject given its ADRs which trade on the New York Stock Exchange. In general lines, SOX mandates the creation of reliable auditing and safety mechanisms in corporations to mitigate business risk, avoid fraud and ensure that there are instruments able to identify fraud should it occur, thus guaranteeing management transparency. Continual efforts are made to disseminate the Code throughout the organization. As a result, in 2011 a module on Ethics was developed for the new employees induction program, in partnership with the Corporate University, with the aim of promoting a guided reading of the Code. The content will be made available as of 2012. Another initiative showing the dissemination of the Code is its official adoption by CPFL Renováveis, also in 2011. Out of respect for the organizational culture of CPFL Renováveis and a concern for aligning it with that of CPFL Energia, a transition team was set up playing a fundamental role in the process of defining and adopting common beliefs. The official launch ceremony of the Code of Ethics at CPFL Renováveis took place on November 28, 2011 in the presence of 150 employees. The following day, seminars on the Code were held for 102 employees. In December, all staff received their own copy of the Code and signed a Commitment Agreement. 3. Access Channels CPFL offers a number of alternatives that allow stakeholders to report transgressions of the Code of Ethics and Corporate Conduct: ■■ Telephone access on 0800 77 02050 ■■ Email access: etica@cpfl.com.br ■■ Caixa Postal 1408, CEP 13088-900, for postal correspondence destined for the Ombudsman. Specific access mechanisms have also been created for reporting accounting and fiscal fraud, which is communicated directly to the Fiscal Council for its consideration. ■■ Telephone access on 0800 77 38422 ■■ Email access: denuncia@cpfl.com.br ■■ Caixa Postal 6676, CEP 13084-970, for postal correspondence with the Internal Audit Additionally, the “Talk to the CEO” Channel was created in order to establish greater proximity between the CEO and CPFL employees and allow interested parties to send their points of view etc. directly to him. It is available on the Intranet. 45 CPFL Energia Profile 4. Occurrences registered in 2011 In 2011, 53 occurrences were registered and assessed by the Committee. Of this total, four were reports of corruption and bribery. As these cases were considered serious, an ad hoc Internal Investigation Commission was formed to deal with them. It was responsible for drafting conclusive reports which were filed with the Ethics Committee Office. The Committee’s analysis also considered the internal Level of family relationships guideline “DisciplinDriving a vehicle Female dress ary measures and Privileged information Right of way compensation for Information security Customer call damages caused by Child labor Statement CPFL Group employMoral/ sexual harassment Manger/ supervisor ees”, which applies attitude Employee attitude to all directly or Bidding Contractor attitude Dismissal indirectly controlled Bribery Selective process subsidiaries. This led to the dispensation of appropriate disciplinary measures and two cases resulted in dismissals with just cause. In this same year, there was no registered case of any form of discrimination. It is important to note that assessment of CPFL Energia’s internal controls environment is based on the integrated COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations) model. One aspect emphasized by this methodology is corruption. For this reason, a specific assessment of risks related to corruption is planned for 2012. Find out more at 3.3.4.3 5. Ethical Consultancy An online channel that is open to the public for consultation, clarification and, when required, advice on ethical doubts and conflicts. Consultations are answered by a specialist consultant who is versed in both the review process for the CPFL Code of Ethics and Corporate Conduct and the implementation of the Ethics Management and Development System at CPFL. A personal and confidential reply is offered to those that request it. Otherwise, all information is available to anyone who accesses the channel, contributing to the objective of disseminating as broadly as possible a culture of ethics at CPFL. In 2011, 37 accesses to the Ethical Consultancy were registered, which led to eight statements on the issue of ethics. 46 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 6. Dissemination and Induction Seminars CPFL holds cycles of face-to-face seminars with its employees in order to disseminate the contents of the Code of Ethics and gather contributions toward future versions of the document. This also helps to embed the issue within the organization. Two seminars took place with CPFL Renováveis employees in 2011, soon after the launch of the Code. 7. Communications CPFL develops ongoing and wide-ranging communications to publicize its commitments to sustainability and ethical conduct. In addition to providing encouragement and using individual success stories as examples, they also offer permanent and interactive communication channels with all stakeholders to give visibility to the Company’s commitments and results in the fields of sustainability and ethical conduct. The year 2012 will see the launch of a new communications project as a part of CPFL’s Ethics Management and Development Strategic Plan. The campaign, entitled “Improving Ethics in Business Relations” will be ongoing and seek to encourage reflection and debate on ethical conduct, and also facilitate communication of the Ethical Committee’s decisions. 8. Ethics Network Portal (www.cpfl.com.br/etica) A resource that explains the CPFL position on ethics and provides access to all the mechanisms of the management system. It also offers channels for employees to send comments and suggestions for the program’s continual improvement. 47 CPFL Energia Profile Other initiatives: Pro-Ethics ■■ In 2011, CPFL became a registered Pro-Ethics Company, within a system developed by the Brazilian Office of the Federal Inspector General (CGU) and the Ethos Institute. The initiative comprises eight companies committed to ethics and integrity and aims to encourage the private sector to develop concrete actions for promoting ethics, integrity and preventing corruption. ■■ In order to join the register, the Company answered a detailed questionnaire covering the implementation of integrity and anticorruption measures. For every item on the questionnaire, CPFL sent accompanying information and/or documents to support supplied data. ■■ By joining Pro-Ethics, CPFL has taken on a public commitment to governments and society, to invest in measures for promoting ethics and preventing corruption and thereby contribute to a more honest, ethical and transparent environment in the private sector and in its relations with the public sector. FNQ Corporate Ethics Committee ■■ CPFL is a voluntary member of the Corporate Ethics Committee at the National Quality Foundation (FNQ) and has been an active member of its meetings since 2008. ■■ The Committee encourages shared experiences among organizations affiliated to the FNQ, as well as between its strategic partners. It additionally produces materials for disseminating best practice on the application of ethics in companies. ■■ Duetto CPFL Energia sponsored the Ethics Collection (published by Duetto Editorial), a range of four magazines covering these subjects: ■■ Politics ■■ Media, Relationships ■■ Consumption, Labor ■■ Education and Rights 48 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia ■■ Citizenship. ■■ Professor Clóvis de Barros Filho was editorial director. Planned actions for 2012: ■■ Monthly meetings of the Ethics Committee, according to the timetable below: Month Date February 03 and 28 March 20 April 17 May 15 June 19 July 17 August 21 September 18 October 16 November 27 December 18 ■■ Implementation of the Code of Ethics at CERAN (Companhia Energética Rio das Antas), EPASA (Centrais Hidrelétricas da Paraíba S/A), NECT (Shared Services Center) and the Foz de Chapecó hydroelectric power plant. ■■ Presentation of the “Ethics and Corporate Leadership” case study at the 8th International Conference on Environmental, Cultural, Economic and Social Sustainability (“On Sustainability”) in Canada, from January 10 to 12, 2012. ■■ Proposal to stimulate the discussion of ethics at CPFL, using the 2012 cycle of seminars on improving ethics in business relations. ■■ Launch of the communications plan for “Improving Ethics in Business Relations”, an ongoing communications campaign. ■■ Ethical Climate survey – a twice-yearly survey that assesses employee perceptions of the Company’s knowledge and positioning, the Code and its ethical practices. 49 CPFL Energia Profile GRI GRI 1.2 4.11 3.3.4. Risks GRI GRI SO2 4.11 Answering to the Financial and Investor Relations Executive Division, the Risk Management, Internal Control and Consolidated Processes Department monitors risk management, internal controls and consolidated processes to ensure the Group’s processes are line with Brazilian and international standards and CPFL Energia’s corporate planning policies. As an integral part of the Company’s corporate governance model, it fulfills its duties through two frameworks: ­Compliance and Risk Management. Compliance (Internal Control) ■■ As a corporation listed on the NYSE and the Novo Mercado of BOVESPA, CPFL Energia is required to meet the highest standards of governance in the area of internal controls. Correspondingly, since 2005 it has made strenuous efforts to improve its control environment for compiling and disseminating its financial statements. Since its creation, Compliance Management has periodically assessed the whole range of the Group’s business process controls. In 2011 over 640 controls were tested, covering 19 business processes. As a result, form 20-F, required by the US SEC was filed for the sixth consecutive year with no qualifications as to internal controls’ certifications issued by either company management or the independent auditors. Our assessment efforts have also allowed us to gain certification in line with CVM Instruction 480/2009 which, under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), requires the principal executives to sign off on the effectiveness of their internal control environment. Internal Control Environment The adopted model is 1,200 structured to allow the intelligence and knowledge 989 1,000 on business processes 895 917 gained by the Compliance 800 783 770 team to be applied to 645 actions for improving op600 erations and the control environment through studies 400 and analyses to standardize, digitize and redesign 200 control processes and activities. As a result, de0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 50 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia spite the organic growth of the Group and its activities, an increase in financial reporting did not require a proportionate increase in the number of quality safety controls. The Compliance team has also created the possibility for self-assessment of controls and processes, as well as ascending certification, all of which are carried out using a technological platform that facilitates the monitoring of work by executives, and the sharing of responsibility among the Group’s main managers at all hierarchical levels. This is reported on a periodic basis to the CPFL’s Board of Executive Officers and Fiscal Council. As a way to guide the process for assessing the internal control environment, CPFL Energia has also installed the Internal Control Ascending Cerficaon Chief Execuve Officer (CEO) Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Execuve Officer responsible for ABC Department Department Head responsible Head responsible for AB for C Department Department Department Manager Manager Manager responsible for A responsible for B responsible for C Division Manager Division Manager Division Manager Division Manager Division Manager Division Manager responsible responsible responsible responsible responsible responsible for Process for Process for Process for Process for Process for Process A1 A2 B1 B2 C1 C2 51 CPFL Energia Profile Environment Assessment Standard. Approved by both the Board of Executive Officers and the Board of Directors, this document covers the main stages of the process, including the roles and responsibilities of all those involved in the assessment cycles. Corporate Risk Management As part of the Company’s governance structure, the Risk and Internal Control Management Department – through its Risk Management structure – is also responsible for drafting the Corporate Risk Management model. To achieve this, the Risk Management team performs an analysis of the main corporate risks in waves according to priority. Since its creation, Risk Management has executed the Group’s Corporate Risk Management Policy, approved by the Board of Directors, and structured the components of the corporate management model, which include: ■■ Incorporation of the risk perspective in the Corporate Strategic Plan with analysis from the point of view of uncertainty; ■■ Creation and implementation of the Corporate Risk Management Committee; ■■ Consolidation and alignment of the risks map; ■■ Risk ownership as a responsibility of the executive directors; ■■ Together with main business areas, risk modeling and development of key risk factors and indicators (KRI) – calculation of impact and probability; ■■ Selection and formalization of the best group of actions to respond to risk (when necessary); ■■ Interaction with the Risk Management Committee, Financial and Investor Relations Executive Division, Board of Executive Officers, Fiscal Council, Board of Directors. Overview – Work Processes (Vertical) 1 2 Idenficaon, Classificaon and Priorizaon Structure • Analysis of strategy • Understanding • Communicaon • Definion of Risk Factors • Risk Map • Definion of Sub-factors (where applicable) • Classificaon • Selecon of best set of indicators (KRI) • Criteria for priorizing development • Nature of risk (quantave, qualitave or hybrid) 3 4 Risk Assessment Monitoring and Reporng • Analysis of historical and projected data • Periodic assessment based on indicators • Calculaon of potenal Impact and Probability • Factor analysis • Establishing scale of scores, indicators and • Discussion with owners qualifying rules • Report to the decision-making spheres • Study of limits (exposure x corporate objecves) • Draing of acons to be addressed 52 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia ■■ Risk Grid – With division into categories (Strategic, Financial, Regulatory and Operational), subcategories (Strategy, Credit, Liquidity, Technology, Environmental, Labor-related, Fiscal, Processes, Personnel, etc.) the risk grid offers an initial overview of the set of events that could affect strategies and operations. Corporate risk is measured by exposure (impact and probability) in accordance with its characteristics (qualitative and quantitative) based on a selection of risk factors and sub-factors (origins of risk) and analysis of historical and projected data and behavioral indicators. The risk grid was initially built from a public risk model designed to be applied to all types of business segments. A process of critical analysis and comparison against the Corporate Strategic Plan (in particular the strategic objectives, and weaknesses and strengths resulting from the SWOT Analysis stage) identified the set of events that could impact short-, mediumand long-term strategies. In 2011, the Risk Management Division concentrated its efforts on the measurement, analysis and labeling of the risks considered most significant (qualitative analysis of impact and probability), chosen from established criteria for prioritization. + 4th... 3rd wave 2nd wave 1st wave 20 6 11 9 28 5 2 12 4 Probability 21 7 10 8 3 29 22 16 1 23 30 14 13 24 15 17 34 25 18 32 19 26 27 31 33 Impact + x Prioritized risks for 2010 and 2011 As it is one of the main components of the corporate risk management model, the risk map requires updating from time to time in order to ensure that it adequately reflects the Company’s operations and the threats posed to its value and stakeholders. Through periodic analysis of strategies, significant changes to processes, and of the business context, the grid is revisited so that it always reflects the best set of uncertainties. Risk owner The process of measurement and analysis includes the involvement of the ‘risk owner’ from the outset, an executive with a broad grasp of the area relating to the risk being measured and best skilled to: 53 CPFL Energia Profile (i) suggest and implement the best set of actions in response to the risk; and (ii) coordinate actions suggested by other executives in response to the risk. Within CPFL Energia’s Corporate Risk Management model, the ‘risk owner’ role requires an executive of at least the level of department head. Risk Committee Following the conclusion of the stage of modeling, measurement, analysis and choice of the best set of responses to corporate risk, the subject is presented to the Risk Committee, formed of a group of executives versed in corporate strategy, economic and financial planning, sector regulations, and risk management and internal controls. Other executives also take part in the Risk Committee as and when required and according to their ability to contribute to the subject being discussed. Measurement and Analysis The process of measurement and analysis begins with an understanding of the risk, identification of the associated risk factors (which are the conditions or events that contribute to risk materialization) and selection of the best set of Key Risk Indicators (KRIs). The following stage covers the gathering and analysis of historical and projected information that explains the behavior of the indicators and the KRIs, as well as the effect of these factors and indicators on forecaste data and scenarios, or in the case of risks with highly qualitative characteristics, the construction of rules and models that differentiate the levels of exposure in terms of impact and probability. Response to the Risk Once exposure to risk has been measured (impact and probability), and has resulted in exposure levels greater than or close to the tolerable limits, actions are selected and defined for bringing them back to acceptable levels in accordance with the profile of the organization and the agreed strategies. This set of actions is monitored on every occasion the risk is assessed in accordance with the established timeframe (monthly, quarterly, half-yearly, annually, etc.) or on the final date for the implementation of corrective actions. Priority Waves 4th 3rd 2nd 1st Risks 10 10 6 8 Key Risk Indicators 0 0 44 66 Action Plans 0 0 10 12 Scope of work for 2010-2011 54 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Corporate Risk Management is applicable to all CPFL Group companies. As a result, the adoption of the aforementioned practices contributed to two companies from the CPFL Group Companhia Paulista de Força e Luz and Rio Grande Energia, distributors in upstate São Paulo and the north of Rio Grande do Sul state, respectively – winning the National Quality Award, granted by the National Quality Foundation to companies with the best management practices. The way in which these processes are conducted meant that, following an audit at the end of 2011, by Bureau Veritas Certification – Brasil, CPFL Energia retained certification of its Quality Management System in accordance with ISO standard 9001:2008, covering the scope “Risk Management and Internal Controls Assessment for Financial Reporting”, obtained in 2010. The Interface between Risk Management and Compliance (Internal Controls) The Risk Management and Compliance operations are concentrated in the same department, thus maximizing the opportunity for interaction between them. It brings synergy and robustness to the control process, given that the results of internal control tests on business processes are variable and this can affect both the perception and the calculation of the probability of risk of deviating from corporate objectives. The same rule applies to actions identified and implemented in the batteries of tests (a minimum of two for the most significant processes). Still in the realm of interfaces, analysis conducted by Risk Management also provides important input for the use of financial, regulatory and strategic planning, as well as the business areas, in their process and operations planning, such as human resources and technical and operating services, for instance. Commitment to risk management At CPFL Energia, the roles and responsibilities of all key executive and decision-making forums include ensuring adequate management and monitoring of corporate risk while conducting business, in line with the Company’s corporate governance documents (CPFL Energia Corporate Bylaws, Internal Charter of the Board of Directors and Internal Charter of the Fiscal Council). Risk Grid versus Materiality Matrix A look at the Materiality Matrix alongside the Risk Grid shows that many of the chosen topics are also covered by the Risk Management and Compliance areas, as well as included in daily management practices and mechanisms. For example, the risk of debt is related to topics: a) economic and financial sustainability, and b) financial health and ability to attract funding, which are listed in the Materiality Matrix as items of high and medium importance, respec55 CPFL Energia Profile tively. These topics are subject to continual monitoring by company management, with defined KRIs and relevant containment actions undertaken by the Corporate Finance Department. The table below illustrates further examples of the correlations with some topics considered of high and medium importance for CPFL’s sustainability, taking into account two axes of the Materiality Matrix (the stakeholder perspective and the company’s internal perspective). Note: There was no topic considered of low importance after the results from the internal (company) and external (stakeholder) perspectives were cross-checked with one another. Topic Risks / Compliance / Management Energy Efficiency Assessment of R&D and Energy Efficiency process controls Economic and financial sustainability Monitoring of debt levels and actions for containment Socio-environmental impacts of Management of environmental practices, certifications and actions to the hydro plants and other energy minimize impacts sources Supplier management and Assessment of controls for the process of supplier accreditation and development monitoring levels of supplier and service provider concentration/ dependence Employee training and development Indicators of development and training, personnel turnover, salary of new managers adjustments, etc. Training and development activities provided by the Corporate University Power supply guarantee Monitoring of indicators of power interruption (duration and frequency), execution and monitoring of investment plan for the distribution network Fighting bribery, fraud and Assessment of internal controls at the entity level (ethical management corruption structures: dissemination and acculturation of the Code of Ethics and Conduct, activities of the Ethics Committee, Whistle Blowing Channel, actions of the Internal Audit, etc.) Mechanisms for identifying and As above solving complaints and conflict Financial health and ability to attract Monitoring of debt level and containment actions funding Remuneration and benefits practice Indicators of remuneration practices and salary agreements, etc. 56 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 3.3.4.2 Operating Risk GRI GRI 1.2 4.11 GRI GRI SO2 EU21 Guidelines for managing the main environmental impacts posed by the operations of CPFL Energia and its subsidiary companies are based on an Environmental Management System and formal documents. They include, in particular, procedures relating to the environment, illegal consumption and hydrological risks, which provide a control framework for activities and supply guidance on operating processes for electricity distribution and generation. These processes adhere to the requirements of the respective environmental certifications in force and meet environmental legislation standards. Environment Detailed environmental impact studies are prepared for each of CPFL Energia’s new projects at the planning stage and the Company supervises the environmental programs at the implementation and operation stages. This enables it to comply with all issues raised in connection with the environmental licensing of its projects ensuring that impacts are mitigated or compensated at both implementation and commercial operation stages. The operating procedures to be followed in case of emergency at any of CPFL Energia’s hydroelectric plants are described in its technical guidelines. This document is designed to safeguard CPFL’s assets and those of third parties located downstream from its hydroelectric plants, thus helping to avoid or reduce any possible environmental impact in the spheres of influence of its generating assets. The document also seeks to provide the organizational, administrative and operational flexibility needed to mobilize the necessary resources for successfully dealing with exceptional situations and to facilitate contact between the plant’s operating units. Additionally, it ensures proper communication with the public bodies and organizations responsible for protecting people and property. 57 CPFL Energia Profile Illegal consumption CPFL Energia’s subsidiaries detect irregularities in electricity meter reading via a management system that permits targeting of consumers for inspection by specialized teams. In cases where the illegality is confirmed as fraudulent, the consumer is billed for the relevant amount, with repayment in installments allowed. This procedure ensures that CPFL Energia treats all customers equally, as the consumer is only held responsible for electricity actually consumed. Hydrological Risks – Environmental Permitting Regulations (EPR) In order to create a balance between energy supply and demand, Brazilian electric sector regulations incorporate the assured energy concept, establishing a production control equation for each generating source. The objective is to avoid the hydrological risks inherent in hydroelectric generation. With this concept, power generation revenue is calculated according to the volume of power supply each plant will have to offer, and not simply on the basis of installed capacity or volume of power actually generated. The government authorizing organ stipulates a plant’s assured energy at the concession or authorization stage and this is enshrined in an energy commercialization certificate – irrespective of the volume of power actually generated – and determined by the National Electricity System Operator (ONS) based on systemic conditions. Therefore, if a hydro plant is generating electricity below its Assured Energy level, other plants in the system can release their excess to offset the shortfall. However, a plant that generates in excess of its assured energy will only receive additional revenue to cover its related costs. 58 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 3.3.4.3 Prevention of financial risk GRI GRI 1.2 4.11 GRI SO2 The Compliance Unit is responsible for controlling the risks implicit in drafting and disseminating financial statements using the systemic analysis of relevant processes. It also reports to the Risk Management, Internal Controls and Consolidated Processes Department. As part of its role, the unit conducts an annual evaluation of the effectiveness of its internal controls structure for the business processes which significantly impact financial reporting, so as to ensure the material integrity of its account entries. CPFL Energia’s assessment of its internal controls structure is based on the integrated COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations) model, an internationally accepted standard that takes two aspects into account: ■■ Entity level corporate controls that relate to the characteristics of the organization such as the Code of Ethics, Strategic Planning and Information Technology; ■■ Process level controls, linked to relevant accounting entries in financial reporting. Examples include revenue from electricity supply and judicial deposits, among others. In 2011, CPFL Energia’s assessments of its internal controls following the COSO standard covered 645 activities, divided into 133 business processes. As a corporation listed on both BM&FBovespa and the New York Stock Exchange, CPFL Energia is subject to the applicable capital markets legislation of both countries. For this reason, its internal control assessment guidelines are aligned to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, covering the principal business processes of the holding company and its subsidiaries, particularly focusing on financial reports. This set of guidelines also adheres to the requirements of Instruction 480 published by the CVM in December 2009, concerning assessment of the internal controls environment in relation to financial reporting. 59 CPFL Energia Profile The CPFL Group’s compliance practices also include the control selfassessment concept, which involves all the Company’s executives, from managers to the holding company CEO, in the assessment and correction of internal controls on financial statements. The aim of this is to allot due responsibility to these executives for the CPFL Energia Group’s internal controls structure. INSTRUMENTS USED All certification of internal controls covering financial statements is conducted through the SAP GRC (Process Control module), a system which unites the whole hierarchical chain of processes, internal controls and organizational units, and includes defined responsibilities for all employees involved in the assessment process. In order to centralize financial risk management in its operations and cash flow control, CPFL Energia uses some of the main instruments available in the market. They include the Grid Risk system, also used by some of the largest organizations in the Brazilian financial market. This model is used to manage financial risk through ALM (Asset and Liability Management) which, by means of VAR (Value at Risk) calculations, Stress Testing and Duration Analysis of the asset and liability portfolios of the CPFL Energia Group companies, establishes the level of financial risk for each transaction and implements methods for neutralizing or protecting against such risks. 60 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 3.3.4.4. Exchange rate and interest rate risks on other liabilities GRI GRI 1.2 4.11 GRI SO2 Some of CPFL Energia’s power purchasing agreements are indexed to the US dollar and therefore subject to exchange rate fluctuation. The Company manages this risk by monitoring the agreements entered into by its subsidiary companies. The distribution companies are obliged by law to acquire energy from the Itaipu plant, with purchase costs fixed in US dollars. All distribution companies have the right to seek financial protection from currency losses through the CVA Parcel A Tracking Account Mechanism by resolution of the National Electric Energy Agency (ANEEL). This compensates companies for currency losses on energy purchases through the adjustment of electricity tariffs. CURRENCY RISK ON FINANCIAL LIABILITIES The CPFL Group protects its earnings and cash against fluctuations in the US dollar exchange rate through hedge transactions. This allows the Company’s financial debt to be always indexed to Brazilian domestic indices. The holding company ended 2011 with no foreign currency debts. FINANCIAL COVENANTS CPFL Group companies’ loan agreements, financing contracts and debentures carry restrictive financial covenants usual in this type of transaction, typically relating to fulfilling certain economic and financial ratios, cash generation, and others. These clauses do not represent any kind of restriction on the Company’s ability to conduct its normal business activities. CREDIT The risk of loss through inability to collect from customers is low given the dispersed nature of the customer base as well as the company policy on collection and disconnection in the event of non-payment. 61 CPFL Energia Profile 3.3.4.5. Planning for energy purchases GRI GRI 1.2 4.11 GRI SO2 CPFL Energia’s subsidiary companies apply a series of solutions and strategies to minimize the risk of losses and legal penalties. These measures also offer further possibilities for adding value to the businesses against the backdrop of the challenges presented by the Electric Sector New Institutional Model, particularly those linked to the purchase of energy in the captive market. The CPFL Energia Group’s distribution companies have constructed mathematical stochastic optimization models to: ■■ minimize the risk of loss through over-contracting energy needs and the penalties for under-contracting, reflecting the intrinsic uncertainties in the obligatory five-year consumer market projections made by distributors; ■■ reduce the total cost of energy purchases; ■■ develop the best strategies for acquiring energy in regulated energy market auctions, based on a range of projected demand scenarios which are calculated from sector and macroeconomic variables affecting electricity demand. 62 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 3.3.4.6. Internal Audit GRI GRI 1.2 4.11 GRI SO2 The Internal Audit, which reports to the Board of Directors, uses a risk-based methodology to evaluate the main business and operating processes. It aims to ensure alignment between corporate guidelines and shareholder and management strategies. Another function of the Internal Audit is to stimulate development and improvement in corporate processes, risk control and the Company’s results. Their work involves evaluating the following: ■■ suitability and efficacy of operations; ■■ economic efficiency in the use of resources; ■■ integrity and reliability of information, registers and systems; ■■ adherence to policies, objectives, plans and procedures; ■■ compliance with applicable laws, norms and regulations. 63 CPFL Energia Profile 3.3.4.7. Private pension plan GRI GRI 1.2 4.11 GRI SO2 The CPFL Group uses specific tools to mitigate any risks of deficits in the employee pension plans managed by the CESP Foundation. Management of these risks is fundamental to the plans’ financial equilibrium and to ensuring employee security and peace of mind. The Investments and Pension Management Committees monitor management of the pension plans. They are made up of representatives from the Finance Division and other areas of the Company, as well as plan members and beneficiaries. It is the Committees’ responsibility to decide and analyze investment policy for the pension plans, CESP Foundation investment recommendations and overall management of the plans. Results of the committees’ work are published monthly and the Management Committees and the CESP Foundation team meet quarterly to review strategies and limits. 64 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 3.3.4.8. Insurance Management GRI GRI 1.2 4.11 GRI SO2 CPFL Energia has established guidelines for the management of insurance policies which define measures needed to protect company assets from the risk of accidental losses that might undermine returns. The company area responsible for Corporate Insurance and Guarantees, led by an insurance specialist, manages the insurance administration guidelines. 65 CPFL Energia Profile 3.3.4.9. Information Technology Security GRI GRI 1.2 4.11 GRI SO2 The safety of its IT resources and systems is a constant concern for CPFL Energia. To mitigate the risks resulting from possible equipment outages, the Group has been making significant investments in redundancy solutions, resulting in greater systems uptime. The Company’s good IT management procedures ensure absolute customer privacy as well as the confidentiality of financial information processed by, and stored in, corporate IT systems. To avoid the risks associated with processing and information assets, all IT processes are documented and covered by formal internal controls. In addition to this, they are hosted in a Data Center (Smart Shelter) level 3, with an Information Safety Management system certified in line with the ISO 27001 standard. Efficient and safe use of the internet and its connections is guaranteed by permanently updated virus detection and protection programs. 66 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 3.3.4.10. Regulatory issues GRI GRI 1.2 4.11 GRI SO2 The mitigation of regulatory risk is one of the CPFL Energia Group’s strategic guidelines. Power distribution and generation concessions are required to adhere to a series of obligations established in their concession agreements and as part of the sector’s regulatory framework and are subject to ongoing inspection by ANEEL and by related agencies run by the individual states in the federation. In order to mitigate regulatory risk, the control system at each of the concessions is backed by structured procedures and by support systems such as the Regulatory Management System (RMS) for monitoring and controlling the entire regulatory process. The commercialization of electricity takes place in the free market and is not therefore required to follow regulated market rules, although it is authorized and subject to inspection by the regulatory bodies. The only exception is in cases of operations involving related parties, which must have the prior approval of ANEEL, a rule that is rigorously observed. In view of CPFL Energia’s corporate structure and the regulatory discipline, efficient risk control in this environment provides an integrated picture of all interrelated elements, especially those of an economic and financial nature, in order to guarantee conformity of all operations. 67 CPFL Energia Profile 3.3.5. Intangible assets A group of assets that add value to the businesses and which allow effective identification, legal existence, the right of ownership, specification of useful life and transferability. The economic value of a company is not reflected just by its tangible assets. The weight of the intangible elements including assets such as intellectual capital, brand and patents, has an increasingly growing importance, directly enhancing the company’s ability to retain its competitive advantage and, as a result, create value. These unique assets are nowadays viewed as means for companies to differentiate themselves from competitors and achieve a superior financial performance. Aware of this potential role in income generation, CPFL Energia makes efforts to instill all the required conditions for their identification, protection and development. Among these intangible assets to be nurtured, human talent stands out. CPFL understands that the attraction and retention of qualified and engaged professionals contributes toward the Company’s strength and the execution of its growth strategies. In view of this, it always seeks to employ the best personnel management practices and offer ongoing training and education for its workforce. This includes the Corporate University, which since 2008 has been aligning learning with strategy and business goals, and offers qualifications and necessary skills training to all levels of employee. Intangible assets, which CPFL currently classifies as brand, human resources, intellectual property and infrastructure, are maintained for the Company’s use and ownership through established norms and procedures besides labor registration and instructions, policies, information systems and care for library assets. The Intellectual Property Rights Policy, for instance, ensures the protection of intangible assets and prohibits the commercialization and/ or disclosure of these projects or inventions by any employee without appropriate authority. Those responsible for the projects, the Special Projects Division (SPD), and the Legal Department are accountable for establishing and examining copyrights and patents. Intangible assets are a source of constant discussion on the part of CPFL, given their importance. The key strengths and weaknesses of the 68 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Company’s intangible assets are identified during the annual strategic planning cycle, which provides opportunities for improvement and for alignment with the new challenges set by the Company’s strategic direction. An example of this is the work that has been carried out in developing and strengthening the CPFL brand. In December 2008 a new brand positioning was created, to reflect its revised strategic foundations (Vision, Mission and Principles). The following year, the brand manual and language guidebook were launched. This culminated in October 2010, when the brand gained a voice through the “Much more than energy” advertising campaign, which ran nationwide for three months on TV channels (open, pay and in-flight), weekly magazines and the internet, including a version for the iPad. The campaign aim was to show the purpose of CPFL Energia’s existence beyond its areas of activity, increasing the knowledge of the Group among its numerous stakeholders and contributing to growth strategy. IDENTIFICATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS ASSETS CHARACTERISTICS EVALUATION METHODS CPFL Energia Brand • Tradition and strength of the CPFL Energia • Evaluation performed by a specialized brand consultancy • Business portfolio with participation in • Monitoring of positive media coverage three segments of the electricity sector • Annual image survey • Solid customer base and attractive • Monitoring of market and customer base markets Human Resources • Know-how and skills related to strategic • Performance management system – abilities Personal Value • High levels of productivity and motivation • Company Performance Intellectual Property • Patents • Number and value of patents, and validity Rights Infrastructure • Technologies developed for CPFL’s specific • The value added calculation takes use into account at least the expenditure of • Customized information systems with resources for installing information systems CPFL parameters and technology CCS: commercial operations support platform for customer service, billing, collection, charging and management of meter assets GISD: Integrated geo-referenced platform with data on electricity assets, to support the planning, engineering, design, operation and distribution maintenance operations 69 CPFL Energia Profile 3.3.6. Quality GRI EN14 Excellence in the provision of services to residential, commercial and industrial customers is not just a proposal on the part of CPFL Energia. Rather, it is in the corporate DNA, and demonstrated by the standardization of its excellence criteria for Group companies through the Integrated Management System (IMS). This model covers standardization and certification of the major work processes in these areas: quality (ISO 9001), environment (ISO 14001), occupational health and safety (OHSAS 18001), social responsibility (SA 8000) and information security (ISO 27001). The IMS has currently been installed at CPFL Paulista, CPFL Piratininga, CPFL Geração and RGE. It is subject to ongoing monitoring through periodic audits conducted by external organizations, which allows any necessary improvements to be implemented in an efficient manner, and contributes to improvements in operating efficiency and increased synergy. It is CPFL Energia’s view that certifications of process quality provide transparency to the high quality of its service provision. 2011 Highlights Subsidiaries CPFL Paulista and RGE received the National Quality Award (Prêmio Nacional da Qualidade® PNQ) 2011, from the National Quality Foundation (FNQ). With this distinction, CPFL Energia was the first company to win the PNQ for three consecutive years (2005, 2008 and 2011). 70 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia PNQ The Management Excellence Model (MEM) has been implemented at the CPFL Paulista, CPFL Piratininga and RGE distribution companies. In 2011, maintenance procedures on the 6 Sigma strategy were carried out at CPFL Paulista, CPFL Piratininga, CPFL Brasil, CPFL Geração and RGE. The 6 Sigma strategy is a methodology that allows identification of opportunities for improvement and reduction of losses in work processes. A full list of subsidiary companies and their respective process certifications can be found on our website www.cpfl.com.br. certifications CPFL PAULISTA CERTIFICATION ACTIVITY ISO 9001, OHSAS Electricity distribution and commercialization 18001 and SA 8000 ISO 9001 Electricity consumer call center service ISO 9001 Electricity transmission systems operations ISO 9001 Compiling of information, processing and calculation of technical and commercial indicators of electricity supply quality ISO 9001 Handling electricity customer complaints ISO 14001 Coexistence between urban electricity distribution networks, the environment and electricity transmission services 71 CPFL Energia Profile CPFL PIRATININGA CERTIFICATION ACTIVITY ISO 9001, OHSAS Electricity distribution and commercialization 18001 and SA 8000 ISO 9001 Compiling of information, processing and calculation of technical and commercial indicators of electricity supply quality ISO 9001 Handling electricity customer complaints ISO 14001 Coexistence between urban electricity distribution networks, the environment and electricity transmission services CPFL GERAÇÃO CERTIFICATION ACTIVITY ISO 9001, ISO 14001, Hydraulic power generation OHSAS 18001 and SA 8000 ISO 9001 Operation of the electricity generation system CPFL BRASIL CERTIFICATION ACTIVITY ISO 9001 Project design, development and commercialization of added-value electricity services CPFL RGE CERTIFICATION ACTIVITY ISO 9001, OHSAS Electricity distribution and commercialization 18001 and SA 8000 ISO 9001 Electricity consumer call center service ISO 9001 Electricity transmission systems operations ISO 9001 Compiling of information, processing and calculation of technical and commercial indicators of electricity supply quality ISO 9001 Handling of electricity customer complaints ISO 14001 Coexistence between urban electricity distribution networks and the environment ISO 14001 Electricity sub-transmission services CPFL SANTA CRUZ CERTIFICATION ACTIVITY ISO 9001 Data analysis and calculation of electricity distribution performance technical indicators and handling electricity customer complaints ISO 9001 Handling electricity customer complaints CPFL LESTE PAULISTA CERTIFICATION ACTIVITY ISO 9001 Electricity distribution and commercialization ISO 9001 Compiling, consolidation and submission of electricity supply quality technical indicators, as established by ANEEL ISO 9001 Handling electricity customer complaints 72 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia CPFL JAGUARI CERTIFICATION ACTIVITY ISO 9001 Electricity distribution and commercialization ISO 9001 Compiling, consolidation and submission of electricity supply quality technical indicators, as established by ANEEL ISO 9001 Answering electricity customer complaints CPFL SUL PAULISTA CERTIFICATION ACTIVITY ISO 9001 Electricity distribution and commercialization ISO 9001 Compiling, consolidation and submission of electricity supply quality technical indicators, as established by ANEEL ISO 9001 Handling electricity customer complaints CPFL MOCOCA CERTIFICATION ACTIVITY ISO 9001 Electricity distribution and commercialization ISO 9001 Compiling, consolidation and submission of electricity supply quality technical indicators, as established by ANEEL ISO 9001 Handling electricity customer complaints CPFL ENERGIA CERTIFICATION ACTIVITY ISO 9001 Risk management and assessment of internal controls for Financial Reporting ISO 9001 CPFL Energia’s Data Center information security management system, including infrastructure control, operation, monitoring and maintenance services, located at Rodovia Campinas, Mogi Mirim, km 2,5 – Campinas (SP) 73 CPFL Energia Profile 3.4. Corporate Strategy Strategic Planning GRI GRI 1.1 EC2 CPFL Energia’s ambition for its 2012-2016 cycle is to pursue the leadership of the Brazilian electric sector. This is the period covered by the 2011 strategic plan prepared over a period of four months, involving executives and employees from all business areas for establishing an action plan of value creation for the Company. CPFL Energia’s Strategic Plan covers five-year periods. Its development process, which includes the active participation of the workforce, begins with an assessment of future scenarios and trends. After this stage, their impact on business is considered, followed by the formulation of strategic guidelines and initiatives to direct the Company’s activities over the following five years. At the end of the process, the planning output is validated and aligned with the Board of Directors. Despite covering five-year periods, it is reviewed annually to allow for adjustments in line with any market movements and/or opportunities. In order to achieve its stated ambition for the 2012-2016 cycle of being leader in the electric sector, CPFL’s strategy will focus on excellence, maximizing shareholder value and guaranteeing business sustainability. To ensure that these guidelines trickle down to all the Group’s businesses and departments, there will be a business focus on two performance areas, supported by corporate enablers: ■■ Operating excellence, with innovation and technology; ■■ Strategic growth. 74 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia To lead in the Brazilian electric sector with a focus What? on excellence, maximizing shareholder value and Ambions guaranteeing business sustainability Operang excellence How? Strategic with innovaon and Levers growth technology Enabler Transformaon of culture and leadership style All business areas are aligned and engaged with this ambition, and this is confirmed in the established guidelines and goals for each segment: Distribution ■■ Market leadership, doubling market share through acquisitions with value creation; ■■ Operating excellence, with the use of innovation and new technologies. Generation ■■ Operating excellence in project operations; ■■ Monitoring of new opportunities in hydro and thermoelectric power plants. Renewables ■■ Leadership in renewable sources, delivering the CPFL Renováveis pipeline; ■■ Operating excellence in project operations; ■■ Monitoring and development of future potential sources: solar and waste-to-energy. Commercialization ■■ Commercialization market leadership; ■■ Market leader for commercializing energy from renewable sources on the free market. Services ■■ Growth in the provision of competitive services; ■■ Integration with other Group businesses. 75 CPFL Energia Profile These guidelines, along with details of actions planned for the coming years, are communicated to all employees through a specific portal on the CPFL Energia Intranet. This was specifically designed in blog format to promote the participation of all and to retain the open dialog approach of the strategic plans development phase. Through the blog, employees can therefore settle any doubts and comment, criticize or make suggestions on the established strategies. 76 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 3.4.1. Innovation GRI GRI EC2 EN18 GRI GRI SO1 EU8 For CPFL Energia, investing in research and development is a way of generating operational, economic, social and environmental benefits that create value for both the Company and its stakeholders. For this reason, the Group’s distribution companies made investments throughout 2011 in numerous research and development projects in the areas of alternative sources, environment, electric system operations and energy efficiency, as shown in the table below. INVESTMENTS IN TECHNOLOGICAL AND SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH & 2011 DEVELOPMENT (R$ THOUSAND)* Energy Efficiency (A) 1,474.85 Alternative or Renewable sources (B) 0.00 Environment (C) 12,241.07 Quality and reliability (D) 4,187.79 Planning and operations (E) 6,090.88 Supervision, control and protection (F) 1,133.98 Measurement (G) 1,359.38 Data transmission via the electric network (H) 0.00 New materials and components (I) 4,846.76 Development of new technologies to combat fraud and theft (J) 0.00 Total investments in R&D (K) 31,334.71 *According to the R&D Manual – ANEEL. *According to the R&D Manual – ANEEL. Among the current initiatives, highlights include a pilot plant for solar energy generation (1MW), and a pilot project for electric and distributed generation vehicles. Sustainable building (greenbuilding) techniques have also been developed, as well as a project for energy generation through the plasma gasification of urban waste. The projects are financed by the companies in question and in line with sector regulations, which require a proportion of net operating revenue to be spent on actions aimed at, for example, improved energy quality, increased energy efficiency or environmental preservation. 77 CPFL Energia Profile 3.4.2. CPFL Transformation Program The Company’s ambition to be leader in the Brazilian electric sector, as defined in its 2012-2016 strategic planning cycle, has brought with it the need to adapt its management model in readiness for the Company to meet future challenges. For this reason, the Transformation Program began in 2011. It aims to bring CPFL up to date on three dimensions: ■■ Organizational structure review ■■ Adapting decision-making forums and internal governance mechanisms ■■ Behavioral change The program seeks a structural change in order to ensure greater focus on the operations of each of the businesses and to encourage greater collaboration and co-operation among the different areas of the Group’s companies. At the same time, there will be a reorganization of CPFL’s institutional relationship functions. These combined initiatives will provide a solid base for supporting growth projected for the coming years. This new approach is reflected in a new executive structure made up of the CEO’s office and five Executive Divisions: ■■ Administrative Division ■■ Business Development Division ■■ Financial and Investor Relations Division ■■ Institutional Division ■■ Operations Division The decision-making and internal governance bodies were also subjected to review, giving them greater autonomy and efficiency, as well as greater responsibility in decision-making. Limits of authority were reviewed and executive committees created to provide support to management departments. 78 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia The Transformation Program also sets out a range of activities and instruments to work on behavioral themes, which are considered fundamentally important to the Group’s future. The aim is therefore to encourage innovation, collaboration, meritocracy, responsibility, autonomy and talent management. 79 CPFL Energia Profile 3.4.3. CPFL Renováveis One of CPFL Energia’s main ambitions is to consolidate its leadership of the Brazilian electric sector and CPFL Renováveis, constituted in 2011, is one of the levers for achieving this goal. Created from a joint venture between CPFL Energia and ERSA, CPFL Renováveis is pursuing a growth strategy based on acquisition and the development of projects at their different stages. In all its projects it employs the discipline of technical and financial assessment based on sustainability, one of CPFL’s established principles, so as to maximize shareholder value creation. CPFL Renováveis develops opportunities in the Brazilian market for electric energy generation from renewable sources, operating in harmony with the environment and society. Its activities are focused on the development, construction and operation of a portfolio of smalland medium-scale projects, from 30 MW to 50 MW respectively, such as Small Hydro Plants (SHPs) and wind farms or biomass-powered plants. CPFL Renováveis also actively monitors sources with future potential, such as solar and waste-to-energy. In the coming years, CPFL Renováveis’ installed capacity will reach 4,438 MW. This total includes the power currently generated by 34 SHPs, 8 wind farms and 3 TPPs, as well as the capacity of projects currently under construction, including 1 SHP, 25 wind farms and 4 TPPs, and others at the preparation and development stage, together ramping up the Company’s portfolio by 2,743 MW. CPFL Renováveis aims to contribute to a maturing of Brazil’s clean energy market. The company is capitalized, which, when added to its solid shareholder structure and a recognized investment history, means that it is ready to take advantage of the growth opportunities that will arise in the Brazilian electric sector. At the end of 2011, CPFL Renováveis had a payroll of over 200. The team’s main activities include the optimization of engineering projects and overseeing the environmental licensing process, in addition to 80 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia contracting and managing suppliers and service providers for the installation of electricity generation projects. The company has been investing in the dissemination of inter-departmental knowledge through in-house training sessions. These programs create greater integration among employees as well as a dynamic environment for the exchange of information. 81 CPFL Energia Profile 3.5. Operations Macroeconomic Environment Following the worldwide economic recovery of 2010, the year of 2011 was marked by increased in market instability and volatility. Contrary to what had been expected at the outset of the year, the forces driving the world economic slowdown were not merely the result of unforeseen events, such as the effects of the Japanese earthquake on the supply of industrial input, climatic occurrences that affected food supply, or tensions in the Middle East. Of course these factors influenced the world economy, but rather it was structural factors that brought to the fore significant weaknesses in mature economies and which were responsible for a rise in the perception of risk and a decline in international confidence. A part of this instability arose from political deadlock in the US Congress over the approval of plans to raise the federal debt ceiling. This struggle exposed the partisan nature of the political scenario and the Obama government’s challenges in implementing new fiscal stimulus measures. In the base scenario, US economic growth in the medium term is likely to be below its potential. The other source of uncertainty was the deepening of the European financial crisis, particularly the sovereign debt problem of the Eurozone’s periphery countries, the PIIGS, as well as the absence of political leadership in making the necessary decisions. As a result of these factors, Europe is likely to experience a moderate recession from the end of 2011 until mid-2012. Notwithstanding, extreme events such as a run on the banks should be avoided. It is expected that the current crisis will gradually dissipate, with the resumption of more normal activities in the second half of 2012. As for emerging market economies, it is expected that they will experience a period of deceleration as a result of uncertainty and the low growth of global demand. However, decompression of commodity prices should relieve inflationary pressures and create opportunities for the renewed use of macroeconomic measures to stimulate economic activity. It should be noted that these economies, which include China and Brazil, are experiencing an investment cycle based on expectations of expansion in 82 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia their domestic markets, which should contribute to a recovery in growth. As a result, the final months of 2011 gave rise to a scenario that is likely to continue into 2012. Although the US economy should show restrained growth in 2012, it is unlikely to experience the same degree of recession in 2008, thanks to congressional approval of anti-cyclical fiscal measures. It is estimated that the USA’s GDP growth will be 1.7% in 2011 and 1.6% in 2012. For Europe though, the outlook is less optimistic, with an expected GDP expansion of 1.6% in 2011 and -0.2% for 2012. Meanwhile, the emerging markets are likely to experience deceleration in the short term, but at a slower rate than the mature economies, given their stronger fiscal indicators, with an outlook for reduced inflation and domestic demand still strong. In summary, this should also be the scenario for the Brazilian economy. It is estimated that the country’s GDP growth rate will vary from 7.5% in 2010, to 2.8% in 2011 and 3.1% in 2012. It should be noted that the deceleration in growth from 2010 to 2011 is not only the result of the increasing uncertainty surrounding a renewed worsening of the international crisis, but also the cumulative and lag effect before the kick-in of government measures (high interest rates, macro-prudential measures, greater control of public spending) adopted over the course of 2010 to reduce inflationary pressure, as well as a weak Brazilian industrial performance (given the strength of the Real and the increased market share of imported products). The outlook for domestic consumption remains positive for 2011 and 2012 as a result of the continuing cycle of investment, increased income levels (with low unemployment) and continued upward social mobility (the ascendency of the Class C social grouping in Brazil), a process that began several years ago. REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT For the distribution segment, 2011 was marked by the finalization of the methodology for the third tariff review cycle, which began with the review of COELCE (state of Ceará) in April 2012, and which will conclude with the review of AMPLA in March 2014. As the methodology was only approved in November 2011, existing tariffs for distribution companies with reviews scheduled for 2011 and the beginning of 2012 were extended. Other proposals put forward in public hearings also had a direct impact on the third tariff review cycle process: (i) Public Hearing 052/2009, concerning the methodology and composition of the modules for the distribution companies to define their price lists and on this basis, calculate the regulatory asset base (underway); (ii) Public Hear83 CPFL Energia Profile ing 120/2010, which proposed changes to the tariff structure applied to the distribution companies (concluded in November 2011); (iii) Public Hearing 121/2010, proposing a review of the useful life of the distributors’ assets and facilities (underway); (iv) Public Hearing 025/2011, proposing a review of the methodology for calculating technical losses (concluded in December 2011); (v) Public Hearing 067/2011, establishing the procedures to be provisionally adopted for the tariff review processes until the ratification of the applicable methodology. In the generation segment, the main regulatory highlights of the year were: (i) approval of the Forest Code with the inclusion of recommendations from the generating companies; (ii) Bill PL 4404 which increases the capacity of the SHPs from 30 MW to 50 MW, and establishes subsidies in usage tariffs for APEs (self-producers) of up to 30 MW; (iii) discussion in the Federal Congress Lower Chamber on the collection of royalties by municipalities where wind farms are being installed; (iv) discussions on expansion of the free market; and (v) publication of ANEEL Resolution 467/2011 which regulates Article 20 of Law 10.848/2004, permitting a change in the system for running public utility concession plants, the result of a deverticalization process, for independent power generation through a payment of 2.5% for leasing public property (Uso do Bem Público – UBP) for up to five years; (vi) sector discussion in Special Committee to deal with concession renewal, culminating in the Federal Audit Court’s (TCU) action against the Government, requiring the legislative position and definition as to either a simple renewal of the concession or making such subject to a tender bidding process; (vii) initial discussions on the need to construct floodgates; (viii) authorization to change fuel used to fire TPPs; (ix) publication of MP 517/10, extending RGR (Global Reversal Reserve) until 2035; (x) initiation of public hearing on the implementation of incentivized miniand micro-generation; (xi) the holding of reserve (LER) and alternative source (LFA) energy auctions, as per availability; (xii) regulation of the criteria for including SHPs in the planning and price determination computer modeling processes; (xiii) improvements to the method for applying the tariff for use of the system (TUSDg) by power plants, establishing the methodology for calculating the TUSDg for gencos taking part in the new energy auction in the Regulated Contracting Environment (ACR); (xiv) regulation for energy assignment and support between biomass-fueled TPPs under CCEAR agreements and the applicable penalties; (xv) exclusion of plants connected to the distribution system and other transmission facilities (DIT) from the apportionment of the Basic Network’s electrical losses. 84 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia ELECTRICITY TARIFFS AND PRICES Distribution segment 2011 Annual Tariff Adjustment – ANEEL approved the annual Tariff Readjustment Rate (TRR) for 2011 for seven of the Group’s distribution companies as follows: Tariff CPFL CPFL LESTE CPFL CPFL SUL CPFL CPFL RGE Readjustment SANTA PAULISTA JAGUARI PAULISTA MOCOCA PAULISTA Rate (TRR) CRUZ Applicableasfrom 02/03/2011 02/03/2011 02/03/2011 02/03/2011 02/03/2011 04/08/2011 06/19/2011 Economic TAR 8.01% 6.42% 5.22% 6.57% 6.84% 6.11% 8.58% Financial 15.61% 1.34% 0.25% 1.45% 2.66% 1.26% 8.63% Components Total TRR 23.61% 7.76% 5.47% 8.02% 9.50% 7.38% 17.21% The tariff review for CPFL Piratininga was due in October 2011, but as the methodology for the third cycle review was not approved in time, its existing tariffs were extended. The decision on when the review will occur in 2012 depends on the results of the Public Hearing. The proposal is that it should take place concomitantly with the annual TRR for 2012, in other words in October. Generation Segment The generators’ energy sales agreements contain specific tariff adjustment clauses, with the main annual adjustment indexer being the IGP-M (General Market Price Index). Agreements signed within the Regulated Contracting Environment (ACR) are indexed against the IPCA while bilateral agreements signed with ENERCAN use a combination of the US dollar/ Real exchange rate and the IGP-M inflation index. 85 CPFL Energia Profile 3.5.1. GRI GRI 2.1 2.2 Distribution GRI GRI 2.3 2.5 GRI GRI 2.7 2.8 GRI GRI Profile of the distribution business 3.8 EU3 CPFL Energia’s operations in this segment consist of eight concessionaire distribution companies located in the states of São Paulo, Minas Gerais, Paraná and Rio Grande do Sul, together serving 6.9 million customers across 569 municipalities. AREAS OF OPERATION DISTRIBUTION 86 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia OPERATIONS IN THE STATES OF SÃO PAULO, RIO GRANDE DO SUL, PARANÁ AND MINAS GERAIS 2008 2009 2010 2011 Municipalities served 568 569 569 569 Area of operation (Km ) 2 208,342 208,421 208,421 208,421 Population served (million)* 18.7 18.7 17.8 17.9 Customers (million) 6.4 6.6 6.7 6.9 Market share (%) 13.3 12.7 13.0 13.0 Energy Sales (GWh)** 37,323 37,821 39,250 39,917 ELECTRIC ENERGY BUSINESS SUMMARY Main Results 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 ENERGY Number of customers 5,914 6,256 6,426 6,567 6,747 6,952 BUSINESS (thousands) CONSOLIDATED Energy sales (captive + 41,112 44,196 46,227 51,090 51,512¹ 52,090¹ free/generation – exGroup) (GWh)* Sales in the concession 41,363 46,475 49,033 48,568 52,044 54,590 area (GWh) Captive Market 31,778 35,245 37,323 37,821 39,250 39,917 TUDS 9,585 11,230 11,710 10,747 12,794 14,674 Sales to the free market 9,334 8,951 8,904 13,269 12,262¹ 12,173¹ (GWh)* Municipalities served 550 568 568 569 569 569 Gross Operating Revenue 11,253 12,980 12,820 14,704 15,864 16,965 (R$ million) EBITDA (R$ million) 2,011 2,472 1,911 2,343 2,267 2,340 Net Income (R$ million) 1,073 926 1,045 1,300 1,309 1,250 RGE data published in 2006 covers total results. Those shown here represent CPFL Energia’s share in RGE, which stood at 67.07% in May 2006, later rising to 99.76%. *Excludes sales to related parties and CCEE. Includes FURNAS (SEMESA) and other generation sales, outside the Group. Includes 65% of CERAN. Financial statements for 2009 and 2010 are presented in line with the new Brazilian accounting standards, wholly adapted to the guidelines of the Brazilian Accounting Pronouncements Committee (CPC) applicable to the operations of the CPFL Group companies, which are consistent with IFRS international accounting practices. Information from 2006 and 2007 has been reclassified as a consequence of Brazilian Law 11.638/07. ¹ Includes 65% of CERAN, 54.5% of CPFL Renováveis between Aug-Nov 2011 and 63% in Dec 2011. Does not include EPASA sales (availability contract). Excludes CCEE and sales to related parties. * Source: 2008 and 2009 IBGE (estimated) /2010 IBGE Census ** Covers the captive market. 87 CPFL Energia Profile CPFL Energia distribution companies Main Results 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of customers 3,332 3,415 3,500 3,566 3,660 3,768 (thousands) Energy sales (GWh) 23,065 24,437 25,288 25,267 26,988 28,326 Captive Market 18,295 18,868 19,544 19,977 20,649 21,008 TUDS 4,770 5,569 5,743 5,290 6,339 7,318 Municipalities Served 234 234 234 234 234 234 Gross Operating Revenue 6,298 6,868 6,677 7,711 8,115 8,592 (R$ million) EBITDA (R$ million) 1,179 1,419 1,010 1,293 1,119 1,099 Net Income (R$ million) 765 819 590 750 696 613 Information from 2006 and 2007 has been reclassified as a consequence of Brazilian Law 11.638/07. Main Results 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of customers 1,294 1,330 1,366 1,401 1,439 1,482 (thousands) Energy sales (GWh) 12,171 12,803 13,322 13,004 14,114 14,690 Captive Market 7,743 8,015 8,398 8,539 8,931 9,041 TUDS 4,428 4,788 4,924 4,465 5,183 5,649 Municipalities Served 27 27 27 27 27 27 Gross Operating Revenue 2,891 3,175 2,907 3,315 3,721 3,955 (R$ million) EBITDA (R$ million) 567 563 404 485 531 571 Net Income (R$ million) 307 323 222 274 302 308 Information from 2006 and 2007 has been reclassified as a consequence of Brazilian Law 11.638/07. Main Results 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of customers 165 170 174 177 180 186 (thousands) Energy sales (GWh) 778 829 859 884 937 988 Captive Market 767 810 838 862 918 967 TUDS 11 18 21 22 19 21 Municipalities Served 27 27 27 27 27 27 Gross Operating Revenue 253 274 266 297 331 390 (R$ million) EBITDA (R$ million) 40 51 47 58 34 60 Net Income (R$ million) 22 38 29 35 18 31 *In November 2005, the generation business was spun off, impacting EBITDA and net income for 2006. Information from 2006 and 2007 has been reclassified as a consequence of Brazilian Law 11.638/07. 88 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Main Results 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of customers 1,123 1,160 1,199 1,233 1,272 1,314 (thousands) Energy sales (GWh) 7,079 7,670 8,082 8,012 8,557 9,111 Captive Market 6,652 6,886 7,198 7,182 7,446 7,622 TUDS 427 784 884 830 1,111 1,489 Municipalities Served 262 262 262 263 263 263 Gross Operating Revenue 2,382 2,454 2,566 2,943 3,211 3,470 (R$ million) EBITDA (R$ million) 344 416 383 426 500 523 Net Income (R$ million) 121 172 164 194 245 248 Information from 2006 and 2007 has been reclassified as a consequence of Brazilian Law 11.638/07. Main Results 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of customers 29 30 31 32 33 34 (thousands) Energy sales (GWh) 506 545 557 491 487 485 Captive Market 444 475 489 415 419 431 TUDS 63 70 68 76 68 54 Municipalities Served 2 2 2 2 2 2 Gross Operating Revenue 107 122 112 120 140 154 (R$ million) EBITDA (R$ million) 14 20 14 18 19 21 Net Income (R$ million) 8 12 9 11 12 13 Information from 2006 and 2007 has been reclassified as a consequence of Brazilian Law 11.638/07. Main Results 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of customers 65 66 68 70 72 75 (thousands) Energy sales (GWh) 404 427 445 439 448 301 Captive Market 341 360 376 375 375 263 TUDS 63 67 69 64 73 47 Municipalities Served 5 5 5 5 5 5 Gross Operating Revenue 113 125 117 135 151 181 (R$ million) EBITDA (R$ million) 19 25 19 24 25 28 Net Income (R$ million) 14 15 11 15 16 17 Information from 2006 and 2007 has been reclassified as a consequence of Brazilian Law 11.638/07. 89 CPFL Energia Profile Main Results 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of customers 47 48 49 50 51 52 (thousands) Energy sales (GWh) 273 280 286 277 304 310 Captive Market 273 280 286 277 304 263 TUDS 0 0 0 0 0 47 Municipalities Served 7 7 7 7 7 7 Gross Operating Revenue 89 94 122 114 121 139 (R$ million) EBITDA (R$ million) 20 17 22 27 25 25 Net Income (R$ million) 14 9 12 15 12 13 Information from 2006 and 2007 has been reclassified as a consequence of Brazilian Law 11.638/07. Main Results 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of customers 37 38 39 40 41 42 (thousands) Energy sales (GWh) 180 186 194 194 208 211 Captive Market 180 186 194 194 208 211 TUDS 0 0 0 0 0 0 Municipalities Served 4 4 4 4 4 4 Gross Operating Revenue 59 69 65 78 84 99 (R$ million) EBITDA (R$ million) 10 14 11 15 13 12 Net Income (R$ million) 7 9 7 10 9 7 Information from 2006 and 2007 has been reclassified as a consequence of Brazilian Law 11.638/07. 90 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 3.5.1.1. GRI GRI Distribution and sales 2.7 2.8 GRI GRI SO1 PR1 GRI GRI EU3 EU23 GRI GRI EU26 EU3 Distribution Electricity distribution is CPFL Energia’s largest business segment. Its eight distribution companies serve approximately 7 million customers in their concession areas, which span four Brazilian states. In 2011, the Company invested a total of R$ 1.2 billion in the distribution segment, mainly in the expansion and reinforcement of the electric system to meet market growth. The number of customers connected to the CPFL Energia network increased by 203 thousand consumer units in 2011 relative to the previous year. Energy sales CPFL Energia’s distributors achieved total energy sales to the captive market of 39,917 GWh in 2011, a 1.7% increase on the previous year. Energy billed through the Tariff for Use of the Distribution System (TUDS) reached 14,674 GWh. Energy sold by the CPFL Group commercialization and generation companies to free market clients and through bilateral agreements was 8,855 GWh, 6% less than the figure recorded in 2010. TOTAL ENERGY SALES (GWh) Market 2009 2010 2011 2011/2010 (%) Captive Market 37,821 39,250 39,917 1.7 Free Market * 10,243 9,423 8,855 -6.0 Total 48,064 48,673 48,771 0.2 *Includes bilateral and free market clients of CPFL Brasil, CPFL Planalto and CPFL Geração. In the captive market, there was an increase in consumption in the residential (4.9%) and commercial (5.9%) classes, which together accounted for 54.2% of the total energy consumed by the Group distributors’ captive market customers. 91 CPFL Energia Profile 10,243 9,423 8,855 37,821 39,250 39,917 2009 2010 2011 Free Market Capve Market The industrial segment registered a fall of 7.5% compared to 2010. This result was negatively influenced by the loss of customers to the free market and weak industrial performance in 2011. ENERGY SALES IN THE CAPTIVE MARKET (GWh) CAPTIVE MARKET 2010 2011 CHANGE (%) SHARE (%) Residential 12,983 13,626 4.9 34.1 Industrial 11,393 10,536 -7.5 26.4 Commercial 7,587 8,031 5.9 20.1 Rural 2,100 1,991 5.2 5.0 Others 5,187 5,733 10.5 14.4 Total 39,250 39,917 1.7 100.0 CPFL Energia distributors ended 2011 with around 7 million customers, an increase of more than 203 thousand over the total for 2010. NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS CPFL ENERGIA DISTRIBUTORS BY SEGMENT 2010 2011 Residential 5,881,458 6,087,719 Industrial 78,190 59,503 Commercial 490,570 500,117 Rural 237,964 242,589 Public Authorities 45,382 46,780 Public Lighting 8,098 8,623 Public Services 7,230 7,417 Own Consumption 785 785 Total 6,749,677 6,953,533 92 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia All CPFL Energia Group distributors satisfied their universal service commitments for urban and rural areas of their respective concessions (these commitments involve annual connection goals for each municipality until universal coverage is reached), except those set by the Electricity for All Program which established goals in two distinct stages, according to specific regulations. The first stage was fully achieved in 2008. The second stage covered the years 2009-2010. The CPFL Piratininga, CPFL Jaguari and CPFL Santa Cruz concessionaires do not set goals as they have already reached 100% coverage. For the group’s other concessionaires, the goals for the period are currently being fully met, as detailed below: ■■ CPFL Paulista: made 1,899 connections in 2011, totaling 3,500 for the period 2009-2011, with a goal of 3,500 connections (goal 100% met). ■■ CPFL Leste Paulista: made 55 connections in 2011, totaling 124 for the period 2009-2011, with a goal of 124 connections (goal 100% met). ■■ CPFL Mococa: made 42 connections in 2011, totaling 166 for the period 2009-2011, with a goal of 138 connections (goal surpassed by 20%). ■■ CPFL Sul Paulista: made 475 connections in 2011, totaling 985 for the period 2009-2011, with a goal of 921 connections (goal surpassed by 7%). ■■ RGE: made 571 connections in 2011, totaling 2,724 for the period 2009-2011, with a goal of 3,062 connections (goal 89% met). Projects Of a total R$ 1.2 billion invested in the distribution segment in 2011, R$ 651 million was allocated to expanding and upgrading the electric system to meet the needs of the eight CPFL Energia Group distributors’ markets, in terms of both energy sales volume and customer numbers. Investments covered the construction and expansion of substations (SSs), extension of transmission lines (TLs), addition or substitution of equipment and distribution networks, and other improvements to a range of installations. Of the total works carried out on SSs, we highlight 56. CPFL Paulista: ■■ SS Bauru ■■ SS and TL Campo Verde ■■ SS Campinas 14 ■■ SS São Manoel 93 CPFL Energia Profile ■■ SS Bariri ■■ TL Mirassol x CTEEP ■■ SS Diamante ■■ SS and TL Ferraz Salles ■■ SS Piracicaba 9 ■■ SS Itacolomi ■■ SS Ibitinga ■■ SS Gávea ■■ SS Iporã ■■ SS São José do Rio Preto 6 ■■ TL 34.5 kV Auxiliadora-Fazenda Água Sumida ■■ SS Rio das Pedras ■■ SS Pinhal ■■ SS Pedregulho ■■ TL 138 kV Iguapé x Humaitá ■■ SS Monte Azul Paulista ■■ SS Pompéia ■■ SS Cajobi ■■ SS Agudos ■■ TL 138 kV Getulina x CPFL ■■ TL 138 kV S. J. Rio Preto (CPFL) x S. J. Rio Preto (CTEEP) ■■ SS Iguapé CPFL Piratininga: ■■ TL 138 kV Vila Nova x Estuário 6 km underground ■■ TL 88 kV HBO x Jabaquara 1.2 ■■ SS Jundiaí 5 ■■ SS Sorocaba 5 ■■ SS Sorocaba 6 ■■ SS Boituva 2 Água Branca ■■ TL 88 kV Sorocaba 5 ■■ SS Vila Matias ■■ SS Sorocaba 1 ■■ SS Campo Limpo ■■ SS Vinhedo 1 ■■ TL 138 kV Junction Jundiaí 5 ■■ SS Estuário – underground ■■ SS Salto 1 Porto Góes ■■ TL 88 kV Junction Vinhedo ■■ TL 138 kV Bom Jardim CTEEP x Vinhedo 1 and 2 ■■ TL 88 kV HBO x Jabaquara 3.4 94 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia ■■ SS Vila Nova underground CPFL Jaguariúna: ■■ SS Itapetininga 9 ■■ TL 138 kV Junction Itapetininga 9 CPFL Santa Cruz: ■■ SS Avaré 1 ■■ SS Avaré 2 RGE: ■■ TL 69 kV Guarita x Palmeira das Missões ■■ SS Garibaldi 2 ■■ SS Caxias 4 ■■ SS Paim Filho ■■ SS Tupancireta ■■ SS Gramado ■■ SS Vacaria ■■ SS São Francisco de Paula CPFL Energia invested a further R$ 586 million in improvements and maintenance for the electric system, operating infrastructure, modernization of management and operations support systems, and customer service. At CPFL Paulista the 100% Automation Project is underway, with 66 SSs already automated out of a forecast total of 87 by mid-2012 and representing investment to date of R$ 6 million. 95 CPFL Energia Profile 3.5.1.2. Structure GRI EU4 In order to offer its customers high quality services, CPFL Energia’s distribution companies installed 210,501 km of distribution networks in 2011. EXTENT OF DISTRIBUTION NETWORK – 2010-2011 (KM) Company 2010 2011 Primary Secondary General Primary Secondary General Total Total 15 kV 23 kV 15 kV 23 kV CPFL Paulista 53,947 37,297 91,243 54,599 37,940 92,539 CPFL 3,537 6,667 10,962* 21,166* 3,658 6,733 11,203 21,594 Piratininga RGE 15,484 32,333 36,165 83,982 15,464 32,341 30,455 78,260 CPFL Santa 6,283.42 2,138 8,563 6,296.85 2,153.56 8,450.41 Cruz CPFL Leste 2,297 603 2,900 2,312 608 2,920 Paulista CPFL Jaguari 460 411 871 470 419 889 CPFL Sul 3,220 828 4,048 3,236 836 4,072 Paulista CPFL Mococa 1,302 456 1,758 1,314 463 1,777 Total 119,005 6,667 88,860 214,531 87,548 39,403 89,550 210,501 * As a result of an increase in the registered base following the network inventory carried out in 2011, the value for 2010 has been corrected to reflect this. A total of 9,450 km was added to the CPFL Group concessionaires’ transmission network, taking into account the whole range of voltages served by the system. 96 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 2010 34.5 kV 44 kV 69 kV 88 kV 88 kV 138 kV 230 kV 345 kV TOTAL (underground) CPFL Paulista 384 1,944 3,738 6,067 CPFL 262 19 262 29 4 576 Piratininga RGE 224 1,313.5 216 1,753.5 CPFL Santa 99 427 4 530 Cruz CPFL Leste 141 530 Paulista CPFL Jaguari 38 12 50 CPFL Sul 236 8 244 Paulista CPFL Mococa 99 99 Total 997 224 3,685 266 19 4,236 29 4 9,850 2011 34.5 kV 44 kV 69 kV 88 kV 88 kV 138 kV 230 kV 345 kV TOTAL (underground) CPFL Paulista 475 1,719 3,799 5,993 CPFL 280 25 264 29 4 602 Piratininga RGE 224.3 1,320.5 224.5 1,769.3 CPFL Santa 107.34 432.40 8.11 547.85 Cruz CPFL Leste 141 141 Paulista CPFL Jaguari 38 12 50 CPFL Sul 236 10 246 Paulista CPFL Mococa 101 101 Total 1,098.34 224.3 3,472 288.11 25 4,310 29 4 9,450 97 CPFL Energia Profile 3.5.1.3. Electricity Supply Quality GRI GRI EU28 EU29 The quality of power supply to customers is one of the lynchpins in the CPFL Energia Group distributors’ strategy of operating efficiency. It is also a commitment to delivering energy to our customers’ consumer units with quality and constancy. As a result, the distributors constantly monitor the FEC (Average Frequency Interruptions), which measures the average number of interruptions per customer over the year; and the DEC (Average Duration of Interruptions), which measures the average duration, in hours, of interruptions per customer over the year. FEC – 2007-2011 (mes) 10.90 9.67 7.93 8.86 10.75 7.68 8.80 9.65 6.16 9.09 7.09 7.37 9.44 7.75 5.73 5.88 8.20 6.93 7.26 8.27 4.49 7.55 6.53 8.15 5.24 5.88 5.86 5.41 6.06 5.87 5.77 5.05 7.79 5.10 5.36 5.79 5.36 6.41 5.23 4.87 CPFL CPFL RGE CPFL CPFL CPFL CPFL CPFL Paulista* Piraninga* Santa Cruz* Jaguari* Leste Sul Mococa Paulista Paulista 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 *Includes the effects of the ‘blackout’ of November 10, 2009. DEC – 2007-2011 (hours) 17.04 15.42 14.45 14.70 5.85 5.66 15.19 6.98 5.47 5.50 8.43 6.85 7.62 6.32 7.24 10.61 9.23 5.65 6.77 7.00 6.80 8.73 11.31 6.90 6.54 8.26 9.66 11.58 8.13 11.02 8.94 9.23 9.06 6.88 6.44 4.25 7.66 8.18 4.56 5.95 CPFL CPFL RGE CPFL CPFL CPFL CPFL CPFL Paulista* Piraninga* Santa Cruz* Jaguari* Leste Sul Mococa Paulista Paulista 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 *Includes the effects of the ‘blackout’ of November 10, 2009. 98 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 2011 Company DEC FEC Customers CPFL Paulista 6.77 5.36 1,446,830 CPFL Piratininga 6.44 4.87 3,716,397 RGE 15.19 9.44 1,301,527 CPFL Santa Cruz 8.43 8.15 176,368 CPFL Jaguari 7.00 5.10 33,186 CPFL Leste Paulista 9.66 6.16 51,532 CPFL Sul Paulista 9.06 5.73 73,198 CPFL Mococa 5.95 5.24 41,194 99 CPFL Energia Profile 3.5.1.4. Payment Delinquency The CPFL Energia Group distributors take measures every year to collect unpaid bills. Regulated public utilities are required to combat delinquency in order to avoid financial pressure on tariffs and ensure that customers that punctually honor payments are not unfairly affected. The distribution companies use methods provided for by law and regulatory resolutions for collecting unpaid bills. These include blacklisting customers with unpaid bills, further warnings of payment due, warning that a bill is outstanding via URA (Audio ­Response Unit), hiring specialized debt collection companies and, as a last resort, cutting off supplies to the delinquent consumer unit. In 2011, the average payment delinquency rate for the eight distributors was 1.29% of Gross Revenue, 2% higher than the figure for 2010. Payment Delinquency* – 2008-2011 (%) Company 2008 2009 2010 2011 11/10(%) CPFL Paulista 1.14 1.03 1.27 1.25 -2% CPFL Piratininga 1.05 1.20 1.32 1.33 1% RGE 2.42 1.59 1.34 1.43 7% CPFL Santa Cruz 0.83 0.87 1.13 1.07 -5% CPFL Jaguari 0.48 0.29 0.31 0.41 32% CPFL Leste Paulista 1.11 0.78 0.60 1.05 75% CPFL Sul Paulista 0.82 0.97 0.75 1.10 47% CPFL Mococa 0.63 0.51 0.58 0.84 45% * % of Gross Revenue 100 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 3.5.1.5. Commercial Losses GRI EU12 The CPFL Group’s eight distributors are involved in continuous efforts to reduce commercial losses in their concession areas. Their work focuses mainly on actions such as the inspection of consumer units, checking and substitution of obsolete meters and consumer education campaigns. During 2011, particular attention was directed at areas with low-income residents and those areas with a high level of illegal hookups. The Company’s activities focused on regularizing connections, running courses on energy saving and delivery of more efficient equipment. Over the year, these actions resulted in the recovery of 415 GWh, equivalent to revenue of R$ 137 million. Distribution losses: ■■ Distribution losses for the CPFL Group have been calculated at 8.11%, which is equivalent to 4,859 GWh energy and among the lowest in the Brazilian electric sector. The figure is derived from the difference between the energy demanded and that supplied to free and captive market customers. ■■ Examination of losses reveals them as technical – originating from physical characteristics of the electric networks, and non-technical – arising from fraud, illegal connections and failures in equipment and procedures. Of the total losses, 3,766 GWh (6.22%) are technical and 1,092 GWh (1.89%) are non-technical (commercial). ■■ Non-technical (commercial) losses occur in energy distribution in the low tension market where 99% of customers are concentrated, and considering this market alone, the ratio for non-technical losses is 4.90%. Transmission losses: ■■ The CPFL Group has no companies operating assets in the basic transmission network, where the transmission systems are located – they are operated by other organizations, such as FURNAS and CTEEP. No transmission losses are therefore registered. 101 CPFL Energia Profile 3.5.1.6. Energy Efficiency GRI GRI 4.17 EC8 GRI GRI EN6 EN14 GRI GRI EN26 EU7 The CPFL Energia companies run the Energy Efficiency Program, funded by revenues generated through electricity billing, to encourage reGRI GRI SO1 SO5 duced and more rational usage of electricity. CPFL Energia’s distributors have encouraged the rational consumption of electricity on the part of consumers through this Program since 1998. The discos run specific projects and provide guidance, analysis of energy usage and actions to promote the rational and efficient use of electricity among the communities served by the Company, government entities and the private sector. Actions are always focused on combating wastage and contributing to the preservation of natural resources, which are the source of the majority of the energy distributed by the companies. In 2011, investments in the Energy Efficiency Program totaled R$ 57.56 million. Energy Efficiency Program 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Total CPFL Paulista* Investment 27,459.28 46,294.37 37,314.30 23,445.00 26,010.80 24,473.00 17,536.00 202,532.75 (R$ thousand) EnergySaving 14,591.33 49,485.31 30,465.61 68,262.60 61,046.80 19,797.00 6,334.00 249,982.65 (MW/year) Reductionin 7,481.28 23,104.58 7,373.14 21,612.30 15,902.00 5,484.00 1,096.00 82,053.30 PeakDemand (kW) Number of 13 15 2 30 projects Number of 16,593 69,895 86,488 customers CPFL Piratininga* Investment 12,188.94 21,335.16 13,805.55 12,335.90 11,483.80 13,771.00 9,881.00 94,801.35 (R$ thousand) EnergySaving 5,600.07 32,476.21 2,342.84 14,089.20 19,472.60 12,350.00 6,531.00 92,861.92 (MW/year) Reductionin 1,643.19 16,476.81 888.9 4,027.00 4,320.00 3,341.00 1,163.00 31,859.90 PeakDemand (kW) Number of 4 6 1 11 projects Number of 4,982 101,280 106,262 customers 102 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia RGE** Investment 13,786.27 14,532.83 9,954.80 4,900.00 4,508.00 7,933.00 7,084.00 5,466.00 68,164.90 (R$ thousand) EnergySaving 11,671.97 5,960.11 7,233.50 6,592.00 16,967.00 37,144.00 9,491.00 20,410.00 115,469.58 (MW/year) Reductionin 3,969.82 1,524.39 2,659.40 2,503.00 5,396.00 12,619.00 2,167.00 6,463.00 37,301.61 PeakDemand (kW) Number of 5 3 4 3 4 2 1 3 25 projects Number of 57,207 51,107 98,590 customers CPFL Santa Cruz Investment 1,813.68 1,732.28 1,200.00 1,550.00 970.00 970.00 791.00 925.00 9,951.96 (R$ thousand) EnergySaving 1,935.79 380.00 1,120.30 1,279.44 1,246.00 1,963.20 89.46 33.00 8,047.19 (MW/year) Reductionin 561.12 240 485.2 589.62 597 504.96 128 85 3,190.90 PeakDemand (kW) Number of 1 0 3 4 4 3 2 2 19 projects Number of 942 1300 2,242 customers CPFL Jaguari*** Investment 515.27 967.29 1,105.00 359.90 353.30 540.80 3,841.56 (R$ thousand) EnergySaving 536.56 284.00 1,121.60 481.30 765.20 3,188.66 (MW/year) Reductionin 314.42 228 681 257 143.1 1,623.52 PeakDemand (kW) Number of 1 0 2 1 3 4 11 projects Number of 621 200 821 customers CPFL Leste Paulista*** Investment 856.34 979.50 875.00 154.50 297.00 338.50 194.50 3,695.34 (R$ thousand) EnergySaving 1,240.20 213.00 618.90 343.80 800.90 300.00 3,516.80 (MW/year) Reductionin 453.35 171 380.3 176 189.2 41.7 1,411.55 PeakDemand (kW) Number of 1 0 2 1 4 2 1 11 projects Number of 646 150 796 customers CPFL Sul Paulista*** Investment 558.94 987.60 1,020.00 342.30 427.80 549.50 3,886.14 (R$ thousand) EnergySaving 540.27 284.00 1,333.40 405.80 1,023.10 3,586.57 (MW/year) Reductionin 279.99 228 815.8 193.4 228.4 1,745.59 PeakDemand (kW) Number of 1 0 2 1 4 3 11 projects Number of 513 200 713 customers 103 CPFL Energia Profile CPFL Mococa*** Investment 381.74 504.08 632.00 164.60 297.00 325.80 2,305.22 (R$ thousand) EnergySaving 333.21 106.50 667.70 240.60 317.90 1,665.91 (MW/year) Reductionin 178.02 85.5 408 117 121.9 910.42 PeakDemand (kW) Number of 1 0 2 1 4 2 10 projects Number of 334 75 409 customers For 2011, the following has been considered: Number of projects: only those where all clients were covered (e.g. a project involving 10 schools will be considered if all were served). Number of clients: clients covered by a project (e.g. if nine out of 10 clients in a project were covered, only nine are considered). Financial investment: resources employed in the year, independent of the cycle or whether work was finished or not. Energy and demand: energy and demand for the projects in the year that work was finished, irrespective of the cycle. Find out more >> Since 2007, CPFL Energia has operated its Energy Efficiency Portal – www.cpfl.com.br/canaldaenergia which contains information on rational consumption and its energy efficiency programs. Similarly, in 2008 RGE also launched its Energy Efficiency Portal – www. rge-rs.com.br/eficienciarge. 104 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Community Network Program Linking lower commercial GRI GRI losses with citizenship 4.17 EC8 GRI GRI EN6 EN14 GRI GRI EN26 EU7 GRI GRI Energy losses during the distribution service can occur in two ways: SO1 SO5 as a result of the transmission of energy itself to the home or commercial/industrial unit or by diversion of energy directly from the distribution network and bypassing the companies’ technical installations. This procedure, as well as being illegal and increasing energy wastage, is unsafe and risks the lives of those involved in these activities. As a result, CPFL Energia distributors seek to regularize all connections and to guarantee the right of low income groups to electricity supplies. The Community Network Program was conceived to serve these groups directly. It provides guidance on the rational and safe use of electricity and encourages citizenship through social inclusion. These actions are linked to efforts to regularize illegal connections. Once power supply has been regularized, efforts are made to reinforce guidelines for the rational and safe use of electricity with the new customer. Program actions ■■ Regularization of connections ■■ Substitution of incandescent lightbulbs for energy efficient varieties ■■ Use of lower power showerhead equipment combined with heat exchangers ■■ Substitution of refrigerators ■■ Educational activities in schools ■■ Refurbishment of internal electrical installations ■■ Courses on the rational use of electricity ■■ Six-month grace period for customers with regularized connections billing up to 100 kWh/ month Complementary to the Program, CPFL Energia’s distributors also reinforce their community relationships by offering information, culture and social development services to low-income social groups. 105 CPFL Energia Profile 2011 ACTIONS CPFL PAULISTA Replacement of 48,854 incandescent light bulbs for the compact fluorescent variety. Regularization of 1,678 high-risk connections. Replacement of 125 electric showerheads with lower power equipment combined with heat exchangers. Replacement of 2,044 refrigerators for more efficient models. Modernization of 1,232 internal electrical installations in dilapidated condition. Installation of 3,032 solar-powered water heaters. Energy efficiency works carried out in 257 schools, 50 public buildings and one Water and Sewage Treatment Service (SAE). CPFL PIRATININGA Replacement of 14,884 incandescent light bulbs for the compact fluorescent variety. Regularization of 2,784 high-risk connections. Replacement of 184 electric showerheads with lower power equipment combined with heat exchangers. Replacement of 4,762 refrigerators for more efficient models. Modernization of 527 internal electrical installations in dilapidated condition. Installation of 378 solar-powered water heaters. Energy efficiency works carried out in one school and twenty public buildings. RGE Replacement of 208,624 incandescent light bulbs for the compact fluorescent variety. Regularization of 1,884 high-risk connections with the addition of meter boxes. Refurbishment of 531 dilapidated meter boxes at the units of notified low-income customers. Replacement of 1,000 refrigerators for more efficient models. Energy efficiency works carried out in 164 schools. Installation of an energy efficiency system in the water pumping and treatment process at SAMAE. Implementation of one industry performance contract. CPFL SANTA CRUZ Replacement of 2,665 incandescent light bulbs for the compact fluorescent variety. Replacement of 465 refrigerators for more efficient models. Installation of 200 solar-powered water heaters. Energy efficiency works carried out in 14 schools, 36 public buildings and four Water and Sewage Treatment Services (SAEs). CPFL JAGUARI Replacement of 1,860 incandescent light bulbs for the compact fluorescent variety. Replacement of 200 refrigerators for more efficient models. Installation of 200 solar-powered water heaters. Energy efficiency works carried out in one public building. CPFL LESTE PAULISTA Replacement of 1,860 incandescent light bulbs for the compact fluorescent variety. Replacement of 200 refrigerators for more efficient models. Installation of 200 solar-powered water heaters. Energy efficiency works carried out in eight schools, 16 public buildings and two Water and Sewage Treatment Services (SAEs). CPFL SUL PAULISTA Replacement of 1,395 incandescent light bulbs for the compact fluorescent variety. Replacement of 150 refrigerators for more efficient models. Installation of 150 solar-powered water heaters. Energy efficiency works carried out in 39 schools and nine public buildings. CPFL MOCOCA Replacement of 930 incandescent light bulbs for the compact fluorescent variety. Replacement of 100 refrigerators for more efficient models. Installation of 100 solar-powered water heaters. Energy efficiency works carried out in 13 schools and 11 public buildings. 106 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 3.5.1.7. Customer Service and Satisfaction GRI GRI EU23 EU24 CPFL Energia is committed to permanently providing high quality customer service and satisfaction. To this end, the Group’s distributors offer efficient and reliable service channels to allow customers both ease and convenience of access. The Company’s customer service structure is diversified and adapted to the needs of every class of client. It includes round-the-clock call centers, customer service points, online service points, plus account managers for groups of commercial and industrial clients. Ease and convenience of service The CPFL Energia distributors offer a service structure that is designed for the needs of the market and accessible for all customers. These channels are defined along the same lines as the customer segmentation and take into account strategic factors such as geographical spread, representation of municipalities served and satisfaction surveys that include evaluation questions on existing channels. Since 2005 the companies have employed the strategy of migrating captive customers to internet service channels and have obtained significant results in terms of cost savings and service accessibility. Currently, over 45% of the distributors’ service contacts take place through the channels available on the company website, while 39% are still via the call center. The CPFL Energia website offers specially dedicated access for customers with hearing or speech difficulties. The Company recently began offering customers the option to receive their bills by email. Captive customer service contacts in 2011 Service Channels Company Internet Call Center In person Other channels Total CPFL Paulista 6,809 5,493 2,528 71 14,901 CPFL Piratininga 2,622 1,674 961 27 5,284 RGE 2,169 2,749 309 132 5,359 CPFL Santa Cruz 300 395 101 0.37 796 CPFL Jaguariúna 311 323 84 1.93 719 107 CPFL Energia Profile CPFL Atende CPFL Atende was created in 2009 to expand and improve residential customer services. It is responsible for queries and requests through the 0800 line, internet chat, email and Audio Response Unit (ARU) for the CPFL Energia Group companies. The company has 391 service positions, 818 customer service representatives and offices in the towns of Ourinhos and Araraquara. It receives about 620 thousand customer contacts every month. Customer Service Channels The table below details CPFL Energia’s main customer relationship channels. 108 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia MAIN RELATIONSHIP CHANNELS Channel Characteristics Client Means of communication Service Points Advises on ways to communicate with the company Group B and Website and answers requests concerning connection, advice for all reconnection, issuing a second copy of a bill, amounts customers due, customer registration changes, etc. Call Center (CPFL Free telephone 0800 service, every day and roundGroup B Energy bills, Atende) the-clock. Deals directly with or redirects queries, website, leaflets information requests and complaints. Electricity Formed of consumer representatives of all market Group B Energy bills, Consumer classes and a CPFL Paulista representative who website, leaflets Councils analyzes and assesses issues linked to supply, tariffs (COCENs) and appropriateness of service provision, at monthly meetings. Real Estate Formed of consumer representatives of all market All customers Website Agents classes and a CPFL Paulista representative who analyzes and assesses issues linked to supply, tariffs and appropriateness of service provision, at monthly meetings. Ombudsman Free 0800 in-person telephone service, available from All customers Energy bills, 9am – 5pm, Monday to Friday, as well as round-thewebsite clock website and fax service. PROCON Through a 0800 number, email and restricted website PROCONs Leaflets, Regional for interaction and meeting customer demands via in the meetings, PROCONs, registers requests and redirects them to the concession Meetings with relevant responsible area. All requests received through area roaming analysts the channel and in person at the Organization are registered in an application which controls deadlines and automatically issues statistical reports. Easy Network Partnership with electrical goods stores whereby the All customers Leaflet, Website, (Rede Fácil) stores company offers the stores advertising and, through own advertising a contract, provides access to the Virtual Agency website for service requests (connection, reconnection, disconnection), information on amounts owed, issuing a second copy of a bill, etc. Contact Center Business center with a free, in-person telephone system Group A Letters, emails, with Audio Response Unit, available from 8am to 5pm, except Public visits, internet, Monday-Friday, in addition to emails, website and Authorities internet chat. Public Authorities Personalized service from Public Authority Portfolio Federal, State Regional Account Mangers Managers. Specifically, federal and state authorities have and Municipal meetings a 0800 telephone service and requests from municipal Public authorities occur internally via a specific internet site. Authorities Business Mangers Personalized service from managers/ representatives Group A Letters, emails, and Regional who visit clients at least once a month and can be except Public visits, internet, Representatives contacted at any time. Authorities CPFL Corporate and Group A Guide (high tension / major clients) Contact Center Services concerning power cuts, emergency technical Group A Letters, emails, Follow-up Service service, technical assistance and contract alterations, except Public visits, internet, as well as carrying out satisfaction surveys and other Authorities CPFL Corporate activities. Guide Service Receives and answers suggestions, complaints and All customers Website, energy Management information requests from the whole concession area, and external bills Center and answers requests received by letter, fax, emails, from organizations offices and Service Point books, and the Ombudsman. CPFL Total Post offices, banks, lottery outlets, drugstores and All customers Website, Payment accredited establishments, Easy Network stores and banners, Channels internet (link to banks). outdoors, Call Center Internet Chat Uninterrupted round-the-clock service, seven days a Group B Energy bills, week. Answers Group B requests and deals directly with leaflets, website or redirects information requests and complaints. 109 CPFL Energia Profile Email Uninterrupted round-the-clock service, seven days a Group B Energy bills, week. Answers Group B requests and deals directly with leaflets, or redirects information requests and complaints. website, written communication Internet Website offering auto-service features, general All customers Call Center, information, receipt of private projects, monitoring of energy bills, Research and Development, etc. leaflets Service Point SelfInstalled at Service Points, issues a second copy of a bill, Group B Service Point service answers requests on amounts due and other information. counters Ethical Conduct Receives internal and external demands related to the All customers Code of Ethics Channel Code of Ethics and Corporate Conduct. Access is via the and Corporate 0800-77-02050 telephone number, etica@cpfl.com.br or Conduct PO Box 1408, with total discretion and confidentiality for the employee. Demands are analyzed by the Ethics and Corporate Conduct Committee. CPFL Corporate Provides comfort and ease for interaction and Group A Letters, emails, Portal transactions, multipresent, increasing the brand’s except Public visits, internet, perceptions of safety and reliability. Offers services Authorities CPFL Corporate relating to e-commerce (SVA), energy contracts, online Guide commercial customer service, and other services. Interaction Center Business center with a free, in-person telephone service Group A Letters, emails, with Audio Response Unit, available from 8am to 5pm, visits, internet, Monday-Friday, and two exclusive telephones for CPFL Corporate serving Free and Potentially Free customers, in addition Guide to emails, website and internet chat. SMS Center Power cuts can be registered by sending SMS text Group B Website, energy messages from cell phone to a specific number, and the bill, radio company can send multiple information to customer, commercials including a service number for follow-up. Switched On to the Customer Project A cultural shift from service to relationship Since 2008, the CPFL Energia distributors CPFL Paulista and CPFL Piratininga have been implementing special customer relationship projects, seeking to improve service procedures with a focus on the needs of each type of client. The Switched On to the Customer (Ligado no Cliente) project is one such initiative and includes preand after-service activities, newly updated websites and the introduction of new customer relationship and communication practices. The project has been divided into six sub-projects: ■■ • Process quality with a focus on customer value; ■■ • Customer segmentation; ■■ • Employee and partner awareness; ■■ • Customer communication plan; ■■ • Preand after-service strategy; ■■ • New relationship practices. 110 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia In all, the project encompasses 54 actions carried out over time, plus 13 other initiatives, executed as follows: 2008 Focus Implementation of actions to sustain and maintain the customer relationship. There was a focus on high impact and low complexity actions and increasing awareness internally. 2009 Focus Priority was given to consolidating actions first implemented as pilot projects, across the whole concession area, starting with large cities and including technological innovations. 2010 Focus Actions aimed at external impact were carried out, as well as innovations, including introduction of a new relationship policy, and activities focused on a high impact communication campaign highlighting CPFL’s new image. 2011 Focus Pursuit of new pro-active initiatives and refining existing process, with a focus on the reduction of operating costs, increase in revenue, reduction of payment delinquency and increase in customer satisfaction. Highlights of 2011 initiatives ■■ Creation of the digital bill, which allows delivery of electricity bills to customers via email, eliminating printed bills; ■■ Launch of the new Web Mobile CPFL relationship channel for online service access via smartphone; ■■ Inclusion of the Power Outage Registration service on CPFL and Web Mobile service websites; ■■ Inclusion of a barcode on payment delinquency notifications, making it easier for the customer to settle unpaid amounts and foregoing the need to issue a second copy of a bill; ■■ Creation of a relationship agent, whose main function is to prospect for new corporate customers and facilitate the process of connection to the electric system, from the initial request to the conclusion of the service onsite; ■■ Implementation of a campaign to encourage payment of bills through registration for direct debit authorizations, including the introduction of a service for registering the customer at the service point and through the service website, eliminating the requirement for the customer to go personally to his branch bank. ■■ Expansion of the CPFL face-to-face service structure across the concession area to meet the new requirements of ANEEL Resolution 414. 111 CPFL Energia Profile Customer Satisfaction GRI GRI 4.16 4.17 GRI GRI A key focus of the CPFL Energia Group distribution companies is on EU19 PR5 customer satisfaction. Consequently, the discos have specific programs in place for ensuring continuity in customer relationships based on trust and credibility. Since 2008, CPFL Energia has used the Image Performance Index (IPI) to measure stakeholders’ perceptions, the objective being first and foremost to prevent damage to the brand. The IPI monitors the brand qualitatively while also measuring and monitoring other media information sources that collate opinions from specific groups of interest to the organization. This is used as raw input for producing the Brand Aggression Grid that is included in the management report sent periodically to executives. CPFL Energia uses this instrument to record expectations and forestall any risks or negative impacts that may arise. The IPI monitors sources including press, public opinion, customer satisfaction and financial market assessment. IPI management is performed on a monthly basis, with presentations at the meetings of the Board of Executive Officers. On these occasions, CPFL Energia’s performance is discussed and action plans are developed to improve or refine performance. Other important actions include the distributors’ direct communication with customers, advising them on their rights, the rational and safe use of electricity, and the service channels for accessing the companies. Also worthy of note are the public service campaigns on electricity bills. The CPFL Energia distribution companies operate Consumer Councils (COCEN), which exist to evaluate service quality on a constant basis. They also monitor perceived customer satisfaction with services provided, customer service, communication and with information supplied, through annual surveys conducted by ANEEL and the Brazilian Association of Electricity Distributors (ABRADEE). In addition, the Company runs quantitative and qualitative brand and image surveys, plus customer satisfaction surveys on the call center’s round-the-clock service. This data is all used as input for the Company’s strategic planning process, in order to improve service quality. 112 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia In 2011, the CPFL Energia Group carried out surveys to measure customer satisfaction with its services, including customer service. The ABRADEE survey, the best-known, was held for the thirteenth consecutive year and provided satisfaction scores for the Group’s eight distribution companies. In addition, CPFL ran surveys with its Group A clients and those served by the call center. Surveys held in 2011 SURVEYS HELD IN 2011 SURVEY METHODOLOGY COMPANY / TIMING AUDIENCE SAMPLE SIZE AREA ABRADEE Quantitative CPFL March/April Residential 4,169 Energia* Call Center Quantitative Call Center May Residential 780 Satisfaction Qualitative CPFL Brasil December Major Clients 35 Satisfaction Quantitative RGE December Major Clients 420 Total 5,404 *The survey includes the distributors CPFL Paulista, CPFL Piratininga, CPFL Santa Cruz, CPFL Jaguari, CPFL Mococa, CPFL Leste Paulista, CPFL Sul Paulista and RGE 113 CPFL Energia Profile 3.5.2. Generation GRI GRI 2.1 2.2 GRI GRI 2.3 2.5 GRI GRI 2.7 2.8 GRI 3.8 1) HPP Luis Eduardo 9) 35 SHPs1 Magalhães 17 (SP), 8 (MG), 1 (MT), 5 (SC) 2) HPP Serra da Mesa and 4 (RS) 3) HPP Foz do Chapecó 4) HPP Campos Novos 10) 29 Wind Farms1 5) HPP Barra Grande 4 (CE), 21 (RN) and 4 (RS) 6) CERAN Complex HPP Monte Claro, HPP Castro Alves, 11) 7 Biomass-fired TPPs1 HPP 14 de Julho 4 (SP), 1 (RN), 1 (MG), 1 (PR) 7) 12 SHPs 9 (SP) and 3(MG) 8) 3 Fuel Oil TPPs 1 (SP) and 2(PB) 1 Projects in operation and under construction 114 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 3.5.2.1. Operations Conventional Generation GRI GRI EC2 EN11 GRI U6 CPFL Energia’s strategy of maintaining constant growth in energy generation was achieved in 2011 with the expansion of its generating assets. The increase in energy supply was thanks to the conclusion of hydro and thermoelectric power projects, including completion of the motorization of HPP Foz do Chapecó. Over the year, investments in the conventional generation segment totaled R$ 140 million, R$ 22 million of which were invested in renewable generation in the first half of 2011, in assets that were subsequently transferred to CPFL Renováveis. CPFL Geração’s installed capacity, from its operational generating assets, ended 2011 at 2,209 MW, 10% growth relative to 2010. The highlights of the year include the following projects: Conclusion of the motorization process at HPP Foz do Chapecó; Investments in generation from fuel oil – construction of the thermoelectric plants Termonordeste and Termoparaíba (concluded in December 2010 and January 2011, respectively) Installed capacity 2,209 MW (CPFL Geração) (12/31/2011) Comparison 2011 v 2010 10% Assured Energy 1,131.33 average MW Key Performance Factors Conclusion of construction works at the Baldin Plant; conclusion of the motorization process at HPP Foz do Chapecó; conclusion of construction works atTPPTermonordeste. 115 CPFL Energia Profile CPFL Geração Installed Capacity and Assured Energy – 20002011 The graph shows CPFL Geração’s increase in installed capacity and assured energy since 2000. The energy made available by CPFL Geração for commercialization is equal to the assured power of each plant, taking into account the share that CPFL has in each project. 440801 440812 434812 472854 525915 571 1,072 800 1,588 862 1,704 864 1,737 1,157 2,200 1,252 2,511 1,361 2,769 143 1,389 2,805 82 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Capacity (MW) Assured Energy (average MW) INSTALLED CAPACITY AND ASSURED ENERGY – BY UNIT – 2011 CPFL GERAÇÃO* UNIT INSTALLED CAPACITY (MW) ASSURED ENERGY (AVERAGE MW) CPFL Geração (SHPs)/SP 1.88 0 SHP Ponte do Silva 0.13 0 TPP Carioba 36.00 10.7 HPP Serra da Mesa 657.14 345.83 HPP Barra Grande 172.54 95.17 HPP Campos Novos 428.76 184.11 HPP Monte Claro 84.5 38.35 HPP Castro Alves 84.50 41.60 HPP 14 de Julho 65.00 32.50 HPP Foz do Chapecó 436.1 220.32 HPP Luis Eduardo Magalhães (Lajeado) 62.54 36.49 TPP Termonordeste 90.1 63.14 TPP Termoparaíba 90.1 63.14 Total 2,209.29 1,131.35 116 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia CPFL JAGUARIÚNA UNIT INSTALLED CAPACITY (MW) Lavrinha 0.33 Macaco Branco 2.36 Pinheirinho 0.64 Rio do Peixe I 3.06 Rio do Peixe II 15.00 Santa Alice 0.62 São José 0.79 São Sebastião 0.68 Turvinho 0.80 Total 24.28 (*) CPFL Geração’s share. Note: CPFL Jaguariúna’s SHPs do not offer guaranteed energy for commercialization. Projects in the generating complex concluded in 2011 Two thermoelectric plants, located in Brazil’s Northeast region saw the start-up of commercial operations in the period: TPP Termonordeste which was unveiled at the very end of 2010, and TPP Termoparaíba which began operations in January, following an investment of R$ 608 million. Both plants are part of the EPASA project and total 341.5 MW installed capacity, with CPFL Energia’s share at 174.2 MW, reflecting the Group’s 51% stake in the venture. The remaining equity is divided between DC Energia (40.05%), Aruanã Energia (6.5%) and OZ&M (2.45%). In March, the motorization process at HPP Foz do Chapecó in southern Brazil was concluded, work on this project having begun in December 2006. It involved four generating units, three of which began commercial operations in 2010 (in October, November and December respectively). The start-up of commercial activity for the fourth unit was on March 12, 2011. Total investment in this project reached R$ 2.7 billion. Operating efficiency CPFL Geração has been achieving impressive results for various operating efficiency indicators, a highlight being the equipment uptime rate at its plants. Productivity at CPFL Geração has reached a score of 23.5, a ratio which reflects the relation between installed capacity and the number of employees. 117 CPFL Energia Profile Producvity Installed Capacity / Number of Employees – 2003-2011 23.5 15.6 12.4 12.2 12.2 9.1 8.1 7.1 7.5 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 CPFL GERAÇÃO EQUIPMENT UPTIME (%) HPPs and SHPs 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 HPP Serra da Mesa 83 83 83 87 92 95 94 91 91.46 HPP Barra Grande 85 84 96 92 99 94.49 HPP Campos Novos 89 95 90 93 95.35 HPP Monte Claro 98 99 89 92 95 95 76.02 HPP Castro Alves 91 93 93 87.17 HPP 14 de Julho 100 93 56 82.02 HPP Lajeado 95 93 93 88.37 HPP Foz do Chapecó 98.41 118 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 3.5.2.2 Renewable generation In 2011 CPFL took an important step forward in underscoring its position in the area of energy generation from predominantly clean sources. In April it announced the creation of CPFL Energia Renováveis, a company incorporated as a result of an association between CPFL Energia and ERSA Energia Renováveis. This operation merges the assets and projects of both companies in Small Hydro Plants (SHPs), wind farms, and thermoelectric and biomass power plants, and creates Brazil’s leading company in the segment, and one of the largest in Latin America. CPFL Energia holds a 63.0% equity stake in the new company, with the remaining 37.0% distributed among ERSA shareholders. CPFL Renováveis has a significant presence in power generation from three renewable energy sources (SHP, wind and biomass) and is present at all stages of the process (operations, construction and development). The company ended 2011 with an installed capacity of 652 MW, a volume that should reach 4.38 MW over the next few years. This growth plan is based on a portfolio of new projects ranging from initial development to the construction and operation of small hydro plants, wind farms and power plants fired by sugarcane bagasse. The incorporation of this new company is symptomatic of CPFL’s belief that proactivity, innovation and opening new fronts of development are factors that will allow the transformation of a vision into reality. In this context, CPFL will be working to ensure that CPFL Renováveis continues to consolidate its leadership of this segment, reflected in its consistent growth plan, robust capital structure and sound shareholder base, as well as capturing synergies resulting from the merger. It is CPFL’s intention to make a contribution to Brazil to contribute to be a worldwide reference in clean and renewable energy. 119 CPFL Energia Profile • Largest private-sector group in the • One of Brazil’s largest electricity electricity industry in Brazil, market generation companies from leader in distribution and commerrenewable sources. cialization and 3rd largest private• A reference in the development of sector group in energy generation. innovative engineering solutions for • Investment in the construction of small hydro plants and training for sugarcane biomass-fired plants. wind projects. • Recognized as an international • Profound knowledge of the environbenchmark in corporate governance, mental licensing and project developexcellence and sustainability. ment processes. • Success in the inception of 13 wind • Accelerated growth in generating farms currently under construction capacity: concurrent construction of and the recent acquisition of 4 assets nine small hydro plants. in operation. • Committed to growth, financial • Shares listed on the New York discipline, transparency and the (ADRIII) and Novo Mercado BOVESPA creation of sustainable value. stock exchanges, with access to the • Team of dynamic and highly Brazilian and international capital specialized professionals. markets. • Experience of 100 years of operations and knowledge of the Brazilian market. PROJECTS IN OPERATION ■■ 34 Small Hydro Plants ■■ 3 Biomass-fueled Plants ■■ 4 Wind Farms PROJECTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION ■■ 1 Small Hydro Plant ■■ 4 Biomass-fueled Plants ■■ 21 Wind Farms PROJECTS IN PREPARATION ■■ 5 Small Hydro Plants ■■ 11 Wind Farms 120 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia ALTO IRANI SC 21 AMERICANA (1) SP 30 ANDORINHAS (1) RS 0.5 ARVOREDO SC 13 BARRA DA PACIÊNCIA MG 23 BURITIS (1) SP 0.8 CAPÃO PRETO(1) SP 4.3 CHIBARRO (1) SP 2.6 COCAIS GRANDE MG 10 CORRENTE GRANDE MG 14 DIAMANTE (1) MS 4.2 DOURADOS (1) SP 10.8 ELOY CHAVES (1) SP 19 ESMERIL (1) SP 5 GAVIÃO PEIXOTO(1) SP 4.8 GUAPORÉ (1) RS 0.7 JAGUARI (1) SP 11.8 SHP LENÇÓIS (1) SP 1.7 MONJOLINHO (1) SP 0.6 NINHO DA ÁGUIA MG 10 PAIOL MG 20 PINHAL (1) SP 6.8 OPERATION PIRAPÓ(1) RS 0.8 PLANO ALTO SC 16 SALTINHO (1) RS 0.8 SALTO GRANDE (1) SP 4.5 SANTA LUZIA SC 28.5 SANTANA (1) SP 4.3 SÃO GONÇALO MG 11 SÃO JOAQUIM (1) SP 8.1 SOCORRO(1) SP 1 TRÊS SALTOS (1) SP 0.6 VARGINHA MG 9 VÁRZEA ALEGRE MG 7.5 SUB-TOTAL 306.7 FOZ DO RIO CHORÓ CE 25.2 ICARAIZINHO CE 54.6 WIND PARACURU CE 25.2 PRAIA FORMOSA CE 105 SUB-TOTAL 210.0 BAIA FORMOSA (1) RN 40 Biomass BALDIN (1) SP 45 TPP BURITI(1) SP 50 SUB-TOTAL 135 121 CPFL Energia Profile SALTO GÓES SC 20 SHP SUB-TOTAL 20 CAMPO DOS VENTOS I (2) RN 28 CAMPO DOS VENTOS II RN 30 CAMPO DOS VENTOS III (2) RN 28 CAMPO DOS VENTOS V (2) RN 26 COSTA BRANCA RN 20.7 EURUS VI RN 8 JUREMAS RN 16.1 MACACOS RN 20.7 PEDRA PRETA RN 20.7 SANTA CLARA I RN 30 SANTA CLARA II RN 30 SANTA CLARA III RN 30 WIND SANTA CLARA IV RN 30 SANTA CLARA V RN 30 CONSTRUCTION SANTA CLARA VI RN 30 VENTOS DE SANTA RN 30 MÔNICA (2) VENTOS DE SANTA RN 28 ÚRSULA (2) VENTOS DE SÃO RN 28 BENEDITO (2) VENTOS DE SÃO DIMAS (2) RN 30 VENTOS DE SÃO RN 28 DOMINGOS (2) VENTOS DE SÃO RN 28 MARTINHO (2) SUB-TOTAL 550.2 ALVORADA MG 50 COOPCANA PR 50 Biomass IPÊ SP 25 TPP PEDRA SP 70 SUB-TOTAL 195 122 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia AIURUOCA MG 18 BOA VISTA 2 MG 28 CACHOEIRA GRANDE MG 16 SHP PENEDO MG 17 SANTA CRUZ MG 12.5 SUB-TOTAL 91.5 ATALAIA PI 151.2 BAIXA VERDE RN 13.8 BITUPITÁ CE 63 CAJUEIRO RN 29.9 COSTA DAS DUNAS RN 29.9 PREPARATION CURRAL VELHO CE 122.4 WIND FALÉSIA CE 37.8 FAROL DE TOUROS RN 23 FIGUEIRA BRANCA RN 13.8 GAMELEIRAS RN 18.4 PEDRA CHEIROSA CE 37.8 SUB-TOTAL 541 ALVORADA MG 50 COOPCANA PR 50 Biomass IPÊ SP 25 TPP PEDRA SP 70 SUB-TOTAL 195 TOTAL 2,049.40 (1) Projects that belonged to CPFL Energia until August 2011 (SHPs belonged to CPFL Geração and biomass-fired plants to CPFL Brasil) (2) The company has the option to purchase 100% of the SPES. 123 CPFL Energia Profile 3.5.3. Commercialization and Services COMMERCIALIZATION SERVICES 124 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia ACTIVE THROUGHOUT BRAZIL MAIN RESULTS 2008 2009* 2010 2011 Free Market customers 76 74 129 140 Market share (%) 20 20.8 16 11 Free Market energy sales* (GWh) 8,904 10,243 12,262 12,173 *Includes commercialization/generation (excluding the CPFL Group). ELECTRICITY COMMERCIALIZATION BUSINESS SUMMARY MAIN RESULTS 2009 2010 2011 2011/2010 (%) Gross Operating Revenue (R$ million) 2,026 1,991 1,932 -3.0% EBITDA (R$ million) 298 308 271 -12.0% Net Income (R$ million) 211 206 164 -20.4% In 2011, the Services business area was restructured to operate with greater autonomy from the Commercialization area. The main results by segment are shown below: 2011 2011 Commercialization Services Total Gross Operating Revenue (R$ million) 1,772,533 159,946 1,932,479 EBITDA (R$ millions) 252,447 18,900 271,347 Net Income (R$ million) 152,667 11,262 163,929 2,177,647 190,108 2,367,755 Energy Commercialization In 2011, the CPFL Group’s commercialization companies’ total energy sales were 8,665 GWh, a slight fall compared to the 2010 figure of 8,806 GWh. This reduction occurred because bilateral agreements in place in 2010 came to an end at the close of that year. These figures cover sales by the Group’s trading companies to free and special customers and through bilateral agreements, excluding those signed with related parties. The commercial activities of CPFL Group’s commercialization companies include the planning and execution of all energy purchase and sale activities of CPFL Brasil and its subsidiaries CPFL Planalto, CPFL Meridional and CPFL Cone Sul, as well as CPFL Geração’s power purchas125 CPFL Energia Profile ing agreements. In addition, it covers business conducted in the regulated contracting environment (ACR) and the free market (ACL) also known as the competitive market, characterized by the presence of buying and selling agents who attempt to capitalize on market opportunities through negotiating price and other commercial conditions. Every deal closed is considered a power purchasing contract, and is registered and executed under the regulations of the CCEE (Electric Energy Trading Chamber), the latter monitoring billing and payment, accounting and fiscal elements of the contract, and ensuring that contractual conditions are met. All CPFL Group’s energy trading is based on the respective companies’ contracts portfolio and on the market perspectives, which involve a forecast of energy supply and demand and price analysis. The CPFL Group’s trading companies have a dedicated planning team that supports the energy traders by providing guidance on issues related to CPFL’s energy balance and price forecasts. Additionally, the CPFL Group offers client representation at the CCEE through the intermediary of its trading companies, providing assistance in checking the fulfillment of contractual conditions and the execution of activities required under CCEE’s commercialization procedures. Organizational Structure for Energy Commercialization The organizational structure of CPFL Brasil was altered in 2011. The changes, including the division of energy trading teams into wholesale and retail, were made in order to increase the share of energy sales to end customers in the trading companies’ financial result, in line with CPFL’s strategy of maintaining leadership in energy commercialization. This revised structure seeks to provide CPFL Brasil with an enhanced ability to act both in assessing the viability of a customer’s migration to the free market, as well as in negotiating power purchasing agreements and representing clients at the Electric Energy Trading Chamber (CCEE). In this context, these recent changes have also led to the creation of a team dedicated to customer CCEE representation, with a further range of products and services also planned. In addition, two other teams were set up – one to deal with the regulatory issues related to commercialization and another dedicated to developing products for the free market and publicizing the company’s marketing initiatives. 126 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia There will be further ramping up of energy sales activities for end customers in 2012, with plans for opening commercial offices in areas outside the CPFL Group’s concession areas. 127 CPFL Energia Profile 3.5.4. Services Operations Division CPFL Total, CPFL Serviços and CPFL Atende CPFL Energia’s business unit dedicated to services was reorganized in 2011 due to the increasing importance of this segment as a value driver for the Group. This new structure, introduced as a result of the growing market potential, maintains a strong synergy with the Group’s other businesses and involved the creation of autonomous and independent business units, organized as follows: ■■ CPFL Serviços – offering energy services (transmission systems, distribution systems, self-generation, equipment overhaul) ■■ CPFL Atende – offering solutions through a contact center ■■ CPFL Total – bill collection and intermediation of financial products In 2011 the service provider companies made a significant contribution to the Company’s result with revenue of R$ 159.946 million and EBITDA of R$ 18.9 million, while realizing new business opportunities and developing closer client relationships. This represents a 46% increase in revenue over 2010’s figures. Net Income 150 102 AP (Pro Forma) CPFL Total CPFL Atende 41 CPFL Serviços (CPNJ) 33 2008 2009 2010 2011 128 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia CPFL Serviços CPFL Serviços offers the following products: ■■ Design and construction of substations and transmission lines ■■ Design and construction of distribution systems ■■ Electricity AP self-production and HVAC systems ■■ Solar energy and energy efficiency solutions ■■ Management of electric assets through maintenance services ■■ Overhaul of transformers, electrical equipment and services for energy companies and end clients 2011 Performance: ■■ 8 new self-production plants delivered, with installed capacity of 15.3 MVA ■■ New contracts: 10 high tension substation projects with a capacity of 459 MVA ■■ New contracts: 10 transmission line projects, totaling 237 km ■■ Energizing of 7 high tension substation projects with 376 MVA capacity ■■ Energizing of 6 transmission line projects totaling 52 km ■■ Electric system maintenance (GA) – 167 services completed ■■ Overhaul of 3,527 distribution transformers ■■ Overhaul of 33 power transformers ■■ Overhaul of 203 other items of equipment (15 kV and panels) ■■ As a goal for the coming years, the company plans to strengthen its Services portfolio by raising both the margin per client and reinforcing client loyalty as well as participating in energy projects and increasing its share of services provided to the Group’s own distribution companies. 129 CPFL Energia Profile CPFL Total CPFL Total is a customer service channel for use by accredited companies and their end customers for the purposes of bill collection, customer services and the capture and repass of financial products. The network is made up of authorized outlets that receive not only payment of electricity bills and other utility bills (water, telephone and bank collections) but also offer customer assistance services for accredited energy concessionaires such as verification of amounts due, issue of electricity bill counterparts, reconnection and customer registration validation. In 2011, CPFL Total focused on increasing the network’s quality by revising the accredited company base and restructuring internal processes. The network is currently made up of around 2,500 establishments. 2011 Performance: ■■ Billing: R$ 45.1 million ■■ Transaction numbers: 44.8 million ■■ Accredited companies: 2,500 CPFL Atende ■■ Constituted four years ago as an opportunity to provide Group companies and the market with contact center and customer relationship services. The CPFL Atende portfolio offers the following services: ■■ SAC Customer Service Line ■■ Credit Recovery ■■ Telesales ■■ Face-to-face service ■■ Back office service Information: ■■ Two sites in the towns of Ourinhos and Araraquara in upstate São Paulo ■■ 2011 billings: R$ 23 million ■■ Call numbers: 9.3 million ■■ Employees: 1000 ■■ PA: 500 ■■ Clients: 12 ■■ Up until 2011, CPFL Atende’s focus was on installing and consolidat130 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia ing its operations in order to provide services exclusively for the CPFL Energia Group. From 2012 on, the company plans to strengthen its portfolio of services and expand its client base, objectives which will be pursued by extending its services to companies outside the Group. 131 CPFL Energia Profile 132 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Sustainability 133 Sustainability 4. Sustainability GRI 1.2 CPFL Energia’s decision-making in its businesses, operations and relationships is guided by a broad and systemic overview which considers economic, social and environmental variables in an integrated manner. The Company realizes that to be sustainable and guarantee both business sustainability and value generation for stakeholders, a balance between these three factors must be achieved, and strengthened by relationships based on ethics and transparency. In this way, CPFL believes that its role goes way beyond the generation, distribution and commercialization of electric energy. Its purpose is to share learning and be a leader in the transition to the New Economy – an environment that prioritizes the environment, inclusiveness and responsibility. The Sustainability Committee was reorganized in 2012 and is the internal governance body that oversees CPFL’s sustainability agenda and activities. The Committee’s members are designated Guardian Directors of Sustainability and are tasked with compiling all activities, implementing sustainability policies and guidelines and making recommendations to management. The Committee is also responsible for mapping sustainability risks and opportunities, in accordance with the relevance suggested by the Company’s stakeholders. 134 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 4.1. Economic and Financial Given the growing international concern on issues related to the worldwide energy matrix, Brazil has without a doubt positioned itself as one of the great champions of energy generation technologies from clean and renewable sources. Against this backdrop, the issue gained particular importance during the last year for CPFL Energia. Part of our strategy for 2011 involved expanding our investments in energy generation from renewable sources, including the small hydro plants (SHPs), sugarcane biomass-fired thermoelectric plants and wind farms, and which placed the Group in the vanguard of this segment. A highlight of the year was the creation of CPFL Renováveis, which from its constitution was already the leader of the renewable energy segment in Latin America. It represents the merger of assets and projects held by CPFL Energia and ERSA and subsequently, the acquisition of the entire equity of Jantus. CPFL Renováveis’ focus is exclusively on the development of energy generation projects from alternative and renewable sources (SHPs, biomass-fired thermoelectric plants and wind farms). CPFL Energia’s equity stake in the company amounts to 63%. Following the creation of CPFL Renováveis, the start-up of operations of TPPs Bio Formosa and Bio Buriti, and the purchase of the SHP Santa Luzia and wind farm ventures from Jantus, the total installed capacity of the CPFL Group, taking into account its relative share in each of its conventional and alternative energy projects, grew to 2,644 MW in 2011, of which 2,017 MW are conventional hydraulic generation, 216 MW conventional thermoelectric generation and 411 MW renewable alternative energy (193 MW from SHPs, 133 MW biomass generation and 85 MW from the wind farms). By the end of 2012, taking into account the acquisition of the Bons Ventos Complex (wind farms already in operation) announced in February 2012, and the start-up of operations at the TPPs Bio Ipê and Bio Pedra and the Santa Clara Complex wind farms, the CPFL Group’s operating installed capacity should reach 2,922 MW. By 2014, this capacity is projected to total 3,301 MW, including the operational start-up of other projects currently under construction. In the distribution segment, the Group continued to enjoy strong growth in energy consumption from the residential and commercial classes, the result of increased employment, income and credit in recent years. The industrial class had a less vigorous performance, affected by an appreciated local currency and high interest rates. An important event for the sector was the finalization of the methodology for 135 Sustainability the distributors’ third tariff review cycle, in November 2011. The process had begun in September 2010 and involved wide-ranging discussions between ANEEEL and the industry entities. The regulatory requirements have increased with each cycle and continue to pressure companies to squeeze further gains in efficiency. Set against this scenario, the Group strengthened its focus on ramping up operating efficiency and improving the quality of its service provision to customers in readiness for the challenges that will accompany the implementation of the third tariff review cycle for the eight concessionaires between 2011 and 2013. With this directive, the CPFL Group distributors will have to maintain ever more automated and intelligent networks for increasing quality in energy distribution, thus implying reduced frequency and duration of disconnections and a shorter time before energy supply is resumed. Last year alone the installation of the new smart grid technology coupled with investments in network maintenance and to meet market growth, demanded investments from our distributors to the tune of R$ 1,065 million. As for the remaining investments made in the last year, R$ 823 million were earmarked for generation and R$ 17 million for energy commercialization and services. In the light of radical changes currently, both in the world and also the energy sector itself, the Group had the foresight in 2011 to develop the Transformation Program. This demands organizational and cultural change at all Group companies in order to create a structure that is more efficient, modern and suited to their growth. It also places increased focus on more strategic operations, enhances our position in institutional relationships and supports change in the way we manage the Company’s culture and decision-making processes. The first phase of the Program was concluded in December 2011 with the design and implementation of a new organizational structure. The Program will also drive the creation and review of decision-making committees, as well as numerous actions related to culture and behavioral change; this should all take place during 2012. Concurrent with the Transformation Program, the Base Zero Budget plan is being implemented and, to date, has led to improvements in the budget design process for the business units and will bring the Group significant cost reductions overall. The Group’s achievements and results in 2011 are a reaffirmation of our business strategy, which continually seeks to increase our share of the Brazilian energy market in all the segments in which we operate, maintaining the differentials of efficiency and quality. Evidence of this was provided by the awards received during the year in recognition of the Group companies’ management quality: the National Quality Award (PNQ), at which CPFL Paulista and RGE were winners; the Valor 1000 year book from the Valor Econômico newspaper, which recognized CPFL Paulista as the best company in the electric sector; the Biggest and Best Award from Exame magazine, recognizing CPFL Brasil as 136 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia the best company in the energy sector; the ABRADEE award granted to CPFL Piratininga for its economic and financial management, and to RGE as the best distributor in Brazil’s South region; and CPFL Energia’s recognition as the most sustainable energy company in Latin America by the Management & Excellence consultancy for the third consecutive year. In the past years, the Group has been developing skills required to seize the opportunities emerging from the growth and diversification of the Brazilian economy. 137 Sustainability 4.1.1. Operating Performance ENERGY SALES Energy sales in the CPFL Energia distributors’ concession areas totaled 54,590 GWh, growth of 4.9% compared to the 52,044 GWh achieved in 2010. Sales to the captive market totaled 39,917 GWh, an increase of 1.7%, with a further 14,674 GWh billed through the Tariff for Use of the Distribution System (TUDS). Of note in the captive market were increases in consumption in the residential and commercial classes, which together account for 54.3% of the total energy consumed by the Group distributors’ captive market customers. ■■ Residential and commercial classes: increases of 4.9% and 5.9%, respectively. The cumulative effects of economic growth (increases in income, employment, access to credit, electronic and electrical goods sales and retail sales in general) seen in recent years meant that these classes maintained high consumption levels in 2011. This was partially offset by lower summer temperatures in relation to 2010. ■■ Industrial class: fall of 7.5%, affected by the deceleration in industrial production and the migration of customers to the free market, the latter reflecting growth in TUDS revenue. The volume of energy billed from free market customers in CPFL Energia’s concession areas through the TUDS reached 14,674 GWh, an increase of 14.7%, as commented, mainly the result of the migration of customers to the free market. Energy commercialization and generation sales (excluding related parties) reached 12,173 GWh, which is a fall of 0.7%, due mainly to a fall in sales via spot bilateral contracts in force in 2010 but maturing during 2011. Sales to free market customers increased however, the result of growth in the customer portfolio in 2011 compared to 2010 (from 129 to 140). PERFORMANCE OF THE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION SEGMENT ■■ The Group maintained its strategy of encouraging the dissemination and sharing of best management and operating practices among the distributors, with the aim of increasing operating efficiency and improving the quality of customer service. 138 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Below are the results achieved by the distributors for the main indicators that measure quality and reliability in electric energy supply: the DEC (Average Duration of Interruptions), which measures the average duration, in hours, of interruptions per consumer over the year; and the FEC (Average Frequency of Interruptions), which measures the average number of interruptions per consumer over the year. DEC and FEC Indicators 2011 (annual figures) Company/ CPFL CPFL RGE CPFL CPFL Leste CPFL CPFL Sul CPFL Indicator Paulista Piratininga Santa Cruz Paulista Jaguari Paulista Mococa DEC 6.77 6.44 15.19 8.43 9.66 7.00 9.06 5.95 FEC 5.36 4.87 9.44 8.15 6.17 5.10 5.73 5.24 PERFORMANCE OF THE ELECTRICITY GENERATION SEGMENT In 2011, the Group signed a purchase agreement to acquire 100% equity of Jantus, a company specializing in wind energy generation, and an Association Agreement with ERSA to merge assets and projects related to renewable and alternative energy generation (SHPs, biomassfired thermoelectric plants and wind farms) to create CPFL Renováveis, the largest renewable segment energy company in Latin America. CPFL Renováveis currently has projects with a capacity of 652 MW in operation, 765 MW under construction, 120 MW for the Atlântica Wind Complex (wind farms that will enter operation in 2013) purchased in January 2012, and 158 MW for the Bons Ventos Wind Complex (wind farms already in operation) purchased in February 2012, as well as a portfolio totaling 2,743 MW for development, totaling 4,438 MW. CPFL Renováveis was constituted on August 24, 2011 and the acquisition of Jantus on December 19, 2011. With CPFL Renováveis, in which CPFL Energia’s stake is 63% and the start-up of operations at TPPs Bio Formosa and Bio Buriti and the acquisition of new ventures (SHP Santa Luzia and the Jantus wind farms), the CPFL Group’s installed capacity (taking into account CPFL Energia’s share of each of the projects) grew to 2,644 MW in 2011. Of this total, 2,017 MW are conventional hydraulic generation, 216 MW conventional thermal generation and 411 MW renewable alternative energy (193 MW from SHPs, 133 MW biomass generation and 85 MW from wind projects). 139 Sustainability 4.1.2. Operating Revenue Net operating revenue grew by 6.2% (R$ 740 million) to reach R$ 12,764 million. Excluding revenues from the construction of concession infrastructure (which does not affect the result due to the corresponding cost, for the same amount), net operating revenue would have been R$ 11,634 million, an increase of 6.0% (R$ 654 million). This change is due to the following: ■■ The distributors’ tariff adjustments; ■■ An increase of 1.7% in sales to the captive market; ■■ An increase of 17.1% (R$ 193 million) in gross revenue from the TUDS from free customers, due largely to the migration of captive customers to the free market; ■■ Additional net revenue resulting from the following: ■■ A non-recurrent effect from the accounting adjustment relating to the difference in energy cost of EPASA in 2010 (R$ 29 million); ■■ The start-up of operations at HPP Foz do Chapecó in October 2010, TPP Baldin in August 2010, the 2 EPASA TPPs in January 2011, TPP Bio Formosa in September 2011 and TPP Bio Buriti in October 2011 (R$ 233 million), bearing in mind that the results from existing renewable energy assets were consolidated in CPFL Renováveis as of August 2011; ■■ New operating assets resulting from the ERSA association and the Jantus acquisition (R$ 85 million), booked to CPFL Renováveis as of August and December 2011, respectively. It is important to highlight that part of the sales from these generating projects is to CPFL Group companies, the corresponding revenue being eliminated when the accounts are consolidated. 140 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 4.1.3. EBITDA EBITDA is a non-accounting measurement for calculating earnings before taxes, financial income, depreciation/ amortization and the private pension fund. Operating cash generation, measured by EBITDA, totaled R$ 3,769 million, an increase of 12.5% (R$ 418 million), mainly reflecting the 6.0% (R$ 654 million) increase in net revenue (excluding revenues from concession infrastructure), which was partially offset by the increase of 16.9% (R$ 237 million) in operating costs and expenses, which exclude concession infrastructure construction costs and private pension plan depreciation and amortization expenses. This increase of 16.9% (R$ 237 million) in CPFL Energia’s operating costs and expenses occurred as a result of the following factors (which should not be considered, in order to facilitate comparison with 2010): ■■ Non-recurring increase in personnel expenses, due to the Early Retirement Program (IRT) – R$ 51 million; ■■ Operating expenditures covering the start-up of operations at HPP Foz do Chapecó in October 2010, TPP Baldin in August 2010, the 2 EPASA TPPs in January 2011, TPP Bio Formosa in September 2011 and TPP Bio Buriti in October 2011 (R$ 25 million); ■■ Operating expenditures related to the new assets in operation, resulting from the ERSA association and Jantus acquisition (R$ 61 million); ■■ Non-recurring net increase of R$ 20 million in legal and judicial expenses and indemnities for CPFL Paulista, due mainly to the reversal in 2010 of the provision for liabilities relating to PIS/COFINS credits on sector charges (R$ 40 million). This increase was partially offset by the increase in expenses, also in 2010, from the provision for labor contingencies following a legal settlement reached with the Engineering Labor Union of São Paulo (R$ 20 million); ■■ Negative non-recurring effect for CPFL Piratininga in 2011 due to the “loss/gain through asset disposal” line, resulting from nonoperating revenue recorded in 2010 from the sale of real estate in Santos (R$ 11 million). ■■ Non-recurring increase resulting from the provision for an ISS tax contingency at the ENERCAN subsidiary (R$ 10 million); ■■ Non-recurring increase resulting from the reversal of a doubtful 141 Sustainability debt provision at CPFL Paulista in 2010, relating to an amount owed by a local prefecture (R$ 6 million). If the above effects are not taken into account, operating costs and expenses would have increased by 3.8% (R$ 54 million) in 2011, compared to the IGP-M (General Market Price Index) of 5.1% for the period. 142 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 4.1.4. Net Income Net income in 2011 reached R$ 1,582 million, an increase of 1.4% (R$ 22 million) on 2010, due mainly to the following: (i) a 12.5% (R$ 418 million) increase in EBITDA; (ii) the positive effect on income tax and social contributions (R$ 46 million), resulting from, among other factors, greater use of tax credits (R$ 18 million); and (iii) a reduction in Private Pension Fund expenses (R$ 2 million). These effects were partially offset by the increase in net financial expenses (R$ 335 million) and the increase in depreciation and amortization (R$ 109 million), mainly because of the start-up of operations at the new energy generation projects. 143 Sustainability 4.1.5. Dividend Distribution Management recommended distribution of R$ 1,506 million in dividends to holders of common shares traded on BM&FBovespa Securities, Commodities and Futures Exchange. The proposed annual payout was equivalent to R$ 1.565228302 per share. As a result, CPFL Energia exceeded the minimum payout of 50% of net income required under its dividend policy. Discounting R$ 748 million for the first half of 2011 (paid out on September 30, 2011), the amount distributed was R$ 758 million (R$ 0.788205126 per share). 144 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 4.1.6. Debt At the end of 2011, the Company’s financial debt (including hedge) reached R$ 13,388 million, an increase of 42.2%. Cash equivalents totaled R$ 2,700 million, growth of 72.7%. As a result, net debt grew to R$ 10,689 million, a hike of 36.1%. This increase in net debt is the result of the consolidation of 100% of debt from CPFL Renováveis, in accordance with the new IFRS accounting procedures, as well as pursuit of the Group’s business expansion strategy – such as the acquisition of Jantus’ assets and the financing of several greenfield projects still under construction at CPFL Renováveis. Over the course of 2011, CPFL Energia put its 2012 pre-funding strategy into practice, anticipating new funding for debt maturing in 2012. As a result, the Company was able to reduce the real cost of its debt by approximately 0.1 percentage point to 4.3% per annum, as well as lengthening its repayment profile by 24.5% to 4.32 years. Consequently, the percentage of debt classified as short-term fell from 23.9% to 12.3%. 145 Sustainability 4.1.7. Investments In 2011, the Group invested R$ 1,905 million in maintaining and expanding the business, of which R$ 1,065 million were earmarked for distribution, R$ 823 million for generation and R$ 17 million were directed to commercialization and services. In addition, CPFL Energia’s association with ERSA led to the constitution of CPFL Renováveis, a company with capital stock of approximately R$ 4,500 million at the time the association was announced. Furthermore, an investment of R$ 1,499 million was made in the Jantus acquisition through CPFL Renováveis, of which R$ 823 million was provided as capital and R$ 676 million through debt. Highlights of CPFL Energia’s investments in 2011 were: ■■ Distribution: investments were made to expand, maintain, improve, automate, modernize and strengthen the electricity system to meet the demands of market growth, in operational infrastructure, customer support services and in research and development programs, among others. On December 31, 2011, the distribution companies had 7.0 million customers (an increase of 204 thousand customers), while the distribution network consisted of 210,491 km of distribution lines, including 276,561 distribution transformers (an increase of 13,578 transformers). Our eight distribution subsidiary companies operated 9,437 km of high tension distribution lines between 34.5 kV and 138 kV. Also as at December 31, 2011, they had 434 high tension to medium tension transformer substations for further distribution (an increase of five substations), with total transforming capacity of 13,650 MVA (an extra 615 MVA); ■■ Generation: investment was mainly directed at the conclusion of HPP Foz do Chapecó, EPASA (TPPs Termonordeste and Termoparaíba) and TPPs Bio Formosa and Bio Buriti, projects that have already entered commercial operation, and TPPs Bio Ipê, Bio Pedra, Alvorada and Coopcana, SHP Salto Góes and Santa Clara, Macacos I and Campo dos Ventos II wind farms – all of these construction projects in progress. ■■ Acquisition of Jantus: On April 7, 2011, CPFL Energia announced that it had, through its subsidiary CPFL Brasil, entered into an agreement to acquired 100% of the units making up the capital stock of Jantus SL. Parties to the agreement were Liberty Mutual Insurance Com146 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia pany, Citi Participações e Investimentos Ltda., an investment fund managed by Black River Asset Management LLC, Carbon Capital Markets Limited, which represents the interest of its controlling shareholder Trading Emissions PLC in Jantus, Matthew Alexander Swiney, and other minority shareholders. Jantus is the controlling shareholder of SIIF Énergies do Brasil Ltda. as well as SIIF Desenvolvimento de Projetos de Energia Eólica Ltda. The acquisition was concluded on December 19, 2011, with the purchaser being CPFL Renováveis. The acquisition price of the units, after contractual adjustments, included: (i) an amount of R$ 823 million, disbursed as follows: (a) R$ 469 million paid in cash and (b) the Euro equivalent to R$ 354 million injected into Jantus capital stock by the acquirer to settle debts with third parties; and (ii) the assumption of net debt worth R$ 676 million. Jantus’ assets include (i) four operating wind farms in the state of Ceará (Formosa, Icaraizinho, Paracuru and SIIF Cinco), with installed capacity of 210 MW and 20 year power purchasing contracts signed with Eletrobrás, and registered with PROINFA (Alternative Source Electricity Incentive Program); and (ii) a portfolio of wind energy projects in the states of Ceará and Piauí with installed capacity of 732 MW, of which a total of 412 MW is already certified and eligible for participation in upcoming energy auctions. ■■ Association between CPFL and ERSA and the creation of CPFL Renováveis: On April 19, 2011 CPFL Energia and ERSA (Energias Renováveis S.A.) announced that CPFL Energia, and its subsidiaries CPFL Geração and CPFL Brasil, had entered into an Association Agreement with the shareholders of ERSA, which set forth the terms and conditions under which they intended to merge the renewable energy assets and projects owned by CPFL and ERSA in Brazil, covering wind farms, small hydro plants and biomass-fired thermoelectric plants. In general terms, the association involved the following stages, concluded on August 24, 2011: (i) CPFL Geração spun off the SHPs comprising its assets and operated by it, transferring them to specific companies under its direct control (the “SHP Companies”); (ii) CPFL Geração and CPFL Brasil, as the only shareholders, constituted a new holding company (“New CPFL”), to which all their Operations, including the SHP Companies, were transferred; (iii) ERSA incorporated New CPFL, such that CPFL Geração and CPFL Brasil became components of the controlling block of ERSA as majority shareholders, holding, jointly, 54.5% of the total capital and voting stock of ERSA (this percentage increasing to 63.0%, as a result of the increase in capital made by CPFL Brasil in CPFL Renováveis for the acquisition of Jantus); and (iv) simultaneously with the above-mentioned incorporation, the corporate denomination of ERSA was changed to CPFL Energias Renováveis S.A. (“CPFL Renováveis”). 147 Sustainability 4.1.8. Capital Markets CPFL Energia’s stock, currently represented by a free float of 30.7%, is traded in Brazil (BM&FBovespa) and New York (NYSE). In 2011, CPFL Energia shares appreciated by 34.0% on BM&FBovespa and 25.9% on the NYSE, significantly outperforming both the IBOVESPA and Dow Jones stock indices, and ended the year at R$ 26.02 per share and US$ 28.21 per ADR. The average daily trading volume reached R$ 32.8 million, of which R$ 13.5 million was on BM&FBovespa and R$ 19.3 million on the NYSE. The trading volume on BM&FBovespa increased by 45.4%, from a daily average of 1,406 trades in 2010, to 2,045 in 2011. A highlight of 2011 was the reverse split of CPFL Energia’s common shares, at the ratio of 10 (ten) to 1 (one), followed by a simultaneous stock split at the ratio of 1 (one) to 20 (twenty), as well as a change in the ADR exchange ratio, from 1 (one) ADR equivalent to 3 (three) common shares to 1 (one) ADR equivalent to 2 (two) common shares. The aim was to optimize management of the shareholder base and reduce the unit value of common shares and ADRs, and thus allow greater access for personal investors and increased liquidity. 148 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 4.1.9. Financial Statements All of CPFL Energia’s Financial Statements are published on the Investor Relations website: www.cpfl.com.br/ir > Releases and Results > Results Center > 4Q11 149 Sustainability 4.2. Society Creating solid and lasting relationships with stakeholders – shareholders, customers, employees, community, suppliers, investors and partners – is one of CPFL Energia’s objectives. In order to continue strengthening these bonds of trust and mutual respect, the Company carries out a series of initiatives aimed at them. 4.2.1. Stakeholder GRI GRI 4.16 4.17 Relationships GRI EU19 New markets, new demands and new business models appear all the time. CPFL realizes that to keep up with these changes, it is fundamentally important to maintain an ongoing dialog with stakeholders. The Company greatly values the formation of ties that establish trust with these audiences. Only in this way can it understand and react to the changing demands of these new times, and then translate this into efficiency gains in the business sustainability process. Stakeholder Chart The Company’s main Press/ Clients stakeholders are Media (IM) (CT) mapped in the diagram on the right: Government Suppliers (FO) (G) and Society (S) Shareholders Communities (A) (C) Investors (I) Employees (CL) 150 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Main engagement activities carried out in 2011 Activity Engagement Stakeholder Frequencyof Main Issues and Measures Taken by Approach Engagement Concerns Raised CPFL Energia to Address Them Value Network Sustainability in Suppliers and Monthly Challenging to Development of two Program the chain clients engage and inform common projects: employees and senior management of Education for companies on the sustainability sustainability issue Management of social Better management and environmental of social and impacts environmental impacts CPFL Total Improving Captive clients Undefined Difficulties for customers Re-instatement of customer in making payment of agreement that had relationships electricity bills been canceled with Lottery Outlets Stakeholder To identify the Clients, Annual Respect for human Deeper addressing of Panel most interesting consumers, rights the issues considered topics to cover shareholders, of high relevance by in the Annual suppliers, Sustainable use of stakeholders and Report communities, resources restructuring of the government Energy efficiency Report (simplified browsing) Economic and financial sustainability CPFL Energia Company Employees 12 months Survey of the Running a project for Centenary history and clients preceding accumulated documenting life stories the 100th knowledge that through a roaming anniversary employees have on the TV studio, in container format, covering all Company’s history Group companies; and an intranet site and communication campaigns Doing Good Voluntary Employees, Annual Support of social Committees organized Day suppliers and organizations to plan and carry out partners suggested by infrastructure and employees recreational activities Local Energy Local Ongoing Reduction of electricity Works to modernize the Government Efficiency government consumption electrical structure of Managers municipal schools and Modernization of public public buildings lighting Substitution of old light bulbs for more efficient models Press Relations Distribution Press Bimonthly Evaluate press coverage Themed workshops for Programs and customer of particular electric journalists and drafting service segment sector issues and of the Reference Guide operations specific information to CPFL Energia’s about CPFL Energia Distribution Operations for this same audience Hospitals Improving Hospital Annual Sharing know-how and Publication launch Modernization service quality to management, methodology of the Program the community clients program with hospitals across Brazil Ethics Answering Employees Undefined Absence of an explicit Publication of three Management queries and position on child labor, Ethics Committee and dealing with any labor relations and Guidance Primers Development whistle blowing observing standards of (refinement of contents System allegations loyalty in competition of the Code of Ethics) 151 Sustainability CPFL Diversity Diversity Suppliers Bimonthly Raising the awareness of Two workshops held Program providers of contractor on diversity and the and consultancy importance of inclusion services in recruitment and selection in hiring the physically disabled Perception Opinion survey Investment Quarterly Survey held with Shorter results Study market market analysts to presentations via analysts assess perceptions of webcast customer service quality of the Investor Relations area Stakeholder Management Program This aims to apply CPFL Energia’s strategic planning output to its relationships with opinion formers and decision makers. The ultimate goal is to increase society’s view of the Company’s worth and legitimacy, and give its leaders greater exposure. In 2011, the Program mapped the issues of greatest importance to the Company, with a focus on the current businesses and the expansion and change required of them if CPFL is to achieve growth. Specific actions are being developed for each audience identified from this survey. Shareholder dialogs This project began in 2010 and is aimed at CPFL Energia clients. In that year, six meetings were held at the company’s head offices in Campinas with employees, suppliers and residential and corporate customers. The meetings prompted a series of well-received and productive dialogs and led to the organization of a new cycle of encounters at some of the regional companies’ head offices. In 2011, representatives of the public sector, NGOs and civil society movements, partners, suppliers and participants of the CPFL Total program took part in the five dialogs that were held. Some 300 guests participated in the meetings. Of these guests, around 40% were company employees and managers. Both individually and as a group, participants were able to reflect and exchange views on the aspects required for improving the quality of the company’s service to its customers. The results enabled CPFL to identify key points to be worked on as well as offering suggestions to improve the expectations and needs of all audiences. The content arising from the meetings was critically analyzed and 152 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia shared with senior management and the teams in order to act as guidelines for the consolidation of CPFL’s relationship project as well as providing input for decision-making by the Company’s different areas. Stakeholder Panel CPFL Energia holds an annual Stakeholder Panel in order to produce its Annual Report. This is a face-to-face meeting to define the issues of greatest significance to be covered in the Report, by taking into account the viewpoint of a range of audiences. The aim is to increase the legitimacy of the information detailed in the Report. Find out more at 3.2.1. “About this Report”. Government CPFL Energia maintains a broad-based structure to ensure it serves and maintains a dialog with the different spheres of government and their regulatory bodies: ■■ Account Managers – a team of managers focused on the relationship with local government and public sector companies served by the CPFL Group’s distributors. ■■ Regulatory Issues Department – responsible for coordinating all regulatory activities (inspection, public hearings, tariff adjustments and reviews, etc.) and for fulfilling the requirements of the concession contracts and the sector legislation. It also promotes institutional relations with government bodies, electricity industry associations and regulatory bodies (at federal and state level). ■■ Corporate Communications and Institutional Relations Department – responsible for building relationships with strategic audiences for the Group (government, regulatory bodies, opinion formers, civil society organizations and associations) through institutional and governmental relationship activities. ■■ Brasilia office – responsible for institutional and governmental relations activities, staffed by professionals from the Regulatory Issues and the Corporate Communications and Institutional Relations departments. It exists above all to establish relationships with authorities from the executive and legislative branches, public policy formers, press, and regulatory bodies. The Company’s relationship with government and regulatory bodies is essential for it to monitor and take part in processes relating to Brazil’s energy planning. In this context, CPFL Energia seeks to maintain permanent interfaces with the main agents involved: ■■ Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) ■■ Environment Ministry (MMA) 153 Sustainability ■■ National Electric Energy Agency (ANEEL) ■■ Energy Research Company (EPE) ■■ Electric Energy Commercialization Chamber (CCEE) ■■ National Electric System Operator (ONS) ■■ São Paulo State Sanitation and Energy Regulatory Agency (ARSESP) ■■ Rio Grande do Sul State Delegated Public Services Regulatory Agency (AGERGS) ■■ The Company also plays a leading role in class associations for assisting in government decision-making: ■■ Brazilian Association of Electricity Distributors (ABRADEE) ■■ Brazilian Association of Independent Electricity Producers (APINE) ■■ Brazilian Association of Electricity Traders (ABRACEL) ■■ Brazilian Wind Energy Association (ABEEÓLICA) Investment Market CPFL Energia also has a dedicated relationship program with the investment market. The agenda consists of a range of meetings and participation at events: ■■ Meetings with investors ■■ Association of Capital Market Analysts and Investment Professionals (APIMEC) meetings ■■ Results webcasts/conference calls ■■ Investors Day ■■ ExpoMoney events ■■ Non-deal road-shows with institutional investors ■■ Meetings for small investors arranged by the National Investors Institute (INI) The Company possesses a series of communication channels: ■■ Investor Relations website – www.cpfl.com.br/ri ■■ Email: ri@cpfl.com.br ■■ Shareholder and Investor Assistance Line (Personal Investors): +55 (19) 3756-8895 / 3756-6082 ■■ Analyst and Institutional Investor Service Line: +55 (19) 3756-6083 / 3756-8887 ■■ Publications: Factsheet (quarterly) and CPFL Investor Newsletter (bimonthly) sent by email and also available on the Investor Relations website 154 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Customers CPFL Energia has a diversified customer service structure and carries out relationship surveys to help improve its initiatives and meet the specific needs of each customer profile. Brand and image and customer satisfaction surveys are also held, contributing to continual improvements in relationships and the services provided. Find out more at: 3.5.1.7 – Customer Service. 155 Sustainability 4.2.2. Personnel GRI GRI GRI Employee Profile 2.2 2.8 4.4 GRI GRI GRI 4.14 LA1 LA2 GRI GRI GRI LA10 EU15 LA4 GRI GRI GRI LA13 LA14 HR5 CPFL Energia ended 2011 with 7,547 employees, 3.00% less than the previous year. During the period, the employee turnover rate was 11.9%, an increase on the 10.1% witnessed in 2010, with an average company length of service of 10 years. The average employee age was 37. In 2011, the average hours of training per employee were 71.19, which is 36.9% greater than the 2011 Sextante Survey benchmark (the indicator used to monitor progress in investments in employee training and development) of 52.00 hours per employee. It should be noted that, although we saw a slight fall in average hours compared to the previous year, it was much less than that seen in the market as a whole. Integral to CPFL Energia’s strategy is attracting new talent to ensure the long-term survival of its businesses. Its annual Intern Program aims to provide students with professional experience in a stimulating work environment. The Company ended the year with 232 interns who have fixed-term contracts, albeit not registered as Company employees. CPFL Energia does not have an exact figure for the numbers of outsourced workers, since service outsourcing contracts do not specify employee numbers per activity. This is particularly notable in general and administrative service contracts. AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE CPFL ENERGIA – 2008-2011 (HHT)* 2008 2009 2010 2011 91.80 81.34 77.83 71.19 *Data is approximate and may be subject to change with the implementation of new internal control systems. 156 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Employees by company and region Company State 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 CPFL Paulista São Paulo 2,931 3,130 3,132 3,127 3,185 3,161 3,080 3,071 CPFL Piratininga São Paulo 1,078 1,161 1,170 1,191 1,214 1,198 1,164 1,070 CPFL Geração São Paulo 96 149 138 132 140 6 6 9 EPASA Paraiba 52 53 BAESA Santa Catarina 31 31 13 25 23 CERAN Rio Grande do Sul 61 64 59 69 61 ENERCAN Santa Catarina 32 33 34 43 33 CPFL Brasil São Paulo 104 153 112 110 125 96 82 51 RGE Rio Grande do Sul 1,479 1,457 1470 1466 1,490 1,401 1,444 1,407 CPFL Santa Cruz São Paulo 249 263 266 261 386 CPFL Jaguariúna * São Paulo 244 258 271 232 361 CPFL Serviços São Paulo 340 347 428 438 392 CPFL Atende São Paulo 739 763 299 1 Chumpitaz São Paulo 186 CPFL Energia São Paulo 6 7 6 6 Foz do Chapecó Santa Catarina 62 55 52 18 Renováveis São Paulo 233 Total 7,923 7,924 7,450 7,119 7,410 5,862 5,776 5,608 * Includes CPFL Leste Paulista, CPFL Jaguari, CPFL Sul Paulista and CPFL Mococa. The gender composition of the group responsible for management of the Company’s activities remained stable compared to the previous year. CPFL Energia employees by employment type and gender Company Statutory Executives Managers Leadership College Operational Total Graduates Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male CPFL Paulista 0 1 0 14 8 58 6 100 156 270 261 2,057 431 2,500 CPFL Piratininga 0 0 1 3 0 20 6 50 86 121 105 686 198 880 CPFL Geração* 0 1 0 4 1 5 1 10 28 32 6 8 36 60 EPASA 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 7 2 4 4 33 6 46 CPFL Brasil 0 1 1 1 0 2 0 3 31 39 11 15 43 61 RGE 0 1 0 0 3 23 11 67 64 91 207 1,012 285 1,194 CPFL Santa Cruz 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 9 9 18 12 199 21 228 CPFLJaguariúna** 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 5 15 23 17 182 32 212 CPFL Serviços 0 1 0 1 0 2 1 23 11 23 17 261 29 311 CPFL Atende 0 0 0 0 0 2 29 12 1 4 571 120 601 138 Chumpitaz 0 0 0 0 1 6 6 10 39 61 41 22 87 99 CPFL Energia 1 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 2 4 Total 1 10 2 23 13 123 60 296 443 686 1,252 4,595 1,771 5,733 * Does not include BAESA, CERAN, ENERCAN or Foz do Chapecó. ** Includes CPFL Leste Paulista, CPFL Jaguari, CPFL Sul Paulista and CPFL Mococa Definitions: Statutory Directors CEO and Chief Officers Officers – Department Heads Managers Department and Division Managers. 157 Sustainability As regards age, employees aged under 18 accounted for 0.5% of the total, followed by those aged between 18 and 35 representing 50.7% of the total, the 36 45 age group (24.5%) and finally, the over 45 age group (24.3%). COMPOSITION OF WORKFORCE BY AGE GROUP (%) 50.75 18 35 24.5% 36 45 24.3% Above 45 0.5% Below 18 Respect for differences is a fundamental principle of the CPFL Diversity Program, which was launched in 2003. As a result of this policy, progress has been made in employee makeup by ethnicity with the proportion of Afro-descendants among total employees increasing in 2011 to 13.0% compared to 12.8% in 2010. The proportion of Caucasian ethnic origin was 85.9% (86.2% in 2010), Asian descent remained stable compared to 2010 at 0.9%, and Indigenous was also stable in 2011 at 0.1%. COMPOSITION OF WORKFORCE BY ETHNIC GROUP (%) 85.9 Caucasian 98.5% Mixed Race 4.5% Afro-Descendant 0.9% Asian 0.1% Indigenous 158 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Up until 2020, approximately 696 employees will reach retirement age across the CPFL Energia Group companies. Employees Reaching Retirement Age in the Next 10 Years Company 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 CPFL Paulista 8 26 9 19 12 63 77 79 50 104 CPFL Piratininga 4 9 7 0 9 7 16 13 26 41 CPFL Geração* 0 0 0 0 1 2 1 1 1 2 EPASA 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 CPFL Brasil 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 RGE 4 2 5 4 16 12 0 0 5 8 CPFL Santa Cruz 0 0 1 0 0 2 0 0 4 11 CPFL Jaguariúna ** 0 0 1 1 1 0 1 2 5 10 CPFL Serviços 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 CPFL Atende 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Chumpitaz 0 0 0 0 1 2 0 1 1 4 CPFL Energia 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 16 37 23 24 40 90 96 97 93 180 * Does not include BAESA, CERAN, ENERCAN or Foz do Chapecó. ** Includes CPFL Leste Paulista, CPFL Jaguari, CPFL Sul Paulista, CPFL Mococa Remuneration Average Salary for Women as a Proportion of Average Salary for Men, by category Company Statutory Executives Managers Leadership College Operational Graduates Female Female Female Female Female Female CPFL Paulista NA NA 87% 118% 74% 54% CPFL Piratininga NA 174% 57% 122% 84% 63% CPFL Geração* NA NA 90% 139% 70% 67% EPASA NA NA NA NA 51% 103% CPFL Brasil NA 96% NA NA 63% 94% RGE NA NA 90% 55% 66% 67% CPFL Santa Cruz NA NA NA NA 70% 76% CPFL Jaguariúna ** NA NA NA NA 71% 82% CPFL Serviços NA NA NA 77% 67% 112% CPFL Atende NA NA NA 72% 169% 97% Chumpitaz NA NA 170% 94% 80% 54% CPFL Energia 61% NA NA NA NA NA * Does not include BAESA, CERAN, ENERCAN or Foz do Chapecó. ** Includes CPFL Leste Paulista, CPFL Jaguari, CPFL Sul Paulista, CPFL Mococa. Definitions: Statutory Directors CEO and Chief Officers Officers – Department Heads Managers Department Managers and Division Managers. NA: not applicable. There are no female employees for this indicator. The Job Function and Salary Table are applied to all functions in the Company on hiring, irrespective of gender. 159 Sustainability Representation All CPFL Energia employees have freedom of expression and representation, such as participation in the Employee Representative Council (ERC) and the right to labor union membership. The Company recognizes the labor unions as legal and legitimate representatives of its employees and as conduits for making claims. The Group maintains regular Collective Bargaining Agreements with the labor unions. Agreements between the companies and the labor unions representing employees cover all Group professionals. 160 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 4.2.2.2. Human Resources GRI GRI GRI EC3 LA3 LA6 Management GRI GRI GRI LA8 LA11 LA12 GRI GRI EU14 EU16 CPFL Energia has implemented a series of programs in line with its strategic plan, to develop its employees’ potential on both a professional and personal level. In 2011, the Company invested in a range of initiatives to enhance the value and well-being of its professional workforce and the quality of services offered to them. Corporate University Since 2008, the objective of the CPFL Energia Corporate University has been to prepare internal succession and identify initiatives for developing business at the subsidiary companies, by providing training to the Company’s employees and leadership. The Corporate University is structured into three schools – Specializations, Market and Customer, and Leadership – with their content organized into learning paths. These schools also have a support structure in the form of the Corporate Training and Support Training programs; both contain learning units considered important and necessary for employee development. In 2011, these initiatives provided a total 539,492 training hours, equivalent to 71.19 hours per employee. School / Program Training Hours in 2011 Training Hours / Employee Specialization 96,766 25.09 Market and 93,526 12.34 Customer Leadership 2,748 4.46 Support Training 36,635 4.83 Corporate Training 53,561 7.07 Requalification 256,160 33.80 CPFL Energia 539,492 71.19 161 Sustainability Learning Paths Offered by the schools of the Corporate University, learning paths include a range of solutions and teaching methods that aim to develop the skills – knowledge, abilities and attitudes – required by employees for optimum performance in their everyday professional activities. Instruction is based on the key processes of the three business units (Distribution, Generation and Energy Management) and cover the different hierarchical levels that these processes involve. There are nine paths divided among the three schools, covering the following subjects: Network Maintenance, Projects and Works, Plant Operation, Finance, Customer Service, Energy Management and Leadership (executives, managers and leaders). There is also the Corporate Training Path aimed at new employees. It consists of 8 e-learning courses which cover themes related to the business, customers, benefits, certifications, and others. This format provides an innovative substitute for the Company Induction Program. Support Training CPFL Energia’s training division also offers employees the Support Training tool. It is a professional retraining program, created in partnership with the labor unions and is a result of the collective labor agreement in force. It aims to refresh and refine the professional skills of employees for enhanced performance in their company roles. It is implemented at CPFL Paulista, CPFL Piratininga, CPFL Geração, CPFL Brasil, CPFL Santa Cruz and CPFL Jaguariúna. CPFL Opportunities Program ■■ One of CPFL Energia’s principles is to value differences, an attitude that encourages respect and a sense of citizenship and contributes to a fairer society. As a result, it has been running its Opportunities Program for the inclusion of people with special needs since 2005. This initiative is designed to prepare selected candidates for the labor market through educational training. Participants spend four hours a day working at the Company and a further four at Campinas State University (Unicamp) studying a subject that complements their training. There is also the option to attend further courses, as long as they are related to their training. CPFL Diversity Enhancement Program The concepts underscoring CPFL’s Diversity Enhancement Program, created in 2003, are a respect for differences and discouragement of 162 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia all forms of harassment and social discrimination. To this end, it has adopted a plan to encourage the hiring of Afro-descendants, women, and those with special needs, with an additional focus on people aged over 45 and/or those that have been unemployed for more than two years. Personal Value Since 2001, CPFL Energia has been using the Personal Value management system, which adopts a 360° performance appraisal system for executives, department heads and managers, and a 90° system for leaders and other employees, to allow analysis of the all-round performance of its employees at their different levels of interaction. The model is strongly linked to the Company’s values. Firstly, because the qualities assessed are a reflection of the Group’s principles: innovation, entrepreneurial spirit, passion for winning, excellence in processes, focus on the customer, commitment to sustainability, focus on results, commitment to value creation, vision of the future, people management and inspiring leadership. Furthermore, it is closely linked to the Company’s values because the appraisal and performance process also includes aspects such as value creation, trust and respect, commitment and going the extra mile. Personal Value is run annually for all employees. This allows for a more complete picture of the corporation’s personnel structure. Health, safety and quality of life CPFL Energia possesses a Specialized Safety Engineering and Occupational Medicine service, based in Campinas but with decentralized operations. It includes a total of four of its own occupational health centers and over 35 doctors and partner clinics, distributed strategically across the Company’s concession areas. These preventive actions are promoted by the Safety Engineering, Workplace Medicine and Quality of Life areas and are over and above the requirements of law. In the health area, for instance, laboratory examinations are offered annually to check for ‘silent’ chronic diseases before symptoms become apparent. In addition to informing the CPFL Group’s health framework, the results also provide indicators for future health promotion activities. CPFL Energia also has the services of the Internal Accident Prevention Commissions (CIPAs). In addition to complying with legal requirements, the Company encourages commission members to disseminate workplace safety and healthy quality of life practices. Through training sessions, talks, workshops and other activities, the CIPAS disseminate information to increase employee engagement and awareness. 163 Sustainability At the end of 2011, there were 49 CIPAs operating at CPFL Energia with total membership of 479 in the following Group companies: CPFL Paulista, CPFL Piratininga, RGE, CPFL Santa Cruz, CPFL Brasil, CPFL Geração, CPFL Jaguari, CPFL Mococa, CPFL Leste Paulista and CPFL Sul Paulista. As part of the Quality of Life Program, employees in Campinas, Bauru and Ribeirão Preto in upstate São Paulo, and Caxias do Sul and Passo Fundo in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, have a company fitness and sports center at their disposal free of charge, offering weight training equipment, a gym and cardiovascular workout machines. Workers in these towns also have on offer workplace exercises aimed at preventing occupational illnesses (such as RSI and other work-related injuries) and promoting a healthy and relaxed working environment. At other units arrangements have been made with outside fitness centers for monthly membership at subsidized rates. There are also special arrangements in place with spas and farm hotels that offer employees and their family members monthly discounts. Speak to Me Created in 2006, the Speak to Me Program is a psycho-social support service to assist with personal problems, typically those of a legal, financial, psychological or social nature. It is available to employees of CPFL Paulista, CPFL Piratininga, CPFL Brasil and CPFL Geração and their immediate families. Treatment is confidential and available round-the-clock via a toll-free number which directs the caller to the area for which guidance is requested. Since its inception, over 2 thousand issues have been handled and resolved. The Program has been given positive feedback in employee satisfaction surveys. Benefits Program At CPFL Paulista, CPFL Piratininga, CPFL Geração and CPFL Brasil, employees linked to the CESP Foundation receive fringe benefits in line with best labor market practices, namely pension plans, medical insurance, food and travel vouchers, daycare allowance and profit sharing. For these employees, the Company also offers personal loans; life, home and vehicle insurance; and specific health-related reimbursements. 164 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia RGE RGE employees receive benefits such as pension plan, medical insurance with dental assistance, meal and food vouchers, salary advances, daycare allowance, personal/payroll debit loans, profit sharing, life insurance, subsidized medication, school kit, refund of driver’s license costs, post-vacation bonus and assistance for those with special needs. ■■ Study grants are also offered annually for technical, graduate, postgraduate, MBA and Master’s degree courses. Other CPFL Energia companies CPFL Santa Cruz offers a pension plan, medical, hospital and dental assistance, and food and travel vouchers. In addition, employees enjoy benefits such as personal loans, personal and accident insurance also extended to spouses, subsidized medication purchases, study grants and travel assistance to and from place of study. The CPFL Jaguari, CPFL Mococa, CPFL Leste Paulista and CPFL Sul Paulista distributors offer their employees a pension plan, medical, hospital and dental assistance, meal and food vouchers, subsidized medication purchases, vacation loans, life insurance and workplace exercises. Company employees also benefit from agreements with universities and language schools. Temporary employees have the right to medical and hospital treatment, a basic basket of goods plus travel vouchers through an intermediary company used by CPFL Energia. At other companies in which CPFL Energia has a stake, employees are offered benefits in line with market practices and which comply with all legal requirements. 165 Sustainability 4.2.2.3. Safety GRI GRI EU16 EU24 GRI GRI EU25 LA7 CPFL has a deep-seated commitment to offering a safe and healthy GRI GRI working environment. Its constant efforts in this direction include sysPR1 SO1 tematic monitoring of the accident Frequency Rate (FR) and Degree of Severity (DS) at its companies. The Frequency Rate monitors the number of accidents relative to employee numbers and the Degree of Severity measures the number of work days lost as a result of workplace accidents. A comparison of the Frequency Rate and Degree of Severity for 2011 with the three previous years (see Table 1) shows an increase in the number of accidents, with more pronounced severity at two companies. As a result, CPFL Energia has ramped up its preventive procedures for 2012 in an attempt to reverse the situation and reach its ultimate goal: a zero accident rate. Table 1 – Four yearly scores for Frequency Rate (FR) and Degree of Severity (DS) at the CPFL Energia Group companies. FREQUENCY RATE AND DEGREE OF SEVERITY AMONG EMPLOYEES – 2008-2011 COMPANY 2008 2009 2010 FR DS FR DS FR DS FR DS CPFL Energia 1.45 118 1.32 487 1.17 54 2.14 1,468 CPFL Paulista 1.89 210 1.09 975 0.94 55 2.72 2,137 CPFL Piratininga 0.41 6 1.24 9 0 0 0.87 63 CPFL Geração 0 0 7.67 234 0 0 0 0 CPFL Brasil 4.63 14 0 0 3.77 19 0 0 RGE 1.51 81 1.83 96 1.52 63 2.39 84 CPFL Santa Cruz 1.64 23 0 0 5.68 336 3.82 11,703 CPFL Jaguariúna 0 0 0 0 1.81 5 0 0 All serious accidents are submitted to the Accidents Investigation and Analysis Group (AIAG) which aims to identify both their immediate and underlying causes, as well as any shortcomings and control failures in everyday work practices. The AIAG is formed of CPFL employees involved with the accident – and often includes the person affected by the accident – and other professionals such as safety technicians and 166 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia engineers, leaders and managers of the area in which the accident occurred. It is this Group’s responsibility to issue a report to management so that the identified causes can be remedied. To this end, 2011 saw the purchase of new equipment with upgraded safety features and the launch of the Behavioral Dialog program, which aims to eliminate unsafe procedures through a new culture based on proactive attitudes toward situations of risk. Accident prevention in the community CPFL Energia’s concern for safety also extends to the communities served by the Group’s distributors. Electric shock has been identified as the principal cause of accidents involving inhabitants of the communities served by the Group’s distributors. The majority of problems involve the handling of antennae near wires, children flying kites and agricultural equipment operating under transmission lines and networks. Consequently, CPFL has taken various initiatives to remind the public of the risks involved in using electricity and to increase consumer awareness of the necessary precautions for preventing accidents. In 2011, the Safety, Health and Quality of Life Division continued the process of standardizing its practices across all Group companies. The Group’s partnership with the Civil Construction Union of the State of São Paulo has developed and now involves holding lectures on accident prevention in construction. The Company also enhanced its preventive actions aimed at the population at large by organizing another edition of its annual Public Electricity Accident Prevention Week (PEAPW). The event is designed to disseminate knowledge on the safe use of electricity and child safety around the electric network and saw a total audience of over 140 thousand in 2011, through a range of activities (including talks, distribution of educational material and videos) held in schools, organizations and companies in 108 cities. The importance of safety was further emphasized by holding the PEAPW simultaneously with the VI National Electricity Safety Week, which is an initiative of the Brazilian Electricity Distributors’ Association (ABRADEE), an institution that represents 41 electricity distributors, from the publicand private-sector, acting across all the regions of Brazil. The CPFL Group inserted messages on its electricity bills, taking ABRADEE’s own communication campaign to 6.8 million consumers. The actions mentioned above did not lead to a fall in fatalities (see Table 2), but they helped stabilize the overall number of victims. 167 Sustainability Table 2 – Four-yearly figures for accidents involving members of the community. NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS AND FATALITIES IN THE COMMUNITY – 2008-2011 COMPANY 2008 2009 2010 ACCIDENTS FATALITIES ACCIDENTS FATALITIES ACCIDENTS FATALITIES ACCIDENTS FATALITIES CPFL Energia 59 14 50 12 45 14 45 15 CPFL Paulista 36 10 13 3 23 6 25 6 CPFL Piratininga 8 1 13 2 11 3 5 2 CPFL Leste Paulista 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 CPFL Sul Paulista 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 RGE 13 3 19 4 11 5 13 6 CPFL Santa Cruz 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 CPFL Jaguari 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 Mococa 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 CPFL Energia Group companies are appropriately prepared in the prevention of electricity-related accidents as well as the mitigation of any adverse effects in the event of an occurrence. The Group’s prevention and emergency service procedures have been formulated with the safety of all interested parties in mind: employees, service providers, consumers and the general public. Accidents and fatalities of service users involving company assets (2011) Company Severity No. Law suits CPFL Jaguariúna Fatal 1 CPFL Leste Paulista Fatal 1 CPFL Piratininga Serious 3 Fatal 2 CPFL Paulista Low 12 Serious 7 2 Fatal 6 Low 2 CPFL Santa Cruz Low 27 RGE Fatal 2 Health and safety in product and service life cycles The CFPL Group adopts a range of measures designed to provide working environments that are ever more healthy and safe. The intrinsic risks related to the generated product (electricity) and the service provided (electricity supply) are assessed at the following stages of their life cycles: concept development, research and development, certification, production/ generation, marketing, distribution and supply, use and service, disposal, reuse and recycling. 168 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia All of the organization’s business segments are concerned with the health and safety of their employees, partners and communities in their activities and work processes, controlling and mitigating risks and seeking continual improvement. In addition, all services and activities provided are subject to the standards and resolutions of ANEEL, which regulates the sector and its relationship with the communities in the concession areas, covering the quality and reliability of services, moderate tariff rates, safety of supply and the dissemination of information on usage, clarity and transparency of information supplied, access channels to the company, etc. Hence, distributors fulfill their respective concession contracts by investing constantly in ongoing improvements to services, through research and development and energy efficiency programs, for instance. Additionally, the distributors also invest in communications, and cultural, social and environmental activities. All these programs aim to provide constant improvements to services rendered and to the safety of employees, partners and communities. Contingency plans CPFL Energia has prepared contingency plans for situations and events which impact the continuity and quality of electricity supply and/or provoke financial loss and may threaten employees, customers, outsourced workers, property, the community and environment. Below, we cover the main contingency plans relating to three important areas of the company. Information Technology CPFL views internal information as organizational assets and has therefore installed mechanisms to guarantee its correct usage and adequate protection. The company has an Information Security Policy, a Guideline for Conduct in its Code of Ethics (4.3.4), as well as ISO certification 27001 incorporated in its Integrated Management System (IMS) implemented by four leading Group companies – CPFL Paulista, CPFL Piratininga, CPFL Geração and RGE. In line with these mechanisms, the Company has an Information Security Management System (ISMS) consisting of a group of guidelines, standards and procedures designed to protect the Group’s assets and guarantee the continuity of the businesses by minimizing possible damage and mitigating exposure of the assets to risk, while always taking into account confidentiality, integrity and availability. A system of categories and responsibilities is used for ensuring the control of rights and duties related to security. The categories are: responsible, depositary, and user. There must be an expressly designated person, responsible for any critical application, system 169 Sustainability or information, who decides on the classification sensitivity and the granting of user access. Depositaries take physical or logical possession of the information and are responsible for its safekeeping, implementation, operation and the maintenance of the safety measures established by the responsible person. Users are responsible for complying with all regulations relating to information security. All employees have access to specific documents in the EDM (Electronic Document Management system, strictly for internal use) such as the Manual for the ISMS, the Information Security Incidents Management Procedure, and the Information Security Guidelines, which describe the purpose, sphere of application, basic concepts, processes and valid controls for all business areas of the CPFL Group. A multidisciplinary Information Security Committee has been created to assess policies, standards and procedures related to the issue. Given that absolute security is impossible to achieve in practice, the Committee defines the acceptable risk level for the Group. Measures relating to disciplinary actions are analyzed by the Committee. CPFL’s Information Security Policy: “To protect CPFL’s information and that of our customers, shareholders, employees and partners, by complying with laws, regulations, contractual obligations, identifying and dealing with risk, as well as through actions in the areas of information technology and user guidance, so as to minimize the impact on the CPFL Group’s businesses.” Distribution CPFL Energia possesses procedures that are formally defined in documents covering the operation of the electricity distribution system and the necessary resources for re-establishing the network at various levels of emergency, whatever the cause. Computerized systems are used by the Operations Centers (OC) to control and manage planned and unplanned occurrences. The OCs are therefore the bodies tasked with the co-ordination, execution, authorization and supervision of works and services. The OCs’ remit also includes: continual monitoring of electrical parameters and the state of equipment; forecasting the likelihood of unfavorable weather conditions through use of satellite and radar imagery; defining and mapping contingency levels; alerting the company departments involved; activating additional internal resources; requisitioning the required number of emergency crews; and coordinating the composition of a post-operational report assessing the contingency plans. 170 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Emergency crews of electricians and vehicles supplied with tools, materials and equipment, as mentioned in the Electrician’s Manual, are activated and allocated for field duties. Other company areas impacted by emergency situations include call centers, government authorities, major clients and corporate communications. They are therefore involved in the process and are given specific activities and responsibilities. In the area of safety of employees and communities, other wide-ranging preventive and corrective measures are coordinated by the Health, Safety and Quality of Life division, as described in 4.2.2.2 Human Resources Management. Generation The contingency plans for the generating plants cover a range of emergency scenarios and their respective responses. Examples are: ■■ Accidents involving chemicals in the reservoir ■■ Airplane crash landing ■■ Landslide of rocks onto the access route to the dam wall, blocking vehicle route to the powerhouse ■■ Landslide onto Highway SC564 in the Anita Garibaldi – power plant direction, blocking vehicle access ■■ Forest fires ■■ Bursting of dam or formation of cracks ■■ For each situation, specific company areas and other agents should be activated and, in all cases, ANEEL (National Electric Sector Agency) must be informed. Each year, safety engineers provide training to all employees and fixed outsourced workers covering the procedure for each emergency scenario. In 2011, the effectiveness of training was certified in accordance with OHSAS 18001. If the training is classified as “not effective” it must be repeated. The leader of the emergency brigade co-ordinates the simulation of the emergency scenarios covered. The training schedule is divided into groups and occurs according to an annual calendar. The Group also has an Emergency Action Plan for SHPs (Small Hydro Plants), which since August have been transferred to CPFL Renováveis, identifying and establishing emergency measures and procedures. A sophisticated generation operations center (GOC) is responsible for the command, control and supervision of the plants, in real-time via satellite, which allows speed in decision-making and activating the necessary entities in emergency situations. Training in safety measures occurs annually and includes fire-prevention precautions, First Aid and NR10 (specific to the electric sector). 171 Sustainability Four Group companies are certified under OHSAS 18001 for occupational health and safety management, indicative of corporate concern for the physical integrity of employees and partners. CPFL Paulista, CPFL Piratininga and RGE discos are certified for their energy distribution and commercialization processes and CPFL Geração for its hydraulic energy generation activities. The main corporate risks are also managed by the Risk Management, Internal Control and Consolidated Processes Department. A description of the work processes can be found under 3.3.4 Risk. 172 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 4.2.3. Community Philanthropic Hospitals Modernization Operating since 2005 in philanthropic hospitals in Group companies’ sphere’s of activity, the CPFL Philanthropic Hospital Modernization Program’s purpose is to improve management performance and the quality of health services provided to the population. To this end, it offers training using the Management Excellence Model (MEM) of the National Quality Foundation (FNQ) for hospital managers and workers. The Program also encourages the formation of networks and diagnoses work required for improving the energy efficiency of hospital buildings, such as the substitution of internal lighting and the updating of electrical installations. Program participants are periodically audited by the Hospital Quality Commitment (CQH). The year 2011 saw planning for a new growth cycle of the Program to benefit 40 hospitals between 2012 and 2014, located in 28 municipalities in the Campinas and São José do Rio Preto regions. In all, over 3.2 million people could be potential beneficiaries. During the year the publication Good Practices for a Better Hospital was launched in order to share the methodologies and know-how resulting from the Program with all the health institutions in Brazil. Find out more >>www.cpfl.com.br/sustentabilidade Support for Municipal Child and Adolescent Rights Councils A partnership with the Municipal Child and Adolescent Rights Councils of CPFL Energia’s areas of influence, this Program supports projects for assisting children and adolescents using revenue from tax breaks, as per Law 8069/1990, the Child and Adolescent Statute (ECA). In 2011, the Company donated R$ 2.5 million to social organizations providing assistance to children and adolescents. This benefited 282 organizations in 135 municipalities in its areas of operation. Find out more >> www.cpfl.com.br/cmdca 173 Sustainability CPFL Volunteer Program The CPFL Volunteer Program was launched in 2004 for encouraging employee participation in the Company’s voluntary activities, thereby maximizing the effectiveness of its social activities. There were three major activities in 2011: ■■ Winter clothes campaign: a traditional CPFL Energia activity. It involved employees at six Group companies and benefited 30 organizations and around 1,600 people through the donation of 16,151 items. ■■ Doing Good Day: an annual event run by the Camargo Corrêa Group, whereby employees, family members and partner companies conduct voluntary work. In CPFL’s first participation, around 1,200 volunteers from 7 Group companies took part, forming 15 committees in 13 towns. Over 780 people in 16 organizations benefited. ■■ Clean Brazil Let’s Do It: an initiative organized by Atitude Brasil that asks people to clean their towns for one day and encourages reflection on changing habits about littering streets. In 2011, this activity was run in 7 cities with over one million inhabitants (Campinas, Goiânia, Rio de Janeiro, Brasília, Belo Horizonte, Guarulhos and São Paulo). The Campinas initiative involved 12 thousand people and the collection of 400 tons of garbage. CPFL Energia’s participation included 30 volunteers who collected 1.6 tons of trash in just one day. Campinas Commitment to Education (CCE) CPFL Energia supports the Campinas Commitment to Education (CCE), an initiative that began in 2007 from the nationwide All for Education movement and which aims to unite the public and private sectors, not-for-profit organizations and civil society through projects and programs for improving the quality of education. It has five goals to be met by 2022: ■■ 1. All children and adolescents aged 4 to 17 will attend school ■■ 2. All children aged 8 will be able to read and write ■■ 3. All children will be taught at a level appropriate for their school Grade ■■ 4. All pupils will finish primary and high school ■■ 5. Guaranteed and well-managed investment in basic education The Company is one of the eight constituting corporate members of the movement and is also represented on the Corporate Committee. 174 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia In 2011, the Company held the event entitled ‘An Eye On The Goals’ at the CPFL Cultura space, where information was presented on progress towards reaching the five established education goals, and municipaland national-level public education figures. The 2nd Education Week, an initiative that celebrates Education Day, took place on April 28, with a range of free events designed to engage civil society with the cause of improving public education. CPFL publicized the initiative internally. Also in 2011, the Company provided a jury member for the My Family At School creative writing competition. Find out more >> www.compromissocampinas.org.br and www.todospelaeducacao.org.br Numerous environmental programs run by CPFL’s power plants also involve and impact positively on the surrounding communities. See more at: 4.3.3.3 Programs at the Plants 175 Sustainability 4.2.4. Value Chain Ethics in the Supply Chain GRI GRI EC6 HR6 GRI GRI HR7 4.16 GRI GRI 4.17 EC6 The CPFL Energia Ethics Management and Development System is not restricted to its in-house stakeholders and senior management. GRI GRI HR1 HR2 It extends through the Company’s entire relationship network chain with suppliers playing an important role propagating the System. With its wide scope of operations, the Company also makes efforts to disseminate ethical principles through its relationship network and in particular, among suppliers which have been taking part in periodic meetings with company employees since 2002. CPFL MORE VALUE AWARD In 2011, CPFL held the 5th edition of the annual CPFL More Value Award, which assessed the performance of 281 suppliers of CPFL Energia’s materials and services and selected 49 companies that demonstrated excellence in their processes. By examining the performance of suppliers against a range of criteria such as quality, punctuality, safety, respect for the environment and social responsibility, this award encourages our partners to adopt the best sustainable practices. Also in 2011, two new categories aimed at biomass suppliers were introduced: Equipment and Services. VALUE NETWORK CPFL created the Value Network Program in 2003 with the objective of encouraging the flow of sustainability concepts through its value chain. Initially directed at suppliers, the Program was extended in 2010 to further include customers and electric sector partners with suppliers in common with CPFL Energia. In 2011, CPFL Energia continued its interaction and dialog with these customers and partners. It held seven meetings over the course of the year for the purpose of building up a knowledge bank and developing and sharing sustainability solutions with participating companies. Around 23 companies took part at each of these meetings and the exchange of experiences led to the creation of two collective projects: Management of Corporate Socio-environmental Impacts and Education for Sustainability. Both are at the development stage. The Value Network Program is run with the support of the 176 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia consultancy AMCE Negócios Sustentáveis. Since its inception, activities have included eight Annual Supplier Meetings, six workshops and a Meeting of CEOs at CPFL Energia, as well as roaming monthly meetings. SA 8000 In addition to these direct initiatives involving its partners, CPFL aims to ensure that its corporate values are shared with its supply chain through contractual items in agreements requiring compliance with the Code of Ethics and Corporate Conduct and Social Responsibility standard SA 8000, more particularly the campaign against child labor and the use of forced labor or labor analogous to slave labor. Service provider and materials supplier contracts also contain an exclusive clause covering the Code of Ethics in hiring processes, so that the Code can also be communicated to their employees, agents, representatives and subcontracted workers. Also included here are investment contracts, such as, for example CCM (Network Construction and Maintenance) contracts for maintaining and improving the electric network in the concession areas. In 2011, the CPFL Group had around 10,000 active supplier agreements, of which 6,100 were in effect for at least six months and 3,150 for the entire year. All agreements include clauses relating to human rights. The breakdown of the CPFL Group’s suppliers in 2011 is as follows: ■■ 7,285 decentralized active suppliers, in other words with full supplier status according to Supplier Registry criteria, that could be directly contracted up to a limit of R$ 5,000.00 ■■ 3,412 centralized active suppliers, in other words companies contracted directly by the Supply Department, as the value of their agreements was more than R$ 5,000.00. Each agreement is assigned a dedicated manager from the contracting area, responsible for compliance with all contractual clauses, including those referring to the CPFL Code of Ethics. Centralized suppliers are termed “A Suppliers” or “Critical” by the Company. This classification is given to those suppliers who jointly account for 80% of the CPFL Group’s overall billing. This group is formed of 153 companies with labor-intensive workforces, such as CCM (network construction and maintenance), TCS (technical and commercial services), BRD (bill reading and delivery), RCL (recovery of commercial losses), tree pruning, turn-key (services, equipment 177 Sustainability and materials), reverse chain and equipment recovery (transformers and/or integrated lighting). Two simultaneous campaigns were carried out with “A Suppliers”: ■■ a) one specific action to communicate and monitor the SA 8000 criteria with their own suppliers, that is CPFL Group’s sub-suppliers; ■■ b) another to monitor 23 of 153 “A Suppliers” more intensely (15% of the total), that received visits and were assessed on aspects of human rights. These 23 companies make up all CPFL Energia’s suppliers for CCM, TCS, RCL, BRD and pruning. These assessments identified points for improvement and resulting action plans were jointly drafted. There were no cancellations of either agreements or accreditations for any of the companies involved. 178 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 4.2.5. Reflection and Debate 4.2.5.1 CPFL Cultura CPFL Energia established CPFL Cultura in 2003 to enhance its presence in society through cultural initiatives. CPFL Cultura now operates one of Brazil’s most significant programs for reflecting on the state of the contemporary world. Through a diverse offering it seeks to create connections between well-known artists and intellectuals and a wide variety of audiences in order to organize theories, transform information into knowledge and generate experiences. All of CPFL Cultura’s activities are offered free of charge and create opportunities for developing a broad, pluralistic world view and giving individuals and institutions the baggage to deal with complex situations an inclusive, responsible practice that contributes towards sustainability. Over the course of 2011, around 20 thousand people took part in these activities. They included: ■■ CPFL Coffee with Philosophy. At the CPFL head offices in Campinas, 28 lectures were held, with a total attendance of 5 thousand people. As well as being open to the public, these events were broadcast by TV Cultura and on the CPFL Cultura website <www. cpflcultura.com.br> in real-time, which attracted an average online audience of 600 per lecture; ■■ Highlights of the 2011 program were four International Coffee with Philosophy events – a new format, featuring the participation of well-known contemporary intellectuals. Two were recorded in Campinas with the French philosopher Luc Ferry and the US literary critic Fredric Jameson. In São Paulo, there was a session with French sociologist Edgar Morin. There was also a CPFL Cultura Special Edition recorded overseas in Leeds, United Kingdom, with renowned Polish sociologist Zygmunt Bauman; ■■ There were 53 broadcasts of the CPFL Coffee with Philosophy program on TV Cultura, with an average 1.5 audience rating in the greater São Paulo area (IBOPE); ■■ Invention of the Contemporary. A series of television programs covering recent social and scientific trends in the contemporary world 179 Sustainability that had 52 screenings on TV Cultura with an average audience rating of 1.0 in the greater São Paulo area (IBOPE). ■■ The combined Invention of the Contemporary and the Coffee with Philosophy programming audience over the course of 2011 was equal to a monthly average of 1 million viewers. ■■ Movie Retrospective. CPFL Cultura took the best movies of 2010 to Campinas. It held 32 screenings and one round table with a total audience of 1,700; ■■ Contemporary Classical Music. This weekly music program that has featured since 2003 at CPFL Cultura in Campinas attracted an audience of over 1,600 to 28 concerts in 2011. These concerts were used to air 54 editions of the Live CPFL Concerts radio show, transmitted weekly by Rádio Cultura on Sundays at 9 pm; ■■ Children’s Theater. In Campinas, 50 children’s plays were performed with a total audience of over 7 thousand; ■■ Over 2 thousand people came to the film screenings in 2011 covering the behavioral themes debated during the Coffee with Philosophy program, such as love, sex, the masculine and feminine, new families, children, among others. Over the year, CPFL Cultura ran 82 screenings and two round tables. 180 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 4.2.5.2 Domestic and international forums In order to remain current with key sustainability trends and to play a leading role in the development of this issue, CPFL seeks to participate actively in domestic and international forums for dialog on this subject, both in a domestic arena, such as through the Sustainable Planet initiatives, and internationally, principally in events related to the development of a low carbon economy. CPFL Energia at the COP-17 In 2011, CPFL was an official member of the Brazilian delegation at the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP-17), an annual event that is considered the most important worldwide forum on climate change issues. Held in Durban, South Africa, it included over 10 thousand participants from over 200 countries who discussed the future of the Kyoto Protocol and the carbon credit market. The event agenda also examined the implementation of the Green Climate Fund for financing projects to mitigate and adapt to climate change in developing countries. It was the third consecutive year that CPFL has taken part in United Nations Conferences as an official member of the Brazilian delegation, alongside corporate leaders, representatives of other Brazilian companies, civil society and the press. On this occasion, the group was led by Environment Minister, Izabella Teixeira. Find out more >> http://unfccc.int/meetings/durban_nov_2011/meeting/6245.php Sustainable Planet One of the channels that CPFL uses to communicate its sustainability initiatives, including R&D and the environment, is the Sustainable Planet, Brazil’s largest communication platform for these issues. An initiative of the Abril Publishing Group, it disseminates information and benchmarks on sustainability through publication of reports on related issues in 38 of the Group’s magazines. This material is also accessible on the project’s web portal, in addition to 4 thousand items of exclusive content. The Sustainable Planet project also runs aware181 Sustainability ness campaigns in publications and holds events, such as Planet in the Park, held in Ibirapuera Park, in the city of São Paulo. At these events, thousands of people are introduced to more sustainable behaviors through shows and workshops. It is estimated that since its creation in 2007, the Sustainable Planet project has reached an annual audience in excess of 15 million, the estimated readership/audience of its magazines, websites, events and social networks according to the Abril Publishing Group. CPFL Energia has supported the project since its inception. It is also a member of its Advisory Council, a group consisting of professionals and specialists from numerous sectors with a recognized track record in sustainability-related issues. Find out more about Sustainable Planet by going to the website www. planetasustentavel.com.br 182 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 4.3. Environment 4.3.1. Investments GRI GRI 4.11 EN14 GRI SO1 In order to grow and ensure its continued existence, the CPFL Energia Group seeks to extract maximum benefit from its electric energy operations while causing the least environmental impact from its operations, thus contributing to sustainable development. In this context, in 2011 the Company’s investments in environmental initiatives and projects totaled R$ 105.125 million (Social Report). In comparison with 2010, the total for this year has fallen by 42%, as shown in the table below. This change is due primarily to the construction of HPP Foz do Chapecó, which was concluded in 2011. In previous years, during the period of plant construction, a greater investment was necessary to develop a series of environmental actions such as reforestation and the recovery of fauna and flora, as well as relocation of infrastructure and resettlement of local communities. CPFL ENERGIA* INVESTMENTS IN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION – 2007-2011 (R$ THOUSAND) INVESTMENT TYPE 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Investments in company operations/ 50,524 126,362 90,146 89,658 43,402 production Investments in external programs and 12,150 44,425 69,185 92,516 61,723 projects Total 62,674 170,787 159,331 182,175 105,125 *Consolidated. Source: IBASE. CPFL Energia Investments* in Environmental Protection – 2007-2009 126,362 92,516 90,146 50,524 89,658 69,215 43,402 61,723 44,425 12,150 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Investments in company operaons/ producon Investments in external programs and projects *Consolidated., Source: IBASE 183 Sustainability 4.3.2. Environmental Impact GRI EN12 Environmental Impacts of Energy Distribution and Generation The activities of an energy company co-exist with the environment in a very close relationship, the intensity of which varies according to the source used for electricity generation. Development of the infrastructure required for power generation can involve, for instance, changing water courses and flooding areas necessary for the formation of reservoirs. These actions can affect a region’s biological (fauna and flora) and physical environments. Electricity transmission and distribution activities can lead to the pruning or clearance of vegetation, especially with the installation of new projects that impact areas of native plant life. Depending on the scale of a project, they can cause significant damage to fauna, flora and even soil conservation. Aware of this, CPFL Energia makes particular efforts to identify and minimize the possible impacts that could be caused from its energy generation, distribution and transmission activities, caused either by the installation or operation of its assets. For this reason, it seeks alternatives that do not alter the ecosystems of which they are a part. Among the distributors, only one Term of Conduct Adjustment (TCA) was signed in 2011. This was between CPFL Piratininga and the Public Prosecutor’s Office of Sorocaba-SP, following tree pruning services conducted in a manner diverging from the standard defined by the local Environment Agency. 184 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 4.3.2.1. Distribution GRI GRI EN26 EU6 GRI GRI EU18 EU23 CPFL Energia operates in the distribution segment in a concession area that covers four states in Brazil with eight distribution companies, together serving around 7 million customers. To reduce the environmental impact caused by providing these services, CPFL principally uses public rights of way and avoids installing its electrical structures outside urbanized areas, so as to preserve biodiversity in areas that are relatively untouched. The Company runs an Urban Road Tree Planting Program that aims to encourage improved coexistence of electricity distribution networks alongside urban vegetation. See Environmental Programs 4.3.3.1 The materials used in building these structures are also specially selected by the Company. Wood used for the installation and substitution of cross arms must be accompanied by a certificate of origin, as demanded by the Brazilian Environment and Renewable Natural Resources Institute (IBAMA). See 4.3.4.1 in Management of Resource and Materials Usage The concern for minimizing possible modification to the ecosystem extends to the installation of energy distribution and transmission lines. As the main environmental impact caused by these assets involves the pruning or removal of vegetation, in the planning stages the Company always prioritizes transmission line routes that avoid crossing areas of native vegetation. Similar precautions are taken by CPFL Energia in the operation of its assets by seeking viable alternatives to actions which could affect fauna, flora or soil conservation, depending on their scale. Measures to mitigate these impacts are established with the relevant environmental bodies during the licensing process. 185 Sustainability 4.3.2.2. Generation GRI EN26 CPFL Energia operates in the energy generation segment through plants located in eight Brazilian states. With an installed capacity of 2,644 MW at the end of 2011, generation assets included hydroelectric, biomass-fired thermoelectric (sugarcane bagasse), fuel oil thermoelectric plants, and the small hydro plants (SHPs). All these projects have the appropriate environmental licenses issued by the relevant environmental authorities. In addition, all environmental initiatives are grouped into programs and consolidated into the Basic Environmental Project for each venture. The environmental protection agencies monitor implementation of the Projects during the licensing process. Initiatives such as these help mitigate and/or compensate, in accordance with the legal requirements of the environmental licensing process, the potential impacts that are characteristic of the electricity generation process, such as the damming of water courses and flooding of areas necessary for the formation of reservoirs, which may alter a region’s physical, biological and socio-economic characteristics. The impacts resulting from the construction and operation of hydroelectric plants are generally in proportion to the scale of the undertaking. For this reason, the SHPs do not impact significantly on local biodiversity as the flooded area is relatively small. Furthermore, as CPFL’s plants have been built for many years they are already well integrated into the environment. For large-scale projects, the flooding of forest areas for reservoir formation can lead to the reduction or removal of whole species and their habitats – in other words a potentially significant impact on biodiversity. For this reason, all undertakings are by law assessed by the relevant environmental protection agencies. Generation projects that harness hydraulic power are by nature installed in Areas of 186 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Permanent Preservation (APPs), not affecting therefore Conservation Units, whether federal, state or municipal. Flooded areas within CPFL’s areas of operation are in water bodies (rivers and reservoirs). Their APPs, whether or not they include native vegetation, are legally protected areas. 187 Sustainability 4.3.3. Environmental Programs To mitigate and/or compensate the environmental impacts that may be caused by CPFL’s activities in energy generation, distribution and transmission, a range of socio-environmental programs permeate the daily routine of Group companies. These initiatives are underscored by sustainability and are considered of low environmental impact, as well as historically causing little or no interference with the community. Depending on their specific nature, these actions may be started before a given project enters the construction stage, but there are cases where the duration of these activities extends to the commercial operations stage as well. 188 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 4.3.3.1 Urban Tree Planting Program This Program is designed to improve coexistence between vegetation and the electricity distribution network and other urban installations in the municipalities included in the Group subsidiaries’ concession areas. Among other activities, it distributes the CPFL Energia Urban Tree Planting Guide and donates seedlings of species suitable for planting in these circumstances. CPFL Energia runs three nurseries in upstate São Paulo, in the municipalities of Pedreira, São Joaquim da Barra and Macatuba with a total production capacity of 500 thousand seedlings/ year to meet the Program’s needs. In 2011, changes have been made to the Program which are expected to help it better serve municipal governments in the state of São Paulo. Among the changes, an electronic system has been introduced for donating seedlings and changes have been made to the technology for growing seedlings at the nurseries in line with the state government’s Green and Blue Municipality Program. Monitoring of donations has also begun in order to assess the planting of donated seedlings and see if they are fulfilling their intended role in the municipality. The aim is to reduce the need for pruning and removing urban tree cover, at the same time guaranteeing the quality of electricity distribution. In addition, the Program has the further benefits of providing appropriate tree coverage and the objective of raising awareness and education levels as to the importance of this issue. See the digital version of the Guide: http://www.cpfl.com.br/Portals/0/ pdf/Guia_Meio_Ambiente.pdf RGE has also been seeking to upgrade its efforts in urban tree planting. In 2011, it planted 1,866 native seedlings suitable for urban microclimates and planted on urban perimeters of 27 municipalities in the company’s concession area, along highways, squares and avenues with heavy pedestrian traffic. The concessionaire also donated 2,094 seedlings for urban planting to a further 17 municipalities. The RGE Urban Tree Planting Program has been running since 189 Sustainability 2004. Since then, over 3,360 seedlings have been planted in 60 municipalities in the company’s concession area. The project aims to fulfill the requirements for compulsory reforestation as a result of maintenance and expansion work to the Company’s electricity distribution network in line with the prevailing laws. RGE has reached agreements with the environmental bodies responsible for granting forest licenses for native tree felling, a pre-condition for these works. 190 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 4.3.3.2 Environmental Education School Ship Association Since 2002, CPFL has been a sponsor of the School Ship Association, a civil society organization of public interest (OSCIP) that aims to promote environmental education, particularly on issues relating to the protection, recovery and conservation of hydric resources in the Salto Grande reservoir at the Americana Plant, in upstate São Paulo. In 2011, over 30 thousand people of all ages took part in its activities, through projects such as Environmental Volunteers, Sailing the Waters of Knowledge and Young Citizen of Nature, which cover a range of different environmental topics, especially the conservation of water resources, aquatic biodiversity and hydraulic power generation. Training The Environment Department holds training courses on the potential environmental impact of the processes and activities carried out by employees and suppliers. They cover: Environmental Management System – ISO 14001; environmental aspects and impacts related to company activities; environmental controls; tree pruning techniques and reducing their impact to a minimum; waste management; prevention and control of oil spillage; selective waste collection; disposal of vapor/fluorescent light bulbs and disposable and rechargeable batteries; monitoring of vehicle fleet gas emissions; rational consumption, and others. Training is offered every year to numerous operating teams and support divisions, such as administrative support and service outlets. Similar training is also given to stakeholders, such as local government and service providers. In 2011, for example, lectures and presentations were made to students of state-owned universities, covering subjects relating to climate change, the environment and energy. 191 Sustainability E-learning Also in 2011, the CPFL Energia Group launched its Environment e-learning package, another tool to help train and raise awareness among employees. It consists of six modules, and the launch featured the first, on the issue of rational consumption. The aim at this stage is to promote reflection on increases in population and consumption, the scarcity of natural resources, wastage and personal actions that contribute to environmental quality inside and outside the Company. This module also includes an introduction to CPFL’s Environmental Management System and the role of all in improving performance. During 2012, a further five e-learning modules will be launched, dealing with processes and environmental management systems for energy generation and distribution, urban tree planting, legal requirements, licensing and environmental guidelines for suppliers. Employee Training at the Subsidiaries During the installation of transmission lines serving CPFL Bio Ipê and CPFL Bio Buriti, training was given to employees of the companies contracted to carry out the work. The training covered an explanation of the project being undertaken, the region’s main geographical and socio-environmental aspects, details of the requirements and conditions of the environmental license, preservation of fauna and flora, pollution control and care with contiguous communities. Two training sessions were held at CPFL Bio Ipê covering a total of 101 professionals. At CPFL Bio Buriti one session took place with 26 participants. At both work sites, all workers from the outsourced transmission line construction companies were given environmental training. 192 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Environment Week Every year, CPFL Energia runs a program of special events to celebrate National Environment Week in partnership with educators and supported by specialists in the area. The program consists of a range of activities involving discussion of significant topics for raising awareness on environmental issues. The theme of Environment Week 2011 was Renewable Energy and directed at educating in-house audiences on the ways in which renewables contribute to environmental conservation. Additionally, CPFL Energia also sought to disclose internally its initiatives to introduce innovative and energy efficient solutions to the sector as well as community benefits of specific actions such as reduced greenhouse gas emissions. During the week, other issues were covered, such as climate change, education on how to correctly plant tree species for a harmonious coexistence with electrical networks as well as raising environmental awareness among children and adolescents using everyday situations as a starting point for this instruction. Activities were also held for an children-young adolescent audience, such as movie screenings at the regional offices and School Nature Ship activities. Similarly, events were promoted among employees, including an opening show with the CO2 Zero Band, the donation of 3,000 seedlings, a story competition about seedlings donated from previous years, electric car test drives and movie screenings in partnership with CPFL Cultura. 193 Sustainability 4.3.3.3 Programs at the Plants GRI GRI EN13 EN14 GRI GRI EN26 EU13 The generation operations in which CPFL Energia participates GRI GRI adopt a range of environmental conservation actions and programs EU20 SO5 for mitigating environmental impacts. The programs fulfill commitments taken by the Company and its partners in generation projects during the licensing stage. These agreements focus mainly on actions for recovering and preserving local biodiversity. Some examples include: Plant visits This program has been running since 2006 at the generating companies, involving not only the in-house stakeholders, but society as a whole. During the visits, a range of environmental issues are covered, particularly those related to the conservation of water resources and, consequently, hydraulic power generation. In 2011, 407 people visited the CPFL Group’s small hydro plants. Resettlement and Expropriation One of the most significant impacts of the construction of a hydroelectric plant is the compulsory resettlement of families who, in one form or another, are required to abandon their homes. This is necessary when acquired land is used for the installation of the work site as well as areas to be flooded by the associated reservoir. Given the diversity of situations that relate to the resettlement of families for a project, the Brazilian electric sector has developed a number of alternative measures that aim to deal with the complex set of problems associated with the relocation of directly affected populations. During 2011, no resettlement or expropriation of persons or families took place since all relocation schemes were concluded in the first half of 2010. On the occasions when the resettlement of families was required, one of the strategies employed was the Resettlement Program for Directly Affected People, prepared by the company involved and submitted to the environmental licensing bodies in compliance with the conditions required under the environmental licensing process. The Resettlement Program for Directly Affected People was specifically designed to compensate for the impact of activities on the population, both socially and in their productive activities. The Program’s audience is the population that is directly affected by 194 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia the plant and has ties with the affected area, including: owners, squatters and non-owners such as leaseholders, partners, family dependents and economically independent children of owners and non-owners. This audience is established on the basis of the SocioEconomic Registry (CSE) survey conducted by plant management. The methods for relocating and meeting the needs of affected populations are the following: ■■ a) Indemnification: this is paid in good faith to owners and squatters. The amounts paid are calculated from a survey of prices in the surrounding area in conjunction with representatives of the affected families. ■■ b) Credit Note: this is given to the affected person for the acquisition of a rural property suited to their family size. All families that benefit from these Notes receive free technical and social assistance for two years. ■■ c) Collective Rural Resettlement: these projects are implemented to resettle groups of families in larger areas. Land is acquired for these families and each receives an individual plot of land with a house and barn, as well as vegetable garden, chicken house, hogs, breeder poultry stock and fruit tree saplings to form an orchard. The area allotted requires the prior approval of the families to be resettled and by the Movement for People Affected by Dams (MAB). In addition, technical and social assistance for families provided with land under Collective Rural Resettlement schemes extends to five years. Programs at Foz do Chapecó The assistance provided to families affected by the Foz do Chapecó hydroelectric plant went far beyond the requirements of the legislation and the conditions of the environmental license. Many of the benefits provided by Foz do Chapecó Energia were additional extras designed to promote local development, improve the quality of life of communities and increase the number of people benefiting from the project’s construction. The company sponsored scores of events to support the culture of the affected municipalities over the course of 2011. With an expenditure of R$ 120 thousand, many community events were made possible ranging from social gatherings for the older generation to Alcoholics Anonymous meetings. The hydro company also invested resources in improving the local population’s quality of life, such as the repair to the Uruguai River – Goio-En bridge on the RSC-480 highway at the Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina state border, an investment of over R$ 500 thousand. Foz do Chapecó also spent R$ 120 thousand on the construction of a clinic to serve families living in the 195 Sustainability Mangueirinha Collective Resettlement in the state of Paraná. Additionally, there were improvements made to the way the Forestry Police patrolling the region was organized. The Passo Fundo (RS) and Chapecó (SC) battalions received a total of around R$ 200 thousand which was spent on renovations and the purchase of materials and equipment. Further activities included support for community building improvements in locations such as Nonai (RS) and Águas de Chapecó (SC) – initiatives that received investments totaling R$ 53 thousand. In 2011 there was no resettlement or expropriation as the population relocation process was concluded in the first half of 2010 (the plant’s Operating License was granted by IBAMA/DF, License No. 949/2010 on August 25, 2010). Programs at ENERCAN – Campos Novos Energia (HPP Campos Novos) ENERCAN implemented its Social Responsibility Program to contribute to sustainable development in the municipalities surrounding the project, and improving the quality of life of their inhabitants. Over the course of 2011 it supported 35 social projects requiring investments of R$ 3.8 million, of which R$ 1.7 million was provided by the company. During the year it also restructured the Rural Development Fund (RDF), the latter being renamed the Sustainable Regional Development Fund (SRDF). The Fund is responsible for the distribution of resources for job and income creation projects in the municipalities within the plant’s sphere of influence. The SRDF additionally manages the projects and monitors their performance. Around R$ 2.4 million were invested in the development of 21 projects which benefited 417 families in the area around the plant. Additionally, R$ 321 thousand was invested in 72 houses built for families within HPP Campos Novos’ sphere of influence, thereby complying with the Instrument of Agreement signed with the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME), the Federal Public Ministry (MPF), the state of Santa Catarina Environmental Protection Agency (FATMA) and the Movement for People Affected by Dams (MAB). These resources relate to the discharge by agreement signed in 2011 by all the signatories to the Social Agreement, allowing the transfer of restated funds, thus definitively terminating the Instrument of Agreement signed in 2006. The company also executed environmental education activities including campaigns, lectures and tree planting at the schools in the area surrounding HPP Campos Novos in celebration of Tree Day. 196 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia During the year, 23 thousand seedlings were planted in 50 hectares of the Permanent Preservation Area (PPA) of HPP Campos Novos. For the third consecutive year, ENERCAN was one of the companies to win the Corporate Citizen Award, granted annually by the Sales and Marketing Directors Association of Brazil, state of Santa Catarina chapter. The award recognized the New Life case study, winning the Community Participation category and highlighting the results obtained from the population resettlement program. BAESA – Energética Barra Grande (HPP Barra Grande) BAESA gave its support to 23 social projects in the areas of education, environment, culture and sport with a total investment of R$ 2.6 million. The objective is to contribute to sustainable development of the municipalities in the plant’s surrounding areas and to improved quality of life for their inhabitants. The plant company also supported projects to strengthen farmers’ associations and co-operatives in the area. A total 41 projects received assistance, involving an outlay of R$ 2.5 million. Of this total, R$ 805 thousand was donated by BAESA. Among the environmental initiatives taken over the course of 2011, a highlight was the educators training course which included the Dyckia Distachya Plant Conservation and Stewardship program, run by the company in the region. The event was attended by 67 teachers, while a further 40 teachers and 3,600 students took part in seminars on water conservation. Again, in 2011, 99,568 seedlings were planted in the Permanent Preservation Area (PPA) of HPP Barra Grande, a grand total of 720 thousand seedlings having now been planted in the reservoir’s green belt. A further 22 thousand seedlings were donated to farmers, schools and local government. BAESA was one of the companies to win the Corporate Citizen Award with its Special People case study, which was selected in the Community Participation category. The award is given annually by the Sales and Marketing Directors Association of Brazil, state of Santa Catarina State chapter. Serra da Mesa – HPP Serra da Mesa In HPP Serra da Mesa’s sphere of influence, CPFL Geração contin197 Sustainability ued to support projects linked to the Development Fund for the North-Northeast region of the State of Goiás, a joint initiative with the Inter-American Development Bank, the Ministry of Mines and Energy, Furnas Centrais Elétricas, Tractebel Energia and the Brazilian Micro and Small Companies Support Service for the state of Goiás. The projects, involving associations of families benefiting from the scheme, are run in two rural properties located in Minaçu and Colinas do Sul, which were purchased by the companies participating in the Fund. A wide range of agricultural produce is grown there, such as rice, bananas, peppers, manioc and vegetables, in addition to the production of honey. The Fund also supports individual employment and income creation projects in urban and rural areas of the municipalities of Uruaçu e Niquelândia. CERAN The PROAMB Foundation conducted an environmental audit in 2011 of HPPs Monte Claro, Castro Alves and 14 de Julho and found CERAN to be in compliance with all the requirements under its operating licenses. In addition, it recognized that the company is managing its environmental impact control along the lines of the Environmental Impact Study (EIS) and Environmental Impact Report (EIR) that were produced following implementation of the environmental programs established under the Basic Environmental Project. INSTALLATION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION SYSTEM In November 2011 the University of Caxias do Sul concluded the installation phase of the Environmental Information System (EIS) for the hydroelectric assets located in the Taquari/Antas river basin, where CERAN is located. This environmental information system meets the requirements of the plants’ environmental licenses and gathers important information, including indicators, statistics and trends making for the ongoing analysis of changes to the environment and serving as a basis for decision-making. In addition, it also permits the management of data for monitoring climate conditions, water quality, and local fauna and their sub-groups for CERAN’s HPPs and PCHs located in the river basin. ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION CERAN’s Environmental Education Program ran sessions in 2011 on clarifying and developing ecologically correct practices including talks, ecological walks for Primary and High School Students, organizing and maintaining school vegetable patches, donation of local plant seedlings, the training of small nature protection agents, and volunteer river bank cleaning sessions. These initiatives impacted 198 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia around 20,000 people from the area around the plant over the year and since 2003 have been run by the Bentogonçalvense Natural Environment Protection Association, with whom CERAN has an agreement. CARBON CREDIT OPERATIONS Since 2001, when CERAN was constituted, the company has made efforts to develop projects for greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions. CERAN qualifies under UN-approved methodology, which considers hydro plants as eligible for carbon credit certification if they possess a density (flooded area x power generated) equal to or more than 10 MW of installed capacity per km2. This criterion is met by CERAN’s plants, which operate using the run-of-river system with a low environmental impact. >>>> See more in 4.3.5.7 Environmental Control and Mitigation Actions CDM ■■ CERAN also supports and sponsors social actions that cover a broad range of topics and audiences, such as environmental awareness and education events, donation campaigns, and sporting events among others, with a focus on the municipalities surrounding the Rio das Antas Energy Complex. 199 Sustainability 4.3.3.4 CPFL Renováveis Programs CPFL Renováveis possesses an operating portfolio of 651.7 MW that covers the wind, biomass and small hydro plant (SHP) energy segments. Its area of activity spans seven Brazilian states and roughly 40 municipalities. Its social and environmental programs consist of actions of geotechnical intervention and the inventory and monitoring of biodiversity (fish, fauna and flora). They also cover monitoring of water quality, recovery of affected areas, environmental education, social communications, as well as measures taken to support the communities contiguous to the company’s operations. These socio-environmental programs are developed in accordance with the projects’ generation source (hydraulic, wind or biomassfired) and location. In programs for recovery of degraded areas and reforestation, for instance, only forest species belonging to the dominant biome are used. Similarly, actions directed at neighboring communities seek to respect their main cultural features and avoid affecting the identities or lifestyles of the inhabitants. Among the programs, highlights are: SOCIAL COMMUNICATION PROGRAM (all projects) Directed at representatives of the community in which a project is located, including public authorities, associations, non-governmental associations, among others. It is a channel for information exchange between the community and the energy project. ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION PROGRAM (all projects) Aims to provide the community with information and knowledge on the main socio-environmental issues for the region in which the SHP is located, also highlighting the importance of preserving the region’s natural habitat. This includes the distribution of environmental education primers, talks on themes linked to the local environment and visits to community schools for education 200 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia and awareness-raising among pupils. The most frequently covered topics are waste and recycling, soil conservation, area conservation, river silting, the use and conservation of water, in addition to biodiversity. SOCIO-ECONOMIC FEATURES MONITORING PROGRAM (all projects) This seeks to monitor any socio-economic changes resulting from a project’s installation and operation, and formulate actions in partnership with the community and municipal authorities. It emphasizes issues such as production and land-ownership structures; the impact on demand for social services, and on local incomes and employment; community conflicts; and the development of tourism activities. In 2011 no resettlements occurred at the sites of the hydroelectric installations. However, during the year, there was a negotiated purchase of 18 properties with a corresponding area of 69.25 hectares, which was used to locate the reservoir, installations and APPs for SHP Salto Goes , located on the Peixe River in Tangará municipality, Santa Catarina state. Of the 18 acquisitions, only 3 families were resettled at other sites with the remainder either staying on the same property or on other areas of land belonging to the same property. WATER QUALITY MONITORING PROGRAM (SHPs) This includes measuring and defining the water quality of the river in question. Water courses are monitored at the installation stage in order to detect any changes to water quality resulting from construction work. Monitoring also comprises a study on Water Usage in the Reduced Water Flow Section in consultation with local residents for verification of interferences affecting water usage, as well as assessing the families’ ability to reside permanently in their present living and working locations. ANIMAL RECOVERY MONITORING PROGRAM (all projects) The objective of the program is to monitor the continuity of animal species during the project’s different stages (construction and operation). It uses a range of inventory techniques, such as direct observation, scientific trapping, mist nets, survey of animal traces (trails), mimicry of bird/animal sounds to define which species are present, and any resulting changes in populations and communities. The presence of rare, endemic or threatened species is checked, and their preservation status within the project’s surrounding area verified. This Program covers the Amphibian and Reptile, Bird, and Mammal Monitoring Programs and the Animal Rescue Program. The latter focuses on monitoring and rescuing animals that are displaced during the deforestation and reservoir filling processes. 201 Sustainability FISH MONITORING AND RECOVERY PROGRAM (SHPs) The Program monitors any changes to the fish population resulting from the transformation from a dry-land to a water-covered environment (i.e. from a lotic to a lentic ecosystem) in the construction of the SHPs. The results provide the basis for conservation measures for the local fish population. The program includes regular monitoring campaigns, with a comparison of results between the plant’s installation and operational phases. It also covers the Fish Recovery Program which occurs during the river diversion and reservoir filling processes. FLORA MONITORING AND RECOVERY PROGRAM (all projects) The existing vegetation cover in the area of the project is monitored through the collection of phyto-sociological, phenological and ecological information on the species inhabiting the region. It includes the Flora Rescue Program, which collects and rescues vegetable matter (such as fruits, seeds and cuttings) for planting in the areas of permanent preservation around the project installations. ARCHEOLOGY PROSPECTING AND HERITAGE EDUCATION (all projects) The archeology prospection program aims to carry out preventive surveys on the region’s archeological heritage through prospecting, visits, digs, and other activities. Following the prospecting, a heritage education program is rolled out to inform the region’s population on the importance of preserving historical and archeological heritage. CONSTRUCTION SITE ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROGRAM (all projects) This sets out measures to be adopted to minimize impact on the works site and to monitor their efficiency in order to reduce the risks of erosion and contamination of surface and ground water supplies. The Program’s actions aim to regulate deforestation activities, adequately channel rainwater, correctly dispose of domestic waste in appropriate sanitary drains, ensure treatment of domestic sewage and effluent containing suspended solids, oils and grease. WORKFORCE MOBILIZATION AND DEMOBILIZATION PROGRAM (all projects) Aims to establish mechanisms for mobilizing and training regional labor for use in the project installation phase. As well as creating employment, training and education is provided to workers to allow 202 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia them to specialize, which also helps their professional placement in the labor market following the conclusion of works. HEALTH IMPACT PREVENTION PROGRAM (SHPs and Wind Farms) This exists for the implementation of activities to minimize or neutralize the negative impact caused by the project on the region’s health profile. These activities cover the monitoring and control of endemic conditions in the area and its impact on workers, their dependents, and the local population and floating population indirectly attracted by installation activities. It includes an outline of the local health services infrastructure that is responsible for providing site workers with medical services. RESERVOIR MARGIN ENVIRONMENTAL PRESERVATION AND USAGE PROGRAM (SHPs) This Program groups a set of guidelines and proposals for gradually creating greater discipline in the conservation, recovery, use and occupation of the reservoir margins. It is developed in conjunction with the community and complies with the specific environmental legislation (CONAMA 302/2002) on the issue. It includes the Master Plan, which sets out the permitted uses and activities for specific areas of the reservoir. 203 Sustainability 4.3.4. Management of Use of Resources and Materials To manage the environmental performance if its activities, CFPL Energia has a series of indicators in place to measure the consumption of natural resources resulting from its operations. Used to check and monitor its use of resources such as electricity, fuel, water and wood, these indicators also serve as a basis for planning future actions that contribute to the continual improvement of environmental performance. In addition to this set of indicators, Environment Management Software was also introduced in 2011 to assist the management of resource and materials usage. The tool will contribute by establishing environmental indicators which will aid decision making and therefore imbue Environmental Management with greater efficiency across the whole value chain. In this way, the Company will be able to reduce both its risk exposure and the likelihood of causing environmental impacts on the ecosystem, soil, atmosphere and water. 204 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 4.3.4.1 Consumption of Resources Water consumption reflects the requirements of day-to-day administrative activities, and supplies the basic needs of employees, for cleaning and air conditioning the work place. GRI GRI Water Consumption EN08 EN09 In 2011, total water consumed was 247,151 m3, of which 133,260 m3 GRI EN21 came from the public utility network and 113,891 m3 from wells. Given the nature of its business, the Company does not suffer significant water losses during usage. Therefore, we consider disposal (domestic effluent) to be equal to water consumption, with all disposal occurring via the municipal sewage treatment networks. The hydraulic power generation process does not involve water disposal. Sugarcane bagasse-fueled cogeneration projects use closed circuit water circulation systems. CPFL ENERGIA TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION (M3/YEAR) BY SOURCE PUBLIC UTILITY SUPPLY (M3/YEAR) WELLS (M3/YEAR) TOTAL (M3/YEAR) 2011 (6) 133,260 113,891 247,151 2010 1 163,144 145,129 308,273 2009 1 132,291 164,198 296,489 2008 2 160,192 13,195 173,387 2007 2 157,895 18,062 175,957 2006 3 173,541 0 173,541 2005 4 134,025 19,430 153,455 2004 5 107,668 40,623 148,291 1 Includes CPFL Brasil, CPFL Geração (with SHPs) and the eight distributors in the Group. From 2009, consumption of CPFL Geração’s SHPs has been included. 2 Includes CPFL Brasil, CPFL Geração, CPFL Paulista, CPFL Piratininga, RGE, CPFL Santa Cruz, CPFL Jaguariúna and CPFL Energia. 3 Consumption for CPFL Paulista, CPFL Piratininga and RGE. 4 Consumption for CPFL Paulista, CPFL Piratininga and CPFL Geração. 5 Consumption for CPFL Paulista and CPFL Piratininga. 6 The 8 SHPs Buritis, Capão Preto, Chibarro, Eloy Chaves, Jaguariúna, Salto Grande, Socorro and Três Saltos, which use the public water supply, were not included in 2011 due to changes in the monitoring of consumption. In addition to water from the public utility system and from wells, CPFL Energia also reuses rain water. Since 2008, the Group’s head office in Campinas has had a system for capturing and using 205 Sustainability rainwater for reuse for all purposes where drinking water is not required, such as the watering of gardens and cleaning certain areas. GRI The system covers an area of 3,440 m2, including the rooftops EN10 of two buildings and the Systems Operations Center (SOC) lake, through which the water is filtered and then stored in a 196,900-liter tank. Electricity Consumption Electric energy is another indicator revealing evidence of advances in environmental performance. In 2011, consumption at the Group’s companies was 13.9% lower than in 2010, at 100,538 GJ. There has been a downward trend in place since 2008, despite the increased numbers of companies (as CPFL Serviços and CPFL Atende joined the Group in 2008). With the exception of the SHPs, the electricity consumed by the CPFL Energia Group’s operations comes from the National Interconnected System, the energy sources of which are shown in the Brazilian energy matrix table. Fuel Consumption Electricity Consumption Electricity (GJ*) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 CPFL Energia 100,538 114,501 118,848 119,001 105,806 102,129 101,836 92,465 CPFL Paulista 70,221 73,948 72,177 74,151 72,950 69,764 66,927 66,792 CPFL Piratininga 17,878 15,802 17,891 18,736 13,453 14,270 14,380 13,704 CPFL Geração (1) 7,171 6,669 7,530 7,026 6,841 6,655 7,722 7,018 RGE 12,811 13,870 12,814 10,465 8,003 6,929 6,357 4,951 CPFL Santa Cruz 3,121 3,115 3,511 3,914 4,158 4,142 6,092 NA CPFL Jaguariúna 4,918 4,784 4,925 4,709 401 369 358 NA CPFL Serviços 2,613 2,904 CPFL Atende 3,619 1,950 *Energy consumption in kWh was converted to GJ (109 J) through multiplication by the factor of 0.0036. (1) CPFL Geração’s consumption refers to the amount of energy consumed at the CPFL Renováveis SHPs, generated at the plants themselves. Energy consumption at the large plants, in which CPFL Energia has an equity stake, has not been included. 206 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Projects in Operation Type Installed Capacity % Total % Plants (KW) Plants (KW) Hydro 971 82,345,591 65.74 971 82,345,591 65.75 Gas Natural 104 11,427,953 9.12 142 13,220,136 10.56 Processed 38 1,792,183 1.43 Petroleum Diesel Oil 901 3,154,581 2.52 935 7,090,892 5.66 Residual Oil 34 3,936,311 3.14 Biomass Sugarcane Bagasse 347 7,263,788 5.80 430 8,994,437 7.18 Black Liquor 14 1,245,198 0.99 Wood 43 376,535 0.30 Biogas 18 76,308 0.06 Rice Husks 8 32,608 0.03 Nuclear 2 2,007,000 1.60 2 2,007,000 1.60 Coal Coal 10 1,944,054 1.55 10 1,944,054 1.55 Wind 73 1,471,192 1.18 73 1,471,192 1.18 Imported Paraguay 5,650,000 5.46 8,170,000 6.52 Argentina 2,250,000 2.17 Venezuela 200,000 0.19 Uruguay 70,000 0.07 Total 2,573 125,249,147 100 2573 125,249,147 100 Fuel consumption as a result of the CPFL Energia Group companies’ GRI GRI activities is also monitored and analyzed with a view to mitigating EN07 EN18 the possible effects on the environment. See >>> 4.3.5.5. Fleet Management In 2011, total fuel consumption in GJ increased by 4.31% compared to the previous year. However, on the other hand, there was an increase in the share of fuel from renewable sources from 12.26% in 2010 to 19.13% in 2011 (Base Energy in GJ). ANNUAL FUEL CONSUMPTION OF THE CPFL ENERGIA VEHICLE FLEET (LITERS) Year Gasoline (l) Diesel (l) Alcohol (l) 2011 971,854 4,126,175 1,972,850 2010 1,776,788 3,597,032 1,211,919 2009 1,732,254 3,559,828 1,065,384 2008 2,679,551 3,930,045 748,092 2007 2,560,551 3,173,950 535,635 2006 2,540,538 2,980,914 399,999 2005 1,688,804 2,980,914 273,473 2004 1,736,494 2,406,830 293,212 2003 1,629,793 2,263,729 385,665 207 Sustainability ANNUAL FUEL CONSUMPTION OF THE CPFL ENERGIA VEHICLE FLEET (GJ) Year Gasoline (GJ) Diesel (GJ) Acohol (GJ) TOTAL (GJ) 2011 31,314,72 146,564,52 42,098,42 219,977,65 2010 57,251 127,769 25,861 210,881 2009 55,816 126,448 22,734 204,998 2008 86,339 139,598 15,963 241,901 2007 82,505 112,741 11,430 206,676 2006 81,860 105,884 8,536 196,280 2005 54,416 105,884 5,836 166,136 2004 55,953 85,493 6,257 147,702 2003 52,515 80,409 8,230 141,154 Source: Brazilian National Energy Report 2008, page 159 Base: 1 cal = 4.1868 J Wood Consumption The main consumption of wood in CPFL Energia operations is in the construction of energy distribution equipment, such as cross arms. To ensure that all native wood acquired comes from sustainable sources, CPFL Energia requires that its registered wood suppliers present all the documentation required by the federal, state and municipal authorities. This procedure is part of the Group’s standing instructions for contracting goods and services and is included in all purchase contracts entered into with CPFL Energia suppliers. Consumption of Materials Materials used by weight or volume* Year Distribution Concrete poles Cables (m) Cables (kg) Meters (un) Public transformers (un) (un) lighting units** (un) CPFL Paulista 2011 11,296 95,181 6,918,735 542,929 320,780 483,669 2010 8,725 69,277 5,937,099 472,892 275,097 597,320 2009 6,130 40,632 3,902,718 385,684 175,014 442,592 2008 7,113 36,439 4,219,468 449,356 211,327 518,885 2007 5,570 37,003 4,269,473 328,213 194,365 541,956 2006 5,353 33,356 3,971,462 399,025 219,318 625,280 2005 5,885 35,152 3,492,738 358,407 191,974 778,468 2004 3,949 22,444 2,705,843 350,124 175,004 678,728 2003 3,970 20,222 837,313 631,557 163,450 337,513 208 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia CPFL Piratininga 2011 2,565 24,990 3,702,546 96,598 147,765 155,429 2010 3,198 22,155 5,514,040 176,528 136,864 170,505 2009 2,322 15,944 1,750,012 129,811 82,772 141,452 2008 2,513 14,602 2,189,753 127,617 109,750 203,595 2007 2,278 15,073 2,649,747 147,402 118,733 147,777 2006 2,102 11,845 2,203,959 151,910 110,774 234,781 2005 2,134 12,709 2,153,223 170,552 97,738 267,780 2004 2,170 10,622 1,814,429 221,138 86,854 181,942 2003 1,922 7,170 1,201,824 149,682 78,330 136,535 RGE*** 2011 6,630 39,761 3,373,009 333,415 150,634 NAP 2010 6,308 37,396 2,133,248 279,421 136,184 NAP 2009 6,939 40,116 1,505,304 341,113 107,033 NAP 2008 5,938 51,282 2,048,209 591,142 109,282 NAP 2007 4,195 40,979 2,295,814 500,867 124,636 NAP 2006 5,913 46,622 1,721,796 598,031 92,196 NAP 2005 3,602 25,270 1,529,449 433,383 58,371 NAP 2004 1,977 12,157 1,205,568 368,384 96,291 NAP 2003 1,154 7,960 1,157,423 304,140 53,190 NAP CPFL Santa Cruz 2011 1,476 5,321 382,000 223,180 16,699 44,956 2010 638 2,708 250,021 119,148 19,415 20,403 2009***** NA NA NA NA NA NA 2008 160 1,724 99,662 95,643 10,268 13,581 2007 297 1,967 234,273 177,815 4,653 35,364 2006 888 6,181 278,081 161,009 5,896 41,466 2005 896 6,549 228,434 167,561 5,644 47,924 2004 420 4,205 246,525 161,869 4,957 47,547 2003 458 5,509 250,951 231,312 6,441 29,988 CPFL Jaguariúna**** 2011 1,885 10,189 717,327 71,635 13,386 18,282 2010 1,068 5,361 411,995 41,078 20,525 5,788 2009***** NA NA NA NA NA NA 2008 707 3,845 521,028 36,552 13,262 NAP 2007 695 4,978 292,652 43,317 11,486 NAP 2006 868 7,008 134,051 56,171 3,327 NAP 2005 210 3,815 104,799 81,661 1,859 NAP 2004 93 2,685 53,310 59,623 1,289 NAP 2003 56 1,499 162,385 56,465 1,908 NAP * The table contains the principal items of inventory purchased by the Company, representing 80% of the value of materials consumed. The materials shown are used in the maintenance and expansion of the electric system. ** Bulbs, relays, reactors and reflectors *** RGE does not install or maintain public lighting. Local government carries out this activity in the concession areas, including management of purchase and disposal of materials. **** CPFL Jaguariúna carried out some public lighting installation and maintenance services in 2010. This activity was not performed previously. Includes the distributors CPFL Jaguari, CPFL Leste Paulista, CPFL Sul Paulista and CPFL Mococa. ***** Data not available for 2009 due to the change in management software from Data Sul to SAP. The data was not migrated to the new system. 209 Sustainability 4.3.4.2 Reduction, Reuse and Recycling Reverse Chain: Unusable Materials CPFL Energia also selects materials removed from the distribution network and/or transmission lines for the purpose of recovering them for reuse. In this way, the Company encourages the reduction in costs and in the consumption of natural resources. The process also allows recovered materials to be tracked. For example, this resulted in the repair of 26% of all distribution transformers examined in 2011. A further example comes from RGE, a Group subsidiary, which has been operating its Reverse Logistics process since 2000. The company currently sends around 60 tons per month of unusable materials removed from the electric system for recycling or reuse. Unusable materials sold as scrap Year Ferrous and Distribution Lights (un) Cross Woodenand Iron poles Ladders non-ferrous transformers arms (un) concretepoles (un) (un) metals (t) (un) (un CPFL Paulista 2011 2,514 1,985 14,909 90,729 30,116 69 83 2009 934 1,261 18,383 30,865 16,531 348 139 2008 968 1,022 37,947 30,225 17,178 406 100 2007 1,146 1,033 62,748 22,735 14,563 471 154 2006 345 894 61,213 13,728 9,156 145 175 2005 523 938 25,930 14,800 9,558 43 142 2004 488 1,069 13,357 18,846 10,438 495 160 CPFL Piratininga 2011 1,571 586 3,730 17,769 10,212 0 21 2009 778 2,317 4,783 10,319 5,544 14 24 2008 520 631 17,130 12,925 5,900 6 31 2007 1,192 569 22,374 7,707 3,821 30 47 2006 370 370 20,769 9,333 3,169 235 24 2005 510 352 5,980 13,723 4,596 112 111 2004 303 363 11,091 7,773 2,862 0 55 210 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia RGE 2011 608 1,036 Not applicable 13,942 15,066 70% 0 2009 455 549 Not applicable 16,148 35,991 Not applicable 2008 711 334 Not applicable 16,155 21,576 Not applicable 2007 711 604 Not applicable 18,281 21,627 Not applicable 2006 763 402 Not applicable 14,126 21,809 Not applicable 2005 663 47 Not applicable 11,774 20,420 Not applicable 2004 456 211 Not applicable 7,467 14,983 Not applicable CPFL Santa Cruz 2011 142 217 1,600 2,014 1,299 2 2009 Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available 2008 Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available 2007 Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available 2006 Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available 2005 Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available 2004 Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available CPFL Jaguariúna 2011 185 331 40 6,960 2,969 70 0 2009 142 25 Not available 750 410 10 0 2008 86 38 Not available 140 81 0 0 2007 99 12 Not available 873 638 16 8 2006 134 8 Not available 1931 354 0 14 2005 Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available 2004 Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available Not available GRI GRI Selective Waste Collection EN4 EN12 GRI Another Company initiative involves selective waste collection. EU14 In 2011, CPFL Energia sent 9,687 kg of cardboard, 9,325.7 kg of paper and 3,269.8 kg of plastic for recycling from its head offices in Campinas. This reflects an agreement between CPFL Energia, the Campinas city government and the Dom Bosco Cooperative of ex-garbage scavengers. In addition to the successful implementation of procedures for the separation, storage and disposal of recyclable waste at the Company, the Program has also boosted the incomes of cooperative members. With the success of selective waste collection, CPFL Energia’s intends to gradually extend it to other business units, as is already the case at RGE, the energy distributor serving municipalities in the north and north-east areas of the state of Rio Grande do Sul. In 2011, the company sent 2,790 kilograms of paper to a recycling unit from its head office in Caxias do Sul (RS). 211 Sustainability 4.3.5. Environmental Control and Mitigation Activities GRI GRI EN4 EN12 Permanent environmental control programs are part of the subsidiary GRI GRI companies’ daily efforts to avoid or mitigate environmental risk. EN13 EU14 GRI EU26 There are several stages in the process of managing environmental impact. Prior to being granted an operating license, all projects have to go through an environmental licensing phase. This involves detailing of possible socio-environmental impacts and requires the implementation of numerous mitigation measures, under the supervision of government authorities. The environmental licensing process is an integral part of Brazil’s National Environment Policy (Law 6.938 of August 31, 1981), regulated by CONAMA Resolution 237 of December 19, 1997, which requires a socioenvironmental impact study and the necessary actions for mitigating such impacts, subject to examination and approval by the appropriate environmental protection agency. In parallel, the Company uses its Environmental Management System (EMS) to manage and control any possible impacts caused by its services. The Environmental Management System consists of procedures for identifying and dealing with possible impacts of the Company’s activities, encompassing both in-house and outsourced teams. Data is gathered and potential risks identified, subsequently being subject to permanent monitoring through environmental programs and actions. Group assets and processes are subject to annual evaluation of GRI GRI aspects such as use of materials and natural resources, atmospheric 1.2 4.11 emissions, effluent flows, waste and the social impact of the compaGRI GRI nies’ activities. EN14 EU21 GRI GRI EU23 EU28 Any risks thus detected are assessed according to the likelihood and severity of their occurrence, making it possible to define the appropriate actions for prevention and control. Every aspect of environmental impact must be identified, registered and treated in line with environmental licensing requirements for the Company’s various business units. 212 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia CPFL Padrão The Integrated Management System (IMS) of which the Environmental Management System (EMS) is a part, controls the activities of the Company’s electricity distribution operation which involves eight distributors jointly serving approximately 7 million customers. The EMS promotes the co-existence of the service with green areas and correct handling of vegetation, this forming an integral element of the Group’s technical guidelines. The tool has adopted the process certification parameters of international norms and standards (ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and SA8000). In addition, the Company uses an internal system CPFL Padrão. CPFL Padrão covers 100% of the effective employees at the distribution companies CPFL Paulista, CPFL Piratininga, CPFL Santa Cruz, CPFL Jaguari, CPFL Leste Paulista, CPFL Sul Paulista, CPFL Mococa and RGE with respect to work conducted on the electric network. This internal system enables procedures to be standardized and routines systematized, covering all activities performed by company electricians. It stresses conditions of safety and physical integrity in all maintenance work. Nonetheless, the Company understands that rules are not enough. Therefore, all employees (company employees and outsourced) are trained in occupational health and safety procedures according to Brazilian Regulatory Standard 10 (NR10), which deals with safety measures in electricity installations and services. 213 Sustainability 4.3.5.1 Waste Management CPFL Energia’s concern with preventing the pollution of ecosystems as a result of its activities results in disposal only occurring at units licensed by the applicable environmental protection agencies and subject to the issue of a final disposal certificate. This waste management program involves identifying and classifying the main types of waste resulting from the Group’s different operating processes. For each type of waste, the Group has established standards for storage, transportation and the best method for disposal according to existing legislation. An example of this policy is the treatment given to spent illumination bulbs, which are sent to a company licensed by the Brazilian Environment and Natural Resources Institute (IBAMA) in the state of Minas Gerais. The company handles the separation of either toxic or environmental mercury from aluminum and glass, which are recycled. This process reduces the risk of soil and water body contamination and helps reduce the consumption of natural resources. Light bulbs and bases sent for decontamination/recycling. Light bulbs units Jaguari 258 Leste Paulista 2,698 Mococa 140,663 Paulista 26,330 Piratininga 17,026 Santa Cruz 186,975 Sul Paulista 145 Overall Total 380,438 214 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia In 2011, CPFL Paulista sent 81.28 tons of waste (Class I) for coprocessing. This included oil-contaminated soil and aggregate and grease impregnated cloths, cotton waste and sawdust The company responsible for the waste disposal process has been audited for its processes, environmental controls and compliance with the environmental legislation. Waste generated at the SHPs in 2011 (including projects owned by CPFL Geração until 2011, and by ERSA), was disposed of as follows: Materials contaminated with oil and grease ■■ 2,917 kg from SHPs operated by ERSA over the course of 2011 ■■ 2,308 kg from SHPs operated by CPFL Geração – disposed of in July and August 2011 the sum total for the year. ■■ Total: 5,225 kg sent over the course of 2011 by the CPFL Renováveis SHPs Water and Oil ■■ 418 kg from the SHPs operated by ERSA during 2011 ■■ 3,897 kg from the SHPs operated by CPFL Geração – disposed of in July and August 2011 – the sum total for the year. ■■ Total : 4,315 kg disposed of during 2011 from CPFL Renováveis The remaining CPFL Group companies did not dispose of waste (Class I) in 2011, given the small amounts generated. Waste was stored in accordance with the standards established by environmental legislation and for logistical practicality will be disposed of when significant inventory has been accumulated. Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCB) CPFL Energia operates a licensed hazardous waste warehouse where both waste contaminated with oil and equipment containing Polychlorinated Biphenyl (PCB) are stored and centralized pending final disposal thus facilitating the logistics process and reducing operating costs. In 2011, CPFL Piratininga sent 33,014 liters of PCB contaminated oil and 383 capacitor elements with PCB for incineration. RGE does not operate equipment containing PCB. Its last batch of equipment containing PCB was sent for incineration in 2002. 215 Sustainability The consolidated total is the sum of what was disposed by the ERSA SHPs plus the CPFL Geração SHPs, i.e. the total disposed by the CPFL Renováveis SHPs in 2011. 3 Co-processing: is a technique of thermal destruction at high temperatures in ovens for clinker-making (principal raw material for cement manufacture) duly licensed for this end. In this technique, industrial waste is used as an alternative fuel (energy generator) or as a raw material in the cement industry, without any change in the end quality of the products (cement) and without creating other waste. 216 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia GRI TOTAL EQUIPMENT CONTAINING POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB) EN01 CPFL Paulista CPFL Piratininga GRI Year Total Equipment % Year Total Equipment % EN22 Equipment (un) with PCB (un) Equipment(un) with PCB (un) 2011 151,305 704 0.47 2011 41,545 309 0.74 2010 139,018 704 0.51 2010 40,977 623 1.52 2009 135,099 705 0.52 2009 40,597 623 0.07 2008 131,783 710 0.54 2008 39,898 366 0.92 2007 126,504 804 0.64 2007 38,959 658 1.69 2006 118,700 882 0.74 2006 39,224 793 2.02 2005 114,848 915 0.80 2005 38,367 793 2.07 2004 111,186 1,090 0.98 2004 39,224 844 2.15 Year Total Equipment % Year Total Equipment % Equipment (un) with PCB (un) Equipment(un) with PCB (un) 2011 22,174,261 5,327 0.02 2011 7,665,257 110,034 1.44 2010 21,019,718 5,327 0.03 2010 7,242,475 138,028 1.91 2009 20,538,622 5,334 0.03 2009 7,008,699 153,648 2.19 2008 19,840,185 5,368 0.03 2008 6,896,341 2,196 0.03 2007 19,215,286 6,120 0.03 2007 6,802,222 3,948 0.06 2006 18,769,575 6,588 0.04 2006 6,598,493 4,758 0.07 2005 18,428,742 6,588 0.04 2005 6,446,221 4,758 0.07 2004 18,106,311 6,786 0.04 2004 6,346,481 5,064 0.08 CPFL Jaguariúna** Santa Cruz Year Total Equipment % Year Total Equipment % Equipment (un) with PCB (un) Equipment(un) with PCB (un) 2011 80 18*** 22.50 2011 14922 24 0.16 2010 79 11 13.92 2010 NA NA 2009 77 11 14.29 2009 NA NA NA 2008 77 13 16.88 2008 NA NA NA 2007 78 13 16.67 2007 8,540 0 0.00 2006 NA NA NA 2006 8,181 0 0.00 2005 NA NA NA 2005 6,737 80 1.19 2004 NA NA NA 2004 6,305 80 1.27 Year Total Equipment % Year Total Equipment % Equipment (un) with PCB (un) Equipment(un) with PCB (un) 2011 388,578 35,628 9.16 NA**** 96,910 2010 373,378 24,498 6.56 2010 NA NA 2009 356,518 24,498 6.87 2009 NA NA NA 2008 356,518 23,416 6.57 2008 0 NA 2007 350,857 26,996 7.69 2007 1,217,231 0 0.00 2006 NA NA NA 2006 1,198,913 0 0.00 2005 NA NA NA 2005 1,111,773 480 0.04 2004 NA NA NA 2004 1,094,838 480 0.04 NA: data not available * RGE does not operate equipment containing PCB ** Includes the distributors CPFL Jaguari, CPFL Leste Paulista, CPFL Sul Paulista and CPFL Mococa ***Equipment was analyzed using methods A or B between 2007 and 2008. However in December 2008 the ABNT published a new methodology for calculation by method B (ABNT NBR 13882:2008), with new PCB reference levels. As a result, new analyses were carried out on all equipment and the total amount of contaminated equipment rose from 11 (old test) to 18, because of the change in standard. The new PCB equipment inventory was consolidated at the end of 2011. Comment: Seven pieces of equipment previously classified as not contaminated were reclassified as contaminated under the new standard. ****Total oil volume for CPFL Santa Cruz was not available at the time of writing this Report. 217 Sustainability 4.3.5.2 Preservation of Biodiversity Large power generation installations create socio-environmental impacts in protected areas and biodiversity-rich habitats (as identified in Environmental Impact Studies – EISs) right from the construction and reservoir filling stages. From then on and often as a condition of the licensing process, initiatives are taken aimed at the recovery and preservation of local biodiversity as well as mitigation of these impacts. All of the projects in which CPFL has a stake entered service in years prior to 2011. Find out about the plant’s main environmental programs at: 4.3.3 Environmental Programs CPFL Energia’s investments in measures to maintain biodiversity go beyond the legal environmental requirements. The aim is to preserve biodiversity in the river basins where CPFL Energia’s Small Hydro Plants (SHPs) and large scale plants are located. For projects involving new power transmission and distribution lines, surveys examine the possible impacts on biodiversity and establish controls to minimize or eliminate them. Reducing the impacts from generation CPFL Energia conducts activities focused on biodiversity, particularly programs to monitor and conserve fauna and flora, reforestation of reservoir margins and to invest resources in setting up Conservation Units. The Company contributes technically and financially to the conservation and preservation of indigenous species of flora and fauna in the areas in which it operates. The table below presents information related to the plant’s operating areas and areas of significant ecological value. 218 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia HPP BARRA HPP CAMPOS HPP HPP HPP HPP SERRA GRANDE NOVOS MONTE 14 DE CASTRO FOZ DO DA CLARO JULHO AL VES CHAPECÓ MESA Total Land Area (km2) 125.8 50.5 4.2 9.5 10.3 86.1 1,755.1 Flooded area (km2) 83.2 25.6 0.7 2.8 3.1 46.6 1,754.8 Area with primary 20.8 NA vegetation (km2) Area with secondary 45.7 9.9 0.1 0.7 2.2 14.6 NA vegetation in medium and advanced stages of regeneration (km2) Area of Permanent 42.4 20.7 2.6 5.6 6.4 34.1 NA Preservation (km2) Constructed Area 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 30.7 (km2) Constructed Area/ 0.1 0.3 0.9 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.0 Total Area (%) Installed Capacity 690.0 880.0 130.0 100.0 130.0 855.0 1,275.0 (MW) Installed Capacity/ 8.5 34.4 179.6 35.5 41.8 18.3 0.7 Reservoir Area (MW/ km2) The flooded areas, in the context of CPFL’s area of operation, include the water bodies (rivers and reservoirs). Their APPs (Areas of Permanent Protection) are legally protected, whether or not they contain native vegetation. Species Threatened With Extinction* Project Fauna Species/families HPP Campos Novos 7 mammals (IBAMA list) 2 species (2 families) 12 birds (1 IBAMA*; 11 IUCN**) HPP Barra Grande 13 mammals (9 families) 1 species (1 family) 1 amphibian (1 family) 2 reptiles (1 family) 15 birds (9 families) Ceran*** 9 mammals (7 families) 15 species (8 families) 3 birds (3 families) Foz do Chapecó Amphibians: 1 species; 9 endangered species (2011) Reptiles: 1 species; Birds: 29 species; Mammals: 19 species. 2010 *Official List of Brazilian Threatened Species (Ibama, 2003). **IUCN 2007. 2007 IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. <www.iucnredlist.org>. ***List of Threatened Species in Rio Grande do Sul state <www.sema.rs.gov.br>. 219 Sustainability The impacts from the installation and operation of generation projects on flooded areas and their surroundings are evaluated in environmental studies that are required for the emission of environmental licenses by the relevant bodies. These impacts, relating to biodiversity and the local community, are monitored and duly mitigated wherever possible, or compensated for actions of monitoring, mitigation and compensation are carried out as part of the Group’s environmental programs (4.3.3). Examples are: ■■ Monitoring of water quality ■■ Monitoring and recovery of fauna ■■ Monitoring of fish population ■■ Monitoring and recovery of flora ■■ Erosion control ■■ Recovery of degraded areas ■■ Replanting of Area of Permanent Preservation ■■ Environmental Compensation: support for Conservation Units ■■ Environmental Conservation and Usage Plan for Artificial Reservoir Margins Generally, the programs compensate and mitigate the impacts that occur during reservoir filling, and monitor possible impacts after filling for periods established in the environmental license. Significant impacts on biodiversity-rich habitats outside the protected areas: the impacts of reservoir filling occur within the protected areas (APPs) and reservoir margins also qualify as protected and are managed in accordance with the PACUERA (Conservation and Usage Plan for Artificial Reservoir Margins Program). PACUERA: a set of guidelines and proposals for the preservation, recovery, use and occupation of the margins surrounding artificial reservoirs, respecting the parameters established by CONAMA Resolution 302 of March 20, 2002. The program aims to contribute to: decision-making in the social, environmental and institutional areas; the suitable usage and occupation of the soil along reservoir margins; exploitation of the multiple potential uses of the water; and the integrated management of the generation project. Outside the areas covered by the company’s programs (reservoir and margin), there are no environmental impacts resulting from the companies’ power generation activities. 220 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Among the CPFL Renováveis projects, there was no purchase of a property within protected areas or in areas of high biodiversity. CPFL operates a number of environmental programs, described in Chapter 4.3.3 Environmental Programs for reducing impacts and preserving biodiversity. 221 Sustainability 4.3.5.3 Reforestation GRI GRI EN13 EN14 GRI EN26 CPFL Energia’s reforestation activities are executed through its Environmental Recovery Commitment Agreements (ERCAs), designed to compensate the impacts of its energy generation, transmission and distribution operations. The Company has combined all its ERCAs. To implement them, the Group conducted surveys of two areas of significant environmental importance from the point of view of connectivity with overlapping information provided by eight working parties, studies of which covered birds, arachnids and insects, reptiles and amphibians, fish, mammals, landscapes, cryptograms (non-flowering plants) and phanerogams (flowering plants). Additionally, the two areas both replenish the Guarani Aquifer, as well as being located in two Conservation Units in the municipalities of Luis Antônio and São Simão respectively, which also cover the two main biomes of the state: Atlantic Rainforest and Cerrado (savannah). Combining these ERCAs means the Group can avoid implementing a succession of dispersed forest recovery programs in its concession area and therefore reduce implementation costs by 50%, at the same time delivering a notable environmental benefit to society. Among the CPFL Group’s reforestation programs of 2011, specific to rge of particular note: ■■ 8th Stage of the Rare Hardwood Trees Campaign: in 2011 RGE donated 40,000 seedlings of rare hardwood trees during this campaign with accompanying informative leaflets about the species. The campaign, which began in 2003, has already seen the distribution of 246,000 seedlings. ■■ 9th Stage of the Araucaria angustifolia (Paraná Pine) Replanting Campaign: in 2011, 30,000 seedlings and 10,000 kg of seeds of this species were distributed. Since campaign inception in 2002, it is estimated that the quantity of Araucaria angustifolia in the state of Rio Grande do Sul has grown by 609,000. ■■ Riparian Vegetation Project: under this project, run jointly with other organizations, RGE donated seedlings and materials for fencing to protect the environmental recovery of 1,200,000 m2 river bank areas. 222 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 4.3.5.5 Management of Greenhouse Gas Emissions CPFL Energia’s commitment to sustainability and its initiatives to both prevent and reduce global warming are fundamental to the Company, which has been executing activities for directly and indirectly managing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions since 2007. From 2009, these actions have been extended to include activities such as benchmarking, the definition of organizational development guidelines and the preparation of GHG emissions inventory, covering all Group companies. In 2011, CPFL Energia signed up to the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program, thus reiterating its commitment to sustainability and transparency, given the Program’s core premise which is to quantify and publish greenhouse gas emissions data. The CPFL Energia Group’s last inventory in 2010, was audited by an independent verification organization, a practice that will be maintained in coming years. Following the conclusion of the GHG inventory in 2011, emissions relating to 2010 were calculated at 218,753.84 tCO2e, with 88.15% of this total stemming from technical losses in energy distribution and transmission processes despite CPFL’s already minimal rates of technical losses. As well as calculating emissions of gases in accordance with the Kyoto Protocol, the inventory also covers emissions of gases affecting the ozone layer. In 2010 the total volume of leaks of refrigerating gases affecting the ozone layer resulting from CPFL Energia Group operations was 230.13 kg. In the Group’s current operating context, no measurable mitigating initiative was identified with the potential to create a significant reduction in emissions. The practice of creating an inventory of its gas emissions leads to a number of energy-related benefits. Firstly, it allows the Company to gain more specific knowledge of emissions associated with its activities and assists in the development of voluntary compensation programs and identification of new opportunities 223 Sustainability for Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects. Secondly, it also becomes possible to quantify future emissions resulting from new investments and the Company’s organic growth. Further benefits include identifying opportunities for process improvement through efficiency gains and emissions reductions, and supporting corporate actions on climate change which assist in the creation of a low carbon economy. CPFL Energia Group GHG Inventory 2010 Emission Type ACTIVITY tCO2e Scope 1 Direct Auxiliary Generators 7.08 Refrigerating Gases 230.13 Own Fleet 13,762.37 Use of SF6 gas 1,785.33 LPG 18.54 Boiler (biomass) 1,293.70 TOTAL 17,097.15 Scope 2 Indirect Technical Losses 192,828.84 Electricity Consumption on 1,927.61 Premises TOTAL 194,756.45 Scope 3 Indirect Outsourced Fleet 5,345.06 Employee Transport (chartered) 3.19 VIP Air Travel 77.86 Commercial Air Travel 1,200.10 Refunds (taxis and mileage of 271.57 own cars) Solid Waste 2.47 TOTAL 6,900.25 TOTAL 218,753.85 224 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Bearing in mind forecasted investments and significant growth projections in the electricity distribution segment, the absolute GHG emissions resulting from CPFL Energia’s operations could well increase in the coming years. Nonetheless, the Company has taken strategic initiatives to address its carbon balance. One such example is the creation of CPFL Renováveis in 2011, the largest renewable energy company in Latin America, operations of which include small hydro plants, biomass-fired plants and wind farms. Find out more >> (CPFL Renováveis em 4.3.3.4) In 2010, CPFL estimated that it prevented the emission of over 1.3 million tCO2eq as a result of its renewable energy operations. This makes a positive contribution to the low emissions level of the Brazilian Interconnected System and also helps foster a Low Carbon Economy. CPFL Contribu on to a Low Carbon Economy 400 200 0 -200 thousand tCO2eq -400 -600 -800 -1,000 -1,200 -1,400 -1,600 Emissions Contribu ons 225 Sustainability 4.3.5.5. Fleet Management GRI EN17 CPFL Energia runs a Permanent Fleet Management Program based on a preventive maintenance plan for all the Group’s vehicles and transportation equipment. It ensures the whole fleet is kept in proper working order and as a result, helps protect the environment. The process includes a six-monthly control system for particulate emissions (black smoke) for the Group’s whole diesel fleet. A ratified testing company is responsible for issuing the reports. Emissions Generated Through Use of Fuel Year Emissions (tCO2) 2011 16,159 2010 15,237 2009 14,813 2008 17,289 2007 14,687 2006 13,916 2005 11,930 2004 10,529 2003 10,069 Basis for calculation (CETESB): 1 liter of diesel oil = 2.669 kg CO2 1 liter of gasoline = 2.098 kg CO2 1 liter of ethanol = 1.575 kg CO2 The increase of approximately 6.6% in CO2 emissions is the result of greater consumption of diesel and ethanol, despite a significant reduction in gasoline consumption compared to previous years. 226 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 4.3.5.6. Clean Development Mechanisms (CDM) Mindful of a desire to consolidate its role as a catalyst for change, CPFL Energia has incorporated the concept of carbon credit trading into its business as a primordial consideration in the design of its projects and demonstrating its commitment to reducing GHG emissions. CERAN currently trades carbon credits from HPP Monte Claro and HPP 14 de Julho. HPP Monte Claro, the first of the CERAN Complex plants to enter operation, had its Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) project registered at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) on April 8, 2007. By December 2011, 627,780 carbon credits had been issued and negotiated with TEPCO (Tokyo Electric Power Co.) of Japan. From January 1, 2010 to April 30, 2011, 164,781 carbon credits generated by this plant were traded with billings of € 2,273,978. The Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) for HPP 14 de Julho was registered at the UNFCCC on April 9, 2009. An audit for verifying the first tranche will take place in early 2012. Carbon credits from this Plant were traded with Electrabel, a Belgian company and a component of the GDF SUEZ Group. In line with the concept of additionality proposed by the United Nations, CPFL Renováveis, a company of the CPFL Energia Group, considers Emissions Reduction Certificates (ERC) for its projects from the very initial analysis stage to the effective acquisition of the business. The benefits provided by carbon credits are vitally important in the development of our projects as they form part of their revenue structure, as well as contributing to the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions on a global scale. 227 Sustainability The table below demonstrates the potential of carbon credits for the projects in development: Name of Project Potential Annual Emissions Reduction Electricity generation from renewable sources – Wind Farms Santa Clara I, Santa Clara II, 149,358 credits (ERCs) Santa Clara III, Santa Clara IV, Santa Clara V, Santa Clara VI and Eurus VI Electricity generation from renewable sources – Wind Farms Macacos, Juremas, Pedra 68,641 credits (ERCs) Preta and Costa Branca Electricity generation from renewable sources – Wind Farm Campo dos Ventos II 27,073 credits (ERCs) Electricity generation from renewable sources – Salto Góes Small Hydro Power Plant 15,896 credits (ERCs) Power generation from renewable sources – Arvoredo andVarginha Small Hydro Power Plants 29,254 credits (ERCs) Electricity generation from renewable sources – Barra da Paciência, Ninho da Águia, 138,331 credits (ERCs) Corrente Grande, Paiol, São Gonçalo and Várzea Alegre Small Hydro Power Plants Repowering Small Hydro Plants (SHP) in the State of São Paulo, Brazil 16,724 credits (ERCs) The project portfolio is formed of Small Hydro Plants and Wind Farms. Project status can be tracked via the following links: ■■ Macacos I Wind Farm: http://cdm.unfccc.int/Projects/Validation/ DB/15E4ZD1AIE6CC45T2ZC327ORBFHH0U/view.html ■■ Santa Clara Wind Energy Complex: http://cdm.unfccc.int/Projects/ Validation/DB/LIOH14G4EQMD05UGZGOFTJN0GQ4C48/view.html ■■ Campo dos Ventos II Wind Farm: http://cdm.unfccc.int/Projects/ Validation/DB/RHJ630E3J48L9AS05CH75G57SEYNYZ/view.html ■■ SHP Salto Goes: http://cdm.unfccc.int/Projects/Validation/DB/ LBVR8Y22MZZPESFK77DQ2N0Y1PZ35B/view.html ■■ SHP Arvoredo and SHP Varginha: http://cdm.unfccc.int/Projects/ Validation/DB/3XJ41T0OI5KBJUONZ9XO92XHI5JD4N/view.html ■■ SHP Barra da Paciência, SHP Corrente Grande, SHP São Gonçalo, SHP Paiol, SHP Ninho da Águia and SHP Várzea Alegre: http:// cdm.unfccc.int/Projects/Validation/DB/ZEH7GYTA039YNLL9X49GNGSS7V7G1O/view.html ■■ SHP Capão Preto, SHP Chibarro, SHP Gavião Peixoto SHP Dourados, SHP São Joaquim, SHP Esmeril: http://cdm.unfccc.int/ Projects/DB/SGS-UKL1151788974.93/view In 2011, the Inter-ministerial Commission opined favorably on the “Electricity Generation From Renewable Sources – Santa Clara Wind Farms I, II, III, IV, V, VI and Eurus VI” project, judging it as contributing to sustainable development in Brazil. Also in 2011, the “Repowering of Small Hydro Plants (SHPs) in the 228 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia State of São Paulo, Brazil” project was revalidated by the UN and will have the right to issue carbon credits during its second phase (2010-2016). The outlook for 2012 is that the carbon credit projects currently in portfolio will be submitted for UN approval and subsequent CDM status. In 2012, CPFL Renováveis will undertake its first inventory of greenhouse gas emissions on the basis of a survey of emissions from its administrative and operating activities. 229 Sustainability 4.3.5.7. Disposal of Domestic Effluent GRI EN21 There is no significant generation of effluent for disposal. The companies’ waste water generated from operations is delivered for treatment to the sewage systems of the corresponding municipalities. At sites where there is no municipal sewage system, septic tanks are installed for the collection of effluent. 230 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 4.3.5.8. Supplier Assessment CPFL Energia runs an assessment program for all its current and/ or new critical suppliers, i.e. those who have the biggest impact on its internal processes. Among all the requisites evaluated, compliance with our environmental demands is verified by analysis of documents, including pertinent environmental licensing, and by planned audits. In addition, recommendations are made for adapting processes and controls wherever necessary, in order to improve environmental quality along the whole supplier chain. 231 Sustainability 4.3.6. Environmental Certification GRI GRI EN14 EN26 Certifications are one of the tools that CPFL uses to identify and standardize its management processes in order to minimize the impact of its activities on the environment. It specifically employs the internationally accepted ISO 14001 standard. Certifications are seen as a key step in the pursuit of organizational excellence. They provide clear definition and qualification of the requirements to be observed. Meeting them involves a commitment from the whole organization, creating an alignment of objectives. The ISO 14001 standard defines the requirements for establishing and operating an effective Environmental Management System. This structure has been developed so that an organization can consciously and consistently control significant impacts on the environment and continually improve its operations and businesses. To reconcile respect for the environment without losing sight of the benefits that come from improving processes is in line with the sustainable development pursued by CPFL, an objective that seeks to balance economic, environmental and social concerns. As a result, over the course of 2011, CPFL’s subsidiary companies and new projects remained within the guidelines of ISO 14001. ISO 14001 Certification In 2011 CPFL Paulista and CPFL Piratininga maintained their certification in accordance with the ISO 14001 standard, including the distributers’ 11 substations and 3,223 km of transmission lines. The two companies are certified under the scope of “Coexistence between urban electricity distribution networks and the environment and electricity transmission services”. Again in 2011, the environmental certifications for the 17 SHPs remained current, having been in place since 2003 within the “Hydraulic Energy Generation” scope. RGE also maintained its electricity distribution and sub-transmission certification. 232 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia HPP Barra Grande (BAESA) maintained its ISO 14001 standard certification in 2011 for the “Environmental risk management system (reservoir management, operations and maintenance, power generation)” scope following an audit by the British Standards Institute (BSI), a reflection of the high degree of environmental performance achieved by this plant. From a selection of criteria based on the ISO 14001 standard, BAESA was nominated in the Sustainable Development category and was awarded Banas Qualidade magazine’s National Banas Management Award Trophy. It was the first hydroelectric power plant to receive the trophy in the 17 years of the award. Since November 2008, the CERAN headquarters and HPP Monte Claro have been ISO 14001:2004 certified with semi-annual maintenance carried out by means of outside audits. The certificates are valid until December 23, 2014. In December 2011 the audit for recertification of HPPs Castro Alves and 14 de Julho took place, following which CERAN was recommended for recertification. The certificates are valid until January 3, 2015. Lastly, also in 2011, ENERCAN obtained ISO 14001 standard certification for the Integrated Management System at HPP Campos Novos in 2011. 233 Sustainability 4.4. The New Economy and Climate Change The new economy Energy generation, distribution and commercialization services are vital to society and to the development of Brazil. By aligning these activities with the commitment to guarantee business longevity for the Company, while creating value for stakeholders, CPFL Energia is seeking to act in harmony with the times and face the challenges that present themselves. CPFL endeavors to act in accordance with the demands of society by making the effort to follow a business strategy designed to contribute in its sphere of activity to sustainable development. In this context, its actions have been based on the adoption of green standards as its yardstick, this translating into the use of clean technologies and, increasingly, renewable sources; inclusion, by guaranteeing broad access to its services; and responsible economy, evidenced in relationships permeated by ethics. These principles are aligned with the New Economy, a term that can be understood, according to the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP), as a model centered around human wellbeing and social equity, as well as a preoccupation for minimizing environmental risks through reduced carbon emissions and the efficient and inclusive use of natural capital. This new vision of development is a response to increasing pressure on natural resources, the result of the explosion in demand for goods and services seen since the 20th Century. The universal standards of consumption that have became established over the years, along with a continually growing world population, have combined to take the planet close to its bio-physical limits in which its capacity to provide eco-systemic services could be near to exhaustion. Human action on the basis of this consumption model has unleashed environmental and social imbalances, the best example of which is climate change. Consequences such as this are indicative of the importance of establishing new 234 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia parameters and behavior to avoid putting the agenda for sustainable development at risk. CPFL Energia is aware of the importance of the role of energy in the transition to a New Economy and also the role it can play as protagonist at this time of change and has concentrated its efforts on a number of strategic fronts: Creating clean, renewable and low environmental impact solutions ■■ Hydroelectric power plants with a high level of environmental efficiency and the best ratio for use of flooded area versus generated energy in Brazil (3.5.2) ■■ Constitution of CPFL Renováveis, the largest energy generation company from renewable sources in Latin America (SHPs, wind energy, biomass, and, in the future, solar) (3.5.2) ■■ Innovation for sustainability, with the development of national electric car prototypes, incentivizing sustainable mobility; ■■ R&D programs in waste-to-energy generation (3.4) ■■ Management of greenhouse gas emissions and use of natural resources, via indicators(4.3.5) Championing inclusion ■■ Community Network Program: providing guidance on the rational and efficient use of electricity together with education and social inclusion initiatives (3.5.1.6) ■■ Diversity Enhancement Program: actions guided chiefly by respect for differences (4.2.2.2) ■■ Responsible behavior ■■ Ethics Management Program: preventive initiatives and actions and monitoring and assessing processes and activities in accordance with the Company’s ethical principles (3.3.3) ■■ Corporate Pact for Integrity and Against Corruption: a commitment that engages companies in the fight against all forms of corruption (4.5) Sharing and Protagonism ■■ Institutional partner in the creation and implementation of the Ethos Institute’s Platform for an Inclusive, Green and Responsible Economy (4.5) 235 Sustainability ■■ Participation in important corporate working parties to discuss the future of the new economy, contributing to public policy at domestic (e.g. National Climate Change Policy) and international levels (COPs and RIO+20) (4.5). 236 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 4.5. Commitments and Institutional Partnerships GRI GRI 4.12 SO2 GRI S05 The CPFL Energia Group is aware of its role in society, understanding that promoting sustainable development requires active participation in issues concerning the future of Brazil and the world. As a result, it has entered into a series of domestic and international commitments which aim to improve quality of life in the world. GLOBAL COMPACT In December 2003, CPFL Energia became a signatory to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact and joined the Brazilian Global Compact Committee (CBPG). The Company is currently a member of the CBPG’s leadership group. In 2011, the Company was an active player in meetings held by the organization, whose objectives were to raise awareness among Brazilian organizations and adopt a management style committed to the principles of the Global Compact and working in networks. The CBPG reflects a new governance and has set up six task forces to deal with the following themes: Governance, Communications, Human Rights and Labor, Environment, Education and Integrity and the Fight Against Corruption. It also created a special working party in preparation for Rio+20. CPFL Energia, itself, is a member of the Environment, Integrity and Fight Against Corruption task forces and the Rio+20 work group. Find out more >> You can learn more about the activities of the Global Compact and CPFL Energia’s participation at <www.unglobalcompact.org> and <www.pactoglobal.org.br> ETHOS INSTITUTE PLATFORM FOR AN INCLUSIVE, GREEN AND RESPONSIBLE ECONOMY The Platform for an Inclusive, Green and Responsible Economy was launched in 2011 and is a document setting operating guidelines for private sector companies engaged with the transition to the New Economy. 237 Sustainability ■■ The Platform commemorates ten years of the Ethos Institute’s existence and was established thanks to a collaborative effort involving various organizations. CPFL Energia played an active role in the process and is a member of the Ethos Institute’s Steering Committee, along with five other leading companies in sustainability in Brazil. Find out about the Platform by accessing it at: http://www1. ethos.org.br/EthosWeb/arquivo/0-A-974Plataforma%20 por%20uma%20Economia%20Inclusiva,%20Verde%20e%20 Respons%C3%A1vel.pdf CLIMATE FORUM – Corporate Action on Climate Change ■■ CPFL Energia and a further 21 organizations wrote and signed an Open Letter to Brazil on Climate Change, which was then delivered to the federal authorities. This public document contains a voluntary commitment from these companies to build a low carbon economy. The commitment includes the monitoring of emissions resulting from each organization’s production processes. The founding members have also committed to integrate the issue into their strategic planning process to encourage its dissemination in their processes and services. ■■ During the course of 2011, the Climate Forum’s focus was on organizing debates on the integration between national and state policies on climate change. As such, the Forum sought to encourage the adoption of common legislation and meeting the national emissions reduction target as well as supplying up-to-date information for drafting Sector Plans. These same issues were discussed at numerous hearings with the Environment (MMA) and the Science and Technology (MCT) ministries culminating in the delivery of a document with the Forum’s recommendations to the relevant ministries. ■■ Another important action was the Co-operation Between Corporate Initiatives on Climate, which brought together representatives of the Energy and Climate Change Chamber (CTEMC) , Companies for Climate (FGV), the Climate Forum and the Corporate Mobilization Group (CNI) for the purpose of pooling efforts to expand dialog with the government. This group acted homogenously at the COP-17, held in Durban in South Africa from November 28 – December 9, 2011. Find out more >> You can find out more about the Climate Forum by accessing the website <http://www.forumempresarialpeloclima.org.br>. 238 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE CHAMBER (CT CLIMA) ■■ In 2011 CPFL Energia became a member of the Energy and Climate Change Chamber (CT Clima). Organized by the Brazilian Corporate Council for Sustainable Development (CEBDS), it is a forum of companies that understand their role in the context of climate change, helping them to develop strategies to seize opportunities while minimizing risk, as well as preparing these companies for an environment with restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions. Find out more >> For more details on CT Clima go to <www.cebds.org.br>. BRAZILIAN GREENHOUSE GAS PROTOCOL PROGRAM (GHG PROTOCOL) ■■ In 2011 CPFL Energia became a signatory of GHG Protocol, a program that aims to quantify and manage greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The Protocol was launched in the United States in 1998 by the World Resources Institute (WRI). Today it is the world’s most widely used methodology by the private sector and governments for preparing GHG inventories. It is also compatible with the ISO 14065 standard and with the quantification methodologies. ■■ In 2008, the methodology was adapted to the Brazilian context by the Getúlio Vargas Foundation’s Center for Sustainability Studies and by the WRI, in partnership with the Environment Ministry, Brazilian Corporate Council for Sustainable Development (CEBDS), the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBSCD) and founding companies. CORPORATE PACT FOR INTEGRITY AND AGAINST CORRUPTION ■■ CPFL has been a member of the Corporate Pact for Integrity and Against Corruption since 2006. It aims to engage companies in combating all forms of corruption and establish guidelines for the relationships between organizations and the public authorities. Find out more >> Get more information on the Clean Company at <www.empresalimpa. org.br>. CORPORATE FRIEND OF THE CHILD PROGRAM ■■ CPFL features this ABRINQ Foundation for Child Rights initiative to all its customers on electricity bills. The objective is to encourage companies to commit to protecting the rights of children and adolescents including their social inclusion. 239 Sustainability Find out more >> You can find out more about the ABRINQ Foundation’s programs at <www.fundabrinq.org.br>. CORPORATE PACT AGAINST THE SEXUAL EXPLOITATION OF CHILDREN AND ADOLESCENTS ON BRAZILIAN HIGHWAYS ■■ The Brazilian Federal Highway Police estimates that over 100 thousand children and adolescents are exploited sexually in the country, GRI GRI GRI EU13 EU14 EU26 with more than 1,500 prostitution hotspots on the nation’s highways. In an attempt to change this situation, CPFL Energia became a signatory to this Pact, an initiative of the WCF (World Childhood Foundation). It requires companies to commit publicly as part of their social responsibility programs, to taking measures against the sexual exploitation of children and adolescents on the highways. In 2011, we hosted the 2nd In the Right Direction (Na Mão Certa) regional meeting aimed at the corporate sector in the Campinas metro region and led by the group of corporate signatories to this initiative. Find out more >> You can find out more about the Pact by accessing the website <www. namaocerta. org.br>. CAMPINAS COMMITMENT TO EDUCATION (CCE) ■■ This initiative was begun in 2007 as a result of the nationwide All for Education movement, and aims to unite the public and private sectors, not-for-profit organizations and civil society through projects and programs for improving the quality of education in Brazil. CPFL Energia took part in the constitution of the Commitment and is also represented on the Corporate Committee. In 2011 it publicized internally its 2nd Week of Education campaign as well as providing a member of the jury for the My Family at School creative writing competition. Find out more >> To find out more about the initiative, go to <www.compromissocampinas.org.br> and <www.todospelaeducacao.org.br>. SOCIAL CORPORATE INVESTMENT BENCHMARKING (BISC) ■■ Founded in 2007, BISC is a data survey and analysis tool that aims to cover the various forms of corporate social actions undertaken by the companies to better reflect the scenario in this sector 240 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia in Brazil. It has an online platform offering indicators, benchmarking and trends to assist corporate social investment program managers. CPFL Energia is a founding member of BISC. Find out more >> To find out more about the initiative, access the website <www.compromissocampinas.org.br> e <www.bisc.org.br>. 241 Sustainability 242 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Attachments 243 Attachments 5. Attachments 5.1. Awards and recognition Award Awarded by Category Year Award type Note Applicableto Awarded by Trophy Certificate Plaque None CPFL Energia The50Best Magazine Ethics and 2010 2011 x Accesstotheawardwebsite Companiesfor Gestão & RH Relationship with CorporateCitizenship Editora Stakeholders Award2011 (Exame criteria) Greenbest Award Greenvana Energy: Wind 2010 2011 x x Accesstotheawardwebsite 2011 Energy Case Study CPFL (Academia Greenbest winner) IBEF Sustainability Brazilian Corporative 2010 2011 x http://www.ibefrio.org.br/ Award for 2011 Finance Governance – sustentabilidade2/premiados/7 Executives Annual Report Institute IBEF 2009 case study BCX Award Consumidor Energy and 2010 2011 x x http://premiomulticanal.com.br/ -Best Customer Moderno Utilities vencedores-premio-bcx.html Experience Magazine Valor 1000 Award Valor 1000 Best company 2010 2011 x http://www.revistavalor.com.br/ Award Valor in the energy home.aspx?pub=18&edicao=2 Econômico segment newspaper Best Company in Latin Finance Sustainability – 2011 2011 x www.management-rating.com the Energy Sector Magazine/ 3rd consecutive in Sustainability Management year in Latin America & Excellence 2011 Consultancy The Best Guia Você Listed among the 2011 2011 x http:// Companies for You S.A./ Exame – 150 companies www.150melhoresempresas. to Work for The Best 150 com.br/ Companies for You to Work for CPFL Paulista Eletricidade Eletricidade Group 1 – State 2010 2011 X Therearenotrophiesorsimilar. Moderna Award Moderna Companies Recognitioniscitedinthe 2011 EletricidadeModerna magazine -Editionxxxxxxxof2011. Best indigenous company; Best operational performance (Brazil); Best company in the southeast region. XIII ANEFAC Award ANEFAC Publicly Held 2010 2011 X X X http://www.anefac.com.br/ Transparency FIPECAFI Company – Sales transparencia/2011/empresas. Trophy 2011 Serasa of more than R$ html Experian 8 billion Intangibles Brasil Consumidor Utilities 2010 2011 x x http://www.premiopib.com.br/ Award – (PIB) 2011 Moderno magazine e DOM Strategy Partners National Quality National Awarded 2011 2011 X http://www.fnq.org.br/site/407/ Award PNQ 2011 Quality default.aspx Foundation FNQ 244 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia CPFL Piratiniga ABRADEE Award Brazilian Economic2010 2011 x http://www.abradee.com.br/ 2011 Association of Financial bd_vencedoras.asp Electric Energy Management Distributors ABRADEE RGE ABRADEE Award Brazilian Best Distributor 2010 2011 x http://www.abradee.com.br/ 2011 Association of in the Southern bd_vencedoras.asp Electric Energy Region Distributors ABRADEE National Quality National Awarded 2011 2011 X http://www.fnq.org.br/site/407/ Award PNQ 2011 Quality default.aspx Foundation FNQ CPFL Santa Cruz Eloy Chaves Medal Brazilian 3rdplaceinGroup 2010 2011 X http://www.abce.org.br/ Associationof II–Companies premio_eloy_chaves.php ElectricEnergy predominantly Concessionaires Distributorswitha -ABCE workforceofbetween 501and2000 CPFL Jaguari Eletricidade Eletricidade Group 3 – Smaller 2010 2011 X Therearenotrophiesor Moderna 2011 Moderna Companies similar.Recognitionisthrough Award magazine publicationoftheawardinthe EletricidadeModernamagazine –Editionof2011. Best indigenous company; Least losses ratio. Best company in the Southeast region CPFL Mococa Eletricidade Eletricidade Group 3 – Smaller 2010 2011 X Therearenotrophiesor Moderna 2011 Moderna Companies similar.Recognitionisthrough Award publicationoftheawardinthe EletricidadeModernamagazine –Editionof2011. Award Eloy Chaves Medal Brazilian 2nd place in Group 2010 2011 X http://www.abce.org.br/ Association of I Companies premio_eloy_chaves.php Electric Energy predominantly Concessionaires distributors with a ABCE workforce of up to 500 CPFL Geração Eloy Chaves Medal Brazilian 2ndplaceinGroup 2010 2011 X http://www.abce.org.br/ Associationof IV–Companies premio_eloy_chaves.php ElectricEnergy predominantly Concessionaires Generators/ -ABCE Transmission Companies,irrespective ofthenumbersintheir workforce CPFL Brasil Best and Biggest Examemagazine ReturnfromAdjusted 2010 2011 X http://exame.abril.com.br/ Award 2011 Equity–EnergySector negocios/noticias-melhorese-maiores/album-de-fotos/ os-premiados-na-38-a-edicaode-melhores-e-maiores 245 Attachments Highlights XIII ANEFAC ANEFAC Accounting 2010 2011 X http://www.anefac.com.br/ Award – FIPECAFI Professional– transparencia/2011/empresas. Transparency Serasa Transparencyin html Trophy 2011 Experian 2010Financial Statements(CPFL Paulista)-Antônio CarlosBassalo Entrepreneur Ministry of Supporters of 2010 2011 X X Friend of Sport Sport sporting and paraAward sporting projects – 1st place CPFL Energia 246 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 5.2. NBCT 15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                247 Attachments 5.3. IBASE – Social Report Annual Social Report 2011 (*) Company: CPFL Energia S/A 1 Basis for Calculation 2011 Value (R$ thousands) 2010 Value (R$ thousands) Net Revenues (NR) 12.764.028 12.023.729 Operating Result (OR) 2.361.957 2.385.372 Gross Payroll (GP) 570.600 530.328 2 Internal Social Indicators Value (th.) % of PR % of NR Value (th.) % of PR % of NR Nutrition 46.731 8,19% 0,37% 42.132 7,94% 0,35% Mandatory payroll taxes 147.019 25,77% 1,15% 141.968 26,77% 1,18% Private pension plan 33.381 5,85% 0,26% 27.382 5,16% 0,23% Health 26.154 4,58% 0,20% 31.025 5,85% 0,26% Occuptational safety and health 2.307 0,40% 0,02% 2.395 0,45% 0,02% Education 1.963 0,34% 0,02% 2.404 0,45% 0,02% Culture 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% Training and professional development 11.721 2,05% 0,09% 10.297 1,94% 0,09% Daycare and daycare allowance 901 0,16% 0,01% 1.560 0,29% 0,01% Profit and results sharing 41.337 7,24% 0,32% 38.412 7,24% 0,32% Others 4.161 0,73% 0,03% 9.123 1,72% 0,08% Total Inernal social indicators 315.675 55,32% 2,47% 306.698 57,83% 2,55% 3 External Social Indicators Value (th.) % of OR % of NR Value (th.) % of OR % of NR Education 330 0,01% 0,00% 520 0,02% 0,00% Culture 12.120 0,51% 0,09% 11.971 0,50% 0,10% Health and basic sanitation 68 0,00% 0,00% 1.880 0,08% 0,02% Sport 1.833 0,08% 0,01% 2.306 0,10% 0,02% Combating hunger and malnutrition 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% Others 2.079 0,09% 0,02% 4.325 0,18% 0,04% Total contributions to society 16.430 0,70% 0,13% 21.002 0,88% 0,17% Taxes (excluding mandatory payroll taxes) 6.063.337 256,71% 47,50% 5.270.068 220,93% 43,83% Total External social indicators 6.079.767 257,40% 47,63% 5.291.070 221,81% 44,01% 4 Environmental Indicators Value (th.) % of OR % of NR Value (th.) % of OR % of NR Investments relating to company production/operation 43.411 1,84% 0,34% 89.476 3,75% 0,74% Investments in external programs and/or projects 61.723 2,61% 0,48% 92.260 3,87% 0,77% Total environmental investments 105.134 4,45% 0,82% 181.736 7,62% 1,51% Regarding annual targets to minimize waste, consumption in general in ( ) has no targets ( ) fulfills from 51 to 75% ( ) has no targets ( ) fulfills from 51 to 75% production/operation and increase efficiency in the use of natural resources, the ( ) fulfills from 0 to 50% ( X ) fulfills from 76 to 100% ( ) fulfills from 0 to 50% ( X ) fulfills from 76 to 100% company 5 -Workforce Indicators 2011 2010 Nº of employees at the end of the period 7.913 7.924 Nº hired during the period 1.541 1.671 Nº of outsourced employees N/D N/D Nº of interns 229 236 Nº of employees over 45 1.851 2.086 Nº women working at the company 1.845 1.847 % of supervisory posts occupied by women 9,25% 11,58% Nº of afro-descendents working at the company 942 960 % supervisory posts occupied by afro-descendants 2,89% 2,72% Nº with handicaps or special needs 273 289 6 Key information as to the excersizing of corporate citzenship 2011 2010 Relationship between the highest and lowest compensation in the company 74,10 79,33 Total number of work-related accidents 41 28 ( ) mgment ( X ) mgment& ( ) all employees ( ) mgment (X) mgment& ( ) all employees managers managers Social and envirionmental projects developed by the company were decided by: ( ) mgment& ( ) all employees ( X ) all employees + ( ) mgment& ( ) all employees (X) all employees + managers Cipa managers Cipa Standards of occupataional health and safety were decided by Regarding labor union freedom, the right to collective bargaining and internal ( ) does not get ( ) adheres to ILO ( X ) encourages it ( ) does not get ( ) adheres to ILO (X) encourages it & involved rules & adheres ILO rules involved rules adheres ILO rules representation of the employees, the company: ( ) mgment ( ) mgment& ( X ) all employees ( ) mgment ( ) mgment& (X) all employees managers managers The private pension plan covers: ( ) mgment ( ) mgment& ( X ) all employees ( ) mgment ( ) mgment& (X) all employees managers managers Profits and results sharing contemplates: In the selection of suppliers, the same ethical standards and social and ( ) are not ( ) are suggested ( X ) are required ( ) are considedered ( ) are suggested (X) are required considered environmental standards adopted by the company: ( ) does not get ( ) supports it ( X ) organizes and ( ) does not get ( ) supports it (X) organizes and involved encourages it involved encourages it Regarding the participation of employees in voluntary programs, the company: Total number of complaints and criticisms to: the company Procon the law courts to the company (**) to Procon to the law coursts 1.083.459 1.889 5.397 1.045.953 2.303 4.083 % of complaints and criticisms received or solved: the company Procon the law courts the company Procon the law courts 100% 100% 14,63% 100% 100% 33,42% Total value added to be distributed (in R$ thousands): In 2011 9.769.273 In 2010 8.686.175 63.1% government 6.1% employees 15.4% shareholders 65.41% government 5.73% employees Distribution of Total Value Added (DVA): 14.6% third parties 0.8% retained 14.51% shareholders 10.90% third parties 3.5% retained 7 Other Information Consolidated information Percentage equity stakes have been used in the financial items. For the other information, such as the quantity of employees and court actions, the information has been provided in whole numbers Completion: Antônio Carlos Bassalo, telephone (19) 3756-8018, bassalo@cpfl.com.br (*) Information not reviewed by the independent auditors (**) Indicator readjusted due to the standardization of criteria in the verification process that has occurred with the change in the Commercial System of five group distributors 248 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 5.4. About this report This report shows the economic, social and environmental performance of the wholly-owned subsidiaries of the CPFL Group. It includes account information up to the month of August 2011 relating to the management and operation of CPFL Renováveis (63% of the capital stock is held by CPFL Energia), bearing in mind that before August 2011, when the company was incorporated, some assets were held by CPFL Geração. The report also covers limited information on the activities of the major power plants (HPPs), since these have their own management. Get to know more on CPFL Energia’s shareholding stakes: 3.2.1. This publication adheres to the recommendations of the Brazilian Association of Publicly Listed Companies (ABRASCA) and the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), an international entity which has become an international benchmark for sustainability reports. For the third consecutive year, the report is being put out in blog format. This is an innovative initiative which on its publication in 2009, received the ABRASCA award for the Best Annual Report in Category 1 (for publicly held companies with net operating revenue equal to or more than R$ 2 billion). The report in blog format was also recognized, receiving the IBEF Sustainability Award 2011, Corporate Governance category. The choice of format via the internet permits broad-based disclosure thus accessing a wide spectrum of CPFL Energia’s stakeholders. In addition, the preference for an electronic medium as opposed to using a printed publication is in line with our proposal to nurture the sustainability of the businesses, a position defended by the Company. In turn, the report content was prepared based on the latest version (G3) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and the GRI Electricity Industry Sector Supplement, and is deemed to meet application A+ level requirements. The report also includes the initiatives which have been taken in line with the Global Compact Principles to which the Company has been a signatory since 2003. 249 Attachments The information and results shown in this publication encompass the companies pertaining to the CPFL Group during fiscal year 2011. Quantitative data relates to the period from January 1 and December 31. However, significant and subsequent information has also been cited during the course of the report. Changes in the scope of the indicators and metrics for obtaining information, where applicable, are explained in footnotes in the reply tables. Yet another facet of the report is the consideration of the results of consultations with the Company’s principal stakeholders – academia, shareholders, clients, employees, the community, sector entities, suppliers, investors, representatives of civil society and government –, meeting under the aegis of the CPFL Energia’s Multistakeholders’ Panel II held on March 14, 2011 in Campinas (SP) at CPFL Group’s head offices. The Panel was held with the purpose of engaging the various stakeholders and promoting dialog. It was instrumental in establishing common ground as to expectations and strategic focus, in turn contributing to the fine tuning of the report content and providing the necessary guidance for the next. Materiality testing was also part of this process. In addition to the Panel, company management (managers and officers) filled out questionnaires in order to reach a consensus on the critical matters relating to sustainability. In all, more than 100 individuals took part in the consultancy process. CPFL Energia Matrix of Materiality Matriz Report 2011 Degree of importance for the stakeholders 03 01 02 04 20 05 09 15 06 19 16 13 10 07 17 11 12 23 08 18 14 21 27 24 28 25 22 26 Degree of importance for the company 250 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia SPECIFIC SUBJECTS 1.Respect for human rights including the supply 16. Management of impacts on biodiversity chain 2.Sustainable use of resources 17.Protection of consumer health and safety 3.Energy efficiency 18. Dialog and engagement with stakeholders 4.Economic-financial Sustainability 19. Expansion of access to electric energy 5.Customer service and satisfaction 20.Evaluation of social investment performance 6. Socio-environmental impacts of hydroelectric 21. Tariffs practiced power plants and other energy sources. 7.Occupational health and safety/work related risks 22.Financial health and capacity for raising funds and accidents 8. Volume of investment in renewable energy ( 23.Investment in social, cultural, sporting and example: plants and wind farms) environmental projects 9. Supplier management and development 24. Social leadership and influence 10. Training of employees and preparation of new 25. Climate change company managers for management aligned to sustainability concepts. 11. Prevention of pollution and management of 26. Respect for rights and customs waste 12. Guaranteed energy supply 27. Indirect economic impacts 13. Socio-environmental impacts of transmission 28. Compensation and benefits practice and distribution lines 14. Combating corruption, bribery and fraud As a result, a matrix with the complete classification of all items evaluated in the materiality test was constructed. Those items above the red curve were considered of greatest relevance to the sustainability of CPFL Energia, bearing in mind the two axes to the matrix (stakeholders’ perspective and internal perspective of the company). The 2011 Annual Report also includes social reports of the Brazilian Institute for Social and Economic Analysis (IBASE) and the Information of a Social and Environmental Nature – Brazilian Accounting Standard (NBCT 15), as well as the 10 principles of the Global Compact, with the CPFL Group’s initiatives in PDF, available for download. The reliability of this Annual Report in relation to GRI indicators, version has been reviewed by Bureau Veritas Brasil, which has issued a letter of limited socio-environmental assurance, which can be verified here. In the event of questions or suggestions, please access sustentabilidade@cpfl.com.br. 251 Attachments 5.5. Statement of Independent Audit STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDIT – BUREAU VERITAS CERTIFICATION INTRODUCTION Bureau Veritas Certification Brazil (Bureau Veritas) was contracted by CPFL Energia to perform an independent audit of its Sustainability Report hereinafter referred to as Report), comprising evaluation of its content, quality and limit related to the year 2011. The information published in the report is the full responsibility of the management of CPFL Energia. Our responsibility was limited to the independent checking, according to the scope defined below. WORK SCOPE CPFL Energia requested Bureau Veritas Certification to include the following in its checking scope: ■■ Data and information included in the Report of 2011; ■■ Adequacy and reliability of the underlying systems and processes used to collect, review and compile the reported information; ■■ Evaluation of the Report in compliance with the principles of Materiality, Including of Stakeholders, Sustainability Context, Scope, Balance, Comparability, Accuracy, Periodicity, Clearness and Reliability as provided for in the Directives of the Global Reporting InitiativeTM for Sustainability Reports GRI G3 (2006). It was excluded from the scope hereof any evaluation of information related to: ■■ Activities beyond the defined evaluation period; ■■ Statements of positioning (statements of opinion, beliefs, objectives or future intentions) by CPFL Energia, as well as statement of future commitments; ■■ Economic-financial information comprised in this Report, taken from financial statements externally audited by independent auditors. METHODOLOGY Our work was performed according to a protocol of Bureau Veritas for Independent Audit for Sustainability Reports, based on the best current practices1, comprising the following activities: 252 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Interviews with the involved personnel (responsible for the process) in the elaboration of the Report; 2. Analysis of the documentary evidence produced to the reported period (2011); 3. Audit of performance data in relation to the principles that ensure the information quality, according to GRI G3; 1 The independent audit protocol of Bureau Veritas is based on the International Warranty Assurance Standard ISAE 3000 (Assurance Engagements), Directives for GRI Sustainability Report. 4. Local visits in the following units: Small Hydroelectric Power Plant of Americana (Americana/SP), Project “Navegando nas Águas do Conhecimento” (Sailing the Waters of Knowledge) (Americana/SP), Hydroelectric Power Plants of Monte Claro (Veranópolis/RS), 14 de Julho (Citiporã/RS), Castro Alves (Nova Roma do Sul/RS), headquarters of Cia Energética Rio das Antas CERAN (Porto Alegre/RS), Associação Bento-Gonçalvense de Proteção ao Ambiente Natural (Association of Protection to the Natural Environment of Bento Gonçalves) (Bento Gonçalves/RS), PROAMB Foundation (Bento Gonçalves/RS), Industrial Landfill of the PROAMB Foundation (Pinto Bandeira/RS), Base of the Distribution Unit of Campinas/SP and headquarters of CPFL in Campinas/SP; 5. Analysis of the engagement activities with stakeholders, developed by CPFL Energia; 6. Evaluation of the system used for determination of the material issues included in the report, taking into consideration the sustainability context and the balance of the published information. The activities were planned and performed to provide reasonable evaluation, instead of absolute evaluation, providing an acceptance base for our conclusions. TECHNICAL OPINION ■■ CPFL Energia issued its Report from the view of internal and external stakeholders. In order to search for the perception of the stakeholders’ audience, it organized a multistakeholder panel in the beginning of 2012, where the priority themes were discussed and defined. In 2010, a similar panel would have already been made, which served as base for the Report published in 2011. ■■ CPFL Energia published the essential indicators of Directive GRIG3 and of the Supplement to the Electric Industry Sustainability Reporting Guidelines & Electric Utility Sector Supplement, Version 3.0/EUSS Final Version, in addition to several additional indicators of GRI-G3; 253 Attachments ■■ The Report does not provide full operational information of the large hydroelectric power plants (HPP). Such limitation is in compliance with the GRI Protocol of Limits (2005), since those plants have independent operational management. Therefore, this publication shows information focused on management, strategy and dilemmas of the HPP; ■■ The internal culture of CPFL Energia and the work methods based on the standard SA8000 permitted the obtaining of consistent information on human rights, focused on its own organization and applied to its productive chain; ■■ A significant part of the information included in the Report was obtained and managed by the Integrated Management System of CPFL Energia, certified by the management system standards ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and SA 8000; ■■ During the Report Audit Process, all pending matters recorded by our team were properly solved by CPFL Energia; ■■ Several reported themes were obtained and selected from the view of the internal managers of the company, who keep continuous dialogues with external interest audiences, such as customers and communities. During our interviews, we could see that there was a limited knowledge on the GRI Principles for elaboration of sustainability reports. ■■ Concerning indicators requiring specific data on contracted workers and information related to days worked by contractor companies, such as LA1, EU17 and EU 18, CPFL Energia declares not to have such information. We evidence an effective management related to the agreements under the point of view of quality, health, safety, environment and costs. However, the company’s management is focused on the performance of the contracted services as a whole, not using the specific elements described in those indicators. IMPROVEMENT OPPORTUNITIES ■■ Although CPFL reports Directives and Goals for each actuation segment, we do not evidence the possibility of objective analysis of its performance in sustainability within a shortand medium-term, since several goals have a nature of Organization Vision. For the next publication, we recommend the sustainability goals to be provided in a most objective manner; ■■ The Report shows consistently the priority matters of the Materiality Matrix constructed in the beginning of 2012. However, some themes could have been treated in a most detailed manner, such as: development of suppliers, social-environmental impacts of hydroelectric power plants, other power sources and transmission/ distribution lines, preparation of new managers aligned to the concepts of sustainability and management of waste; 254 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia ■■ The information on the SO1 indicator, which provides on Practices to evaluate and manage the social impacts of the operations on the communities, shall be presented more clearly, so that the reader understands which systems and tools are used by CPFL Energia to identify and manage the social impacts in its several actuations segments; ■■ To the next publication, the company should seek ways to account for the significant investment agreements that contain human rights-related clauses, since there is a management focused on suppliers deemed critical, but the suppliers are not classified by the agreement type, as requested in the indicator HR1; ■■ Concerning the confidential channels existing for receiving of manifestations related to discrimination, corruption and other ethic and conduct themes, we recommend the company to continue making efforts to advertise the channels, aiming at a higher awareness of the confidence, by the employees, related to their use; ■■ To give more emphasis in the capacity building for “GRI model reports” of the managers responsible for the information related to the Material Themes to the Report. The data generation with emphasis on accountability and on the Balance Principle is of major relevance to the evolution of publications along the time; ■■ To seek for a systematization of data on companies and workers hired, in order to get more detailed information on the LA1, EU17 and EU18 indicators; ■■ Despite the submitted information being clear in relation to the company’s efforts to meet the govern program goals [Universalization Plans and “Luz para Todos” (Light for All”], we recommend the quantification of the non-served population within the concession area of CPFL Energia, in order to improve the level of response to the indicator EU26. CONCLUSION ■■ According to the audit scope, the information and data submitted in the report were evaluated as accurate and free from significant errors or misrepresentations, accessible and understandable to the stakeholders; ■■ The Report was elaborated in compliance with the content and quality criteria, in addition to the principles of the Directive GRI-G3, showing properly the required indicators, which confers to CPFL Energia the application level A+. STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE AND IMPARTIALITY Bureau Veritas Certification is an independent company of professional services specialized in the Quality, Health, Safety, Social and Environment Management, with more than 180 years of expe255 Attachments rience and independent audit services. No member of the audit team has a commercial relationship with CPFL Energia. We carried out this audit independently, considering that there was no conflict of interests. Bureau Veritas Certification implemented a Code of Ethics in every business to keep high ethic standards among its personnel in the corporate activities. CONTACT Bureau Veritas Certification is available for further explanations through the website www.bureauveritascertification.com.br/faleconosco.asp or by the telephone No. (11) 5070-9800. São Paulo, June/2012 Alexander Vervuurt Leader Auditor of Assurance Sustainability Reports (ASR) Bureau Veritas Certification – Brazil 256 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 5.6 Global Compact Human Rights Respect and Ensure that the support company is not internationally complicit with recognized human rights human rights violations in its area of influence Labor Support Elimination Eradication Stimulate freedom of of all forms of all forms practices that association and of forced and of child labor eliminate recognition compulsory from its any type of of the right labor production discrimination to collective chain in employment bargaining Environment Adopt a Develop Encourage the preventive, initiatives and development and responsible practices to implementation of and proactive promote and environmentally approach to disseminate responsible environmental sociotechnologies challenges environmental responsibility Against corruption Fight corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery More information about the initiative: www.pactoglobal.org.br We include the Global Compact principles in the GRI Index. 257 Attachments 5.7. GRI Index Level A                                                                                                                                                                                                      258 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia                                                                                                                                                                                                         259       Attachments                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      260 Annual  CPFL Energia Report 2011                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    261      Attachments                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          262 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia                                                                                                                                                       263 Attachments 5.8. Corporate information GRI GRI HOLDING COMPANY 2.1 2.2 GRI GRI CPFL Energia – CPFL Energia S.A. 2.3 2.4 ■■ Rua Gomes de Carvalho, 1.510 | 14º andar | conjunto 1402 | Vila GRI Olímpia | São Paulo | SP | CEP 04547005 2.6 CNPJ: 02.429.144/0001-93 IE: Exempt Telephone: (11) 3841-8507 | Fax: (11) 3841-8516 / 8515 Site: www.cpfl.com.br CPFL Jaguariúna – CPFL Jaguariúna S.A. ■■ Rua Vigato, 1.620 | 1º andar | sala 8 | Jaguariúna | São Paulo | SP | CEP 13820-000 CNPJ: 02.150.569/0001-69 IE: Exempt Telephone: (19) 3847-5910 | Fax: (19) 3837-4567 Site: www.cpfl.com.br ENERGY DISTRIBUTION CPFL Paulista – Companhia Paulista de Força e Luz ■■ Rod. Engenheiro Miguel Noel Nascentes Burnier, 1755, Km 2,5 | Parque São Quirino | Campinas | SP | CEP 13088-140 CNPJ: 33.050.196/0001-88 IE: 244.163.955.115 Telephone: (19) 3756-8844 | Fax: (19) 3756-8040 Site: www.cpfl.com.br CPFL Piratininga – Companhia Piratininga de Força e Luz ■■ Rod. Engenheiro Miguel Noel Nascentes Burnier, 1755, Km 2,5 | Parque São Quirino | Campinas | SP | CEP 13088-140 CNPJ: 04.172.213/0001-51 IE: 244.946.329.113 Telephone: (19) 3756-8844 | Fax: (19) 3756-8040 Site: www.cpfl.com.br 264 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia RGE – Rio Grande Energia S.A. ■■ Rua Mário de Boni, 1902 | Loteamento Sanvitto | Bairro Floresta | Caxias do Sul | RS | CEP 95012-580 CNPJ: 02.016.439/0001-38 IE: 029/0487447 Telephone: (54) 3206-3102 | Fax: (54) 3206-3161 Site: www.rge-rs.com.br CPFL Santa Cruz – Companhia Luz e Força Santa Cruz ■■ Rua Gomes de Carvalho, 1.510 | 14º andar | conjunto 1402 | Sala 02 | Vila Olímpia | São Paulo | SP | CEP 04547-005 CNPJ: 61.116.265/0001-44 IE: 148.526.500119 Telephone: (11) 3841-8507 | Fax: (11) 3841-8516 / 8515 Site: www.cpfl.com.br CPFL Leste Paulista – Companhia Leste Paulista de Energia ■■ Rua Vigato, 1.620 | 1º andar | sala 1 | Jaguariúna | São Paulo | SP | CEP 13820-000 CNPJ: 61.015.582/0001-74 IE: 395.088.358.112 Telephone: (19) 3847-5945 | Fax: (19) 3837-4570 Site: www.cpfl.com.br CPFL Jaguari – Companhia Jaguari de Energia ■■ Rua Vigato, 1.620 | térreo | Jaguariúna | São Paulo | SP | CEP 13820000 CNPJ: 53.859.112/0001-69 IE: 395.088.376.114 Telephone: (19) 3847-5945 | Fax: (19) 3837-4570 Site: www.cpfl.com.br CPFL Sul Paulista – Companhia Sul Paulista de Energia ■■ Rua Vigato, 1.620 | 1º andar | sala 2 | Jaguariúna | São Paulo | SP | CEP 13820-000 CNPJ: 60.855.608/0001-20 IE: 395.088.367.113 265 Attachments Telephone: (19) 3847-5945 | Fax: (19) 3837-4570 Site: www.cpfl.com.br CPFL Mococa – Companhia Luz e Força de Mococa ■■ Rua Vigato, 1.620 | 1º andar | sala 3 | Jaguariúna | São Paulo | SP | CEP 13820-000 CNPJ: 52.503.802/0001-18 IE: 395.088.631.114 Telephone: (19) 3847-5945 | Fax: (19) 3837-4570 Site: www.cpfl.com.br ENERGY COMMERCIALIZATION CPFL Brasil – CPFL Comercialização Brasil S.A. ■■ Rod. Engenheiro Miguel Noel Nascentes Burnier, 1755, Km 2,5 | Parque São Quirino | Campinas | SP | CEP 13088-140 CNPJ: 04.973.790/0001-42 IE: 244.925.224.119 Telephone: (19) 3756-8844 | Fax: (19) 3756-8040 Site: www.cpfl.com.br CPFL Meridional – Clion Assessoria e Comercialização de Energia Elétrica Ltda. ■■ Rua Mário de Boni, 1902 | Loteamento Sanvitto | Bairro Floresta | Caxias do Sul | RS | CEP 95012-580 CNPJ: 04.785.914/0001-66 IE: 096/2949191 Telephone: (19) 3756 8844 | Fax: (19) 3756 8040 Site: www.cpfl.com.br CPFL Sul Geradora – Sul Geradora Participações S.A. ■■ Rua Gomes de Carvalho, 1.510 | 14º andar | conjunto 1.402 | Vila Olímpia | São Paulo | SP | CEP 04547-005 CNPJ: 02.689.862/0001-07 IE: 116.344.665.111 Telephone: (11) 3841-8507 | Fax: (11) 3841-8516 / 8515 Site: www.cpfl.com.br CPFL Cone Sul – CPFL Comercialização Cone Sul S.A. 266 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Rua Gomes de Carvalho, 1.510 | 14º andar, conjunto 1402, sala 3 | Vila Olímpia | São Paulo | SP | CEP 04547-005 CNPJ: 02.190.883/0001-75 IE: 116.828.547.116 Telephone: (11) 3841-8507 | Fax: (11) 3841-8516 / 8515 Site: www.cpfl.com.br CPFL Planalto – CPFL Planalto Ltda. ■■ Rua Vigato, 1.620 | 1º andar | sala 7 | Jaguariúna | São Paulo | SP | CEP 13820-000 CNPJ: 02.150.562/0001-47 IE: 395.090.478.113 Telephone: (19) 3847-5910 | Fax: (19) 3837 4567 Site: www.cpfl.com.br SERVICES Chumpitaz Participações S.A. ■■ Rodovia Eng. Ermênio de Oliveira Penteado, km 57,5, Marginal Norte – 1º Pavimento, ASA A | Bairro Helvetia | Indaiatuba | SP | CEP: 13337-300 CNPJ: 08.971.542/0001-13 IE: Exempt Telephone: (11) 3841-8507 | Fax: (11) 3841-8516 / 8515 Site: www.cpfl.com.br CPFL Serviços – CPFL Serviços, Equipamentos, Indústria e Comércio S.A. ■■ Avenida dos Bragheta, 364 | São José do Rio Pardo | SP | CEP 13720000 CNPJ: 58.635.517/0001-37 IE: 646.020.134.111 Telephone: (19) 3687 8200 | Fax: (19) 3687 8200 Site: www.cpfl.com.br CPFL Atende – CPFL Atende Centro de Contatos e Atendimento Ltda. ■■ Rua Antonio Carlos Mori, 677 | sala B | Ourinhos | SP | CEP 19900080 CNPJ: 09.606.475/0001-09 IE: Exempt 267 Attachments Telephone: (19) 3756-8844 | Fax: (19) 3756-8040 Site: www.cpfl.com.br CPFL Total Serviços Administrativos Ltda. ■■ Rua Vigato, 1.620 | térreo | parte A | Jaguariúna | São Paulo | SP | Jaguariúna | SP | CEP 13820-000 CNPJ: 12.116.118/0001-69 NIRE 35.300.379.837 Site: www.cpfl.com.br GENERATION CPFL Geração – CPFL Geração de Energia S.A. ■■ Rod. Engenheiro Miguel Noel Nascentes Burnier, 1755, Km 2,5 | Parque São Quirino | Campinas | SP | CEP 13088-140 CNPJ: 03.953.509/0001-47 IE: 244.858.020.116 Telephone: (19) 3756-8844 | Fax: (19) 3756-8040 Site: www.cpfl.com.br Jaguari de Geração – Companhia Jaguari de Geração de Energia ■■ Rua Vigato, 1.620 | térreo | sala 2 | Jaguariúna | São Paulo | SP | CEP 13820-000 CNPJ: 07.137.154/0001-79 IE: 395.093.565.112 Telephone: (19) 3847-5910 | Fax: (19) 3837-4567 Site: www.cpfl.com.br Paulista Lajeado (PLE) – Paulista Lajeado Energia S.A. ■■ Rua Vigato, 1.620 | 1º andar | sala 4 | Jaguariúna | São Paulo | SP | CEP 13820-000 CNPJ: 03.491.603/0001-21 IE: 395.101.735.110 Telephone: (19) 3847-5910 | Fax: (19) 3837-4567 Site: www.cpfl.com.br Baesa – Energética Barra Grande S.A. 268 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia ■■ Rua R LI São Jorge, s/nº, Zona Rural | Pinhal da Serra – RS | CEP 95390-000 CNPJ: 04.781.143/0001-39 IE: 488/0001910 Telephone: (48) 3331-0003 | Fax: (48) 3331-0031 Site: www.baesa.com.br Enercan – Campos Novos Energia S.A. ■■ Faz. Aranha, s/nº, 1º subdistrito, bairro Interior, Campos Novos | SC | CEP 89620-000 CNPJ: 03.356.967/0001-07 IE: 253.966.078 Telephone: (48) 3331-0003 | Fax: (48) 3331-0031 Site: www.enercan.com.br Foz do Chapecó Energia S.A. ■■ Rua Tenente Silveira, 225 | 10º andar | Florianópolis | SC | CEP 88010300 CNPJ: 04.591.168/0001-70 IE: Exempt Telephone: (48) 30295076 Site: www.fozdochapeco.com.br Chapecoense – Chapecoense Geração S.A. ■■ Rua Tenente Silveira, 225 | 10º andar | Florianópolis | SC | CEP 88010300 CNPJ: 07.829.836/0001-42 IE: Exempt Telephone: (48) 30295076 Site: www.cpfl.com.br Centrais Elétricas da Paraíba S.A. EPASA ■■ Rua Projetada s/n, Engenho Triunfo, Estrada do Aterro Sanitário km 01, Distrito Industrial | CEP 58000-000 | Recife | Pernambuco | CNPJ: 10.366.780/0001-41 IE: 37.088.106 Telephone: (19) 3756 8844 | Fax: (19) 3756 8040 269 Attachments Ceran – Companhia Energética Rio das Antas S.A. ■■ Av. Carlos Gomes, 300 | 8º andar | Bairro Boa Vista | Porto Alegre | RS | CEP 90480-000 CNPJ: 04.237.975/0001-99 IE: 096/2854360 Telephone: (51) 3025-6700 | Fax: (51) 3025-6701 Site: www.ceran.com.br CPFL Bio Itapaci S.A. ■■ Rod. Engenheiro Miguel Noel Nascentes Burnier, 1755, Km 2,5 | Parque São Quirino | Campinas | SP | CEP 13088-140 CNPJ: 12.116.119/0001-03 NIRE 35.300.379.845 GENERATION – CPFL Renováveis ■■ CPFL Bioenergia – CPFL Bioenergia S.A. Av. Dr. Cardoso de Melo, 1184, 8º andar, sala V | Vila Olímpia | São Paulo | SP | CEP 04.548-004 CNPJ: 07.693.890/0001-03 IE: 148.317.992.111 Telephone: (11) 3157-9300 | Fax: (11) 3157-9464 Site: www.cpflrenovaveis.com.br CPFL Sul Centrais – CPFL Sul Centrais Elétricas LTDA. ■■ Av. Dr. Cardoso de Melo, 1184, 8º andar, sala W | Vila Olímpia | São Paulo | SP | CEP 04548-004 CNPJ: 05.441.551/0001-04 IE: 244.793.833.114 Telephone: (11) 3157-9300 | Fax: (11) 3157-9464 Site: www.cpflrenovaveis.com.br CPFL Bio Formosa CPFL Bio Formosa S.A. ■■ Av. Dr. Cardoso de Melo, 1184, 8º andar, sala S | Vila Olímpia | São Paulo | SP | CEP 04548004 CNPJ: 11.352.989/0001-19 IE: 795.022.537.110 Telephone: (11) 3157-9300 | Fax: (11) 3157-9464 Site: www.cpflrenovaveis.com.br 270 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia CPFL Bio Pedra CPFL Bio Pedra S.A. ■■ Av. Dr. Cardoso de Melo, 1184, 8º andar, sala U | Vila Olímpia | São Paulo | SP | CEP 04548-004 CNPJ: 11.631.680/0001-68 IE: 795.040.377.119 Telephone: (11) 3157-9300 | Fax: (11) 3157-9464 Site: www.cpflrenovaveis.com.br CPFL Bio Ipê CPFL Bio Ipê S.A. ■■ Av. Dr. Cardoso de Melo, 1184, 8º andar, sala T | Vila Olímpia | São Paulo | SP | CEP 04548-004 CNPJ: 11.631.679/0001-33 IE: 795.040.359.117 Telephone: (11) 3157-9300 | Fax: (11) 3157-9464 Site: www.cpflrenovaveis.com.br CPFL Bio Buriti CPFL Bio Buriti S.A. ■■ Av. Dr. Cardoso de Melo, 1184, 8º andar, sala R | Vila Olímpia | São Paulo | SP | CEP 04548-004 CNPJ: 11.631.681/0001-02 IE: 795.040.368.118 Telephone: (11) 3157-9300 | Fax: (11) 3157-9464 Site: www.cpflrenovaveis.com.br Santa Clara I Energias Renováveis Ltda. ■■ Av. Dr. Cardoso de Melo, 1184, 8º andar, sala Y | Vila Olímpia | São Paulo | SP | CEP 04548-004 CNPJ: 10.797.899/0001-79 IE: 148.585.808.111 Telephone: (11) 3157-9300 | Fax: (11) 3157-9464 Site: www.cpflrenovaveis.com.br Santa Clara II Energias Renováveis Ltda. ■■ Av. Dr. Cardoso de Melo, 1184, 8º andar, sala Z | Vila Olímpia | São Paulo | SP | CEP 04548-004 CNPJ: 10.797.908/0001-21 IE: 148.585.880.119 271 Attachments Telephone: (11) 3157-9300 | Fax: (11) 3157-9464 Site: www.cpflrenovaveis.com.br Santa Clara III Energias Renováveis Ltda. ■■ Av. Dr. Cardoso de Melo, 1184, 7º andar, sala AA | Vila Olímpia | São Paulo | SP | CEP 04548-004 CNPJ: 10.797.910/0001-09 IE:148.585.905.116 Telephone: (11) 31579300 | Fax: (11) 3157-9404 Site: www.cpflrenovaveis.com.br Santa Clara IV Energias Renováveis Ltda. ■■ Av. Dr. Cardoso de Melo, 1184, 7º andar, sala AB | Vila Olímpia | São Paulo | SP | CEP 04548-004 CNPJ: 10.797.907/0001-87 IE: 148.585.871.118 Telephone: (11) 3157-9300 | Fax: (11) 3157-9464 Site: www.cpflrenovaveis.com.br Santa Clara V Energias Renováveis Ltda. ■■ Av. Dr. Cardoso de Melo, 1184, 7º andar, sala AC | Vila Olímpia | São Paulo | SP | CEP 04548-004 CNPJ: 10.797.909/0001-76 IE: 148.585.890.113 Telephone: (11) 3157-9300 | Fax: (11) 3157-9464 Site: www.cpflrenovaveis.com.br Santa Clara VI Energias Renováveis Ltda. ■■ Av. Dr. Cardoso de Melo, 1184, 7º andar, sala AD | Vila Olímpia | São Paulo | SP | CEP 04548-004 CNPJ: 10.797.906/0001-32 IE: 148.585.862.117 Telephone: (11) 3157-9300 | Fax: (11) 3157-9464 Site: www.cpflrenovaveis.com.br Eurus VI Energias Renováveis Ltda. ■■ Av. Dr. Cardoso de Melo, 1184, 7º andar, sala AH | Vila Olímpia | São 272 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia Paulo | SP | CEP 04548-004 CNPJ: 10.797.905/0001-98 IE: 148.585.853.116 Telephone: (11) 3157-9300 | Fax: (11) 3157-9464 Site: www.cpflrenovaveis.com.br 273 Attachments 5.9. Board of Executive Officers Board of Executive Officers 2011/2013 Mandate ■■ Wilson Ferreira Jr. Chief Executive Officer ■■ Lorival Nogueira Luz Jr. (Elected March 21, 2011) Chief Financial and Investor Relations Officer ■■ Paulo Cezar Coelho Tavares (Mandate expired June 1, 2011) Chief Energy Management Officer (Position extinguished as per EGM of December 19, 2011) ■■ Miguel Normando Abdalla Saad (Mandate expired June 1, 2011) Chief Generation Officer (Position extinguished as per EGM of December 19, 2011) ■■ Hélio Viana Pereira (Mandate expired May 25, 2011) Chief Distribution Officer (Position extinguished as per EGM of December 19, 2011) ■■ José Marcos Chaves de Melo Chief Administrative Officer ■■ Adriana Waltrick (Resigned January 19, 2012. Currently the CEO is accumulating the position) Chief Business Development Officer ■■ Vacant position (Function accumulated by the CEO) Chief Institutional Relations Officer (position created by the EGM of December 19, 2011) ■■ Carlos Marcio Ferreira (Elected August 31, 2011) Chief Operations Officer (position created by the EGM of December 19, 2011) 274 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 5.10 GRI Team Editorial coordination ■■ Carlos Henrique Matos Ramos carloshenrique@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-6094 ■■ Cárita Maria Bagarolo Abdal de Wit carita@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-7050 Verification and systematization of indicators ■■ Natália Tadokoro nataliatk@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8316 ■■ Mariana Costa Rinaldi marianar@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8316 Corporate Governance ■■ Giselia Da Silva giselia@cpfl.com.br (11) 3841 8503 ■■ Michele de Oliveira Endler Virgilio mvirgilio@cpfl.com.br (11) 3841-8502 ■■ Raimundo Nonato Barbosa Guimaraes raimundononato@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-6083 ■■ Rodrigo Brandao Fontoura rodrigofontoura@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8056 275 Attachments Management ■■ Carlos Almeida Simoes cas@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8028 ■■ Claudia Korsakas korsakas@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8028 ■■ Cristiano Monteiro Bueno cbueno@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-6069 ■■ Daniele Nohama Roveri danieleroveri@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8028 ■■ Gilberto Costa de Souza gilbertosouza@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8771 ■■ Lucia Helena Magalhaes luciahelena@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8014 ■■ Mauro De Oliveira Sobrinho msobrinho@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8272 ■■ Roseli Cordeiro Silveira roseli@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8115 Corporate Strategy ■■ Fernando Mano Da Silva fernandomano@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8137 276 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia ■■ Leandro Leone Junqueira leandrolj@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-6087 ■■ Rafael Lazzaretti rlazzaretti@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8219 ■■ Sebastião Serra Gomes de Almeida Pinho spinho@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8142 ■■ Vinicius Teixeira viniciusteixeira@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-7115 Operations ■■ Adãozinho Gnatta agnatta@rge-rs.com.br (54) 3206-3906 ■■ Adriano Goncalves De Souza Junior adrianosouza@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-6035 ■■ Alessandro Murai de Oliveira amoliveira@cpfljaguariuna.com.br (19) 3847-5914 ■■ Alexandre Dias Sanchez Ribeiro alexsanchez@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8765 ■■ Alexandre Moreira Pinto alexandremp@cpflsantacruz.com.br (14) 3305-9163 277 Attachments ■■ Amaury Haga amaury@cpfl.com.br (19) 3847-5946 ■■ Ana Claudia Martins Resende Camargo arcamargo@rge-rs.com.br (54) 3206-3939 ■■ Andre de Oliveira Meirelles ameirelles@rge-rs.com.br (54) 3206-3701 ■■ Bruno Cesar Pires de Oliveira bpoliveira@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8944 ■■ Camila Pikunas camilapikunas@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-6041 ■■ Carlos Augusto Saraiva saraiva@cpfl.com.br (15) 3229-4004 ■■ Cleide Paganin Baisi cleidepb@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8550 ■■ Cristian Sippel csippel@rge-rs.com.br (54) 3206-3834 ■■ Daniel Marrocos Camposilvan danielc@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8308 278 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia ■■ Daniele Oliveira daniele.oliveira@cpflrenovaveis.com.br (11) 3157-9312 ■■ Denise Regina Tozzi denisetozzi@cpfl.com.br ■■ Edson Amaral Junior edsonamaral@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8120 ■■ Eduardo Basile Junior basile@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-5238 ■■ Eliége Martinelli Cremonese eliege@ceran.com.br (51) 3025-6717 ■■ Erika C. Diogo Patara erika.patara@cpflrenovaveis.com.br (11) 3157-9357 ■■ Flavio Barbosa flavioba@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8717 ■■ Galdino Lamas De Barros galdino@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-6085 ■■ Jose Geraldo Paiva jgpaiva@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8150 279 Attachments ■■ Josias Ricardo De Souza josias@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8634 ■■ Karin Regina Luchesi karin@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8280 ■■ Luis Mecatti De Carvalho mecatti@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-6037 ■■ Luiz Carlos Lopes Junior luizcljunior@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8931 ■■ Luiz Fernando Velo luizvello@cpflsantacruz.com.br (14) 3305-9177 ■■ Manoel Eduardo Miranda Negrisoli negrisoli@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-5299 ■■ Marcelo de Aguiar marceloaguiar@cpflsantacruz.com.br (14) 3305-9130 ■■ Marcelo Yukio Kurokawa kurokawa@ceran.com.br (54) 3268-8851 ■■ Mario Shigueru Tadokoro mariotadokoro@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8346 280 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia ■■ Mauro Silvio Rodrigues msrodrigues@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-6433 ■■ Michel Simões michel.simoes@cpflrenovaveis.com.br (19) 3469-1114 ■■ Paulo Espindola Camargo paulocamargo@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8157 ■■ Paulo Salvati Fico paulo.fico@cpflrenovaveis.com.br (11) 3157-9350 ■■ Raphael Barcellos raphael.barcellos@cpflrenovaveis.com.br (11) 3157-9327 ■■ Renato Costa de Oliveira rcoliveira@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-5160 ■■ Roberto Antonio Terencio Tezzin tezzin@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-6098 ■■ Rodolfo Belinato Biazon rodolfo@cpflsantacruz.com.br (14) 3732-3999 ■■ Rodrigo De Vasconcelos Bianchi rbianchi@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756 8403 281 Attachments ■■ Rodrigo Sacchi rsacchi@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-7087 ■■ Ronaldo Borges Franco rbfranco@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8932 ■■ Ulisses Bittencourt Pinto ulisses@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8565 ■■ Vanessa De Oliveira vanessaoliveira@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-5139 ■■ Vanice Ferreira Santos Dornellas vanice@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8157 ■■ Wilson Roberto Janotta janotta@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8332 Sustainability ■■ Durval Neto de Souza durval.souza@cpflrenovaveis.com.br (11) 3157-9300 ■■ Bianca Santos bianca.santos@cpflrenovaveis.com.br (11) 3157-9332 ■■ Carolina Paz carolina.paz@cpflrenovaveis.com.br (11) 3157-9335 282 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia ■■ Giovanni Vinciprova giovanni.vinciprova@cpflrenovaveis.com.br (11) 3157-9365 ■■ Rafael Oliveira rafael.oliveira@cpflrenovaveis.com.br (11) 3157-9447 ■■ José Luiz Soares jose.soares@cpflrenovaveis.com.br (11) 3157-9451 ■■ Fernando Padilha fernando.padilha@cpflrenovaveis.com.br (11) 3157-9452 ■■ Fernanda Furlan de Gouveia fernanda.gouveia@cpflrenovaveis.com.br (11) 3157-9453 ■■ Marcela Silva marcela.silva@cpflrenovaveis.com.br (11) 3157-9455 ■■ Alexandre Silva alexandre.silva@cpflrenovaveis.com.br (11) 3157-9458 ■■ Antonio Goncalves Cardoso antoniocardoso@cpfl.com.br (15) 3229-4097 ■■ Luiz Eduardo Rielli rielli@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-5100 283 Attachments ■■ Marcelo Henrique Bianchini mbianchini@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-5142 ■■ Cleber Do Amaral cleberamaral@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-5196 ■■ Erico Izar Marson ericomarson@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-6065 ■■ Alfredo Bergman abergman@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-7025 ■■ Daniela Ortolani Pagotto danielapagotto@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8000 ■■ Mário Mazzilli mazzilli@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8000 ■■ Cristina Helena Perrone Aydar Salvador cristinah@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8032 ■■ Roseli Cordeiro Silveira roseli@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8115 ■■ Clara Martins Leite claramartins@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8181 284 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia ■■ Luiz Rodrigues Kisch luizrodrigues@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8206 ■■ Domenico Succi De Oliveira Machado domenico@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8230 ■■ Nathana Luíza Monteiro Silva nathana@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8231 ■■ Thiago Fernando de Oliveira tdeoliveira@rge-rs.com.br (19) 3756-8275 ■■ Edney Antonio Bruscagin Pin pin@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8314 ■■ Mariana Costa Rinaldi marianar@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8316 ■■ Natália Tadokoro nataliatk@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8316 ■■ Rodolfo Nardez Sirol rnsirol@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8318 ■■ Juliano Alexandre Chandretti chandretti@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8334 285 Attachments ■■ Jose Ferreira Abdal Neto joseabdal@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8440 ■■ Roberta A. Brolezzi Rosario robertarosario@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8462 ■■ Maria Silvia Ambiel Bueno De Oliveira msaboliveira@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8506 ■■ Wlademir Nolasco wlademirnolasco@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8578 ■■ Andressa Campos Fedossi andressac@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8709 ■■ Jefferson de Souza Barros jbarros@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8720 ■■ Antonio Jose Gomes Amaro amaro@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8751 ■■ Carla Schmitt Garcia carlag@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8762 ■■ Alexandre Dias Sanchez Ribeiro alexsanchez@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8765 286 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia ■■ Fernando Fernandes Rosa fernandesrosa@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8786 ■■ Monica De Oliveira Rocha monica@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8799 ■■ Luiz Carlos de Miranda Júnior miranda@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8799 ■■ Douglas Antonio Sita Junior dsita@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8805 ■■ Mara Eliane Rabello Pim mararabello@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8870 ■■ Marina Pimenta Gazeti mgazetti@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8870 ■■ Mariana Clara Regino De Lima mcrlima@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8896 ■■ Robson Hitoshi Tanaka robsontanaka@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8896 ■■ Luana Ap. R. Javoni luanaj@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8896 287 Attachments ■■ Luiz Carlos Lopes Junior luizcljunior@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8931 ■■ Vinicius De Paula Arruda varruda@cpfl.com.br (19) 3756-8957 ■■ Kathy Batista Da Silva kbsilva@cpfl.com.br (19) 3825-4107 ■■ Sergio Alexandre De Souza Dias sergiodias@cpfl.com.br (19) 3825-4354 ■■ Roberto Linhares Moritz robertomoritz@fozdochapeco.com.br (48) 3029-5087 ■■ Nasser Nasser nasser.nasser@cscenergia.com.br (48) 3331-0004 ■■ Paulo Ribeiro paulo.ribeiro@cscenergia.com.br (48) 3331-0004 ■■ Eliége Martinelli Cremonese eliege@ceran.com.br (51) 3025-6717 ■■ Fabrício Hoeltz Steffens fsteffens@rge-rs.com.br (54) 3206-3739 288 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia ■■ Fabrizio Bopp Panichi fpanichi@rge-rs.com.br (54) 3206-3903 289 Attachments 5.11. Credits Overall Coordination Augusto Rodrigues Corporate Communication and Institutional Relations Officer CPFL Energia Content Guidance Carlos Henrique Matos Ramos – Communication Manager Luiz Eduardo Rielli – Sustainability Manager Editorial Coordination Cárita Abdal Web Coordination Jardel Sliumba Content Production Mariana Rinaldi Natália Tadokoro Soraia Duarte Graphic Design and Web Programming XY2 Agência Digital Layout Costa Castagna Publicidade Translation Tristar Traduções Ltda Photography Juan Carlos Carabetta Matheus de Almeida Meireles Giancarlo Giannelli Banco de Imagens CPFL Energia 290 Annual Report 2011 CPFL Energia 291
