2012 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) Banarra Making sustainability your business © 2012 Banarra Page 1 of 12 Contents 1. Introduction .................................................................................................................. 3 1.1 This Report .................................................................................................................... 3 1.2 Who we are ................................................................................................................... 3 1.3 How we promote sustainability including the Global Compact‟s ten Principles – And: our impact through our clients .............................................................................................. 4 2. Message of Support from the Managing Director ......................................................... 5 3. Promotion & Implementation of Human Rights Principles........................................... 6 3.1 Policies, assessment and goals ........................................................................................ 6 3.2 Implementation and measurement of outcomes ............................................................... 6 4. Promotion & Implementation of Labour Principles ...................................................... 8 4.1 Policies, assessment and goals ........................................................................................ 8 4.2 Implementation and measurement of outcomes ............................................................... 9 5. Promotion & Implementation of Environmental Principles ........................................ 10 5.1 Policies, assessment and goals .............................................................................................. 10 5.2 Implementation and measurement of outcomes ..............................................................10 6. Promotion & Implementation of Anti‐Corruption Principles ...................................... 12 6.1 Policies, assessment and goals .......................................................................................12 6.2 Implementation and measurement of outcomes ..............................................................12 © 2012 Banarra Page 2 of 12 1. Introduction 1.1 This Report This is Banarra‟s first United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Report (COP) covering the 2011 calendar year. Banarra became a Signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (Global Compact) in 2011 and this COP is submitted to fulfil Banarra‟s communications and reporting responsibilities under the Global Compact. For the last five consecutive years, Banarra has been using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)‟s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines as the basis for publicly reporting on its sustainability impacts and related performance. The reporting process helps us to „walk the talk‟ by subjecting ourselves to the same standards and processes we expect our clients to apply to their businesses. We believe “ what gets reported, gets measured, gets managed” – it is this concept that keeps us mindful of our own sustainability impacts and that enables us to systematically manage these to further promote a sustainable future for people and the planet. Recognising the challenge of simplifying, reducing and linking several reporting requirements placed on reporting organisations today, Banarra was eager to present its first COP as a fully integrated account of our Global Compact-related performance in our annual, GRI-based Sustainability Report. We believe this would have not only better reflected the true integration of the Global Compact Principles into our business-wide, overarching management of sustainability impacts and performance, but would also represent a reporting approach as encouraged by both the Global Compact and GRI. However, at this point in time our sustainability and Global Compact reporting timelines could not yet be aligned. Banarra is considering how to resolve this in order to produce a joint COP/GRI report in coming years. 1.2 Who we are Banarra is an Australian-based small-to-medium sized enterprise (SME) providing specialised professional services to organisations looking to develop or enhance their sustainability performance and reporting. Based in Gordon on Sydney‟s North Shore, Australia, we deliver our services primarily to business, government and not-for-profit sectors within Australia and, increasingly, overseas. Our extensive expertise across the sustainability spectrum means Banarra‟s service offerings enable clients to effectively manage and realise their sustainability challenges and opportunities. Our current service offerings include:  Social & Human Rights Management;  Strategy and Change;  Accountability (Sustainability Assurance & Reporting); and  Environment and Climate Change Management. For further information about us and what we do and to read our sustainability reports please visit www.banarra.com. © 2012 Banarra Page 3 of 12 1.3 How we promote sustainability including the Global Compact’s ten Principles – And: our impact through our clients Banarra believes a sustainable future for people and the planet is possible when organisations and their stakeholders relate more equitably. Through listening, insight and action, Banarra enables organisations and individuals to make sustainability their business, thereby promoting sustainability principles well beyond Banarra‟s immediate sphere of influence. Banarra is proud of its own commitment to, and performance across, the ten Global Compact Principles. Our commitment is formalised in our policies and procedures. Performance is measured on an on-going basis for most Principles and reported annually according to our annual reporting cycle. In 2011, it was identified that accountabilities for performance against the Principles should be part of Management‟s respective roles and will be actioned in 2012. Coupled with our formal processes, Banarra‟s people are selected on their capabilities and their “fit” with Banarra‟s values. Because of our strong ethics, Banarra‟s people imbue the workplace with a social and environmental consciousness in our approach to procurement, office recycling and low carbon travel to and from work. Banarra annually offsets its greenhouse gas emission from business travel with Gold Standard VCUs as part of our intent to deliver a social dividend in every business decision we make. Banarra is also an active member of our local council‟s Better Business Partnership which promotes sustainability business-to-business across energy, waste, water, community support, sustainable purchasing, sustainable transport and staff support. As Banarra is only an SME with 17 employees and six Associates, our real contribution to sustainability, and to the promotion and implementation of the Global Compact‟s ten Principles, is through our clients. Our primary objective is to make a greater impact by supporting our clients in their contribution to a more sustainable future. Working with small businesses, government and notfor-profits, as well as large Australian and multi-national corporations, Banarra‟s sphere of influence within which we promote core sustainability principles goes well beyond that of a typical SME. Banarra‟s active involvement in sustainability-related national and global debates and initiatives such as the development of the G4 Guidelines by the Global Reporting Initiative further enables us to promote core sustainability principles. In addition, Banarra has joined the Australian Network of the Global Compact and is represented on both the Leadership Group on human rights, as well as on anti-corruption. Our Managing Director also recently joined the Board of the Australian Network, which further strengthens Banarra‟s commitment to, and leadership role within, the Network in Australia. The following sections relating to the four core areas of the Global Compact elaborate on how we specifically promote and implement the ten Principles through Banarra‟s daily work. © 2012 Banarra Page 4 of 12 2. Message of Support from the Managing Director I am pleased to present Banarra‟s first UN Global Compact COP Report and to clearly reiterate Banarra‟s ongoing commitment to the Global Compact and its Principles. It has been a year since Banarra signed up to the Global Compact – doing so has strengthened our commitment to sustainability as articulated through the Compact‟s ten Principles with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This Report communicates to our stakeholders what actions we have taken in order to implement the ten Global Compact Principles and what these actions have resulted in. With sustainability being at the very core of what we do, and of what we enable our clients to do, I am pleased with our progress during 2011 in further promoting and integrating the Global Compact‟s ten Principles into the way we and our clients work. We promote and support implementation of the Principles by:  Leading by example in terms of how Banarra identifies and manages our impacts on people and the environment – detailed here and in our online sustainability reports;  Supporting our clients, particularly other Global Compact signatories, through advice and audit services – I‟m particularly proud of the human rights impact assessments we delivered in the last year with a methodology that has been jointly developed with the Centre for Social Responsibility in Mining at the University of Queensland. It has become a significant body of work that we have seen directly improve our clients‟ human rights performance. In addition, we have been able to reflect on our learning and contribute globally to what is a practice area that is still very much in its infancy; and  Contributing to thought leadership and advocacy such as through our work on labour practices reporting research for one of Australia‟s larger unions – the Construction, Forestry, Manufacturing and Energy Union; and our papers at conferences such as the 1st Conference on Social Responsibility in Mining in Chile at the end of 2011. In addition, we contribute in a whole range of ways, from my own Directorship of the UNGC Network Australia to colleagues in Banarra sitting on GRI G4 working groups. For all the positives there is always more we can do in response to the Global Compact Principles. As they are Principles, not standards, we will always push further as acceptable progress is governed by your changing expectations of us. Richard Boele Founder and Managing Director, Banarra © 2012 Banarra Page 5 of 12 3. Promotion & Implementation of Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 3.1 Policies, assessment and goals As part of our sustainability reporting process, Banarra goes through a comprehensive material issues identification process, based on AccountAbility‟s 5-part materiality approach. As with the previous four years, Banarra‟s 2011 material issues do not include any specific human rights-related concerns except for a potential human rights-related risk regarding employee well-being (work-related stress). How we monitor, manage and respond to this potential risk is outlined under the “Promotion & Implementation of Labour Rights” section of this COP. Apart from this, we consider our direct human rights risks or direct complicity in any human rights abuses as a result of our work as low, which is also due to the nature of our business being a small, primarily office-based consultancy. Banarra‟s People Manual directly and indirectly covers specific human rights such as those relating to health, anti-discrimination and collective bargaining which formalises Banarra‟s respect for the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. It also identifies and explains our formal internal complaints and grievance mechanism, which we encourage staff to use if and when appropriate. We apply the same approach externally when dealing with stakeholders such as suppliers or contractors and are careful to respect human rights during any work we undertake with our clients or through other circumstances. This includes respect for Indigenous rights, customs and cultural heritage, an area we believe is particularly relevant within Australia. In terms of our risk for complicity in human rights abuses, this would only apply to our supply chain and Banarra would not knowingly engage with any suppliers where this is an issue. Going forward, we commit to maintain this approach and our performance in this area, particularly with on-going monitoring of potential human rights-related risks that may arise. In addition to our own performance, the protection and promotion of human rights has relevance to the type of work we deliver to our clients, as well as to their performance, where we believe there is actually potential for Banarra to have a positive impact on human rights management. Our Social & Human Rights Service Line, Banarra‟s biggest service line in terms of revenue generation, sees us working significantly with clients from the resources sector both in Australia and increasingly within the Asia Pacific region. We aim to further strengthen and grow this service, thereby promoting human rights by enabling our clients to better identify, acknowledge and manage their human rights risks. Banarra has also joined the Human Rights Leadership Group of the Global Compact Network Australia to contribute our learning and experience in this area. 3.2 Implementation and measurement of outcomes In terms of the implementation of Banarra‟s own human rights risk management, our People Management Policy relevant to this is fully implemented across Banarra and is part of our induction process. © 2012 Banarra Page 6 of 12 Due to the nature of Banarra consulting to our clients on how to assess, manage and remedy human rights impacts, the majority of our staff working within our Social & Human Rights Service Line are specialists in this field and have tertiary qualifications related to human rights. In terms of concrete actions to help our clients implement human rights policies, reduce human rights risks and respond to human rights violations, Banarra has delivered a number of projects this past year. These included developing community relations management systems with a range of clients; the largest body of work being with Newmont Mining. We also successfully delivered our human rights impact assessment methodology to BHP Billiton, jointly developed with the Centre for Social Responsibility in Mining at the University of Queensland. It is those projects through which Banarra makes a positive impact through enabling major resources companies to:  identify human rights risks and actual impacts;  listen to and take into account stakeholder perception;  map out potential solutions and responses to identified risks and impacts; and  build internal capacity and understanding of human rights issues, particularly in the Australian context and within senior management. In terms of monitoring and evaluating our impacts on our clients, we conduct and evaluate a client survey which is sent out to each client after project completion. The cumulative results are publicly reported in our annual sustainability report. © 2012 Banarra Page 7 of 12 4. Promotion & Implementation of Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 4.1 Policies, assessment and goals Banarra's approach to managing its employment conditions and relationship with employees is governed through the policies and procedures in our People Manual. The Manual and related Position Descriptions and performance review processes describe employee rights and Banarra's people responsibilities which include:  Occupational health and safety;  Diversity and equal opportunity including non-discrimination;  Grievance Policy; and  Professional development and career progression. Banarra does not impose any restrictions on employees regarding freedom of association, which is supported by our anti-discriminatory culture. Furthermore, we consider risks of abuses related to forced and compulsory labor as well as child labor as not applicable to our business. This would only apply to our supply chain and Banarra would not knowingly engage with any suppliers where this is an issue unless the engagement is specifically directed at working with the supplier and or client to address this issue. In terms of related potential labour rights related risks, Banarra‟s 2011 material issues identification process identified work-life balance and employee wellness as material issues for our business. This relates to stress and hence is relevant to overall labour conditions. Managing this has been a challenge for Banarra in the last few years, however, in 2011 we have made great progress in this area by implementing key internal initiatives and responses that are further outlined below. We aim to improve our enabling and support of our employees in better managing their work-life balance to reduce stress. In terms of labour rights related opportunities and making a positive impact on labour rights management beyond Banarra, we directly engage with clients to help them to better manage this area. Global Compact Principles 3 to 5 are all a core part of our human rights impact assessment methodology, and is based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and over 80 other human rights treaties and ILO conventions. Furthermore, labour rights and ILO conventions are also included in other projects we deliver. In addition, Banarra contributed to thought leadership and accountability in the area of labour practices with the launch of a first-ever study into the quality and usefulness of public reporting of ASX listed companies on their labour practices, commissioned by the Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union (CFMEU). Banarra is committed to continue delivering landmark projects like these and engaging in pro-active partnerships such as with relevant bodies to promote and help further the implementation of labour and other Global Compact Principles. © 2012 Banarra Page 8 of 12 4.2 Implementation and measurement of outcomes In terms of the implementation of Banarra‟s own labour rights related risk and opportunities management, our People Management Policy is implemented across Banarra and in our induction process. To regularly monitor and evaluate our performance in this area, each year we engage our employees via a comprehensive, externally administered survey in order to better understand and respond to their views and expectations of the business, particularly with regard to labour conditions – this year we again had a 100% response rate. With work-life balance and wellness concerns highlighted in our employee survey results, this area was key focus during 2011 and resulted in significant resources spent on an Employee Wellbeing initiative. The initiative was built on strong employee engagement and helped identify and subsequently, prioritise the root causes for our work-life balance and wellness results, as well as beginning to integrate outcomes into our resourcing decisions. As a result of our efforts in this area to date we achieved notable improvements in our employee survey results both for work-life-balance and for wellness. During 2012, we will focus on incorporating the outputs of our Employee Wellbeing initiative into core business systems. In terms of promoting the implementation of labour rights more broadly, and contributing to transparency and accountability with regard to companies‟ labour practices, the 2011 launch of the CFMEU Report on Labour Practices in Sustainability Reporting produced by Banarra provides an excellent example of how we promote Global Compact Principles through strategic collaborations. Banarra and the CFMEU have, for some time, shared an interest in the way that labour practices of Australian companies are accounted for through the practice of sustainability reporting. This resulted in the CFMEU commissioning Banarra to undertake the first review of the quality and usefulness of the sustainability reporting of Australian companies in relation to labour practices management and performance. The review identified several opportunities and provided practical recommendations for companies, unions and others to improve the quality of their reporting on labour. Recognising the potential positive impact of the results of our review, Banarra held dedicated meetings for interested reporters, summarising and discussing the results and recommendations. Banarra has also integrated the learnings from the project, which are applicable far beyond the area of labour practices, into our training and capacity building projects with clients. © 2012 Banarra Page 9 of 12 5. Promotion & Implementation of Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 5.1 Policies, assessment and goals Banarra‟s annual materiality assessment process provides us with the framework for understanding the breadth and relative importance of our material environmental impacts. By strategically reviewing and assessing these impacts for both the business and for the context in which we work, Banarra is able to plan for and implement appropriate responses. Banarra‟s response to its environmental impacts goes to the heart of our promulgation of environmental responsibility. As an example, Banarra‟s commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions is that Banarra‟s impact in this area should be zero or better. Our Procurement Policy governs our approach to making appropriate decisions around the sourcing of key materials used within the business such as paper, IT equipment, accredited GreenPower and carbon offsets. The Policy also stipulates our preference for locally-sourced goods and services and this matches our continued role in our local business network and the local community in which we operate. Banarra‟s Travel and Accommodation Policy guides staff in relation to business travel and the use of accredited sustainable accommodation. There is an opportunity however for Banarra to make our impact assessment process more formal as we grow. Going beyond how we manage our own business is the approach we take to promoting greater environmental responsibility with our clients, peer group and community. Our employees speak at universities and other learning institutions on the basis of contributing to the common good, fostering the next generation of sustainability professionals and promoting greater sustainability. Our greatest opportunity to promote greater environmental responsibility is through the collaborative solutions that we develop with our clients. Banarra‟s breadth of environmental services include data verification and assurance, climate change scenario risk and opportunity mapping workshops, public policy advice and advocacy, corporate policy development and delivery, mentoring and training. As one of the first providers of assurance to companies wishing to be accredited against the Australian Government‟s National Carbon Offset Standard, Banarra continues to play a key role in enabling and pushing beyond compliance and for best practice in the area of environmental management through our client services. Looking towards improvements in 2012, Banarra is committed to updating its teleconferencing facilities to address some of the impacts of our growing greenhouse gas impacts from business travel. We are also committed to better report on our greenhouse gas impacts in two ways: including emissions from additional scope 3 sources such as waste and, by reporting an intensity measure of our greenhouse gas impacts (i.e. moving from tonnes per full time equivalent employee to tonnes per unit of revenue). 5.2 Implementation and measurement of outcomes As a professional services company, Banarra‟s 2011 material environmental impacts were:  (scope 2) greenhouse gas emissions resulting from air travel for business;  (scope 3) greenhouse gas emissions resulting from electricity use in the office, primarily for heating, ventilation and cooling; © 2012 Banarra Page 10 of 12  (scope 3) greenhouse gas emissions resulting from staff travel to and from the office;  waste in the form of recyclable materials and municipal solid waste; and  paper consumption, recycling and disposal. As Banarra builds improvements into its physical and virtual workspaces, we have identified a new environmental impact that will require a policy and procedure in 2012 spent office furniture and ewaste. Banarra is in the process of collating environmental data for its annual sustainability report, therefore a complete set of 2011 environmental data is not yet available. However, our previous sustainability reports show that Banarra does systematically collect and report on key environmental data. We use the widely accepted Australian Government National Greenhouse Accounts for estimating our greenhouse gas emissions based on short, medium and long-haul flights. Banarra‟s implemented environmental actions and achieved outcomes in 2010 should be viewed in context of our business, which grew around 40% in terms of revenue. Our electricity consumption remained static, accounting for only a 5% increase in electricity usage. We were able to achieve this result because of a number of activities including:  Installing energy efficient lighting;  Purchasing of a more energy efficient fridge;  Turning off computing equipment and appliances every night ;  Using natural light and curtains to control lighting levels; and  Educating staff about energy conservation and recycling. By adopting these measures Banarra will save approximately 12% on its annual energy consumption. Whilst we implemented these recommendations largely from our own resources, a $2,000 rebate received from the NSW State Government was used towards implementing changes identified in our energy assessment and action plan. We continue to purchase 100% accredited GreenPower for all of our office electricity use. Water consumption at Banarra is not measured and we do not report on performance belonging to this aspect. However, our water appliances were subject to the Better Business Partnership (BBP) environmental assessment. Necessary upgrades were made and practical steps implemented to guide employee behaviour around water use. In 2010 and again in 2011, our purchasing practices included recycled stationery and related products, and furniture with recycled content where possible. Our paper is 100% recycled and from an Australian source. In 2012 we commenced work with a client to have their paper achieve accreditation against the National Carbon Offset Standard for the full life-cycle of its paper product. Whilst our figures are not yet in for 2011, in 2010 we used 99 kg of photocopy paper (12 kg per FTE), representing an increase of 32% in total consumption, but only 12% when normalised against employee numbers. We continue to measure our total paper waste (157 kg in 2010) and co-mingled in-office recycling (29 kg in 2010). Banarra‟s largest emerging environmental challenges for 2012 are:  Our increased volume of business that necessitates increased air travel; and  An office upgrade that would create redundant furnishings and ICT hardware. © 2012 Banarra Page 11 of 12 6. Promotion & Implementation of Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 6.1 Policies, assessment and goals Our annual material issues identified our risk of corruption as low. In terms of our formal systems relevant to anti-corruption, our employees‟ conduct is governed by a Personal Conduct Policy included in Banarra‟s People Manual. The policy states that “Banarra expects its employees to achieve and maintain a high standard of ethics, professional conduct and work performance” and management of any behaviour in conflict with this policy directly involves notification of the Managing Director. The policy also covers gifts and gratuities management guidelines. In addition, all decision-making, including that of our Leadership Team, must be in accordance with Banarra's Conflict of Interest Policy. While the management of anti-corruption and bribery by organisations still largely resides in their legal and or compliance departments, Banarra considers it to be more a matter of organisational culture and ethical awareness among a company‟s employees. Banarra places great importance on the values and ethical conscience of our employees and for the last three years we have achieved an ethics score of 100% in our employee survey. Beyond our own performance in this area, Banarra's approach is mainly through assisting and advising our clients on how to identify and manage their impacts in this area, thereby fostering to make a positive impact with regard to corruption and bribery prevention or incident response management. Our relevant services include ethics audits and assessments, as well as other related offerings. Banarra also takes an advocacy role to directly and indirectly promote, educate and help implement the anti-corruption Principle, such as through lectures on ethical business conduct and our participation in the Global Compact Leadership Group on Anti-Corruption. 6.2 Implementation and measurement of outcomes Both Banarra‟s People Manual and Personal Conduct Policy are fully implemented within Banarra and included in both our induction process and annual performance review. Furthermore, they are directly linked with Banarra‟s highest governance body, the Managing Director. Specific responsibility for monitoring the conduct of employees formally lies with our managers and informally with everyone at Banarra. In terms of maintaining our high level of personal conduct and ethical culture for which Banarra employees are known for by our clients, we aim to keep our annual employee survey ethics score at a consistent very high level. Also as we continue to grow rapidly, we plan to further integrate considerations of personal values and ethics into our recruitment process. In 2012 we will focus on further broadening our client service offerings related to organisational culture and ethics audit and assessment services, which will include capacity building. Furthermore, we will also commit internal resources to supporting the Global Compact Network Australia Leadership Group on Anti-Corruption. Our relevant experience in the resources sector and with major multi-national corporations places Banarra well to contribute in this field and support the stepping-up of Australian corporate behaviour, particularly for those operating in high corruption risk countries. © 2012 Banarra Page 12 of 12
