Statement of continued support by the chief executive officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Mammut A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Mammut’s operations in Denmark are mainly administrative and as such we are constantly striving to improve our internal conditions regarding labour and internal/ local environment. Our focus is mainly aimed at the supply chain, where we work with human rights, labour, environment and anti corruption. The main focus of our CSR work in 2012 has been again on the environmental aspects related to our fabric and accessories suppliers as well as researching possibilities for recycling uniforms that cannot be recycled through available systems. In the coming year we will continue to work with our supply chain and encourage our suppliers to support and join Global Compact. We will also take a systematic look at our sewing facilities in the Ukraine to see if working conditions can be improved. Locally, Mammut is engaged in a CSR network that is organised by the Danish fashion and textile association, where we and other members meet a number of times per year to discuss CSR issues Sincerely yours, Michael Graversen Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Mammut A/S complies with the universal declaration of human rights. Implementation We have procedures regarding illness, stress, health, pregnancy etc. Measurement of outcomes We continue to hold a short meeting every morning where employees have the opportunity to discuss all relevant topics freely as well as a longer meeting once a week consisting of management and employees Labour Assessment, policy and goals Work environment and conditions for our employees has always been a high priority at Mammut and we have introduced many different measures to achieve a comfortable working environment. Mammut prepares and submits an annual compulsory report (APV) to the Labour inspectorate. Implementation Upgrading of Mammuts facilities is a constant task and we have in the past, replaced all old desks with modern ergonomic office desks that can be adjusted up or down as needed as well as proper lighting and heat. Provided facilities with refrigerator, stove, etc. where workers can sit in comfortable environment. In the storage area, we have upgraded to modern machines (forklifts etc.). We also introduced a flexible time schedule. Measurement of outcomes Workers are encouraged to discuss any work conditions topics at the daily/weekly meetings Environment Assessment, policy and goals Due to the nature of our business, (Mammut is a producer of work wear), the main environmental impacts are related to our suppliers and transport. Environmental impacts internally relate to energy use and waste. Another impact area that we have identified concerns the recycling of uniforms. Uniforms that are produced for the police, armed forces etc. cannot be recycled through charity organisations and our goal is to eventually find a solution to this problem. Implementation During 2011, Mammut continued with a project started in 2010 regarding the environmental aspects of the company on a LCA basis regarding our suppliers. The first part of the project involved the preparation and communication to suppliers of Mammut’s environmental requirements throughout the life cycle of the products. The second part of this project is in progress and concerns the certification of our products by the European Ecolabel. We have now started an application process for the first group of our products. Regarding recycling of our products, Mammut has been in dialogue with stakeholders (technological institutions, recycling companies etc.) to investigate recycling possibilities of non-recyclable uniforms. This is a huge environmental problem worldwide because such uniforms are usually incinerated. Measurement of outcomes The first part of our project had provided us with information regarding our supplier’s environmental situation. The work in the second phase in applying for the European Ecolabel will be a way to show that our products have less impact on the environment based on a life cycle assessment than the conventional counterpart. We expect to receive the licence in 2013. Anti – Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Mammut A/S adheres to the anti corruption principles and is kept up to date with developments through the CSR network participation and newsletters. Moreover all elements of Mammut’s activities are completely transparent which reduces the element of corruption greatly. Implementation Employees and suppliers are informed of the importance of Mammut’s stand on anti corruption Measurement of outcomes Mammut has a policy that states: corruption will not be tolerated.
