ContourGlobal 2011 Annual Corporate Sustainability Report Table of Contents Message from our CEO 3 Overview 4 Our Business 6 Our Sustainability Challenges and Management Response 10 Providing a Healthy and Safe Workplace with the Highest Standards of Ethical Behavior and Strong Corporate Governance 10 Minimizing our Environmental Impacts Through Planning and Promoting Innovative Technical Solutions 13 Developing People and Processes to Achieve Operational Excellence 16 Identifying Community Needs and Socially Responsible Projects 19 Our Growth Plan 20 Our Stakeholders 21 Our Sustainability Strategy 24 Our Performance Targets 27 Our Report and Performance Impacts 30 2011 Was a Year of implemented widespread actions to We make it our mission to go “one Dramatic and improve the way we train and teach. step beyond power” by improving We also realized we did not have our local communities through Transformational enough health and safety professionals engagement and social investment. Change in our organization and we added fullWe are proud to provide such a time employees and advisors to basic necessity many communities Our business doubled in size and improve our standards, policies and where electricity did not previously people and we grew into several procedures and our on-site audits. exist but we want to do more. new countries. With this increased We focused intensely on proactive Philanthropic activities in Bulgaria, size we have redoubled our commitreporting of hazards and near misses, environmental educational initiatives ment to sustainable development indicators we believe are critical to in Brazil, and partnerships with schools and operations. We added 1,714 MW providing a healthy and safe working in Togo are just a few examples of our to our portfolio of assets, 1,708 MW environment for our people. We commitment to act in a socially resthrough the acquisition of operating will continue to strive toward our ponsible way at all of our businesses. businesses in Bulgaria and Spain. objective of zero harm by prioritizing We expanded into two countries and Meeting energy needs without our health and safety programs the number of ContourGlobal people compromising a country’s ability throughout the organization. increased by 589. Our growth in to generate electricity in the future revenues was 171% and our assets Elsewhere our operational perforis a challenge and ContourGlobal increased by US$1.8b to US$3.1b. mance in 2011 was very strong. We is uniquely positioned to do this in provided a reliable supply of electricboth developing economies and This step-change in our businesses ity and minimized our environmental developed countries. By managing demonstrated our commitment to impacts through careful planning the social, economic and environcreating value for our investors and compliance. The impacts of our mental impacts of our operations, through sustainable business newly acquired assets were carefully with an intense focus on safety and development. However, this shift also reviewed and met our standards for ethical standards, we can achieve required that we improve the way we investment due to the use of natural our sustainability objectives. We do things within the organization to gas as a fuel, in the case of Arrubal, will do this by developing a global ensure we properly focused on and the installation of Flue Gas carbon management program, social and environmental impacts. Desulfurization equipment, in the continuously improving our The strategies we developed centered case of Martisa. Our projects in Kiev, operational performance at a around the UN Global Compact Ukraine and Radzymin, Poland more detailed and precise level, (UNGC) Principles — principles we reached the commissioning phase, embedding the UNGC principles have followed from the inception of providing power generation for our in all areas of our business, and our company because they embody client with the capture of carbon supporting the communities we what we believe a company needs dioxide emissions. serve. We look forward to new to do to be a “good” company — opportunities for collaboration and focused on health, safety and In addition to the organic growth of with all stakeholders to further reliable operations, while operating the company, we also improved our build a best in class sustainable in a socially responsible manner businesses commercially. We power company. with the highest standards of ethical successfully financed our new behavior and professionalism. acquisitions and expansion through construction and maintained strong Our results were mixed. On the relationships with our investors. We health and safety front, we were developed our project pipeline to Joseph C. Brandt devastated to report a fatality of support new growth initiatives and President and Chief Executive Officer a contractor at one of our Nigerian continued to build the corporate ContourGlobal sites. This event shocked us and support services infrastructure by caused us to rethink our construction completing our SAP implementation and health and safety organization. We actively solicit and welcome your feedback to and adopting additional policies and We realized we did not communiimprove our performance and this report. procedures in such areas as health Please send to: SustainabilityFeedback cate enough about safety risks and and safety and anti-corruption. @ContourGlobal.com 3 Overview ContourGlobal develops, acquires, Maritsa and Arrubal, closed in June developing markets. This business and operates electric power generaand July of 2011 respectively. In comprises approximately 98% of tion businesses. We manage and addition to our operating assets, our installed gross portfolio capacity. operate a portfolio of 30 power we also had seven projects under We are a world-class operator plants, with approximately 2,736 construction with a total gross and have significantly improved megawatts (“MW”) of installed gross capacity of approximately 238 MW. operations at the facilities we have capacity in operation or under acquired. Our experienced manageconstruction. This portfolio spans 14 We operate two primary business ment team uses best practices countries and 4 continents, utilizing lines: (i) an independent power across environmental, health, safety a wide range of fuel types, technoloproducing (“IPP”) business and (ii) and operations standards, which gies and equipment. In 2011, 21 of a customized energy solutions provides us with significant advanthese plants were in operation business (“CG Solutions”). tages in operations management, (collectively, our “operating assets”), development and acquisitions. Our IPP business develops, acquires with a combined installed gross and operates power-generating Our CG Solutions business develops capacity of approximately 2,498 MW plants for national grids and utilities and operates customized, on-site – approximately 92% of our total under long term power-purchase energy solutions in developed and portfolio capacity. The acquisition of contracts in both developed and developing markets to enhance the our two most recent power plants, 4 energy efficiency and environmental Facilities”) and (iii) Quad-Generation facilities. We have established profiles of corporate clients. Our facilities, which produce electric a landmark partnership with the CG Solutions business comprises power, heat, chilled water and Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company approximately 2% of our portfolio’s captures and purifies food-grade (“CCH”), to work together to develop total installed gross capacity. CG CO2 (the “Quad-Gen Facilities”), in combined heat and power plants Solutions has developed and is each case utilizing a single operating at a number of CCH bottling currently operating (i) co-generation system. We have also incorporated facilities. We are also discussing facilities, which produce electric lightweight, flexible, thin-film rooftop with other multinational corporations power and heat (the “Co-Gen photovoltaic solar installations into to provide similar on-site energy Facilities”), (ii) tri-generation facilities, certain of our CG Solutions facilities, solutions in order to expand our which produce electric power, heat producing additional sustainable CG Solutions business. and chilled water (the “Tri-Gen energy at suitable manufacturing Gross Capacity by Region Gross Capacity by Fuel Type This chart includes projects under construction that This chart includes projects under construction that will be placed in service by 2013. will be placed in service by 2013. 6% 5% Africa 11% Coal 22% Europe & Carribean Natural Gas 2% 44% US Renewables 40% 70% South America Oil 5 Our Business Long-term power needs. By working with these mounted facilities to capture the purchase agreements partners during the development naturally produced and potentially phase of our greenfield projects, dangerous methane gas from deep for predictability we are able to tailor the technical within the lake to fuel a power plant We primarily invest in assets and and commercial features to better that we are building on shore. We businesses that can provide a allocate risks and provide sustainable have worked closely with national reliable source of energy under long-term solutions. For example, officials to obtain the specific contracts that do not expose us or in Togo, we worked very closely with concession required to pursue such our customer to energy or fuel price La Compagnie Energie Electrique du development of natural resources. volatility. Such reliability of supply Togo (“CEET”) and the Government of Togo to structure a project with In our ContourGlobal Solutions and pricing stability provides a multi-fuel flexibility. This strategy business, our customer, Coca-Cola significant benefit to our stakeholders. allowed us to build a power plant Hellenic Bottling Company (CCH), We do this by entering into longwith 100 MW of gross capacity well required specific energy products to term power purchase agreements in advance of the availability of natural fulfill its production requirements. and/or securing other off-take gas coming from Nigeria via the To accommodate the company’s arrangements, including regulated West Africa Gas Pipeline. Now that unique bottling demands, we worked capacity payments, with creditworthy natural gas has become available, on an open-book basis with CCH to counterparties. Our contracts often we expect to mostly run on natural design and install the CG Solutions include formulaic pricing mechanisms gas, a lower cost fuel option. Our facilities, in order to coordinate and that provide us with predictable ability to also burn heavy fuel oil match our efforts with their production revenues over the contract term and and diesel oil, in compliance with regime during operations. provide the purchaser with predictable expenses. Where possible, we the World Bank’s environmental lock-in long-term fuel supply contracts standards, means that we have been, Growth focused, with that either eliminate or minimize and will continue to be, able to investments in both price volatility or utilize readily ensure the country’s electricity needs greenfield development available natural resources without are met even during times that the projects and acquisitions variable costs such as wind or solar. natural gas supply has been interrupted or curtailed. This is critically while minimizing These practices help reduce our risk profile while also providing our important in Togo where hydrodevelopment risk off-takers with expense transparency. electric power supplies can be We are expanding our business unreliable and a significant percentthrough both greenfield development age of power is imported from Collaboration with and acquisition of existing power neighboring countries. governments, large plants, thus leveraging our existing corporations, multiSimilarly, we have also collaborated capabilities across a range of counwith the government of Rwanda tries, fuel types and technologies. lateral lenders and and the Rwandan Energy, Water We have a growing portfolio of sophisticated investors greenfield development projects and Sanitation Authority (“EWSA”) When developing new sources of (formerly called Electrogaz and REC) — our power plants in Togo and electricity production, we often to extract methane gas from Lake Brazil are both prime examples of collaborate with governments and Kivu to serve as fuel intake for a new businesses we have developed from large corporations to address their power plant. In this groundbreaking the ground up — and we have specific power and infrastructure project, we have designed barge acquired and integrated important 6 businesses through acquisition– Termoemcali in Colombia is a notable illustration in addition to our large acquisitions in 2011. In the future, we plan to rely on both types of investing to grow our company. In all projects, whether greenfield, brownfield or acquisition, we believe it is essential to minimize development risks. Throughout the development phase, we focus primarily on providing low cost electricity to underserved or niche markets using proven technologies. We look for reliable fuel supplies and/or natural resources, ranging from local or regional solid fuel deposits to hydro, wind and solar. Local sources of fuel feedstock often provide the most cost-efficient alternative to imported fuels. As a result, our businesses reduce the overall cost of electricity to the country while also improving the reliability of supply. We work with well-defined milestones to minimize the risk of exceeding budgeted development costs. Development budgets are approved centrally and reviewed frequently to assess progress and likelihood of success. This approach promotes proactive decision-making at early stages of development. This approach has served us well. In the last five years, we have developed or acquired power plants with over 2.5 GW of total gross capacity, including 21 greenfield plants. Key Events in 2011 We have the internal resources to complete a significant portion of the On June 28, 2011, we acquired a new business in Bulgaria, a 73% greenfield engineering develop ownership interest in a lignite-fired power plant (“Maritsa”) with ment work and to conduct due a gross capacity of 908 MW. ContourGlobal operates and maintains diligence for potential acquisitions this power plant which represents approximately 33% of the total on our own. This in-house capability gross capacity of our portfolio. combined with our local, on-theOn July 28, 2011, we acquired a combined cycle gas power plant ground management teams has allowed us to move quickly to seize in Arrubal, Spain (“Arrubal”) with a gross capacity of 800 MW. attractive acquisition opportunities Arrubal represents approximately 29% of the total gross capacity and construct new facilities efficiently, of our portfolio. in both developed and emerging 7 7 through our Safety Award program. Underserved Markets A Silver Award was granted to São Domingos II (Brazil) and Bronze Awards were granted to our facilities With our extensive experience in emerging markets, we believe we located in Kramatorsk, Ukraine; provide the necessary perspective to develop projects in these often Lomé, Togo; Knockmore Hill, Northern energy-poor areas. Our employees, from our local plant managers to Ireland; Termoemcali, Colombia; our global executive team, have developed strong working relationships Kiev, Ukraine and Benin City, Nigeria. with development financial institutions, regulators and other industry The performance criteria for a Silver participants in the markets in which we operate. As a result, Award includes two years without a governments of developing countries work collaboratively with us on Lost Time Incident 2 (“LTIs”), monthly the power generation projects needed to grow their economies and safety inspections equivalent to 30% improve their citizens’ standards of living. We believe we can help meet of the site’s full-time employees, and the electricity needs or improve the reliability of supply in emerging implementation of a robust visitor markets, where capital is scarce and where the complexity of developing, induction program. The Bronze operating, and financing power generation assets can create Award recognizes businesses that investment barriers for less-experienced and resourceful organizations. have reached one year without a LTI, monthly safety inspections equivalent to 20% of the site’s full-time employmarkets, with minimal schedule have a remaining useful life of 15 ees, and implementation of a robust delays or cost overruns. years or more. Our largest facility, visitor induction program. Maritsa, was extensively refurbished Operational excellence during the period from 2003 to A diversified generation 2009; extending the power plant’s portfolio by geography, We believe that a sustainable power expected life well beyond its PPA company begins with a commitment expiry in 2024. technology and to operational excellence. Excellence fuel source in operations ensures that we will Our projects have strong operational track records, demonstrating average Diversification is a critical element protect our employees from the equivalent forced outage rates of our overall sustainability strategy. hazards that accompany working in of 2.9% in 2011, an improvement Our power plants are located in an industrial working environment from 4.1% from 2009.1 Additionally, 14 countries and on four continents. and that we will burn the minimum the weighted average availability We have facilities in both developed possible fossil fuels in our thermal factor of our facilities has improved countries (currently 34% of gross power plants. Our performance from 85.0% in 2009 to an average installed capacity) and emerging demonstrates a consistent track rate of 90% in 2010 and 2011. We markets (currently 66% of gross record of safe and efficient operation. have an experienced team of plant installed capacity). This diversification Our projects utilize proven technology personnel, capable of handling lowers our economic, regulatory including Seimens (v94.3A and ongoing operational issues while also and geopolitical risk. Our plants 501F), LMZ (k-225), ABB Alstom (HDY65), Fuji Electric turbines (490 working to improve plant performance. 1 Equivalent Forced Outage Rate (“EFOR”) is ths.lb/hr), Wärtsilä (W18V50DF and a calculation frequently used to measure a Operational excellence at Contourplant’s reliability. This metric is an indicator of 12V32), GEJ (GE620), SEMT Pielstick the probability that a unit will not be able to Global includes detailed attention (16PA6) and Cummins (C1160) perform at the required load when called on, to our health and safety program. i.e., an indicator of the time a unit is forced out engines. More than 36% of our Despite our robust program, due to unplanned problems or maintenance. portfolio’s capacity has either The calculation for EFOR is: we reported a fatality in Nigeria in commenced operations or been EFOR = [FOH+EFDH]/[FOH+SH+EFDHRS] x 100% January, 2011, the first ever in our Where: FOH is Forced (Unplanned) Outage significantly refurbished within the organization’s history. A full investiHours, EFDH is Equivalent Forced last three years, thus ensuring that (Unplanned) Derated Hours, SH is Service gation was undertaken and improvewe are conserving fuel by using the Hours, EFDHRS is EFDHs that occur during ment actions immediately implementperiods of Reserve Shutdown best available thermal technology. ed. In other businesses, exemplary 2 An incident where personal injury is More than 86% of our projects sustained resulting in an employee being safety efforts were recognized (based on gross installed capacity) unable to work a full assigned workshift. 8 also utilize multiple fuel sources, gases. The following projects engines to provide electricity. with a projected 2013 distribution illustrate this commitment: The technology also reuses what of 44% coal, 44% natural gas, would otherwise be wasted heat • Our recently acquired Maritsa 11% renewable (hydro, wind, solar, from the engines to create steam, plant in Bulgaria has installed flue biogas and biomass), and 1% oil. hot water and chilled water while gas desulfurization (FGD) units, capturing and cleaning CO2 for which together with other emissionDeciding which fuel we will use in use in the bottling process. By reducing measures render it a new power plant development is capturing the carbon dioxide that state of the art facility in Eastern a critical step in the development would otherwise be emitted from Europe. With investment in NOx process. Base-load plants, for the power plant exhaust stack reduction equipment slated example, require steady, reliable fuel and purifying it to food grade to begin in 2012, Maritsa will supplies to ensure uninterrupted quality, we provide the necessary continue to satisfy all EU emission operations, and some renewable CO2 to carbonate beverages standards for power plants. fuel sources are simply too variable for CCH and others. The result is for these applications. In many of the • Our combined cycle power plant a power generation facility with markets where we operate, there is in Arrubal, Spain burns natural nearly zero carbon emissions and an overwhelming need for reliable, gas, an energy source that emits the elimination of specialized base-load power. In the absence of 50% less CO2 than coal for the equipment that would burn hydrological reserves, gas and coal same power output. The plant traditional fossil fuels as well as are generally the preferred fuels for plays an important role of carbon emissions associated with reliable, base-load power. Weather stabilizing the power grid in the delivery of CO2 to the site. and other environmental factors also Spain, therefore supporting • Our Fibrominn facility in Minnesota can play a part in the decision-makhigh percentages of renewable in the U.S. is the largest animaling, particularly when considering energy in the country. waste burning power plant in the renewable fuel sources such as solar • São Domingos II and Galheiros in world. It represents a “win-win” or wind. And, of course, fuel cost is Brazil are run-of-river hydro-electric for the local community and the always a critical factor, especially power plants, using the water environment. It generates employwhen the expense is passed on to collected in low-impact reservoirs ment in the region and offers the customer. Because fuel transporas a clean fuel source to generate turkey farmers a financial alternatation can be a big contributor to emissions-free electricity. These tive to using their turkey litter into overall cost, we have turned to projects provide the collateral a ground-water polluting fertilizer. indigenous resources as a source of benefits of controlling water flow Additionally, the ash by-product fuel for many of our projects. This to prevent flooding and providing is resold for use as a high-quality approach has earned strong support new sources of potable water. fertilizer. The power plant reprefrom local and national governments • Asa Branca, also in Brazil, is sents a test case for us to learn to because of the added economic currently under construction and use biomass elsewhere. boost local fuel extraction and production can provide. Finally, will add another clean technology to • Our ground and roof-mounted many of the countries in which we our portfolio: wind. Wind powered solar projects in Italy complete our operate are seeking to diversify generation in this region of Brazil diversified renewable portfolio. their own fuel portfolios, and in not only provides an emissions-free We have strategically placed our those locales we have helped our power source but also reduces the solar panels on roofs of existing partners reduce dependence on dependence of the region on other businesses or on ground locations a single fuel source to help improve fuel sources such as hydro. with no agricultural opportunities. overall system reliability. • Our Solutions Quad-Gen plants These installations produce in Europe simultaneously lower emissions free electricity without Irrespective of the energy source the client’s energy cost, increase taking otherwise productive land used to produce electricity, a the quality and reliability of the out of operation. companion tenet to our business energy supplied, and substanstrategy is to ensure that we run tially improve the environmental efficiently, minimize our environmental profile of the client’s energy use impact, and, where feasible, make by employing reciprocating gas investments to reduce greenhouse 9 Our Sustainability Challenges and Management Response Providing a Healthy either legally or culturally. We have We have integrated internal controls tackled these risks with a safety into our business processes to help and Safe Workplace strategy founded on three pillars: ensure the safety of our workers and with the Highest policy, compliance and preventive communities. These measures include action. Our targets are aggressive both a top-down approach to managStandards of Ethical – zero fatalities and targets for Lost ing our global risks as well as local Behavior and Strong Time Incidents based on prior year business controls, giving business Corporate Governance performance, taking into considermanagers the flexibility to put in place ation our rapid growth. We take a country – and business specific – risk The business of generating electricity proactive approach to health and management practices. is inherently risky to the health, safety safety, using both leading and lagging and security of our people as well as indicators to monitor our progress In 2011, we aggressively began our contractors, clients, communities and we systematically use our “Lessons reporting incidents and hazards and and other stakeholders. Operating Learned” approach to share experitracking our site H&S inspections. in developing countries and societies ences and improve our performance. Our operations team and other users where standards of transparency underwent extensive training on how and business ethics are weak adds Our Chief Operating Officer is to categorize site activities and report another level of complexity to our responsible of the Health & Safety them properly within our Intelex operations. We have plants and/or function and our dedicated team of system. In 2011, we also developed development activities in Ukraine, professionals grew in 2011 to include a bespoke Health & Safety program Bulgaria, Romania, Poland, Colombia, four regional health and safety specifically designed for the power Brazil, Togo, Rwanda, and Nigeria, professionals in addition to many site plant environment. Our audit and part of our growth strategy is to based individuals focused on this program expanded significantly in expand our business in these and key initiative. This team of profes2011 to include audits at every site, other developing countries. Working sionals is responsible for developing as well as a formalized schedule of in these business environments the ContourGlobal Health and Safety inspection, and seven of our busientails significant uncertainties and Standards, managing the H&S nesses received an award through it is critical that we understand modules of Intelex system used for our Safety Reward program. and manage the resulting risks. H&S reporting, defining H&S Training, and implementing H&S audit and Additionally, we instituted a Health ContourGlobal is committed to reward programs. Our standards and Safety Committee responsible for providing a healthy and safe work are based on the IFC and World reviewing our activities and providing environment and safe behaviors Bank Occupational Health and management with recommendations are at the core of our business. Safety Guidelines and underwent for improvement. Our Health & Safety As an industrial company, we face a significant revision in 2011, using Working Group, comprised of site hazards every day including electricity, external advisors to review and managers from every ContourGlobal high pressure, high temperature, benchmark our policies and to construction and operations site, noise, other hazardous substances, ensure the revised standards are meets weekly with the purpose of and potential dangers. Given our best practice in the energy industry. providing managers with additional global footprint, we are often faced The revised standards were tools to build a robust health and with the additional challenge of translated into nine languages safety culture and promote compliworking in countries where the and distributed globally to all ance with our standards, policies and existing safety standards frequently ContourGlobal employees. procedures. The H&S Working Group do not represent best practices, discussions include incident reviews 10 and distribution of weekly toolbox to foreign governments and their Additionally, over the years, we have talks and all members of the Working officials, as well as political contriadded policies that deal specifically Group set monthly priorities to butions, for the purpose of obtaining with areas covered by our antiimprove Health & Safety at their sites. or retaining business, or otherwise corruption policy but which we receiving discretionary favorable believe require more detail so that The Human Resources (HR) team works treatment of any kind. We maintain our policy can be understood on an closely with our employees to ensure internal controls to prevent such operational level by all employees. they maintain their individual health. payments. Additionally, we have For example, we have adopted We began tracking absenteeism in implemented a robust anti-corruption separate policies governing gifts, 2011 at most locations and we ensure compliance program that comprises hospitality, and travel accommodathat employees comply with national policies, procedures, tools and tions to foreign government officials legislation requiring health check-ups. employee training. and the engagement of third party The HR team also helps employees advisors and consultants, all of which transition back to work after proThe Company’s Chief Compliance have detailed provisions discussing longed illnesses and oversees health Officer and Compliance Committee, the FCPA aspects of these policies. benefits for all employees, including which reports to our Board of policies for emergency evacuation Directors, oversees our anti-corrupIn the area of the use of third party and medical benefits abroad. tion and compliance efforts. We consultants and advisors, we have continually monitor, test and update several stringent policies related to In 2011, we reported one fatality and our policies. We have updated the their engagement, including specific 11 Lost Time Incidents 1 (“LTIs”) core anti-corruption policy three forms for the advisory contract that against our target of zero fatalities times since we began operations in contain expansive audit rights and and 7 LTIs. This figure represents 10 2006 and are in the process of compliance provisions, detailed contractor LTIs and 1 employee LTI, adopting a fourth revision. Our diligence and background checking a reduction in employee LTIs from 3 in policies and procedures have been procedures and Compliance 2010. Our OSHA rates 2 for LTIs for subject to third party diligence by Committee approval for all third employees and contractors are .08 the Overseas Private Investment parties who will interact with and .52, respectively, with an overall Corporation (OPIC), the World Bank foreign governments for us. OSHA rate of .35, an improvement group including the International from 2010. This compares favorably Finance Corporation (IFC), an equity 1 An incident where personal injury is with the industry average incidence partner in our Togo project, and the sustained resulting in an employee being unable to work a full assigned workshift. rate of 2.1. 3 In 2011, we reported Multilateral Investment Guarantee 2 OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health 99 First Aid Incidents 4 (“FAIs”). We Agency (MIGA), and several of our Administration) incident rates are an indication significantly improved our proactive large investors. In 2007, we also of how many incidents have occurred. The safety reporting in 2011 increasing joined TRACE International, the OSHA LostTime Rate is calculated as follows: OSHA Lost Time Rate = our reporting of near misses 5 and leading voluntary non-governmental (# of OSHA Lost Time Cases x 200,000) / starting to report hazards 6 at our organization formed to combat # of hours worked sites. We also proactively undertook Where Lost Time Cases are any occupational corruption. TRACE provides inventoinjury or illness, which results in an employee 4,187 safety inspections in 2011. ries of best practices in various areas being unable to work a full assigned work shift. of anti-bribery policy and at our That is, the employee is off from work (lost To operate sustainably, it is essential workday), or restricted in their job (i.e., no request reviewed our policy in 2009. lifting, climbing, etc.) or transferred to another to avoid bribery or corruption in any We are very active with TRACE and job (restricted days). As defined by OSHA, form and we strive to proactively a fatality is not considered a lost time case. have incorporated their due diliand ethically manage our activities 3 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, NAICS Code gence services into our anti-corrupinvolving governmental officials. We 221 – Power Generation. tion procedures. Finally, we are a adhere to the rules of the U.S. Foreign 4 A work-related injury that requires first-aid signatory to the UN Global Compact treatment. Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), and have adopted the Global 5 An incident where no property was damaged the Anti-Bribery Act of the United Compact principles of operations and no personal injury sustained, but where, Kingdom and other international given a slight shift in time or position, damage that include a commitment to honor anti-bribery laws prohibiting improper and/or injury easily could have occurred. the letter and spirit of anti-corruption 6 Something that has the potential to cause payments or offers of payments laws, including the U.S. FCPA. harm or damage. 11 Our training activities for employees potential instances of noncompliance President & Chief Executive and third parties are comprehensive with the Code of Conduct and Officer Joseph Brandt, and, as of and include: on-site training presentBusiness Ethics or other Company March, 2012, the Chief Executive ed by senior executives and in-house policies and procedures. The for Europe and Africa (which we call lawyers; on-site training presented Committee conducted four the EMEA region), Philippe Soulie. by third party experts (including investigations and took actions on The remaining members, including TRACE International); mandatory issues raised before the Committee. our Chairman, represent major on-line Training for all employees The Committee found no material shareholders/investors. Our board and the attendance and course violations of Company policies. The representatives govern the organizacompletion by senior executives of Committee reviewed all businesses tion by establishing broad policies in-depth seminars sponsored by for risks related to corruption. In and objectives, ensuring availability third parties such as TRACE or the 2011, we did not have any legal of adequate financial resources, Practicing Law Institute. We conduct actions for anti-competitive behavior, approving annual budgets and other on-line and onsite training annually anti-trust or monopoly practices company initiatives. Our functional including for our Board of Directors. and we did not face any monetary and business leaders have the or non-monetary sanctions for day-to-day responsibility for strateIn general we do not engage agents non-compliance with laws and gic business planning and impleor consultants to represent us before regulations, including those conmenting our Corporate Action Plan, foreign governments. Instead, cerning the provision and use of the broad sustainability targets we ContourGlobal employees perform products and services, except as set for ourselves. The functional this work directly. We have engaged disclosed in the environmental leaders are also responsible for consultants and advisors to provide reporting found below. defining our policies and standards guidance on political, economic and of working. geo-strategic aspects of the regions Our Board of Directors oversees where we operate. the global management of Additionally, seven key committees, ContourGlobal. ContourGlobal’s whose members represent senior Our Code of Business Conduct and Board of Directors is comprised management across regions and Ethics, adopted in 2011, sets forth of five members including our functions, manage the company: the guidelines for our organization to maintain the highest ethical standards and covers a broad range of subjects including Conflicts of Interest, Corporate Opportunities, Competition and Fair Dealing, Protection and Use of Company Assets, Gifts and Hospitality, Interactions with the Government, Political Contributions and Activities, Company Records, Compliance with Laws and Regulations, and Equal Employment Opportunity and Unlawful Harassment. Our managers are trained on the Code of Conduct and Business Ethics in The ContourGlobal Way, an in-house leadership training program. In 2011, our Compliance Committee met five times to discuss the Company’s compliance program and initiatives, anti-corruption compliance training, and related compliance issues, including 12 1. Executive Committee (chaired overseeing implementation These core committees report to by our President and Chief of and compliance with Social the Executive team and/or the Board Executive Officer); responsible Responsibility Strategy. on a regular basis. Employees and for reviewing and managing other stakeholders are encouraged 5. Compliance Committee overall business performance, to provide recommendations to (chaired by our Chief Compliance including implementation of management or a senior manageOfficer); advises the CCO and strategic initiatives. ment committee and are informed of supports oversight of compliance 2. Operations Committee with the laws and regulations this through regular communication (chaired by our Chief Operations applicable to the Company’s from the management team. Investors Officer); responsible for monitorbusiness and compliance with may provide recommendations ing and reporting of incidents in Company’s Code of Conduct and directly to the Board or its members. the power plant (e.g., H&S, fault related policies by employees, Integrating the UNGC principles reporting, root cause analysis), officers, directors and other agents throughout our businesses and standard setting, and O&M and associates of the Company. implementing our sustainability budget reviews. 6. Health & Safety Committee strategy are critical priorities for 3. Senior Development (chaired by our Chief Operations ContourGlobal and the entire Committee (chaired by a Senior Officer); responsible for reviewing management team. Oversight of Developer); responsible for H&S statistics and deciding on these efforts is the responsibility of a communicating about origination, initiatives and action steps. dedicated Corporate Sustainability development and acquisition Committee. The Committee itself 7. Financial Disclosure activities and coordination is comprised of multi-disciplinary Committee (chaired by our Chief between executives involved in senior members from around the Financial Officer); responsible development and acquisition. globe. This group oversees all of the for assisting the CEO and CFO 4. Corporate Sustainability in fulfilling their responsibility sustainability initiatives, working Committee (chaired by our for oversight of the accuracy and closely with all functions in the Global Head of Corporate timeliness of ContourGlobal’s organization, and reports quarterly Sustainability); responsible for disclosures. to the Board of Directors. In 2011, we improved our web-based Integrated Management System, allowing us to record and report on more detailed environmental activities. We also hosted a workshop for our environmental sponsors from our business locations. In October 2010 ContourGlobal became a signatory to the UN Global Compact and in 2011 we completed our first Communication on Progress and achieving Active Status. We undertook initiatives to adhere to our commitment to all of the Ten Principles of the UNGC: 1. Businesses should support and respect the 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect protection of internationally proclaimed human of employment and occupation; rights; 7. Businesses should support a precautionary 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human approach to environmental challenges; rights abuses; 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of environmental responsibility; association and the effective recognition 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of of the right to collective bargaining; environmentally friendly technologies; and 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and 10. Businesses should work against corruption in compulsory labor; all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 5. The effective abolition of child labor; 13 The Committee is also responsible Some of the more significant ways with laws, regulations and requirefor ensuring our organization acts in in which our equipment, facilities ments currently in place but we are a socially responsible way by overand operations interact with and also prepared for more stringent seeing our community projects. affect the environment include: requirements that might come into • SO2 and NOx emissions at our effect in the future and and we have ContourGlobal has adopted a wide built the appropriate forecasts of coal-fired generating plants and array of policies and standards liabilities, compliance costs and the accompanying Increased in such areas as equal opportunity, increased capital expenditures into regulatory scrutiny these emissions the environment, diversity, the related business plans. workplace, and social responsibility. • Impacts to land and water at our In 2011, ContourGlobal achieved sites through operations, or in The development of a comprehenseveral milestones in its commitment some cases, by previous owners sive Environmental Management to sustainability and one of the most or nearby community members System is well underway. Our significant of these was the adoption businesses currently report environ• Safe waste disposal and hazardof our Code of Business Conduct mental metrics on a semi-annual ous material handling. and Ethics, a comprehensive policy basis and, where required, complete covering all aspects of professional • Managing and reducing greenAnnual Environmental Monitoring behavior. Additionally, we revised house gas (“GHG”) emissions. Reports. Many businesses have all employee handbooks, along adopted an environmental policy In 2011, we made significant progress with our health and safety standards and in 2012, we expect to adopt in our environmental monitoring and our anti-corruption policy. We a global policy for all businesses. and reporting and began tracking compiled these documents into our Some of our businesses have their metrics relating to air emissions, “ContourGlobal Essential Information” own environmental management materials used, water usage and and disseminated it to all employees. systems aligned with recognized spills. We also began tracking water standards and two of our businesses quality metrics at our Solutions are ISO 14001 certified. Minimizing our businesses where our client uses Environmental water from our plants in its bottling Our Chief Operating Officer (COO) process. We have not yet begun to is responsible for setting strategic Impacts Through quantitatively assess the financial environmental targets, overseeing Planning and implications of climate change, our Environmental Management however, we are in the process of Promoting Innovative assessing this and identifying other Program, and addressing all environmental issues. Each business Technical Solutions relevant metrics for reporting. With leader is responsible for executing this step change in data collection the targets and monitoring and ContourGlobal produces electricity and analysis, we are able to define reporting all environmental metrics using a variety of technologies and realistic targets for improvement set out by the COO. Each business fuel sources, each with a different to our environmental performance has earmarked an Environmental environmental impact. Our environand initiate long-term planning to Sponsor who works closely with the mental impacts are strictly regulated, reduce our impacts. COO’s team and the Sustainability often at the local and national level Committee to ensure all environmental with some aspects regulated at the We also track and comply with issues are properly considered and regional level. We believe in complynumerous environmental regulations communicated within the organizaing with these laws and regulations and requirements of the indepention. The Environmental Sponsor is and the requirements of our permits, dent government agencies and also responsible for assessing however we also believe that we can development banks that finance environmental opportunities and do more than the minimum legal many of our projects. In our newly risks at the business level. In 2011, requirements to protect our environbuilt plants, we have been able to the Environmental Sponsors attended ment. Thus, environmental initiatives incorporate environmental consideran internal workshop to promote a are an integral part of our corporate ations into the design of the facility, broad understanding of our environsustainability strategy for 2012 and often in extraordinary ways. In our mental aspects and impacts and risk are clearly outlined in our Corporate other facilities, we have taken efforts assessment tools. Action Plan. to ensure we will not only comply 14 Emissions Corporate Action Plan. conversion of primary energy content into the generation of both ContourGlobals most significant heat and power within a thermoMaterials and Energy impact is our emissions. Twelve of dynamic process. Further, a portion our portfolio businesses use fossil ContourGlobal uses a variety of of the hot water is transformed to fuels to generate electricity and these materials in the electricity generation chilled water via an absorption plants emit Carbon Dioxide (CO2), and heat production processes. We chiller, and we capture over 90% of Nitrogen Oxide (NOx), Sulfur Dioxide use fossil fuels including coal (black the carbon dioxide in the exhaust (SO2), Dust Particulates and Carbon and lignite), heavy and light fuel oil, stack and compressing and purifying Monoxide (CO). The direct CO2 diesel, petrol and turkey litter. These it for use in the beverage production emission from the electricity generafossil fuels also constitute a major process. Our renewable energy tion process is our primary source of energy use as they are used to portfolio includes assets using greenhouse gas emissions and these generate electricity and heat and biomass fuels, hydro and solar as emissions are reported in this report electricity is also generated in our fuel types, with a wind-powered (See Our Report and Performance non-fossil fuel power plants such facility under construction. Impacts) and include impacts from as hydro and solar. Additionally we our own use of electricity. We presently use other chemical materials in the Water do not monitor our indirect emissions processes of flue gas desulfurization from fuel transportation and business and carbon cleaning such as limeA critical element of energy productravel as they are insignificant stone, ammonia, and urea. We also tion is water. Our water comes from compared to the direct emissions. use other necessary materials such both surface and ground sources as lube oil, caustic soda, salt, and and in many businesses we are Several of our businesses have sulfuric acid. required to purchase our water. implemented strategies to reduce Water is mainly reused in technical emissions. Our Maritsa plant has Energy-efficiency and processes to reduce quantities installed Flue Gas Desulfurization of water used and then discharged equipment clean the flue gas before renewable energy-based to the same water source, with emitting it into the environment and products some small amounts evaporated. our Solutions businesses, KnockContourGlobal provides energy We consider both the intake and more Hill, Nogara and Ploiesti, have discharge of our water in operational carbon capture equipment that efficient and renewable electricity through its Solutions and renewable planning and monitor temperature captures the emitted carbon and and contamination. cleans it, allowing us to reuse a energy portfolio businesses and significant portion in the bottling initiatives are in place across the At our hydro-electric facility in Brazil, process of the customer and sell organization (at both plant sites and we also assess our impact on biothe rest. A significant four-year offices) to operate all of our plants diversity and the hydrology of the program to reduce NOx emissions more efficiently. We have employed river. We undertake extensive at our Maritsa plant will also be a continuous improvement program environmental impact assessments kicked off in 2012. in 2011, our “Lessons Learned and develop robust management Analysis,” to identify, share and retain systems to ensure we comply with In our Corporate Action Plan, we knowledge and we intend to roll out all environmental regulations. At our have set a target to achieve a robust continuous improvement KivuWatt facility, currently under reductions of our 2011 levels of CO2 program in 2012. construction, we are extracting gas emissions per GWh produced in Our Solutions business is a novel from the bottom of Lake Kivu both 2012 and 2013. We intend to approach to power generation expanding potential water impacts do this by expanding our Solutions combining existing technologies to significantly. Here, we have and renewable businesses and reduce energy bills for consumer implemented extensive processes by developing a carbon strategy clients. We start with Combined Heat to identify these and mitigate any for the organization. Our NOx and Power, an established reliable negative impacts to the lake. emissions reduction program is also specifically included in our technology that enables simultaneous 15 Land are required to report any however, we actively monitor our environmental incidents to the hiring processes and we also monitor Our power plants – especially COO according to our Incident our contractors. We provide a our hydro-electric facility in Brazil Reporting Matrix and all fines must healthy and safe working environ– impact land use and also environbe reported to our Legal Team. ment for our people and actively mental aesthetics. To properly encourage worker representatives to assess the impacts, we conduct voice concerns. All of our operations environmental impact assessments Developing People provide an opportunity for employees during the diligence phase of a and Processes to to exercise freedom of association new project or acquisition. Most of Achieve Operational or collective bargaining and many our sites are located in industrial of our businesses participate in areas rather than protected areas, Excellence collective bargaining or have worker however where we need to manage associations. In 2011 we provided We believe that, operational impacts, the business leader is training for our worker representaexcellence is all encompassing. responsible for assessing environtives in Togo to ensure they could It starts with ensuring fundamental mental impacts to the land and actively represent our workforce. human rights are respected and ensuring mitigation initiatives are extends to our people, our operaOur policies on equal employment undertaken where possible. tional performance, our economic extend to all candidates in the hiring performance, and the way we want process, as well as employees and Waste to grow as an organization. we strictly abide by legal working The electricity generation process time regulations. We incorporate results in waste that requires disposal. Human Rights human rights assessments into our Our plants that use fossil fuels review of new business opportuniIt is vital that we protect the human generate ash and mineral by-product ties and we have begun incorporatrights of our people and those that can be reused or sold. For ing human rights language into our around us. ContourGlobal conducts example, at our Maritsa business standard contractual language. To business in some countries where we sell ash to a nearby company date, we have not had any human human rights have a long history of to produce gypsum. All hazardous rights issues however should they being respected. However, in some waste is disposed of in accordance arise in the course of business our countries where we do business, with local regulations. In our offices, business leaders would manage the the legal framework protecting all ContourGlobal recycles and reuses issues in close coordination with our classes of people are not well whatever it can and these initiatives human resources and legal teams. developed and human rights are maintained locally. In all cases, violations abound. ContourGlobal our waste disposal processes are adheres to the UN Global Compact Our People strictly monitored to ensure compliprinciples on Human Rights in all Our people have made Contourance with all local laws. countries where it operates. Global what it is today. Through hard Spills, Fines and work, dedication and strong compeWe adopted policies to prevent child tency, ContourGlobal has grown incidents labor by requiring employees to from an office of 25 people six years be at least eighteen (except where Although we follow environmental ago to a 1,536-person organization required by law for educational best practice, in 2011 we had five operating in fourteen countries. Our purposes) and provide proof of age reported spills and one reported operating success and ability to carry and these policies are incorporated incident of potential environmental out growth initiatives depends in in an employee handbook that every non-compliance. We were able to large part on our ability to attract employee reads and acknowledges. easily remediate each spill and none and retain qualified personnel with We operate in countries where child of them resulted in a fine. The industry experience in an operating labor risks could be significant incident of potential non-compliance company of our size and complexity. including Nigeria, Rwanda, Togo, is still being reviewed. Businesses This includes people in the many Colombia, Ukraine, and Brazil, remote international locations where 16 we have a presence. In particular, proud of. At the management level, Operational and our operations and engineering 26% of managers are female. At Economic Performance personnel are critical to the developthe senior management level, many ment of new projects and in keeping employees are working outside of ContourGlobal provides a vital established plants operating reliably. their home country and we post all resource to the countries where we open roles internally and translate operate – powering businesses and We have adopted fair hiring practices, each job posting into the nine homes while driving fundamental we do not discriminate and we have languages of ContourGlobal to economic growth in those countries. global recruiting standards to ensure ensure everyone has a chance to Our own operational performance we hire the best and then retain be considered. We pride ourselves and economic performance are our talented people. In a fast growing on providing a work environment closely correlated – if we don’t business that demands a high degree that gives everyone an opportunity perform well, not only will we impact of technical skill, we have not settled to succeed. businesses, homes and countries, for mediocrity or a less than perfect we will also impact our own investors cultural fit and when things do not Additionally, we require all employees and lenders. work well, we change them. Our in the organization to participate in employee turnover rates reflect this our performance appraisal process Providing a reliable supply of cultural attribute. Cutting edge that includes both a self-assessment electricity requires dependable competency in our workplace often and a manager review. For many, sources of fuel and other consumrequires our people to learn and this is the first exposure to this ables. Additionally, it is critical for us therefore we provide training type of process so we also train to execute contracts with engineering, programs across all levels of the our people on what to expect. procurement and construction firms organization. We focus especially on During this process, our employees that allow us to deliver finished geographical locations where complete Individualized Training power plants in a timely manner and academic institutions might not be and Development Plans that identify within our committed budgets. accessible to all and we invest in training needs. Our corporate ongoing and continuous learning. culture best suits those with an Our Executive Committee closely entrepreneurial spirit and an monitors our operational perforOur training programs include appetite for hard work and we retain mance through daily reporting technical training, leadership developour talent through competitive but our Chief Operating Officer ment, and IT training in both formal compensation and a challenging is specifically responsible for all and informal settings. We use both work environment. aspects of operations. The COO and external and internal training and a his regional team are organized to variety of learning methodologies. In In every country where we operate, provide three key services to the 2011, we introduced a new training we have adopted a human resource operating businesses: (1) Review initiative for all of our managers. The policy in line with local law and we performance to identify trends and ContourGlobal Way is an intensive have regional HR teams to support optimize performance; (2) Provide educational forum for leaders to our people on all HR matters. Our technical advice to resolve issues; discuss, debate, learn and underemployees are trained on the policies and (3) Perform root cause analysis stand our corporate strategy, our in one of nine languages, acknowlon failures to ensure they do not culture and detailed aspects of our edge receipt of the policies and occur again. operations including our Social confirm they will follow our policies. Responsibility and Environmental A plant manager and operations and Sustainability policy. We extend the expectations we have maintenance teams at the business for our people to those with whom location are responsible for the We value our global culture and we work closely. Our contractors and day-to-day operations of the facilities. diverse employee population and suppliers must formally agree to The local business monitors perforhighly encourage international abide by our Anti-Corruption Policy mance and reports performance. assignments. 77% of our employees and Health and Safety Policy On a daily and weekly basis, key are male and 23% of our employees and Procedures before we will performance metrics are reviewed are female, an industry ratio we are do business with them. including safety incidents and 17 Equivalent Availability Factor (EAF) 7. On a monthly basis, the key perforPrincipal Memberships in Associations mance metrics reviewed include the and Organizations Net Electricity Generated 8, the Capacity Factor 9, EAF, and EFOR. ContourGlobal and its employees participate in numerous Our portfolio includes plants that are associations of various kinds including the following: both in production and in construcUnited Nations Global Compact tion. The operational businesses are American Chamber of Commerce in Ukraine generally regulated businesses and we manage our regulatory risks by American Chamber of Commerce in Bulgaria including change-in-law provisions in Association des Grandes Entreprise du Togo our contracts to shift these risks Association for the Development of Energy in Africa to our customers, generally utilities Brazilian Association of Wind Power that can better absorb such risk. We categorize our operational assets into Brazilian Association of Clean Energy three categories: Thermal (that includes Brazilian Association of Cogeneration Energy Industry our coal, gas, biogas and biomass Brazilian Association of Independent Power Producers businesses); Solutions (that includes our co-generation, tri-generation and Broiler and Egg Association of Minnesota quad-generation businesses); and Bulgarian Business Leaders Forum Renewable (that includes our wind, Bulgarian Chamber of Power Engineers hydro and solar businesses). CategoBulgarian Energy Association rizing our businesses this way allows us to better troubleshoot technical Bulgarian HR Association issues and manage the performance Chamber for the Commercialization of Electric Power metrics for each type of business Club 9000 differently. We can also manage risks Club Español de la Energia for each portfolio differently. Colombian Association of Electric Power Generators Our key economic metrics, Total Combined Heat and Power Associations UK and Ukraine Revenue and Total Assets, reflect our Confederation of Employers and Industrialists rapid expansion as an organization. in Bulgaria Our Chief Financial Officer (CFO) is European Association for the Promotion of responsible for ensuring our financial Cogeneration targets are achieved and that we comply with all lender obligations and our European Turbine Network corporate and regional accounting Green Balkans teams report directly to our CFO. GWADAIR 7 Equivalent Availability Factor: The fraction of Institute of Designers UK a given operating period in which a generating unit is available without any outages and Institute of Mechanical Engineers UK equipment or seasonal deratings. Institute of Professional Engineers 8 Net Electricity Generated: Gross generation less electrical energy consumed by the Minnesota Turkey Growers Association generating unit/plant for the electricity Samaritans Association generating process. Gross Generation is the total generation of electricity produced by an U.S.-Ukraine Business Council electric power plant/unit. 9 Net Capacity Factor: The net energy that was U.S.-Iraq Business Council produced by a generating unit in a given West Africa Power Pool period as a fraction of the net maximum generation (NMG). NMG is the period hours Wholesale Energy Market of Ukraine times the net maximum capacity. 18 Awards received ment and/or retraining. We start with blood drives and donated time and an assessment to identify affected money to hospices and other health ContourGlobal has won the parties and possible resolutions. related nonprofit organizations. Euromoney Project Finance Deal of We host consultations with key the Year for the third year in a row. stakeholders, including the affected Environmental awareness and parties, and enter into a formal education was a focus of our This year, the award was given hydro-electric facilites in Brazil where agreement. In Rwanda, the local for our innovative work on our we hosted many activities during government relocated several KivuWatt project in Rwanda. At our Environment Week. Students families and business owners in Termoemcali plant, we were a finalist participated in a writing contest and anticipation of a project being built in the ARP Sura Excellence Award crafted art projects from recycled on site. As part of our commitment for World Class Occupational Risk materials as well as toured the facility to the project, ContourGlobal Management and Approvement to learn about power generation and undertook an obligation to work and also received an award from the environmental impacts to flora with the displaced population and NAES Corporation for zero recordand fauna. The local community and provide alternative business opporable health and safety accidents. our contractors participated in tunities or compensation. We hired Termoemcali was also recertified lectures on these impacts as well as a community liason to facilitate this in 2011 for both ISO 9001 and ISO our monitoring programs. The week program and discussion with the 14001. Maritsa received a Certificate culminated in a tree planting celebraresidents began in 2011 and will of Honor from the 1858 Cultural tion where over 100 seedlings were be concluded by early 2013. House in St. Kliment Ohridski planted in a newly built nursery. and other awards for our social Our local hiring brings positive responsibility initiatives. impacts to our communities. While Sustainable agricultural initiatives we fully support global employment also took place at other sites. In Italy, we had an obligation to make our Identifying Community opportunities at ContourGlobal, our solar site more aesthetically pleasing primary goal is to staff our businesses Needs and Socially with people from the community and we did so by planting olive Responsible Projects whenever possible. In some areas trees. In Colombia, a farming project where we work we are not able to providing hens and pigs benefits find the technical skills required in over fifty families. In Rwanda we Our Communities donated two cows to a local school the local market. In these communiOur businesses impact many people ties, we have implemented training to provide milk for the students but especially the communities where programs so that we can hire locally and teach the schoolchildren how we are located. We value these or have adopted a plan to replace to care for an animal. communities deeply and invest to expatriates with local employees Going “one step beyond power” in mitigate negative social impacts and over time. Where practicable, our social investment is a challenge promote projects that can make a we use local vendors to provide we pursue with pleasure. Our difference in the daily lives of the supplies at our sites. This benefits businesses are actively involved in people residing near us. Every the community but also provides small projects that have immediate business develops its own social positive environmental impacts benefit to our communities and responsibility plan, business leaders through reduced transportation. we are also working on long term are held accountable for progress, In 2011, our social responsibility projects that take time to develop and employees are engaged in our activities focused on three key but will have a long-lasting social activities. themes: health and safety, the sustainable benefit. Our target for The most significant social impact on environment and education. 2012 is to have every business invest our communities is the displacement Our Maritsa business hosted an socially and bring positive impacts of people or businesses when we educational program on road safety to every country where we operate. construct a new power plant. Our to encourage positive driving management approach to this impact attitudes and safe driving behaviors. is to provide compensation, resettleMany of our sites also participated in 19 Our Growth Plan We have successfully grown the Euromoney’s Project Finance magazine When the opportunity is right, acquisicompany over the past six years with Deal of the Year awards for tions of existing plants can be a great because we have a willingness to try three years running; a great accomway to quickly increase scale. We do new things, discipline to focus on plishment for ContourGlobal and not staff a dedicated acquisition team; our areas of strength and, at all times, our partners. we prefer to draw on the expertise to pay attention to the details. of the teams that run our business Developing economies need more every day, because they know what We invest a significant amount of power plants, and we are ready to works for us. From due diligence, to equity in every project we undertake, build them. Our customers, often the deal execution, to integration, our but we also rely on the strong partnernational government of our host team operates quickly and efficiently ships we have developed with both countries, and our end users, the to grow our business. traditional lenders and development people who use the electricity we banks. On the construction and produce, depend on us to see a We intend to continue our growth operations side, we work with the best project through to the end. With trajectory over the next five years. in the industry — Wärtsilä, General more generation capacity, governWe believe our deep technical Electric and Siemens, to name a few ments build out their infrastructure expertise and partnerships will allow — to help design, build, and staff our to deliver power to more people, us to quickly and flexibly develop plants. We place a tremendous and industrial users build more and complete a large percentage amount of value in our partnerships factories, all creating more demand of projects currently in our pipeline, with project finance lenders. We are for our product. building a larger and stronger proud to have been recognized by portfolio of sustainable businesses. 20 Our Stakeholders It is impossible to generate electricity the end-user while our cost of production process. Our ongoing without impacting the environment capital requires a certain rate of dialogue with our suppliers will and society. We believe that to build return to our shareholders in include quality assessments a sustainable organization, we need order to invest. In these cases, we and idea sharing. to listen to our stakeholders, underwork closely with our customers • Contractors Providing a stand their concerns about these to creatively structure transactions reliable electricity supply also impacts, and incorporate their ideas that can work for both sides. In requires excellent relationships into our strategic undertakings. other situations, we have successwith contractors during construcThrough stakeholder engagement, fully negotiated with suppliers or tion and operations. We use we are able to better channel our customers to pass on benefits to turnkey Engineering, Procurement resources in the most positive way, our customers to reduce electricity and Construction contracts developing our business efficiently costs. Another approach we have to build our sites and a variety and innovatively. used is to provide flexible pricing of different contractors and based on efficiency and dependconsultants to “keep the lights Stakeholder engagement takes place ability. This type of value sharing on”. We engage with this stakeat all levels of our organization and provides incentives to both parties holder to conduct activities and across all businesses. Our stakeholder to build sustainable projects. to solve problems. community includes employees, • Suppliers We rely on our employee representatives, managers, • Investors, Banks, Multisuppliers to ensure we can customers, suppliers, contractors, Laterals and Other Financial operate successfully and reliably Institutions Building or lenders, investors, local authorities, on a daily basis. When we acquiring power facilities require governments, non-govermental structure our transactions, we large amounts of capital from organizations, and the communities properly assess all aspects of a variety of sources. We have where we operate: our suppliers for reliability and successfully engaged with • Employees, Managers and commercial feasibility so that investors, banks and multi-lateral Employee Representatives when we operate our plants, our institutions, insurance companies, ContourGlobal has over 1,500 suppliers are true partners in the and pension funds, and other employees worldwide and employee representatives are appointed in many of our businesses. Stakeholder engagement in this group takes many forms and is both informal and formal. • Customers We engage with our customers regularly on supply and demand of electricity, pricing and a myriad of other issues. Our approach with customers is to be fair and focus on a workable solution. We recognize that in many of our communities the price of electricity is extremely high for 21 institutions and continue to have Kivuwatt business however we We found that the stakeholders we ongoing dialogue with this group. plan to engage with this vital engage with most frequently include We engage through reporting, stakeholder group in a more suppliers, lenders, investors, due diligence activities and meaningful way in 2012. customers and local governments. business improvement idea Our business leaders documented • Communities Our plants and generation. over 90% of our engagement operations directly affect the activities, which were conducted • Governments and Local communities where we are both formally and informally. We Authorities ContourGlobal located, not only as a provider of actively solicit feedback from our fosters a close relationship with electricity or heat but as a local internal and external stakeholders, the governments and local business and taxpayer. We keep and we have identified issues and authorities where we operate. an open dialogue with the received advice through these We play an important role in the community members through interactions. The resulting feedback development of the electricity face-to-face meetings, town hall has been used to set our 2012 sector in many countries and meetings and educational site targets and corporate action plan. by engaging with these stakevisits. The community feedback is We plan to continue our dynamic holders in a two-way dialogue, embedded in our business stakeholder engagement, including we can positively influence strategy, particularly in the area a Stakeholder Engagement Assessdecision-making while being of social responsibility. ment directly with the stakeholders. open to more effective ways of doing business. Of our 40 business leaders, 95% Our business affects our stakeholders actively engage with external • NGOs We believe that nonin four main areas: general business stakeholders and 100% engage governmental organizations operations, our environmental with our employees. We conducted offer a unique perspective footprint, our adherence to antian internal Stakeholder Engagement on many issues important to corruption policies and our people. Assessment, surveying our business ContourGlobal. To date, leaders on how we interact with our our engagement with NGOs stakeholders and what feedback our has been limited to our stakeholders have provided in 2011. Business Operations 30 Based on survey results, our stake26 25 holders are most interested in our economic performance with 26 of 20 17 17 our business leaders receiving 15 15 feedback on that issue. Seventeen of our leaders have had stakeholders 10 9 9 8 7 express interest in the reliability of 5 5 operational performance, construction delays and cost overruns, and 0 15 of our leaders have received Re ne Te nno wa I ch va no tio lo n gy M Co ark m eti bl m ngun feedback from stakeholders on the e En Re lia bi er gy ica and tio lit yo fO ut Pu bl n Co pu ic importance of community relations ns tru ct t Af Co io st n D O el Ec f Lo ais Com m un ve ay rru s/ ns on bb anyin d in ity om to our sustainability as a business. g Re lat io ic M ar ke tP ns Pe rfo re se nc e rm an ce 22 Environmental Carbon Footprint In the environmental category, 10% 18% Other Emissions Pollutions and Waste stakeholders are most concerned about our emissions, pollution 15% Material Used in Production and waste profile. Business leaders also view these as our biggest 32% environmental concern, ahead 20% of energy efficiency, our carbon Water Usage footprint and water usage. Land Use 5% Anti-Corruption 20 18 18 Eighteen of our leaders received 17 feedback from stakeholders that 15 14 bribery, transparency and corporate governance are areas of concern. 10 Our stakeholders are also interested in corporate governance and the 5 5 procurement processes in place at ContourGlobal. 0 t y r ce cy en er vio em ib ha an aren Br Be rn ur ve sp Proc ive Go Tr tit an ra Co te mpe po Co tir An People Health and Safety When it comes to people, our Job Security and Creation stakeholders are most concerned with health and safety. Our stake20% Human Rights Issues at ContourGlobal holders are also keenly interested 33% in our ability to train our workforce Human Rights Issues in Supply Chain and provide competitive benefits 18% to our employees as well as have Diversity and Non-discrimination positive and well functioning labor 12% Gender Equality and management relations. 8% 7% 1% Labour/Management Relations 1% 23 Our Sustainability Strategy The feedback from our stakeholders system that includes an executiveSafety Standards to ensure our is critical to our decision-making and level Health and Safety Committee, standards are aligned with the accountability. It helps us manage a knowledge-sharing Health and IFC and World Bank standards and our impacts – dispatching resources Safety Working Group, and a robust we are in the process of revising to the places that matter the most. auditing program. In 2011 we our Health and Safety Standards. The Stakeholder feedback is an expanded our Health and Safety We also launched a new training important part of our annual strategy reporting to include three tiers of program, “Managing Safely in and our corporate action plan. workplace inspections and comthe Power Sector,” a bespoke Stakeholder concerns are centered menced reporting on hazards. We course spanning 3-5 days with on six key areas. All these areas, not inspected all of our businesses 17 participants in 2011. surprisingly, have already been regularly (over 4,000 inspections in identified as important business risks total) and engaged a third party to Looking forward, we will expand or areas for improvement within the conduct a health and safety audit of our health and safety initiatives to organization. Our 2012 corporate Arrubal, Galheiros, São Domingos II, protect our people and those around sustainability strategy incorporates and Maritsa. We created a library of us. We will continue our robust these areas in the following ways: toolbox talks accessible to all program of monitoring hazards and business managers and our managers near misses and take advantage of conducted weekly toolbox talks with this proactive approach to health and Protect the Health our employees and our contractors. safety. We will also continue our and Safety of Our multi-level inspection approach and Our incident reporting was done Workers, Contractors within our health and safety manageconduct external audits. We will and Communities ment system and for all lost-time provide to our employees training incidents, our working group shared on our revised standards and the We have an obligation to all newly developed course. Specific “lessons learned” and adopted new ContourGlobal people, contractors objectives are incorporated into our best practices. In 2011, we conducted and plant visitors to create a safe Corporate Action Plan. a gap analysis on our Health and and healthy environment. We believe that workplace incidents are preventable and accordingly our targets for all incidents, whether first aid or fatality, are zero. In fact, we are committed to creating a single global and unified workplace when it comes to health, safety and human development. We emphatically reject the idea that a global company’s health and safety policy should be based upon a notion of “different standards for different places.” To meet these goals, we have implemented a three-pronged health and safety management 24 Maintain or Decrease reduce NOx emissions below 200mg Member, transparency is a first line Our Carbon, Air and NOx/Nm3 without introduction of of defense against corruption. additional chemicals. Our Sochagota At ContourGlobal, we view both Waste Footprint facility will finalize the removal of transparency and anti-corruption Power generation is an activity with its ash lagoon in 2012, reusing the measures as essential elements of significant and largely unavoidable ash in civil construction and the our sustainability strategy. It is our environmental impacts, particularly cement industry. Our biomass facility, mission to act with integrity and with a portfolio that includes tradiFibrominn, will remain carbon neutral. professionalism at all times and to tional fuel types, in particular coal share our values with others. We do and lignite. Despite collective efforts Increase Reliability this through open communication and transparent reporting. We have to increase renewable power of Production and sources, the industry consensus is a strong anti-corruption program Operational Excellence in place and we are resolved to that coal will continue to play a major role in a balanced energy Our success depends on our ability advance our initiatives against matrix for many countries and to meet our customer’s energy corruption and bribery as part of regions. In the poorest countries, needs. Predictability and availability our business strategy. coal frequently will be the preferred of the energy we produce are critical In 2012, we will take additional choice to ensure low-cost base-load to achieving this goal. These operasteps to enhance the credibility of power. Thus, our sustainability tional metrics are also consistent ContourGlobal, to facilitate learning strategy focuses on managing our with best environmental practices, and information sharing about carbon, air and waste footprint, because highly efficient operations compliance issues, and to further but does so within the context of a combust less fuel and extract the strategic objectives in this area. business strategy that embraces coal most usable energy from each unit We will introduce a Compliance fired generation for developing of fuel. We have adopted “best Guide to the organization, countries. We are committed to practices” operational standards and perform extensive due diligence develop our generation plants in a continuously monitor our availability on any new counter-parties manner that minimizes their impact and energy production. Additionand conduct assessments of our and that comports with global best ally, we rely on strong back office high-risk businesses. practices, as generally defined by capabilities as well as sophisticated, the World Bank. In developed integrated IT systems to respond countries we will not engage in the quickly to business needs and Ensure Human Rights development of new coal fired support our growth model. Our Are Respected by Our generation and will strive to do more strategy is to apply sound continuPeople and Suppliers by continuing to focus on our ous improvement principles to all Solutions business and other renewaspects of our business. We believe ContourGlobal is committed to able energy alternatives. We will look we can continue to improve the securing dignity and equality for all. at other ways to reduce emissions efficiency of our current fleet and We have actively protected human such as biomass alternatives, using increase the expected output from rights of others from our inception, higher quality coal, recycling ash, our plants, while also minimizing our implementing human resources and implementing NOx reduction environmental impact. policies and a Code of Business systems. Because natural gas fired Conduct, and we actively monitor power generation emits far less CO2 our own behavior. While we are Maintain Focus and than liquid fuels, we will endeavor to proud of our track record, we Emphasize Antibelieve we can do more and have incorporate natural gas fired capabilities into our liquid fuel fired Corruption Activities incorporated several human rights generation plants. For example, in and Transparency objectives into our corporate susTogo, our target is to fully commission in Reporting tainability strategy. It is not enough our units to run on natural gas, a for us to uphold our high standards cleaner alternative to the heavy and According to Huguette Labelle, when it comes to respecting others’ light fuel oil that historically has been Chair of Transparency International fundamental rights – we must also used. At Maritsa, our target is to and UN Global Compact Board teach and encourage others to do 25 the same. Our targets in the area of Embed Sustainability a broad range of employees in our human rights are focused on these Initiatives throughout Corporate Sustainability Committee, important initiatives. In 2012, we have our environmental workshops and all ContourGlobal set a specific target in our Corporate in our social responsibility projects. Action Plan to adopt a policy and Businesses However, we believe that more train our organization on the policy. training and exposure to our activities We believe it is imperative that our Additionally, we intend to adopt a at all levels of the organization will organization embraces the corporate Supplier Code of Conduct that will ensure that our corporate sustainsustainability strategy with an contain human rights provisions and ability strategy is achieved. So we integrated approach. What does this conduct vendor training on our intend to involve everyone in the mean? Well, historically, we have newly adopted Code. We can and organization—and among our highlighted our objectives in town will do more to further the respect external stakeholder groups—in our hall meetings, our corporate newsfor these fundamental rights in our integrated approach to sustainability. letter and face to face with our supply chain and our communities. business leaders. We have engaged 26 Our Performance Targets As a young company with six years of operations and a rapidly growing portfolio, our sustainability targets to date have focused on implementation of policies and procedures and building a framework for reporting and monitoring. Although there is still more important work to be done to further develop these areas, we can now take the important next step in executing our long-term strategy by identifying specific targets and reporting base line data. Our simple, yet measurable, Corporate Action Plan will help us reach our targets with a blend of long-term and short-term objectives. As the organization continues to grow, we will review and strengthen our commitments with a goal of becoming a leader in sustainable practices in the power-generation sector. 2012 Corporate Action Plan Strategic Focus: Protecting the health and safety of our workers, contractors, and community members Target Actions Actions Actions Zero harm to employees, contractors Expand and improve health and Directly link compensation incentives Increase the number of dedicated and community members safety training for all business leaders to our health health and safety employees and site and safety record visits Key Performance Indicator LTI and First Aid Training hours per employee and Adopt global Compensation Increase headcount by 20% in 2012 Incident rates per contractor Policy change Baseline 2011 1 contractor fatality, 11 LTIs, 2011 Training Hours No baseline data Current dedicated H&S headcount: 9 12 significant FAI Strategic Focus: Maintain or decrease our carbon emissions per GWh Produced Target Actions Actions Actions Achieve reductions on our 2011 levels Expand Solutions & Renewable Portfolio Improve data collection to enable full Develop a carbon strategy and value of CO2 emissions per GWh produced by adding 48 MW in capacity in 2012 ecological footprint calculation proposition including corporate goals and an additional 160 MW in capacity Develop a corporate environmental and targets in 2013 audit program Key Performance Indicator Gross Capacity in MW Environmental Reporting and Audit Report on carbon strategy, goals and Programs implemented targets in 2012 Sustainability Report Baseline 2011 2011 Gross MW 2,498 Increase reporting metrics by 5 and No baseline data conduct environmental audits at 3 businesses 27 Strategic Focus: Reduce NOx emissions in Bulgaria, recycle waste in Colombia, and manage biodiversity impacts in Brazil Target Actions Actions Actions Initiate four-year program to reduce Complete ash recycling program at Implement Flora and Wildlife NOx emissions at Maritsa, completing Sochagota, removing 13.628 tons of Conservation programs, an Ichtyologic first unit in 2012 with the remaining ash from the lagoon in 2012 and selling Monitoring program and an Environunits completed by the to cement and civil construction mental Education Program end of 2015 customers for reuse, reducing CO2 emissions Key Performance Indicator NOx Emission less than 200 mg/Nm3 Tons of Ash removed Quantity of Data Collected and # of at 6% O2 People Educated Baseline 2011 Not applicable, annual measurement 37.774 tons removed from December, Not Identified against target 2010 to November, 2011. 13.628 tons remaining in lagoon to be removed Strategic Focus: Operational Excellence in all aspects of our business Target Actions Actions Actions Achieve portfolio Standardize operational monitoring, Implement recommendations from operational targets spare part management and O&M 3rd party benchmarking of back office for availability and capacity factor procedures at each of the Solutions processes plants Key Performance Indicator Target to actual calculations for % of businesses reporting on Improve benchmarked metrics by availability and capacity factor standardized metrics 10% or bring to peer group levels by 12/31/2013 Baseline 2011 2012 Board Approved Budget No baseline data Not yet identified 28 Strategic Focus: Promote A culture of transparency and operational excellence Target Actions Actions Actions Ensure that every employee is trained Adopt and distribute Execute successfully our anti-corruption Launch an internal corporate audit on our anti-corruption and compliance a revised set of training program in all languages function and audit 3 high-risk policies and operational targets are compliance-related policies to all including in-person training, online businesses/ functions/ regions achieved employees, including a Compliance refresher training and ensure Guide, and launch an anonymous all issues raised are properly addressed Compliance Hotline/Website Key Performance Indicator Monitoring and % of Employees receiving guide Training Hours per employee Audit Report and Action Plan Reporting and launch of hotline Compliance Committee SelfAssessment Report; Testing of Employee Understanding after Training Baseline 2011 No baseline data No baseline data No baseline data Strategic Focus: Ensure Human Rights are respected in our businesses and throughout the Value Chain Target Actions Actions Actions Adopt a global Human Rights policy Actively participate in UN initiatives Adopt a supplier code of conduct, and train organization on our code of for businesses in conflict affected and conduct human rights checks on our conduct and human rights policy high risk areas vendors and conduct vendor training Key Performance Indicator % of employees acknowledging # of Senior Leaders participating % of Vendors receiving code of conduct receipt of policy in initiatives % of vendors receiving human right Human Rights Training Hours check Training Hours per vendor per employee Baseline 2011 No baseline data No baseline data No baseline data Strategic Focus: Embed Sustainability Initiatives throughout our organization and with all of our stakeholders Target Actions Actions Actions Engage every employee and external Train our businesses and stakeholders Monitor and report our progress All business and office locations stakeholder in our sustainability mission on the UNGC principles, our corporate towards our sustainability targets engage in a meaningful social and initiatives sustainability policies and strategy, and responsibility project the role that each individual plays Key Performance Indicator Training Hours per employee % of categories with negative variances Social Responsibility Spend as a % of to target Project Revenue Employee Engagement Survey Baseline 2011 No baseline data No baseline data No baseline data 29 Our Report and Performance Impacts This is our first year to report our information and the ability to collect assets were included in our portfolio. performance according to the data. This includes ContourGlobal However, environmental data for Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3 LP (Cayman Islands), ContourGlobal the acquired businesses is reported sustainability reporting guidelines, Management Inc., (New York) and for the full year as required by the including the GRI guidance on subsidiaries of these entities that Greenhouse Gas Protocol 2 that Defining Report Content. 1 We have are managed and controlled by stipulates that data shall be updated chosen to follow these guidelines ContourGlobal. ContourGlobal does retroactively. We adopted this to ensure transparency in reporting not report on the impacts of heat principle for reporting on all environand consistency with other internand electricity once the electricity mental data for acquired entities even ational organizations. We believe our has been distributed. where the Greenhouse Gas Protocol report meets the GRI requirements does not apply. Businesses that have at a B application level. ContourGlobal assesses its sharenot reached commercial operations holder concerns and monitors and are not reported in the body of the reports data to stakeholders in this report, only in footnote disclosure. Report profile, scope report and others to ensure the and boundaries concerns are addressed (see StakeReported CO2 emissions are based holder Engagement above). The on fuel consumption. It should be The data provided in this report is for financial data presented in this noted that calculation methods differ the calendar year 2011. ContourGlobal report is based on our audited from country to country. Calculation has an annual reporting cycle and annual accounts and our environmethods are stipulated by national has published a Sustainability Report mental data is a consolidation of our legislation, among other things in since 2010. This is the first report business level reporting, much of connection with the EU Emissions prepared according to GRI guidewhich is reported externally to Trading System. All other emissions lines. We have not sought external environmental agencies. We have have either been measured (in assurance on the report and do not included statistics for all subsidiaries cases where continuous monitoring have a policy on this matter. The where we own more than 50% of the equipment has been installed) or previous report, along with our UN voting power or where we have based on periodic measurements. Global Compact Communication on management control. In some cases The number of digits displayed in Progress, was published in 2011, we have also reported data for our numbers reflects the accuracy of the covering performance in 2010 and minority investments where it is data. Rounding differences in the has not been restated. The scope of available. This data is highlighted by last digit between sums and single this report is for the ContourGlobal, footnotes within the report. items may occur. including businesses in construction and operations and also our offices. Our business level information, As noted above, ContourGlobal Contact points for questions regardincluding energy and environmental invested in two significant businesses ing the report or its contents can data, is collected based on company in 2011. We had no divestitures be found on the inside front cover. definitions and, where required, has during the year, however we did Additional information about been adjusted locally to ensure open new corporate offices and ContourGlobal may be found at consistency. During 2011, we had close others during the year. www.contourglobal.com. newly acquired businesses and businesses that were placed into ContourGlobal only reports on commercial operations. Our produc1 For further information about the GRI information over which the company tion data for these businesses is guidelines, see www.globalreporting.org. has full control over the quality of the reported for the part of the year the 2 www.ghgprotocol.org 30 Our Impacts Health and Safety Impacts Number of LTI and FAI per month 2011 Proactive safety indicators 16 14 650 5000 12 600 4000 10 8 3000 550 6 2000 500 1000 4 2 450 0 0 20 11 10 20 ary ry ar ril ay ne ly st be r er be r be r ru ch Ap M Ju Ju gu ob nu a M Au pt ct m ce Ja Fe em ve m b O No De Near Miss Safety Inspections Se LTI Month FA Month OSHA rates YTD 2011 Total number of LTI & OSHA rate 2 12 0.39 1.5 10 0.38 1 0.37 8 0.36 0.5 6 0.35 4 0 0.34 er m 2 ch Ju st r r ar ua ril ay Ju Ja y ry ar Ap M ne ly Au em be ob ve be be r 0.33 nu Fe M gu ct br Se O m De No ce pt 0 0.32 10 11 20 20 CG OHSA rate YTD Contractor OHSA rate YTD Overall OHSA rate YTD Contractor LTI CG LTI Incidents & hazards reported by site 2011 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 at a n n ro ev To l t ap ba ni in s Kr km o Be eiIke Ki vu am re at or sk go Ap Arru ro m lh ja w M No ar gaist a Ki oc ra Fi Ga Ra Pl oi es ti b Sa Kn o Do dz m y in m go in Te So ch ag ot s rm oe m ca a li 31 Operational Impacts Comments: Efficiency, %*: Weighted Average Efficiency Based on Gross Electrical Capacity Numbers in parentheses next to site names denote the number of installations or facilities at that location Kiwuwatt:** Phase I is currently under construction and reported; Phase II will start construction in 2013 Nigeria*** Nigeriais reported as a portfolio of three projects and considered under construction until the entire portfolio reaches commercial operations 32 Environmental Impacts Note: At our Maritsa site, we conducted an inventory of any potential PCB containing equipment in 2006 based on the Bulgarian regulations. Tests on transformer oil showed very low levels of PCB below the concentration of 5 parts per million (ppm). According to the regulations, a substance that contains more than 50 ppm requires monitoring and required plants for decontamination, waste treatment and storage. Thus, Maritsa is excluded from reporting. None of other sites have any PCB containing equipment. *Materials used shows what types of materials are used in the production processes of plants, as segregated by the main fuel type used in the plant. 33 Human Rights and Anti-Corruption Impacts Labor Impacts * Benefits generally include Health Coverage (state or private), Life Insurance and Disability Insurance ** Part-time employees generally do not receive company paid benefits unless legally required *** Excludes employees joining ContourGlobal after September 1, 2011. *Turnover is reported as Total Employees of Group Leaving in 2011 (voluntarily and involuntarily)/Total Employees as of December 31, 2011. 34 GRI Indicators and UN Global Compact Principles Following is a content index for the GRI indicators that ContourGlobal is reporting. The relevant UN Global Compact Principles 3 are also indicated for each indicator. Fully Partially Not GRI GRI UNGC General Description Page(s) Indicator Status Principle(s) 1. Strategy and Analysis Statement of Statement from most senior decision-maker of 1.1 CEO Message, page 3 continuing support the organization for the UNGC Our Challenges and Management Response, pages 10-11; 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Our Growth Plan, page 20: Our Sustainability Strategy, pages 24-26; Our Performance Targets, pages 27-29 2. Organizational Profile 2.1-2.3, 2.5, 2.7 Organizational Profile Overview, pages 4-5; http://www.contourglobal.com 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters New York, NY: http://www.contourglobal.com/contact/ 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Privately held ContourGlobal is backed by USD $1 billion of private/ institutional capital. The company has over 1,500 employees, in 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 14 countries and four continents. Overview, pages 4-5; Our People, pages 16-17 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period CEO Message, page 3; Key Events in 2011, page 7 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Awards Received, page 18 3. Report Parameters Reporting period, scope and boundary, materiality determination, 3.1, 3.2, data measurement techniques and basis of calculations, 3.6-3.11, Our Report and Performance Impacts, page 30 explanation of restatements and significant changes, external 3.13 assurance 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report SustainabilityFeedback@ContourGlobal.com Our Stakeholders, pages 21-23; Our Sustainability Strategy, 3.5 Process for defining report content pages 24-26; Our Report and Performance Impacts, page 30 3.12 GRI Content Index GRI Index, pages 35-39 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Information on highest governance body and feedback Providing a Healthy and Safe Workplace with the Highest Standards 4.1-4.4 mechanisms of Ethical Behavior and Strong Corporate Governance, pages 12-13 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including 4.5 Not disclosed as this is proprietary information departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance) Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure 4.6 Specific processes are not in place conflicts of interest are avoided Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the 4.7 Not disclosed as this is proprietary information organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics Internal values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to Our Challenges and Management Response, 4.8 economic, environmental, and social performance pages 10-19 Procedures to oversee the organization’s identification Our Challenges and Management Response, 4.9 and management of economic, environmental, and social pages 10-19 performance Evaluation processes of the highest governance body’s own 4.10 Not disclosed as this is proprietary information performance Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach Our Challenges and Management Response, 4.11 Principle 7 or principle is addressed by the organization pages 10-19 Providing a Healthy and Safe Workplace with the 4.12 Externally subscribed or endorsed initiatives Highest Standards of Ethical Behavior and Strong Corporate Governance, page 13 Our Challenges and Management Response, 4.13 Key memberships and associations pages 12-14, 18 Our Stakeholders, page 21 23; Our Sustainability 4.14-4.17 Stakeholders, types of engagement, key issues Strategy, page 24 3 For further information about the UN Global Compact Principles, see www.unglobalcompact.org. 35 GRI GRI UNGC General Description Page(s) Indicator Status Principle(s) Economic Indicators Our Business, pages 6-9; Operational and Economic Economic performance Principles 1, 4, 6, 7 Performance, pages 17-18, Our Growth Plan, page 20 EC DMA Our Business, pages 6-9; Operational and Economic Market presence Principles 1, 4, 6, 7 Performance, pages 17-18, Our Growth Plan, page 20 Indirect economic impacts Our Business, pages 6-9; Our Communities, page 19 Principles 1, 4, 6, 7 EC1 Direct economic value Operational and Economic Performance, pages 17-18 Diversified Generation, pages 8-9; Minimizing our Environmental Impacts through Planning and EC2 Financial implications of climate change Principle 7 Promoting Innovative Technical Solutions, pages 13-14; Environmental Impacts, page 33 Defined benefit plan obligations, significant assistance EC3 received from government, entry level wage comparison EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local EC5 Principle 1 minimum wage at significant locations of operation EC6 Local supplier spend at significant locations of operation Our Communities, page 19 EC7 Local hiring at significant locations of operation Our Communities, page 19 Principle 6 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Our Business, pages 6-8; Underserved Markets, page 8; Our EC8 and services Communities, page 19; Our Growth Plan, page 20 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic EC9 Underserved Markets, page 8; Our Communities, page 19 impacts Environmental Indicators Disclosure on management approach to the following Minimizing our Environmental Impacts through Planning environmental aspects: Materials, Energy, Water, Emissions, and Promoting Innovative Technical Solutions, pages 14-16; Principles 7, 8, 9 Effluents, Waste, Products and Services, Compliance Environmental Impacts, page 33 Minimizing our Environmental Impacts through Planning EN DMA Disclosure on management approach to Biodiversity and Promoting Innovative Technical Solutions, pages 14-16; Principles 7, 8, 9 Environmental Impacts, page 33 Disclosure on management approach to the following Principles 7, 8, 9 environmental aspects: Transport, Overall Materials and Energy, page 15; 2011 Environmental Impacts, EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Principle 8 page 33 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials None Principle 8 Materials and Energy, page 15; 2011 Environmental Impacts, EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Principle 8 page 33 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Principle 8 EN5 Energy conservation and efficiency initiatives and improvements Principle 8 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Diversified Generation Portfolio, pages 8-9; Minimizing EN6 energy based products and services, and reductions our Environmental Impacts through Planning and Promoting Principle 8 in energy requirements as a result of these initiative Innovative Technical Solutions, pages 14-16 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and EN7 Principle 8 reductions achieved EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water, page 15; Environmental Impacts, page 33 Principle 8 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Principle 8 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Water, page 15; Environmental Impacts, page 33 Principle 8 Although we have initiatives in place to protect biodiversity, EN11 Land in or adjacent to areas of high biodiversity value Principle 8 data is still only available at the local level and is not reported Description of significant impacts on biodiversity in protected Although we have initiatives in place to protect biodiversity, EN12 Principle 8 areas and areas of high biodiversity value data is still only available at the local level and is not reported Although we have initiatives in place to protect biodiversity, EU13 Habitats protected or restored Principle 8 data is still only available at the local level and is not reported Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the biodiversity Although we have initiatives in place to protect biodiversity, EU13 Principle 8 of the affected areas data is still only available at the local level and is not reported Although we have initiatives in place to protect biodiversity, EN14 Strategies to manage biodiversity impacts Principle 8 data is still only available at the local level and is not reported Number of IUCN Red List and national conservation Although we have initiatives in place to protect biodiversity, EN15 Principle 8 list species data is still only available at the local level and is not reported Minimizing our Environmental Impacts through EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Planning and Promoting Innovative Technical Solutions, Principle 8 pages 14-16; Environmental Impacts, page 33 36 GRI GRI UNGC General Description Page(s) Indicator Status Principle(s) Environmental Indicators (continued) EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Principle 8 Minimizing our Environmental Impacts through Planning Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and EN18 and Promoting Innovative Technical Solutions, pages Principles 7 and 8 reductions achieved 14-16; Environmental Impacts, page 33 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Principle 8 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Emissions, pages 14-15; Environmental Impacts, page 33 Principle 8 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Water, page 15; Environmental Impacts, page 33 Principle 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Principle 8 Spills, Fines, and Incidents, page 16; EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Principle 8 Environmental Impacts, page 33 EN24 Basel Convention waste management summary Principle 8 EN25 Biodiversity of receiving waters for water discharges and runoff Principle 8 Diversified Generation, page 12; Minimizing our Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products Environmental Impacts through Planning and EN26 Principles 7 and 8 and services Promoting Innovative Technical Solutions, pages 14-16; Corporate Action Plan, pages 27-28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials EN27 Principle 8 that are reclaimed by category EN28 Fines, penalties and non-compliances (Zero) Spills, Fines, and Incidents, page 16 Principle 8 EN29 Transportation impacts Principle 8 EN30 Environmental expenditures Principles 8 and 7 Labor Indicators Providing a Healthy and Safe Workplace with the Highest Disclosure on management approach to employment, Standards of Ethical Behavior and Strong Corporate GoverPrinciples 1, 3, 6 occupational health and safety, and training and education nance, pages 10-11; Our People, pages 16-17; Our SustainLA DMA ability Strategy, pages 24-26; Corporate Action Plan, page 27 Disclosure on management approach to labor relations, Our People, pages 16-17; Our Communities, page 19 Principles 1, 3, 6 diversity, and equal opportunity Total workforce by employment type, employment Labor Impacts, page 34 LA1 contract, and region (Contractor information not reported) Total number and rate of employee turnover by age Labor Impacts, page 34 LA2 Principle 6 group, gender and region (average length of tenure not reported) Benefits provided to full-time employees that are LA3 not provided to temporary or part-time employees, Labor Impacts, page 34 by major operations. Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Our People, pages 16-17; Labor Impacts, page 34 LA4 Principle 3 agreements (Contractor information not reported) Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant LA5 operational changes, including whether it is specified Principle 3 in collective agreements. Percentage of total workforce represented in joint health LA6 Principle 1 and safety committees CEO Message, page 3; Providing a Healthy and Safe Injury, occupational illness, lost days, absenteeism, Workplace with the Highest Standards of Ethical Behavior LA7 Principle 1 and fatalities by region and Strong Corporate Governance, pages 10-11; Health and Safety Impacts, pages 31-32 LA8 Disease prevention program Principle 1 Health and safety topics covered in collective LA9 bargaining agreements Average hours of training per year per employee by LA10 employee category Programs for skills management and lifelong learning LA11 Our People, pages 16-17 and career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance LA12 Our People, pages 16-17 and career development reviews Governing bodies and employees by category according LA13 Labor Impacts, page 34 Principles 1 and 6 to diversity indicators LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Principle 6 Programs and processes to ensure the availability of a EU14 Our People, pages 16-17; Our Communities, page 19 skilled workforce Percentage of employees eligible to retire in the next 5 and 10 EU15 years broken down by job category and by region 37 GRI GRI UNGC General Description Page(s) Indicator Status Principle(s) Labor Indicators (continued) Providing a Healthy and Safe Workplace with the Highest Policies and requirements regarding health and safety of EU16 Standards of Ethical Behavior and Strong Corporate Goveremployees and employees of contractors and subcontractors nance, pages 10-11; Our Sustainability Strategy, pages 24-26 Days worked by contractor and subcontractor employees involved EU17 in construction, operation and maintenance activities Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees that EU18 have undergone relevant health and safety training Human Rights Indicators Disclosure on management approach to human rights aspects: Human Rights, page 16; Our Sustainability Strategy, Principles 1 6 Non-discrimination, child labor, indigenous rights pages 24-26; Corporate Action Plan, page 29 HR DMA Disclosure on management approach to human rights aspects: Human Rights, page 16; Our Sustainability Strategy, investment and procurement practices, freedom of association and Principles 1 6 pages 24-26; Corporate Action Plan, page 29 collective bargaining, forced and compulsory labor, security practices HR1 Human rights and significant investment agreements Human Rights, page 16 Principles 1 6 HR2 Significant suppliers/contractors screened for human rights Principles 1 6 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning HR3 Principles 1 6 human rights Human Rights, page 16; Human Rights and HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Principle 6 Anti-Corruption Impacts, page 34 HR5 Operations at risk re: freedom of association and collective bargaining Human Rights, page 16 Principles 1, 2, 3 HR6 Operations at risk re: child labor Human Rights, page 16 Principles 1, 2, 5 HR7 Operations at risk re: forced and compulsory labor Principles 1, 2, 4 HR8 Security personnel trained on human rights Principles 1, 2 HR9 Violations of indigeneous peoples’ rights Human Rights, page 16 Principles 1, 2 Society Indicators Providing a Healthy and Safe Workplace with the Highest Disclosure on management approach to corruption, Standards of Ethical Behavior and Strong Corporate Principle 10 SO DMA public policy, anti-competitive behavior and compliance Governance, pages 10-13; Our Sustainability Strategy, pages 24-26; Corporate Action Plan, page 29 Disclosure on management approach to community Our Communities, page 19 Principle 10 Programs and practices that assess and manage impacts of SO1 Our Communities, page 19 operations on communities Providing a Healthy and Safe Workplace with the Highest Standards of Ethical Behavior and Strong Corporate SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related to corruption Principle 10 Governance, pages 10-14; Human Rights and Anti-Corruption Impacts, page 34 Providing a Healthy and Safe Workplace with the Highest Standards of Ethical Behavior and Strong Corporate SO3 Employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures Principle 10 Governance, pages 10-14; Human Rights and Anti-Corruption Impacts, page 34 Providing a Healthy and Safe Workplace with the Highest Standards of Ethical Behavior and Strong Corporate SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Principle 10 Governance, pages 10-14; Human Rights and Anti-Corruption Impacts, page 34 Public policy positions and participation in public policy SO5 Principles 1 10 development and lobbying SO6 Political contributions Principle 10 Providing a Healthy and Safe Workplace with the Highest Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, SO7 Standards of Ethical Behavior and Strong Corporate anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Governance, page 12 Providing a Healthy and Safe Workplace with the Highest Fines and penalties for noncompliance with laws and SO8 Standards of Ethical Behavior and Strong Corporate regulations Governance, page 12 Product Responsibility Indicators Providing a Healthy and Safe Workplace with the Highest Disclosure on management approach to product responsibility Standards of Ethical Behavior and Strong Corporate Principles 1 8 compliance PR DMA Governance, pages 10-11 Disclosure on management approach to customer health and safety, Principles 1 8 product labeling, marketing communications and customer privacy Life-cycle assessment for health and safety impacts of PR1 Principle 1 products/services Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations (None) Providing a Healthy and Safe Workplace with PR2 and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of the Highest Standards of Ethical Behavior and Strong Principle 1 products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Corporate Governance, page 12 PR3 Product and service labeling requirements for significant products Principle 8 38 GRI GRI UNGC General Description Page(s) Indicator Status Principle(s) Product Responsibility Indicators (continued) Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations PR4 and voluntary codes concerning product and service Anti-Corruption and Compliance Performance, page 32 Principle 8 information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Customer satisfaction practices PR6 Marketing communications compliance programs Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and (None) Providing a Healthy and Safe Workplace with the PR7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including Highest Standards of Ethical Behavior and Strong Corporate advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Governance, pages 10-11 PR8 Substantiated customer privacy complaints and data loss None Principle 1 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws (None) Providing a Healthy and Safe Workplace with the PR9 and regulations concerning the provision and use of products Highest Standards of Ethical Behavior and Strong Corporate and services Governance, pages 10-11 Industry Indicators Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy source and Operational Impacts, page 32; Portfolio Data EU1 by regulatory regime http://www.contourglobal.com/portfolio/data.php Net energy output broken down by primary energy source and EU2 Operational Impacts, page 32 by regulatory regime ContourGlobal has industrial, institutional and commercial Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customer accounts. All account information is kept at the EU3 customer accounts business level and is not readily available. We intend to report the data by 2013. ContourGlobal is responsible for the operations and Length of above and underground transmission and maintenance of transmission lines in Brazil, Togo, and Ukraine. EU4 distribution lines by regulatory regime The data related to transmissions lines is not readily available. We intend to report the data by 2013. ContourGlobal currently manages its CO2 emissions allowances, regulatory compliance and participation in emissions trading schemes at each business. Our businesses participate in the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme and the Kyoto Allocation of CO2e emissions allowances or equivalent, EU5 Protocol flexible mechanisms (Joint Implementation and Clean broken down by carbon trading framework Development Mechanism) and information relating to allocations or reduction targets is not readily available. As noted in our Corporate Action Plan on p. 27, we have set targets relating to CO2 emissions and intend to report on our allocations in greater detail by 2013. EU6 Management approach to ensure availability and reliability Demand-side management programs including residential, EU7 Principles 8 and 9 commercial, institutional and industrial programs EU8 Research and development activity Principle 9 EU9 Provisions for decommissioning of nuclear power sites ContourGlobal does not own any nuclear power sites. Planned capacity against projected electricity demand over the EU10 long term, broken down by energy source and regulatory regime. Average generation efficiency of thermal plants by energy EU11 Operational Impacts, page 32 source and regulatory regime. EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy. Operational Impacts, page 32 Stakeholder participation in the decision making process related EU19 Principles 1 and 2 to energy planning and infrastructure development EU20 Approach to managing the impacts of displacement Our Communities, page 19 Principles 1 and 2 Contingency planning measures, disaster/emergency management EU21 plan and training programs, and recovery/restoration plans Number of people physically or economically displaced and EU22 Principles 1 and 2 compensation, broken down by type of project Programs, including those in partnership with government, to improve EU23 or maintain access to electricity and customer support services. Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy and disability EU24 related barriers to accessing and safely using electricity and customer support services Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving EU25 company assets, including legal judgments, settlements and pending legal cases of diseases Percentage of population unserved in licensed distribution or EU26 service areas Number of residential disconnections for non-payment, broken EU27 down by duration of disconnection and by regulatory regime EU28 Power outage frequency Operational Excellence, page 8 EU29 Average power outage duration. Operational Excellence, page 8 EU30 Average plant availability factor by energy source and by regulatory regime Operational Excellence, page 8; Operational Impacts, page 32 39 INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS / SUSTAINABLE FUTURE
