Corporate Social Responsibility Communication On Progress 2011 to United Nations Global Compact CEO statement I proudly welcome you to our second progress report to the UN The unrest in the Middle East posed a serious challenge for our One of the most signifikant characteristics of our world today is the Introduction 4 Contents Global Compact. FLSmidth is one global company and this report global company, with a presence in all related countries. Safety is climate changes influencing everyone – no matter where we live. Who we are will present you with our corporate commitment to sustainability, our first priority – both work-related safety and when unforeseen At FLSmidth, we believe that the environmental challenges are a as well as with our local engagement and activities. In this report, external incidents influence the working conditions for our empart of our corporate responsibility and also the area where sustain­ you will find what we have considered the most important progployees. During the Arab Spring, we kept our commitment to our ability to us is business-driven and a part of our value propositions. ress made globally during the past year. employees. We took care of our local employees and brought our Overview 6 non-native employees home safely and efficiently. Equally imporSustainability covers many different topics, and at FLSmidth, we are In general, 2011 has been a year where we have focused on detant, we also stood by our commitment to our customers. During convinced that directly linked with our business and technology, The UN Global veloping and strengthening our company to maneuver in a world the Arab Spring, we made sure that the impacts from these difwe can make the biggest impact. From 2012, sustainability will Compact principles full of changes – ranging from financial, environmental, and to ficult conditions were kept at a minimum. also in writing be a part of our new group vision to be “…our demographic factors. customers’ preferred full service provider of sustainable Minerals Safety has been an area in development throughout 2011 and will and Cement technologies”. Employees 8 This report shows our development in 2011 – a year where only continue to be so going forward. 2011 was the year when Managing a FLSmidth grew as a global company. Through acquiring new comwe started communicating internally on our target for safety – the With our technology and our high investment in research and global workforce panies and hiring new employees, we have intensified our focus goal is to have the number of injuries with lost time per million development (R&D innovation), we believe that supplying equipon having the right people in the right positions. At the end of working hours (LTIF) of maximum three percent or less in 2015. ment that can relieve the environmental challenges, within our 2011, we had welcomed approximately 2.000 new employees, The level was 4.2 when year 2011 ended and a reduction of 30 industries, is what we do best. In 2011, we have worked intenSafety 10 representing a 18 percent increase over last year. percent in itself should be seen as an ambitious target. We are also sively on analyzing our industries, our surroundings and our own Employee safety and conscious that our customers are striving to ensure safe working company – not only to be aligned with basic developments – but Welcoming new people and talent to our organisation also means conditions, and we see our company as their partner, influencing also when renewing our group vision and strategy. The aspect of health come first increased responsibility. This was highlighted in some parts of the the industries in a positive way. sustainability is inevitable when referring to our strategy of world, when we experienced the Arab Spring. growth, and we believe it is an essential part of the way we reach Business ethics 14 our strategic goals. Code of Business Conduct Being a global company with increased representation all over the – it’s the way we work world is a position that requires commitment on various levels. 2011 was the year where governments and policy makers enhanced legal requirements – for instance with the UK Bribery Act Environment 16 and the UN Guiding Principles. This shows that focus on corporate Caring for the environment responsibility and legal compliance will only increase in the years to come. Consequently, in 2011, we have strengthened our internal policies and procedures and brought our commitment to the next level. Approved by our Board of Directors, we added a new Supply chain 20 Corporate Governance and Compliance Department to our organResponsible Sourcing isation in August 2011, which will focus on internal compliance. With some of the highlights of 2011 and a firm commitment to continuously show progress when implementing the 10 principles Community 22 of the UN Global Compact, we wish you pleasant reading and hope you will find this report to be a valuable source of information. Connecting with our communities Jørgen Huno Rasmussen Group CEO, FLSmidth 2 Communication On Progress 2011 Communication On Progress 2011 3 Introduction Who we are FLSmidth is among the world leaders We operate in more than 50 countries and have major project and Our strategic approach emphasized in 2011 We partner with universities to conduct research that leads to technology centres in Denmark, the United States of America, In 2011, FLSmidth planned an even more structured focus on environmentally sustainable products for our customers. In support in supplying engineering equipment, Germany, and India. strategic sustainability and corporate responsibility by making it of our local communities, we initiate partnerships with universities systems and services to the cement part of our new group strategy and vision to be launched in 2012. and improvement of student education in engineering and technical and minerals industries. We produce Headquartered in Valby, Denmark, our company employs approxiAcknowledging that corporate social responsibility (CSR) is becoming fields. As we build upon our CSR programs and sustainability focus, engineering services and offer mately 13.200 people around the world. FLSmidth strives to create even more important to our customers, communities, and employees, we expect to make even greater impacts year by year. a company-wide culture that values sustainability and corporate FLSmidth has embraced CSR as part of a moral responsibility as well specialized equipment that our social responsibility with a day-to-day practice. In this report, we as business practices that serve our industries and stakeholders. Our corporate responsibility customers use to provide minerals will tell you how we do this. Demonstrating our commitment to Whether we are calling it sustainability or CSR, the topic is among From FLSmidth’s point of view, corporate social responsibility is and materials for a wide range of human rights, responsible work conditions, ethical business practhe keys to our future growth. good business and good for business. Through our efforts, we industrial and consumer products tices and sustainable environmental approaches worldwide, we create value for our customers, employees, investors, local comsigned the United Nation’s Global Compact in 2008 and provided Throughout each business unit, our heightened strategic approach munities, and, even our suppliers. At FLSmidth, our ongoing our first Communication on Progress to the UN in February 2010. and objectives will begin to focus even more on cooperation with emphasis is in six main areas: company stakeholders, maintaining high standards of business FLSmidth & Co. A/S is listed on NASDAQ OMX, ethics, developing people, and protecting the environment. • Human resources/employees Copenhagen, Denmark. Through our goals to create a unified and consistent CSR approach, • Health and safety FLSmidth can live up to its promise to be a One Source company. • Business ethics • The environment With sustainability being a solid cornerstone of our group’s vision, • Responsible sourcing our newly written business strategies focus on product leadership, • Communities customer intimacy, and operational excellence. We are striving to help our customers meet their sustainability goals. In the area of FLSmidth focuses on our aspirations as: operations, we are focusing on safety, human rights, high ethical • One company business standards, developing employees, and responsible sourcing. • One source, and • One responsibility We live by our corporate responsibility every day through such actions as developing equipment and products that conserve energy and Founded in Denmark in 1882, perhaps it is FLSmidth’s Nordic reduce water usage. Due to our sustainability commitment, we heritage that drives our determination for accountability and indidesign and provide more environmentally friendly equipment, providual responsibility. duce sustainable products, and seek innovations and patents that underline our commitment to influence climate change challenges. CSR Board leads our efforts In 2011, our Corporate Social Responsibility Board, many of whom are top tier executives in our company, continued to grow the vision for CSR. Members of the board are: “FLSmidth focuses on our • Jørgen Huno Rasmussen, Group CEO aspirations as: one company, • Pernille Friis Andersen, Corporate Communications/Investor Relations one source and • Johannus Egholm Hansen, Group General Counsel one responsibility.” • Anders Høeg, Group Strategic Procurement and Quality • Egon Toft, Operations and Maintenance • Jakob Lyngsø Andersen, Global Human Resources • Michael Skovgaard Christensen, Corporate Governance & Compliance • Ann-Katrine Havris Lundgaard, Global CSR 4 Communication On Progress 2011 Communication On Progress 2011 5 Overview The UN Global Compact principles UN Global Compact Focus Policies Actions Measure Performance Page Principle 1: Respect of: Human Resources (HR Policy) HR development programs 2011 HR statistics Pages 8-9 Businesses should support and respect UN Declaration of Human Rights Code of Business Conduct (COBC) Diversity initiative 2011 Employee Survey data Pages 14-15 the protection of internationally UN Convention the Rights of the Child Responsible Sourcing initiative Target of minimum 10 % female Page 20 proclaimed human rights with respect to any use of child labour Developing Code of Business Conduct managers in 2014 Refraining from any use of forced labour e-learning Compliance Review 2011 Principle 2: Competitive and good employment Responsible Sourcing targets 2012 Make sure that they are not complicit conditions in human rights abuses Equal opportunities The right to be organized and bargain collectively Healthy and safe working conditions Principle 3: Respect of: Human Resources (HR Policy) HR development programs 2011 Health & Safety statistics Pages 8-9 Businesses should uphold the freedom of UN Declaration of Human Rights Health & Safety (H&S Policy) HR annual review (PDR) HR statistics Pages 10-11 association and the effective recognition UN Convention the Rights of the Child Code of Business Conduct (COBC) Safety strategy introduced 2011 Safety target of max. 3% LTIFR by 2015 Page 13 of the right to collective bargaining with respect to any use of child labour Health & Safety training 2011 Responsible Sourcing targets 2012 Pages 14-15 Refraining from any use of forced labour Responsible Sourcing initiative Employee Survey data Page 20 Principle 4: Competitive and good employment Developing Code of Business Conduct Compliance Review 2011 The elimination of all forms of forced conditions e-learning and compulsory labour Equal opportunities The right to be organized and bargain Principle 5: collectively The effective abolition of child labour Healthy and safe working conditions and environment Principle 6: Safety training The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 7: Products and services in compliance with Environmental Policy R&D research focus areas New products developed and launched Pages 16-19 Businesses should support a precautionary applicable environmental regulations Product development with environmental aspect approach to environmental challenges Energy and environmental consideration Internal carbon footprint with reporting to Internal carbon footprint in life cycle of products and services Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Principle 8: Design of equipment in accordance with Undertake initiatives to promote greater sustainability expectations and environmental responsibility requirements for new equipment Measurement of internal carbon footprint Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Principle 10: Compliance with applicable laws and Code of Business Conduct (COBC) Developing Code of Business Conduct Dealing with incidents Pages 14-15 Businesses should work against requirements New Anti-corruption Policy e-learning Compliance Review 2011 Page 20 corruption in all its forms, including Complying with anti-competition and New Competition Compliance Policy New Corporate Governance & Compliance Responsible Sourcing targets 2012 extortion and bribery export control regulations department Refraining from any use of corruption in Responsible Sourcing initiative business practices, including bribery, extortion and kickbacks, and from participation in any kind of money laundering 6 Communication On Progress 2011 Communication On Progress 2011 7 Employees Managing a global workforce At FLSmidth we can offer a unique and Professional development review Employee engagement Our human resources department has started a compliance review We support our employees by offering them further education, Through our 2010 Employee Engagement Survey, we learned more in 2011. The purpose is to ensure that FLSmidth is complying with challenging work place, and we strive training, and development throughout their career. This emphasis about our employees’ view of FLSmidth policies and practices and local regulations and laws as well as adhering to our company to attract, develop, and retain the most on developing people is the center of attention in the annual gleaned helpful suggestions and insights that we incorporated policies, norms, standards, and ethical guidelines. When gathering qualified, innovative, and competent dialogue between manager and employee, which is formalized in into our business in 2011. and evaluating the results, any non-compliance is listed and action employees to get the perfect match to our Performance and Development Reviews (PDR). In 2011 we plans are developed and executed where needed. The compliance increased the focus on the continual development of our employBy evaluating employee feedback from the survey, we were able reviews are also a tool to ensure that FLSmidth is fully committed to our job descriptions. It is through our ees by increasing the number of PDR meetings. We have further to create new policies for the betterment of FLSmidth. For example, the UN Global Compact principles and to an ongoing process of highly skilled workforce, FLSmidth is refined this procedure by encouraging employees and managers the engagement survey showed a need to address sourcing from development. We will continue to review the results from the able to compete in the global market to have performance and development conversations throughout and employment of relatives. Consequently, two new policies, that compliance review in 2012 to measure, understand, and improve and serve our customers the year as an ongoing process. Through the PDR, we continue to lead the employees in their decisions when having a potential bias our procedures. embrace our commitment to employee progress and training. in their professional life due to their personal life, were introduced in 2011. The policies prescribe that if there is such sourcing or hiring Human resources achievements in 2011 – Human resources policy: Integrity and equal opportunity In 2010, we enhanced our explicit investments in development of from relatives, it should happen under consistent, supervised, and New diversity initiative revealed In our human resources policy, we state that we strive to conduct our line management, specialists, and project management groups of controlled conditions. Every effort was made to ensure that data Through our actions, we demonstrate that diversity is crucial to business with the highest ethical standards, integrity, and professionalemployees. In our 2010 report, it was stated that we planned to privacy laws were followed with great care during and following our business in today’s world. Through a diverse workforce, we ism. Clearly stated is our stance on labour practices, “FLSmidth offers organize an annual Lead Specialist Forum to continuously enhance the employee survey. are better able to relate to our customers and connect with the competitive employment conditions and remuneration and recognizes the specialist career tracks. The 2011 forum was held in India. unique local communities that host our operations. A diverse employees’ right to be organized and bargain collectively. We supEighty-eight percent of our employees responded to the 2010 survey. workforce also means diverse skills, which leads to a more compeport human rights and do not engage in child or forced labour”. In 2011, we also provided a more standardized project management Their satisfaction with FLSmidth overall was 71 points which was tent workforce and innovation. training program that builds upon 2010 efforts and links to intera two-point drop from the 2008 survey, though still above the The policy also emphasizes that equal opportunity is a basic tenet: national standards. The first participants have started the course in international benchmark for satisfaction, which is 64 points. In In 2011, we announced a plan of action to increase the number “We offer equal opportunities…irrespective of gender, age, ethnic 2011 and more will follow in 2012. 2011, we began the process of investigating and responding to of women in management at FLSmidth. Our focus is to increase or national origin and religious beliefs, disability, political or sexual actions derived from the 2010 survey. the number of female managers from our current 7.2 percent to a orientation and family status”. Our human resources policy is posted minimum 10 percent by 2014. From this point forward, we are on our external website and also on our internal website, InSite. In 2012, we will conduct another employee survey. We know we requiring that qualified female candidates are identified for concan learn from our employees how to continually improve our sideration for open management positions. procedures, systems, and compliance efforts. The 2010 employee Human resources data survey was translated into 17 languages for our global workforce. Our human resources managers will require and monitor action We expect to offer the 2012 survey in even more languages. plans created by local management teams who will be accountable Geographical Distribution Age distribution Length of service Education distribution by gender to reach the 10 percent target by 2014. Increasing the number of Compliance: What gets measured improves women in management is only one of the diversity initiatives that We conduct compliance reviews to gauge the status of our human we will develop and roll out in the coming years. Through diversity resources, safety, and health, and CSR areas of our business efforts. initiatives, we demonstrate our commitment to a diverse workforce The response to the reviews guides us as we analyze and improve that will enable us to compete in a global marketplace. company-wide compliance. HR targets for 2012 We define compliance as: • Build on employee development initiatives – such as PDR, • Adhering to local requirements (laws, regulatory requirements, career paths, and training programs <30 [26%] <5 [61%] Technicians [29%] Denmark [12%] Male [84%] and legal obligations). • Conduct a new employee survey 30-39 [30%] 5-14 [25%] Engineers [28%] USA [17%] Female [16%] • Complying with company policies, norms, standards and ethical • Continue to review the results from the 2011 40-49 [23%] 15-24 [9%] Administrative [16%] India [27%] guidelines within the scope of FLSmidth’s CSR, human resources, 50-59 [15%] >24 [5%] Other [27%] Other [44%] Compliance Review safety, and health parameters. >59 [6%] • Make action plans to secure the new diversity target of reaching minimum 10 percent female managers in 2014 8 Communication On Progress 2011 Communication On Progress 2011 9 Safety Employee safety and health come first We value our employees, customers, Safety is our first priority! Cooperation – In cooperation with colleagues, contractors, and a safety strategy where the local responsibility and competences are We have aligned our safety and health policies with our basic our customers, each employee will work to provide a safe and in focus. Having competent safety and health staff globally is an contractors, and partners. One of corporate values in the areas of responsibility, competency, and healthy environment, thereby creating safe and healthy workplaces. example of this approach. Between 2010 and 2011 there was more the ways we show our commitment cooperation. than a 20 percent increase in the number of employees in safety and is through safe and healthy working Our regional safety managers and our safety organisation motihealth jobs – a higher percentage than the increase in the total conditions, safe travel and finally by Responsibility – it is the responsibility of all employees and their vate and drive the call for a safety conscience culture, while local number of FLSmidth staff. managers to create a safe and healthy environment for themselves, management follows through on implementation of global and delivering safe products and services their colleagues, contractors, and our customers through the creation local safety initiatives. The safety organisation continues to add In 2011 about 80 employees used more than 50 percent of their of proper safety and health practices for their respective workplace. structure to our approach and to our ability to develop our safety working time on safety and health. The establishment of safety practices, training, and oversight. functions, both in regional levels and at business locations has Competency – we will ensure clear leadership and competence improved FLSmidth’s ability to develop and implement safety prowithin the safety and health area. Our policy is to provide each Due to a range of activities that varies from engineering, procurement, grams and standards globally. >> employee with safety training and techniques necessary for the project execution, running warehouses and to in-house production safe and healthy performance of his or her job. around the world at many different locations, FLSmidth has chosen Case story: Employee safety during Arab Spring Among the top international news stories of 2011 was the Arab Spring – a wave of revolutionary protests for democracy across the Arab world. This sudden political unrest presented a safety emergency for our employees and difficulty to meet our customer obligations. With operations in numerous Arab countries, FLSmidth’s first concern was for employee safety, serving our customers, and meeting our commitments. Our Travel Security Department has built a solid structure and the necessary logistics to accommodate and manage our operations in times of civil unrest. The department strives to protect our employees and provide safe working conditions in high-risk situations. Relying on our travel security management system and plan, our Security Council correctly anticipated the escalating situation, acknowledged the risk to our non-native employees, and executed the complicated evacuation of these employees from Tunisia, Egypt, and Libya. As is our policy, these employees were offered counseling and practical help as they made the adjustment to this sudden evacuation. Our Egyptian employees were instructed in proper security measures, while continuing to safely operate the plant and thereby meeting our customer’s requirements. 10 Communication On Progress 2011 Communication On Progress 2011 11 Safety Tracking safety and health to reach our goals Newly acquired companies and new projects have increased the By quarter and year, our safety teams continuously track the total number of people working with manufacturing and on construction number of FLSmidth injuries. Through investigations and analysis, sites and those are areas often connected with a higher risk of work we learn how we can improve and make our workplaces safer. related injuries. To us, safe working conditions and safety training Today, all injuries must be investigated and corrective action plans are key elements when maintaining a safety culture and improving implemented in order to avoid repeated occurrences. our track records. Although, we experienced stable number of injuries, it is our clear target to keep working towards a lower number. In 2011, we increased the number of people working for FLSmidth by 18 percent and showed that we were still able to lower the lost The severity rate dropped from 1.0 in 2010 to 0.9 in 2011; however time injuries frequency rate and experienced a drop of 11 percent we are still working to bring down the amount of severe injuries compared to 2010. This safety metrics is particularly important which is also one of the targets for our work with safety in 2012. to us being the one that we report on during the year and set On a global scale, we are analysing and tracking all of our severe targets from. accidents, and in 2012 the global safety organisation will be launching new initiatives so these types of injuries can be reduced. Another positive aspect of our continuous safety reporting is that we have seen improvements with our reporting methods and LTIFR ability to follow up on injuries and the data received from our 5 many entities. With that information we have created a better knowledge of the safety conditions in our organisation and betTraining is the safety solution Case story: Safety training 4 tered our ability to act on the information received. Our new global safety program works toward a standardized global drives the change in India and safety training program for technical supervisors. FLSmidth 3 Ninety-eight percent of all of our field services employees in OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 regards training as one of the most important and best solutions Chennai, India, have been thoroughly trained on safety. In 2011, 2 In 2011, our Operations and Maintenance Division (O&M), which for improving safety among our employees. In the coming years, 7,068 sub-contractor workers on our turnkey category projects is running and maintaining plants around the world, began the training will be one of our safety metrics and will also be a target 1 were safety inducted and 6,130 were safety trained through 277 process of seeking the safety and health standard OHSAS 18001 for many of our managers through their bonus objectives. training programs. That is a total of 8,852 staff hours of training! 0 and the environment standard ISO 14001 certifications for its sites. Safety is one of the key parameters when operating and maintaining As announced in our 2010 report, we have in 2011 completed 2010 2011 2014 Nearly 20 percent of our office employees have been trained to plants within the cement and mineral industries and in FLSmidth steps toward standardizing the working procedures and created The lost time injuries level in 2010 and 2011. secure a safe office environment. All bus and car drivers have we believe this certification will support the overall ambition of methods and procedures to accomplish more safety reporting. The new target for 2014 is indicated. been trained to drive defensively. Our safety minded culture is having the best possible standard within the industry. incentivized with a safety rolling trophy competition in four Looking to more safety as we grow, categories. We consistently run safety management systems Work-related injuries our target for 2015 is clear with external certifying agencies at our sites. Number of lost Lost time injuries Lost time injuries In 2012, safety will be reinforced by incorporating safety measures Number of injuries time injuries frequency rate* severity rate** in our management objectives and bonus schemes. Looking Our efforts in safety have been noted by our Indian customers, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2011 2010 2009 2008 2011 2010 2009 2008 2011 2010 2009 2008 ahead to 2015 we have our strategic goal made clear as we aim and FLSmidth has received several safety awards at our project Technology, sales, projects to ensure that our lost time injury frequency rate is 3 or less. Keep sites for our safety performance. and administration 24 46 34 45 10 19 9 19 0.7 1.3 0.6 1.5 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.3 in mind, that our level was 4.2 in 2011, and that we will need to Production units 81 90 107 135 36 44 51 68 6.0 9.0 7.3 11.7 1.2 2.0 0.8 1.9 reduce injuries by 25-30 percent over the next three years. Success is proven through results in India we experienced Operation and Maintenance 46 17 na na 16 6 na na 4.1 1.9 na na 1.8 0.3 na na fewer accidents among Indian sub-contractors compared to Cembrit 53 49 35 41 48 43 24 36 25.8 23.2 14.8 22.1 3.7 3.9 3.9 4.7 2010. To keep the high commitment to safety training and to FLSmidth Group 204 202 176 221 110 112 84 123 4.2 4.7 3.6 6.0 0.9 1.0 0.6 0.8 continue the momentum, the Indian office will implement * Number of injuries causing absence per one million working hours training sessions in 2012 and will conduct brush-up training ** Number of working hours lost due to injuries per 1000 working hours sessions too. 12 Communication On Progress 2011 Communication On Progress 2011 13 Business ethics Code of Business Conduct “With the objective of continuously improving – it’s the way we work our internal procedures and compliance mechanisms, FLSmidth The FLSmidth vision statement emphasizes our values of compein 2011, introduced two tence, cooperation, openness, and personal and organisational responsibility for all of our actions. Our FLSmidth Code of Business new policies within the Conduct encompasses three key areas: areas of corruption and 1. Compliance competition law – i.e. the 2. Business practices Anti-Corruption Policy 3. Company assets and financial integrity and the Competition As announced in the CEO letter, FLSmidth created and launched Compliance Policy.” a new Global Governance and Compliance Department in the autumn of 2011. This department will enforce our existing Code of Business Conduct as well as facilitate and support our employees’ increased awareness of new international anti-bribery regulations and competition/anti-trust regulations. The department will furthermore monitor and audit our business units’ compliance in the broad areas of anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, competition policies, export control, and embargoes. Overseeing ethics is key to our management requirements FLSmidth managers take seriously their obligation to oversee their FLSmidth practices a zero tolerance toward bribery and corrupemployees’ Code of Business Conduct compliance. Systems are in tion, violations of competition/anti-trust regulations, and violations place to ensure management oversight and to introduce employees of export control regulations. We expect integrity and fairness in to the code. Employees are informed that they should promptly all of our business dealings. We also strive to eliminate all facility report violations or any suspicion they may have of non-compliance payments. to their supervisor, the new Global Governance and Compliance Department, the Group General Counsel, or the Global Human With the objective of continuously improving our internal Resources Department. Such reports are investigated immediately procedures and compliance mechanisms, FLSmidth in 2011, with care taken to protect employee confidentiality, as much as introduced two new policies within the areas of corruption possible. If the investigation confirms violations, the matter is and competition law – i.e. the Anti-Corruption Policy and the referred to Group Executive Management for action. Competition Compliance Policy. Making good on our promises What has not changed is the stewardship of business units. Business In our 2010 report, we committed to develop a Code of Business managers continue to be responsible for the actual implementation Conduct e-learning training module for employees as one way of of and compliance with our business ethics policies and other emphasizing the importance of our Code of Business Conduct legal requirements. A global network of representatives from each and adherence to it. We completed the module, and, in 2012, we Every FLSmidth manager is responsible to help business unit in the Group will be established to increase commuwill make it a mandatory training requirement for all employees. nication and training as well as reporting to the new department. his or her employees to understand and comply Looking ahead to 2012 – our business ethics with our Code of Business Conduct policy. Our Code of Business Conduct is not a static document. In 2011, performance goals In this way, we begin to teach and build a culture we responded to employee suggestions made in the 2010 em2012 will be a busy year at FLSmidth, where we will continue of officers, directors, executives, and employees ployee survey – which we discussed earlier in this report – that the training of managers and employees on the Code of Business created new policies about sourcing from or hiring of relatives. who embrace our shared commitment to Conduct and the new business ethics policies, as well as corresponding methods and procedures when dealing with the areas business ethics, integrity, credibility, and the of anti-corruption, competition policies, export control, and preservation of our reputation embargoes. 14 Communication On Progress 2011 Communication On Progress 2011 15 Environment Caring for the environment With business units servicing the FLSmidth is a supplier of equipment, technology and services. Our Case story: Waste heat strength is technological leadership and knowledge that enables minerals and cement industries, we us to develop equipment and technologies that are – not only recovery know that we, with our technology leading in the industries we serve – but also are developed with a To curb rising energy costs, reduce water consumption and and processes, have an indirect concern for the environment. CO2 emissions, cement and minerals plant owners are conenvironmental impact on the earth. stantly looking for ways to make the plants more efficient and One of our strengths as a company to support the fight for a better environmentally sustainable. However, as a company, we have environment is our strong research and development function. always been aware of the need to Our innovations have given many of our customers the solutions In 2011, FLSmidth became the supplier of a new high-energy care for the natural environment they need to protect the environment while being productive and efficient technology for generating electricity from recovered while fulfilling our mission, and so offering products the world needs for infrastructure and modern waste heat. FLSmidth obtained exclusive rights for the Kalina conveniences. Sustainability is prominent in our strategic business Cycle®, which was first tested industrially in the 1990s. The we seek to be a part of the solution plans and drives our day-to-day practices. >> world’s first cement plant installation of a Kalina Cycle® is presently being done by FLSmidth at DG Khan Cement in Pakistan. Our reputation for innovative technologies for the global ceExamples from Minerals ment and minerals industries was strengthened in 2011 when FLSmidth keeps the environment at the forefront. For FLSmidth’s we committed to making this efficient waste-heat-to-power minerals division, one of the main challenges is to reduce the system available to the global cement industry. This is good amount of water used in minerals processing. We are focused news for the environment. New and existing cement plants on developing equipment and processes that are even more can now implement a highly efficient technology for becoming environmentally sustainable. The following are examples: less reliant on traditional power sources, drastically cutting Case story: Alternative Fuels power costs and reducing CO2 emissions. Saving water FLSmidth established a new department for alternative fuels • Paste thickeners designed to recover more water in low cost four years ago to focus on cement and minerals customer sedimentation unit operations needs for equipment using alternative fuels. Through our • Filters that reclaim water or eliminate the need for a tailings pond developments, a number of new technologies and alternative • Higher torque thickener drives to allow designs of larger fuel project solutions have been introduced to plants around diameter paste thickeners to recover more process water the world. for effective recycling cost • Higher tonnage filter presses that further reduce water conIn September 2011, this effort was intensified with the opentent of minerals tailings thus allowing a greater amount of ing of a new alternative fuels laboratory at the R&D Centre process water to be recycled and final tailings to be conveyed Dania in Mariager, Denmark. Designed to test and analyze new to a disposal area that does not require a containment dam and existing alternative fuels and waste derived material streams, the facility will contribute to improving the design and Saving energy performance of alternative fuel-fired plants. • Large flotation cells and tanks that offer a lower specific energy consumption per processed m3 than smaller cells Alternative fuels are sourced from a wide range of materials • Conveyor belts and pipe overland conveyers that cut down that include solid, liquid, agricultural wastes, and biomass. The on dependence on large dump trucks list continues to grow with new fuel sources being identified. The new laboratory will test alternative fuel materials and the In both cement and minerals, we offer a waste heat recovery aim is to effectively support the efforts made by cement and process which can turn excessive heat to electricity and eliminate minerals plants globally in contributing to municipal and the need to use water. industrial waste management, and implementation of CO2 friendly solutions. 16 Communication On Progress 2011 Communication On Progress 2011 17 Environment Our R&D focus areas since 2010 are: • Cement products (e.g. SCM) Case story: Air pollution control Carbon footprint footprint reporting for year 2011 to the Carbon Disclosure Project. • CO2 and energy efficiency innovation award We have committed our company to annually report on our • Harmful gaseous emissions In 2011, we announced that FLSmidth had won the prestigious internal carbon footprint to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) As announced in last year’s report to the UN Global Compact we • Fuels and combustion Frost and Sullivan product innovation award for air pollution and this section is based on the preliminary data for the CDP have considered scope 3 content with relevance to FLSmidth’s • Comminution control technology used in India. The award is considered a report that will be published in May 2012.Building from last activities. Carbon Disclosure report to be submitted in May • Materials and wear processes benchmark for environmental excellence and best practices year’s method for collecting and reporting we continue reporting 2012, will include our carbon footprint for business travels • Minerals liberation around the world. It was given for FLSmidth’s commitment on CO2, CO2e and other green house gasses. The total footprint which have amounted to 34,000 tonnes of CO2. As this number • Solids/liquid separations and innovative approach to increasing the efficiency of our for year 2010 was a total of 76,000 tonnes CO2 reported in scope indicates when compared to our total amount for scope 1 and • Minerals separations air pollution control equipment in order to reduce emissions 1 (direct) and 2 (indirect), as stated in CDP Report submitted 2011. 2 then our impact is high from our business travels. We will in • Hydrometallurgical processing from cement and minerals plants. 2012 analyse the numbers and evaluate what possibilities we FLSmidth’s carbon footprint from 2011 equals to a total amount have to reduce in the number going forward. These focus areas have been agreed upon by the R&D steering of 79.000 tonnes CO2 reported from scope 1 and scope 2. The committee which includes representation by top level manageCase story: Total Hydrocarbons – numbers from 2011 shows a slight increase in the amount com80.000 ment. Climate change and environmental challenges are inherent FLSmidth seeks solutions to pared to 2010. 39.000 tonnes CO2 out of the total amount is 70.000 in our industries and are inevitably drivers for change. With that in reduce emissions derived from Cembrit’s production of fibre cement which in 2010 60.000 Scope 1 and 2 mind, the committee ensures that environmental sustainability is FLSmidth researchers are working to solve environmental suswas equal to 36,000 tonnes CO2. An increase that correlates 50.000 compared with 40.000 year 2010. high on the agenda now and moving forward. tainability challenges even before society’s expectations evolve with Cembrits increased activities in 2011. When collecting the Scope 1+2 30.000 to require such changes. The industry expects that soon there data from all entities they were asked to state what initiatives 20.000 will be new requirements from the US Government regarding that have been made during the year to reduce the energy conNot a part of 10.000 the 2010 report. Total Hydrocarbons (THC) in emissions. FLSmidth is addressing sumption and amount of CO2. All information is collected and 0 Scope 3 this challenge in two ways. will lay the foundation when FLSmidth again submits the carbon 2010 2011 First, our scientists are working to reduce the THC in cement production. We have made significant progress in our research Case story: Project Supplementary to solve the catalytic challange and expect to be able to remove these gas components while doing it at lower temperaCementitious Materials tures, thereby improving the carbon footprint and usage of In our UN Global Compact 2010 report, we introduced a research the potential is a 30% reduction of CO2 emissions. From our energy along the way. Should the US government require the project on the use of eco-friendly cement. The research project, research, we aim to develop knowledge that enables us to make reduction of THC in the future, we will have the capability in which is financially supported by the Danish National Advanced process technology for full-scale production of cements with less time for our US cement customers to meet the requirements. Technology Foundation, is in collaboration with Aalborg Univerassociated CO2 emission than conventional Portland cements. sity, the iNano Center at Aarhus University, and Aalborg Portland Second, we have developed our mobile emissions test services – Nordic Cement. During 2010, the partnership was developed and strengthened which we reported in our 2010 UN Global Compact report. During – a development that continued in 2011. Finding researchers 2011, testing of various plants has been carried out and has proven This is called Project Supplementary Cementitious Materials (SCM) with the exact competences to fulfill these ambitious research to be a success for customers who were interested in knowing and it is one amongst several projects in FLSmidth in the area of goals have been an essential part of initiating the project, and in whether they could live up to the potential regulation on THC. SCM. A goal for the four year research project is developing ad2011, much effort has been made to recruit the right people. vanced process technology for the manufacturing of SCM. We In fact, it has been such a success that another FLSmidth mobile analyze the chemical processes of activating SCM raw materials in The project focuses on developing new types of reactive SCM emission measurement container unit has been made available a pyro process in order to increase the benefit of using SCM. and on creating machinery for large scale production to be sold – this time to the European market. It shows that there is a globally. Because the process will be based on locally available growing demand for the environmentally friendly solutions that The Danish cement plant Aalborg Portland – Nordic Cement, raw materials, the technology will be tailor-made for specific FLSmidth can deliver and that valuable expertise and knowledge serves as a case study with the goal of significantly reducing cement plants. The SCM research shows remarkable promise for are derived from the testing services we provide. their CO2 emission from the use of SCM. On a global level significantly reducing the carbon footprint of cement plants. 18 Communication On Progress 2011 Communication On Progress 2011 19 Supply chain Responsible Sourcing The world is changing rapidly, and By entering into a dialogue with our suppliers, we acknowledge that improving the quality of products in a broader sense also embraces FLSmidth is keeping pace by methodsustainability procedures. With this approach, we strive for mutual ically and consistently incorporating benefits for the suppliers, communities, and for FLSmidth. social, ethical, environmental, and human considerations in to our core In compliance with the UN Global Compact, we work to use our sphere of influence to ensure high standards in the areas of human business practices. As a corporation, rights, labour standards, sustainable environmental practices, and we take our responsibility seriously anti-corruption standards. We have instituted quality systems and and are well aware that our suppliers processes to ensure that the supplier’s products meet agreed specare an essential part of the way we ifications, as well as attaining their corporate responsibilities. We are currently in the first phase of our Responsible Sourcing initiative. do business To date we have: This year, as we committed in our 2010 UN Global Compact re• CSR requirements in General Conditions of Purchase. port, we continued to develop our responsible sourcing program. • Created a Code of Supplier Conduct Policy. The code reveals In today’s world, human rights, labour standards, environment, our plans to require suppliers to self assess their compliance and business ethics are growing to become as important as the and to be subject to our announced and unannounced visits. parameters of quality and price when a company selects a supplier. The code also requires that our suppliers pass on similar reTherefore, the new Responsible Sourcing initiative has been initiquirements to their own suppliers. ated in cooperation with the Quality Department. • Developed and begun to test methods and procedures for evaluating suppliers on CSR aspects. • Laid the groundwork for a database on supplier performance. • Launched employee training and awareness regarding our Responsible Sourcing initiative including a train-the-trainer seminar held in Denmark with representatives from our five global centres. • Developed a Responsible Sourcing e-learning program. • Held two supplier conferences, one in Denmark and one in India, informing our suppliers about FLSmidth’s procurement and sourcing strategy called The Way Forward, which also includes our increasing focus on sustainability throughout our supply chain. 2012 Looking Forward The next step in our Responsible Sourcing initiative is implementing it. In 2012, we will initiate a dialogue with our 875 major suppliers, constituting more than 50 percent of our global purchase spending. However, before any changes from our newly developed Responsible Sourcing Program can be expected, it is imperative that we train the people who are involved. 2012 will consequently be about training all purchasers, quality assurance, and quality control staff – around 500 employees. These are the people who are going to implement the new working procedures, therefore they need knowledge of Responsible Sourcing procedures. 20 Communication On Progress 2011 Communication On Progress 2011 21 Community Connecting with our communities One global organisation with many Our core business is knowledge intensive, so we believe in impacting for graduate research, focusing on topics that also include enviand educating them to prepare for technical and engineering jobs the local societies with what we do best – offering knowledge, ronmentally friendly production technologies such as increasing in cement and minerals, FLSmidth is able to contribute to the local entities is key to our success in training, and development of people. Our philosophy is that when energy efficiency and the use of alternative fuels. We also provide general development of local communities. An example of this is the cement and minerals industries. we are developing the local societies, we are also developing and educational materials and subject matter experts from our company. our relationship with Mendeleev University of Chemical Engineering FLSmidth does not fund global donaimproving our business. in Moscow and St. Petersburg State Technological Institute. Through tions, but for FLSmidth a local presence Through our university programs, we seek to raise the skill level and these partnerships, we are striving to influence the Russian cement Super service in our Supercenters employability of local residents, as well as improve and update the industry by delivering technological advances, and making technical also means local responsibility We have been investing time and resources to build eight service local cement and minerals industries. By reaching out to students students more capable. centres, called Supercenters, which will open in 2012 and 2013. The centres will be located in Mongolia, Peru, Australia, the US, Case story: FLSmidth Helwan South Africa, and Chile. These centres will offer warehouse parts, Case story: Building social Cement Institute in Cairo training, and equipment repair closer to our customers which in investment in South Africa turn will support their goals to run efficient and safe plants with In our 2010 UN Global Compact report, we profiled the new FLSmidth South Africa’s corporate social investment programme more uptime. partnership between FLSmidth and Helwan University. With focuses on developing people and local businesses. This prothe university, we have formed the FLSmidth Helwan Cement gramme is conducted in accordance with the requirements of With our Supercenters, we will create customized training modules Institute in Cairo, Egypt. The first year the institute created a the South African Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment specific to customer and community requests, and with safety two-semester certificate programme for students. In December Act as applied to the South African mining industry. The goal of training as a consistent offering. Our local presence also means that of 2011, the institute announced its first 33 graduates. the act is to develop the mining and associated supply industries we will employ through the local workforce. By raising the comso that they reflect South Africa’s aim to promote black economic petency levels from training and creating jobs in our communities, FLSmidth has employed seven of the graduates in our local empowerment. we strive to be a partner to the communities and to our customers. organisation, four graduates at Ramliya and three at Wadi el Nile. We have informed the other cement producers in the In its second year, FLSmidth’s social investment programme Our ties with universities and researchers market that 26 graduates with cement skills are available for involves: FLSmidth works with the engineering and technical education hire. We will be monitoring the graduates’ career paths and • Donations to the Nkomazi Community Trust, an organisation departments of universities in countries ranging from the US to expect they will all embark on successful careers within the that helps orphans and vulnerable children. A three-year Russia, Egypt, and India. Through our programs, we provide support cement industry. donation to fund the salary of the mathematics head at the Sekolo Sa Borokgo School, a high school that serves disadThe Supreme Council of Higher Education in Egypt has apvantaged students. proved the next institute engineering course of study which is • Donations to The Kingsway Center of Concern and Oliver’s a diploma degree at the graduate level for students with an House for schooling and support of orphans and development interest in a cement career. of disadvantaged people. • Contributions to fund entrepreneur mentoring through the Through our partnership, we are strengthening the local comRaizcorp’s Competitive Enterprise Development programme. munity by raising the education and skill levels of its engineers. • A donation to the Burnstone Development Trust. The money Our university partnerships make a long-term difference for the was used to teach 28 entrepreneurs business improvement community especially in the case of the plants that we operate skills and includes ongoing mentoring. It is expected that and maintain for clients. many of the entrepreneurs will become suppliers to the Burnstone mine. As the majority of the staff at our cement plants are residents • Funding scholarships to support university students as well of the local community, we support a positive development in as support continuing education for FLSmidth employees. the Egyptian society. Our belief is that this partnership will strengthen the future pool of potentially qualified candidates Through this social investment programme, FLSmidth South Africa and increase local hiring. strengthens local communities and budding businesses, increases education, and furthers the mining and engineering fields. 22 Communication On Progress 2011 Communication On Progress 2011 23 FLSmidth & Co. A/S Vigerslev Allé 77 DK-2500 Valby Denmark Tel: +45 3618 1800 Fax: +45 3644 1146 E-mail: corppr@flsmidth.com CVR No. 58180912 www.flsmidth.com
