2011 GLOBAL citizenship REPORT In 2012, Citi celebrates our 200th anniversary. Our principles — common purpose, responsible finance, ingenuity and leadership — are the bridge that connects our 200-year history with the future we want to create. When these principles guide our actions, we endure and thrive. Our special anniversary provides us with an opportunity to reflect on our history and prepare for the future. About This Report Forward-looking statements This report covers the period January 1, 2011 to Certain statements in this document are forward-looking December 31, 2011 (fiscal year 2011). The report statements within the meaning of the rules and regulations highlights the progress and goals of Citigroup Inc. of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. These and its subsidiaries, unless stated otherwise, as statements are based on management’s current expectations they relate to corporate citizenship and provides and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. supplemental information as published in our Actual results may differ materially from those included in 2011 Annual Report. these statements due to a variety of factors, including but We report annually on our Citizenship performance — not limited to precautionary statements included in this our last report was published in April 2011. document. More information about these factors and other factors that may affect Citigroup’s future results is contained Reporting and performance data includes in Citigroup’s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange information on Citi’s owned and operated facilities. Commission including, without limitation, the “Risk Factors” section of Citigroup’s 2011 Form 10-K. Precautionary stateFor more information on the citizenship ments included in such filings should be read in conjunction initiatives described in this report, please visit with this document. Citi’s website or contact: Tyler Daluz Global Reporting Initiative Corporate and Sustainability Communications This report follows the Global Reporting Initiative Sustaincitizenship@citi.com ability Reporting Guidelines (GRI 3.1) as well as the Financial Citigroup Inc. Services Sector supplement. The report includes perspec399 Park Avenue tives from our stakeholders and a GRI content index. Citi’s New York, NY 10022 self-declared GRI Application level for 2011 is B. Letter from Vikram Pandit Citi is the leading global bank, connecting 1,000 cities in 160 In 2011 our annual employee satisfaction survey revealed countries and millions of people. Since 1812 we have applied that Citi employees highly value the quality of teamwork our passion for innovation to help our clients progress from throughout the company. Common purpose drives our ambition to achievement. During our 200 years we have internal collaborations and allows us to work as one team, financed some of the world’s most transformative projects, with one goal: to serve our clients and stakeholders. from the Transatlantic Cable to the jumbo jet. Responsible Finance Today we are poised to serve a new world in which the global Our priority in restructuring the company has been to return economy will continue to evolve, with growth in emerging to the basics of banking. And there is no more fundamental markets outpacing developed countries. More trade links and banking service than responsible lending – providing capital freer capital markets will make it easier for capital and goods to support customers of all economic backgrounds and to flow to where they are most productive. Government and projects that serve the public. Our participation in the United the private sector will have to work together, not just through Nations Global Compact reinforces this commitment by specific projects like infrastructure finance, but more broadly binding signatories from around the world to the same through public-private partnerships. And more will have to principles of responsibility. be done to ensure the safety and soundness of the financial system while protecting the natural environment. Ingenuity Citi was the first major American bank to open branches In marking this special anniversary, we distilled the accumuabroad and we’ve built a reputation for innovation around lated wisdom of our two centuries into the core principles that the world. Today, customers at our Smart Branches have have guided this bank since our founding. These values are access to a range of digital services on demand, and the central to how we do business and what we describe as “digital wallet” Citi developed with Google eliminates the corporate citizenship. need to carry cash and credit cards. Through these and other innovations we are on track to become the world’s digital bank Common Purpose with services that are more accessible and more inclusive. Our common purpose is to always conduct business with integrity, while ensuring the highest quality service to our clients and customers. Our work must be guided at all times by the best interests of the client, taking into account the broader needs of society and the environment. Our employees prize that shared objective, and around the world we work collaboratively to succeed in everything we do. Citizenship Report 2011 1 The combination of technology, finance and ingenuity Citi’s global presence provides the responsibility and the coalesces in our pioneering work to bring the commercial opportunity to contribute to solutions that help the environmicrofinance sector to scale. We work across our businesses ment, strengthen the financial system, and build a better and regions to provide products and services for microfifuture. Responsible finance is our focus — doing what’s right nance institutions (MFIs), networks and investors that lend for clients, for communities, and for the financial system. to the underserved. Beginning with five relationships in five It is the key to restoring — and deserving — the trust of the countries in 2005, Citi Microfinance now serves more than people we serve. 140 MFIs in more than 40 countries. Leadership We have consistently shown leadership by embracing diversity and meritocracy in the workplace, reducing our environmental footprint, and helping our clients improve their sustainability performance through our Environmental and Social Risk Vikram Pandit Management Policy. We are confident that we will achieve our CEO goal, announced in 2007, to direct $50 billion over 10 years to activities that mitigate climate change — a major commitment with tangible results. Citizenship Report 2011 2 Letter from Pam Flaherty and Bob Annibale At Citi, the concept of corporate citizenship is a unifying ties that address climate change, water scarcity, declining theme that is at the core of our operations and the way we biodiversity, human rights and other critical issues. We do business. In 2011, we continued our 200-year tradition of remain dedicated to identifying and supporting solutions responsible citizenship by leveraging our local presence in that advance these goals. virtually all corners of the world, along with the expertise and commitment of our people. Our citizenship efforts are challenging conventional wisdom and drawing on our core business competencies to make a Citi’s citizenship efforts are an extension of our goal to make difference in people’s lives. We strive to find the most effective tactical business decisions that create shared value for those ways to serve small business owners and underserved groups; we work with and those we impact. Our two citizenship focus the best means of providing the tools individuals and families areas are financial inclusion and environmental sustainability. need to build financial identities; and the smartest ways to We advance those priorities thanks to an unmatched global preserve and sustain our environment. These efforts have footprint, deep local knowledge, coordination across business positive impacts around the world, and, just as important, lines, and a company-wide commitment to fostering innovation. this work makes good business sense — for our clients, our shareholders, and our employees. Our efforts to expand financial inclusion are driven by colleagues around the world, working together and with key This report — our twelfth — details specific achievements partners to connect those outside the financial system, fairly and milestones from the past year. Our commitment to and transparently, with products and services that are approtransparent disclosure of relevant information, to meeting priate and responsible. We combine Citi’s core business global reporting standards, and to stakeholder responsiveexpertise with a global network of partners that introduces ness remains strong. Thank you for taking the time to learn us to different models and perspectives to promote economic more. We look forward to an ongoing dialogue. empowerment and broaden financial access and capability. Through strategic, high-impact funding, we are helping to drive the global conversation about financial inclusion with thought leadership, research, and pioneering initiatives that are scalable for wider application. Pamela Flaherty Director of Corporate Citizenship, Citi also understands and embraces our role in promoting President & CEO of the Citi Foundation environmentally sustainable growth, both in our own operations and through support and advice to our clients. Citi’s commitment to environmental sustainability is based on three pillars: 1) the management of the environmental footprint of our own global operations; 2) the management of environmenBob Annibale tal and social risk associated with projects we finance; and Global Director, Citi Microfinance 3) our partnerships with clients to develop business opportuniand Citi Community Development Citizenship Report 2011 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS 06 Introduction 14 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 54 OUR Suppliers 72 UN global compact & gri tables Citizenship Report 2011 4 20 Serving Communities & Consumers 38 Environmental Sustainability 58 Regional Citizenship at a Glance 64 Our Employees 83 Citi Awards & Recognitions 2011 Citizenship Report 2011 5 ABOUT CITI Citi serves individuals, communities, institutions and nations. With 200 years of experience meeting the world’s toughest challenges and seizing its greatest opportunities, we strive to create the best outcomes for our clients and customers with financial solutions that are simple, creative and responsible. An institution connecting over 1,000 cities, 160 countries and millions of people, we are your global bank; we are Citi. Citi has been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability • Lead the industry in environmental performance — Indexes (DJSI World and DJSI North America) since reducing our operational impacts; developing 2001 and the FTSE4Good Index since 2002. Our and implementing standards to manage the continued inclusion in these indexes reflects our environmental and social risks of banking activity; leadership in setting standards in sustainable growth and mitigating climate change through financing and in achieving noteworthy environmental, social and alternative energy projects around the world economic performance. In 2011, Citi also became a • Provide opportunity for our global and diverse component of the STOXX Global ESG Leaders indices. talent base to succeed; and strive to recruit and retain diverse and engaged teams around Our full-year 2011 earnings of $11.1 billion represented the world. an increase of 4 percent over 2010. We support our citizenship priorities with our products Citizenship Approach and services, through lending and investing and the Our approach to citizenship is based on our commitexpertise of our people. Citi’s efforts are complemenment to responsible finance — how we define business ted by the Citi Foundation’s strategic giving. conduct that is transparent, prudent and dependable. Through our citizenship efforts, we aim to ensure that Measuring Performance our actions are in the best interests of our clients, are We measure our performance in each of our social designed to create economic value, and at the same and environmental priority areas and continue to time are systemically responsible. report data to provide comparisons and show trends over time. In 2011, we reviewed the way we report. Citizenship Priorities Our analysis and stakeholder feedback led us to more Our citizenship priorities reflect our views, and those closely align our reporting to the Global Reporting of our stakeholders, along with the risks and opportuInitiative (GRI) Guidelines, which set down industry nities of our business. We keep a watch on global and best practice in sustainability reporting. The structure local economic conditions which, at times, change and transparency of this report reflect our change rapidly and unexpectedly. Nevertheless, we maintain in methodology. a commitment to these priorities: • Treat customers fairly and support them in times of financial difficulty. This is embodied in our commitment to responsible finance • Provide access to financial services, plus knowledge and support to those who would otherwise be excluded from the economic mainstream INTRODUCTION Citizenship Report 2011 6 Citicorp Revenue Citizenship Challenges 2011 Revenues: $64.6 billion & Achievements in 2011 BY REGION BY BUSINESS Financial Inclusion Achievements 16% 24% • In September 2011, Citi committed to lend 36% $24 billion to small businesses over the 50% following three years 34% 21% • Citi Microfinance supported more than 140 19% microfinance institutions in 40 countries and helped initiate the first universal children’s North America Global Consumer Banking college savings program in the U.S. Asia Securities and Banking • The Citi Foundation invested $78 million to Europe, Middle East & Africa Global Transaction Services support the economic empowerment and Latin America financial inclusion of lowto middle-income people in communities where we operate Citigroup Net Income • The Citi Foundation contributed to financial capability and asset building programs that will $12B enable more than 1.2 million people globally to $10B $10.6B $11.1B reduce their debt and/or increase their savings $8B • Citi Community Capital provided $2.16 billion to finance affordable housing in the U.S., $6B making Citi the top lender according to $4B Affordable Housing Finance • Citi’s Communities at Work Fund deployed $100 $2B million to 39 community development financial $0B institutions, creating over 1,400 jobs in highly ($1.6B) distressed U.S. communities. ($2B) 2009 2010 2011 Challenges • Achieving commercial, global scale for the Citigroup Net Revenues microfinance industry $100B • Helping revitalize communities and promote small businesses in a poor economic climate $91.1B $80B $86.6B • Continue to enhance the Citi Foundation’s impact $78.4B measurement methodology across its broad $60B portfolio in order to provide a comprehensive view of impact and effectiveness. $40B Supporting Consumers $20B Achievements • Launched a Disabled Veterans Mortgage Relief $0B Program and a new mortgage information site 2009 2010 2011 homeownersupport.com Citigroup currently operates, for management reporting purposes, via two • Instituted a new policy to process checks from primary business segments: Citicorp, consisting of Citi’s Global Consumer low to high, in sequence of the smallest dollar Banking businesses and Institutional Clients Group; and Citi Holdings, consisting of Brokerage and Asset Management, Local Consumer Lending amount to the largest, in order to help customers and Special Asset Pool. avoid overdraft fees INTRODUCTION Citizenship Report 2011 7 • In direct response to customer feedback, in the • Directed $6.4 billion toward the $50 Billion U.S. we introduced the Citi Simplicity credit card Climate Initiative in 2011, bringing the total to with industry-leading benefits: one APR, a single $36.35 billion as we hit the halfway mark in this rate and no late fees. 10-year initiative. Financing included the Desert Sunlight Solar Farm, which will be one of the Challenges largest photo-voltaic (PV) facilities in the world • Continue to support affordable housing in poor • Launched a program to engage our employees on economic climate environmental issues, through local green teams, • Offering adequate practical support to customers Earth Week and a Green Survey in which 9,000 in financial difficulty. employees participated. Challenges Environmental Sustainability • Designing effective environmental and social risk Achievements management strategies for unconventional fossil • Exceeded 2011 goal to reduce greenhouse gas fuel extraction (GHG) emissions by 10 percent from 2005 levels • Continuing to work with our clients on climate • Became a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency change solutions in the context of continuing Energy Star Partner of the Year — the only regulatory uncertainty in the U.S. and the financial institution to receive such an honor — complexities of foreign legislation which recognizes organizations that have made outstanding contributions to protecting the • For Citi and our clients, creating solutions for environment through energy efficiency financing energy efficiency initiatives that require longer-term financing • As the Chair of the Equator Principles Steering Committee, Citi successfully took the association • Developing environmental products that appeal through its most active year to date, including the to consumers. conclusion of a strategic review of the principles and the subsequent launch of a comprehensive update process 1812 1820s 1830s 1840s 1850s 1860s 1870s 1880s 1890s 1900s 1910s 1920s 1930s 1940s 1950s 1960s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2012 Establishing an Institution Dedicated to Progress Every day, Citi bankers work alongside of tens of That was the character of the dozen people who millions of clients to achieve progress — for individcame together at a small building at 52 Wall Street uals, families, and communities; businesses, instituin the summer of 1812 to found the bank that would tions, and nations. It is the shared purpose of the Citi become Citi. They pooled their resources to fund community, which spans over a hundred countries. each other’s ambitions, in New York City and beyond. People laying plans, making decisions and taking action with an abiding passion to make things better. INTRODUCTION Citizenship Report 2011 8 Our Suppliers • Achieved 88 percent participation for our annual Achievement employee feedback survey and a 73 percent • Began developing a corporate responsibility satisfaction score — the highest yet. questionnaire and assessment form for suppliers that will focus on securing acknowledgeChallenge ment and ratification of Citi’s Statement of • Motivating and retaining employees, while Supplier Principles. attracting top talent, during a time of uncertainty for our industry and reduced financial incentives. Challenge • Engaging the 3,000 suppliers that have received Volunteering the Statement of Supplier Principles in 2010 in Achievements a way that raises the bar and helps promote • More than 40,000 Citi volunteers took part in environmental and social best practices through nearly 1,100 local services projects in 78 countries our supply chain. during Citi’s Global Community Day. Our Employees Challenges Achievements • Increase our impact by expanding skills-based • Provided approximately 38 training hours volunteering opportunities. on average per employee worldwide • Offered child care and elderly care services to more than 100,000 employees in Europe and the U.S. • Supported 61 employee networks with 15,000 members across 18 locations, promoting diversity within our business — ten new networks were launched in 2011, including six for military veterans 1812 1820s 1830s 1840s 1850s 1860s 1870s 1880s 1890s 1900s 1914 1920s 1930s 1940s 1950s 1960s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2012 Envisioning the World’s First Global Bank Today a tourist in Asia can use a Citi card to withimmediately profitable, affirming president Frank draw money in 17 different countries, and a multinaVanderlip’s instinct that there was pent-up demand tional corporation can make payroll in over 100. for borderless banking. Within four years, Citi opened These capabilities are far from commonplace today, branches in Rio de Janeiro, Jakarta, and Moscow, but they were unimaginable in 1914, when Citi laying the foundation for the unmatched global became the first American bank to have a branch presence it offers today. overseas. The branch, in Buenos Aires, was almost INTRODUCTION Citizenship Report 2011 9 key performance indicators report card FinanCial inClusion annual strategiC giving we ensure access to appropriate, affordable, high-quality total Annual Citi Foundation Giving financial products, services and asset-building opportunities for individuals, families and communities. $80m $78m philanthropiC impaCt Global impact from financial inclusion and economic $65.8m $67.9 m $60m empowerment Citi Foundation grants 0 0.5m 1m 1.5m $40m 480,000 individuals 1.1m working toward $20m have met their their fi nancial goals fi nancial goals 0 2009 2010 2011 environmental Clean energY sustainabilitY FinanCing & investment we manage the environmental footprint of our global $50 Billion Climate Initiative Progress to date operations, assess environmental and social risk in $36.4B total projects we finance, and invest in environmental solutions. committed $0 B $10 B $20B $30B $40B $50B Credit Card e-statements Global Penetration Rates Citi, one of the world’s top credit card issuers, has increased paperless statement penetration to 29% of consumer credit card customers worldwide. $9.4B base $6.4B committed in $50 B goal 2007 2011 2017 15.6% 20.4% 25.2% 29.3% Our goal, announced in 2007, is to direct $50 billion over 10 years toward 2008 2009 2010 2011 activities that mitigate climate change. valuing our emploYees training & development A stimulating workplace helps our employees gain Average hours of training knowledge and improve skills; and a diverse workforce is key to our success. emploYee volunteering total Volunteer hours Contributed 36.2 hours 38.4 hours 21.1 hours 2009 2010 2011 608,953 789,000 Our classroom and online training programs cover: leadership and total hours total hours or = 39,450 management, business and product-specific content, new hire onboarding, 2010 2011 hours professional development, technology and compliance. INTRODUCTION Citizenship Report 2011 10 small business lending aFFordable housing lending Recent Lending totals (u.S.) Recent Lending totals (u.S.) $7.9 b $8B $7B goal Citi was the top $6B for 2011 $.55b affordable housing $6b $2.9 b $2.2b lender in 2010 $4B $4.5b and 2011 2009 2010 2011 $2B 0 2009 2010 2011 global miCroFinanCe Impact from Citi Financing with oPIC* Cumulative three-Year Lending Goal (u.S.) $290 m 32 mFis** mFIs make 92% of $0B $7B $15B $24B provided funded microloans microloan by Citi & across 18 to 940,000 borrowers oPIC* countries borrowers are women *U.s. Overseas private investment corporation 2011 2012 2013 goal **Microfinance institutions ghg emissions reduCtion environmental Greenhouse Gas Footprint Goals and Actuals & soCial risk management (esrm) transactions Receiving ESRm Review Absolute Co2e 13.6% emissions (mt) reduction 1,350,000 uS and Canada Europe, middle 1,1 79,325 2005 baseline East and Africa 55 146 1,061,393 10% reduction goal for 2011 Latin America Asia and and the the Pacific Caribbean 884,494 25% reduction 112 120 goal for 2015 787,500 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 total transactions: 433 emploYee satisFaCtion diversitY networks Results from Citi’s Annual Voice of the Employee Survey Employee opportunities and Support our annual Voice of the Employee Survey found a 73% employee satisfaction rate. 80% 73% 60% 64% 67% 40% 15,000 members 61 networks 18 locations 20% employee networks are employee-initiated and -led groups, 0 organized according to affinity. they focus on cross-business networking 2009 2010 2011 opportunities, and support employee growth and development. INTRODUCTION Citizenship Report 2011 11 Stakeholder Engagement We engage regularly with individual stakeholders and institutions to share information, listen to ideas and concerns, and refine our policies and practices. Stakeholder Engagement Approach Stakeholder Group Communication Channel Examples Clients and We value the input of those who use our financial solutions and hold regular Customer satisfaction survey Customers meetings with key clients. Our Client Service department manages communicaCiti’s EMEA Climate Council hosted events for tions with clients and customers, and our @AskCiti Twitter account provides institutional clients and other stakeholders on instant access to Customer Service representatives. renewable energy and energy efficiency. We also measure customer satisfaction through satisfaction surveys, as well as comments submitted via email, phone, social media and written correspondence. Investors Our Investor Relations department regularly informs and updates our investors We engage with our investors through our Annual on the company’s financial and operational performance. Report, Proxy Statement, SEC filings, meetings and our Investor Relations website. Employees Citi employees value our dedication to citizenship. Our Human Resources and Voice of the Employee Survey Diversity departments interact with employees through an intranet website. Citi Green Survey Regulators Our Global Government Affairs group interacts with elected officials and policy Public Policy Involvement AND elected makers globally through company outreach or industry association activities, officials including lobbying, public policy forums, and public seminars. Suppliers We communicate with our 14,000-plus suppliers across 100 countries through Statement of Supplier Principles our Procurement group. Community Our Citi Community Development team, working closely with Public Affairs, Asset Building Policy Network conference Leaders Government Affairs and Legal departments, maintains communication with Participation in Center for Financial Services community leaders locally and nationally, including: top staff of nonprofits, Innovation Innovators Roundtable elected officials and thought leaders. We communicated progress on our national Earned The Community Development @ Citi website houses information on our work to Income Tax Credit initiative to external stakeholders expand financial inclusion and economic empowerment for the underserved. via email. We also communicate via email and social media, and conduct periodic public webinars to provide information on community development policy and practice. Members of the Citi Community Development team serve on local and national boards and policy groups working on community development. NonWe collaborate with NGOs on issues relevant to each group including environCo-hosted the Energy Efficiency Finance Conference Governmental mental sustainability, community development and human rights. with the Environmental Defense Fund Organizations Our Corporate Sustainability group and Community Development group manage Organized events with the Climate Council (Ngos) communications with NGOs. in EMEA region Equator Principles update Various examples of our work with nonprofits on financial inclusion and other community efforts, locally and globally, through Citi Foundation Socially Citi’s Corporate Governance group and Corporate Sustainability group meet In 2011, we met with Jantzi-Sustainalytics, KLD Responsible in-person and schedule conference calls with SRIs on an as-needed basis. Research & Analytics, and Christian Brothers Investors Investments Services to discuss Citi’s performance on a variety of citizenship topics including climate change and human rights. MEDIA Our Public Affairs department engages with the media through interviews, Citi Press Room forums, press releases, and reports. Other Financial We communicate with competitors through industry events Equator Principles update Institutions and benchmarking activities. INTRODUCTION Citizenship Report 2011 12 Ceres Report Review While developing this report, we sought feedback from Ceres, stakeholders and constituencies. This group reviewed a draft of this a network of investors, environmental organizations and other 2011 Citizenship Report and provided feedback on the materiality of public interest groups working with companies and investors to our reporting and on our 2011 performance. Some of this feedback is address sustainability challenges. summarized in the table below and was used to develop this report to Ceres convened an independent group of experts on environmental, the extent possible. social and governance issues representing a global range of CERES REPORT REVIEW FEEDBACK AND RESPONSES Stakeholder Feedback Citi Response Governance The issue of long-termism should be addressed in the On page 16, we discuss how our compensation philosophy compensation/incentives section. aligns with the Citi Mission Statement. We offer a link to our full compensation policy on page 16. HUMAN RIGHTS How will Citi implement the recently released UN Guiding Our human rights section on page 17 discusses our history Principles on Business and Human Rights? with the principles and our plans for implementation. COMMUNITY How does this year’s community investment compare Our performance on Serving Communities and with previous years? Consumers is on pages 10–11 and 37. Regional Citizenship at a Glance Provide more discussion on market specific risks and key This topic is under consideration for inclusion in our sustainability issues. 2012 Citizenship Report. ENVIRONMENT Provide more information on your progress on energy This topic is under consideration for inclusion in our efficiency finance. 2012 Citizenship Report. What are the impacts and outcomes of Citi’s $50 Billion We discuss the impacts and outcomes of our investments Climate Initiative so far? on pages 50 and 51 and show progress to date against our goal on page 10. Environmental and Social Impacts Provide more information on the impacts and outcomes We expanded discussion on the details of our ESRM of your ESRM process, both in case studies and generally. process on page 17 and on pages 43–45. Our case study on project financing an aluminum smelter in India on page 47 demonstrates the impacts and outcomes of our ESRM process. INTRODUCTION Citizenship Report 2011 13 Our principles are the bridge that connects our 200 year history with the future we want to create. Common Purpose Responsible Finance Ingenuity Leadership Corporate Governance Board Composition 16 Executive Compensation 16 Anti-Money Laundering Program 16 Ethics & Public Policy 17 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Citizenship Report 2011 15 Citi aspires to the highest standards of corporate Executive compensation governance and ethical conduct by doing what we say We have aligned our compensation philosophy with we will do, reporting results with accuracy and transCiti’s Mission Statement which defines our views on parency, and maintaining full compliance with laws, how to achieve the long-term best interest of sharerules and regulations that govern our businesses. holders, clients and customers. Our approach to executive compensation is based Board composition on the following guidelines: As required by the New York Stock Exchange • Enhance shareholder value through the (NYSE), at least two-thirds of the members of Citi’s practice of Responsible Finance Board of Directors are independent directors. • Facilitate competitiveness to attract and At the end of 2011: retain the best talent • 11 of 13 directors (85 percent) were independent • Promote meritocracy by recognizing • Two directors were female, 11 male employee contributions • Five directors — including the Chairman and the • Manage risk through sound incentive Chief Executive Officer — were Asian, African compensation practices American or Hispanic. • Provide strong, independent oversight of compensation practices In 2011, the Nomination and Governance Committee and the Public Affairs Committee merged. There are • Provide for transparency to employees, now five standing board committees: Audit; Risk shareholders, and other stakeholders. Management and Finance; Citi Holdings Oversight; The full Citi Compensation Philosophy Personnel and Compensation; and Nomination, is available online. Governance and Public Affairs. Citi provides for a recoupment of executive A charter for each committee outlines the mission, compensation in appropriate circumstances. Our full membership qualifications and duties for comstatement on recoupment of unearned compensation mittee members. and other recoupment rights is available online. The Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee is responsible for assessing our policies Anti-money and programs on significant public issues, as well as laundering program for reviewing stakeholder relationships and topics Money laundering undermines confidence in the interthat affect Citi’s reputation. It also reviews political national financial system and presents a reputational and charitable contributions, Citi’s business practices risk to Citi. In support of its efforts to combat money (particularly as they relate to reputation), our environlaundering and terrorist financing and to comply with mental sustainability policies and programs, and our the Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, and human rights policies. other applicable legal and regulatory requirements, See more at: Corporate Governance. Citi maintains a global team of more than 300 global Anti-Money Laundering Compliance Officers around the world. Citi supports detailed anti-money laundering policies and programs and sophisticated technology to monitor for possible suspicious activity for our businesses globally. These programs are subject to regular audits, both internal and external. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Citizenship Report 2011 16 Ethics & Public Policy tional Finance Corporation’s Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability, covering Citi Code of Conduct issues such as the involuntary resettlement of The Citi Code of Conduct outlines our principles, affected people, and public consultation with affected values and standards of behavior. The Citi Board of communities and vulnerable groups, including the Directors reviews and approves the Code, which is special protection and rights of indigenous peoples. available in 26 languages here. It was revised in 2011 Our ESRM Policy prohibits financing transactions to reflect new rules, regulations, and best practice. involving harmful child labor and forced labor. Employees sign on to the Code when they join the Reporting on human rights issues managed as part company, and periodically complete training on it. of our ESRM review process in 2011 can be found on We rolled out new Code training to all employees page 48. in early 2012. In June 2011, the UN Human Rights Council endorsed Citi encourages employees to communicate their a document called “Guiding Principles on Business concerns. We prohibit retaliatory actions against and Human Rights: Implementing the United Nations anyone who, in good faith, raises questions about ‘Protect, Respect and Remedy’ Framework” proposed ethics, discrimination or harassment; who reports by the UN Special Representative on Business and suspected violations of laws, regulations or policies; Human Rights. Citi proactively participated in the or who participates in a subsequent investigation consultation on the mandate, and we support the of such concerns. Guiding Principles and the Protect, Respect and Remedy Framework. We operate a toll-free global hotline available 24 hours a day, seven days a week in multiple languages We are mindful of our many points of influence on for employees to raise ethical concerns. Information human rights across our value chain, from our on how to raise a concern can be found here. suppliers, to our employees and operations and to our clients via our investments and transactions. We are Complaints can be made anonymously, and all also aware of the need to continually assess human contacts and investigations are treated as confidenrights risks and opportunities, and of the Special tially as possible. Representative’s assertion that companies must A Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals “know and show” — must know what their human supplements the Code of Conduct. It applies to all rights risks are, and must show what they are doing to Finance Professionals and Administrative Staff in mitigate such risks through due diligence. As a next a finance role. step in implementing the Guiding Principles, we plan to reflect our support for it by updating our Statement Human Rights on Human Rights, which is included as an appendix to We support the preservation of human rights and the Employee Code of Conduct and referenced in our are guided by fundamental principles such as those Environmental and Social Risk Management training. described in the United Nations Universal Declaration As part of this process, we will conduct a review of our of Human Rights and the International Labour Orgapractices across the value chain to ensure that key nization (ILO) Core Conventions. We reflect these areas of risk are being addressed. principles in our policies and our conduct toward In 2011, we engaged with stakeholders on conflict employees, suppliers, customers and the countries minerals and cluster munitions, as well as on human where we do business. Citi’s Statement on Human rights issues related to the IFC Performance StanRights is available here. dards, Equator Principles and our ESRM Policy. Our Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) Policy states that ESRM-covered transactions in emerging markets should comply with the InternaCORPORATE GOVERNANCE Citizenship Report 2011 17 Political Contributions Public Policy Involvement Citi makes contributions in accordance with estabCiti advocates public policies in the U.S and lished guidelines set forth in our Political Contributions abroad that value our business, our customers and and Lobbying Statement as permitted under federal, employees while furthering our efforts to have a state and local laws to help elect candidates whose positive impact on society. Our Global Government views and positions are favorable to Citi, our industry, Affairs (GGA) staff actively lobby on issues that and ultimately the free-market economy. impact the company and our ability to do business. GGA professionals are required to attend training These contributions come from the voluntary, on applicable laws and internal compliance policies, employee-funded Citigroup PAC or, when permitted, and are expected to demonstrate the highest from corporate funds. Citi does not use corporate standards of professional integrity. funds for independent expenditures. To ensure compliance with applicable laws and public disclosure Our guidelines for lobbying can be found in our obligations all political contributions are reviewed and Political Contributions and Lobbying Statement. approved by Citigroup’s Global Government Affairs Below are three examples of how Citi contributed (GGA) group and General Counsel. to public policy development in 2011: Citi makes available to its shareholders and stake• International trade: Citi coordinated efforts holders a list of all corporate political contributions to support passage of Free Trade Agreements and contributions made by Citigroup’s PAC. The U.S. with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea, Political Contributions list for 2011 can be found here. which became law in October 2011. Support activities included: co-chairing the U.S.-Korea FTA Business Coalition and the U.S.-Latin America FTA Business Coalition; hosting trade panels and trade advocacy days on Capitol Hill, participation in roundtable discussions, drafting letters to Congress and the Administration; and leading fact-finding missions to Korea, Panama, and Colombia. 1812 1820s 1830s 1840s 1850s 1860s 1870s 1880s 1890s 1900s 1960s 1920s 1930s 1940s 1950s 1960s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2012 Creating the Conditions for Peace Peacekeepers frequently find themselves serving in zones of civil unrest is not without its difficulties. very unsettled, and sometimes extremely remote, In one case the pilot of an aircraft had to deliver locations. These places are often without banking overdue salaries to peacekeepers on the ground in services and the difficulty of delivering payroll and a very risky location. With the plane under threat, other vendor payments to such areas can impede peacekeepers quickly removed the cash shipment, the peacekeeper’s work in bringing stability. Despite enabling the plane to be back in the air within 10 not having a permanent presence in the countries minutes. Meanwhile, the peacekeepers successfully concerned, Citi has been able to provide payment protected the town from threatening forces. services in many challenging situations. Working in CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Citizenship Report 2011 18 • Patent Reform in the U.S.: Citi teamed up Corporate tax reform is an area of interest due to with the Coalition on Patent Fairness to support Citi’s foreign earned income. “Active financing” the America Invents Act, which became law in provisions provide Citi and other U.S.-based financial September 2011. This will strengthen patent institutions with deferral of tax on foreign earned quality and limit potential for poor quality patents income on a temporary basis. These provisions were to thwart innovation or fuel costly litigation. extended retroactively for 2010 and prospectively for • Homeowner Assistance: Citi has worked to 2011. Other U.S.-based industries have deferral on a address the challenges of the weakened Amerpermanent basis. ican housing market by creating and supporting programs to help borrowers stay in their homes. Many corporations, including Citi, are interested in We also advocate foreclosure prevention the idea of a “territorial” system that would only tax measures. This work supports the Citi Office of profits in the countries where they are earned. We Homeownership Preservation, which provides support debate on possible change in this area and outreach, education and assistance opportunities are pursuing a two track approach with interest in to borrowers. discussions on corporate tax reform and support for another extension of the active financing provisions. Corporate Taxes Our approach to taxes strives to be straightforward and transparent, and includes maximizing shareholder value through tax planning and ensuring risk controls are in place. In 2011, Citi paid no federal income taxes due to a U.S. federal net operating loss carryforward. As part of the U.S. federal tax code, the use of losses to offset earnings of prior or future years is available to all businesses. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Citizenship Report 2011 19 $2  . 1 6 provided to finance B affordable housing in the u.s. Serving Communities & Consumers Financial Inclusion 22 Supporting Consumers 26 Philanthropy 29 Employee Volunteering 35 Performance Snapshot 37 IN 2011 Citi Community Capital provided $2.16 billion to finance affordable housing in the U.S. Citi Microfinance supported more than 140 microfinance institutions in 40 countries. Citi launched the first-ever U.S. universal children’s college savings account, with the City and County of San Francisco, helping more than 3,300 kindergarten students start to save for college. Globally, Citi Foundation contributed $78 million and Citi Community Development $16 million, primarily to support financial inclusion in underserved communities where we operate. Citi committed to lend $24 billion to small businesses over the following three years. Citi and the Citi Foundation have been funding supporters of Neighborhood Housing Services of South Florida’s (NHSSF) work in the community for over 25 years. In addition to the development and rehab of affordable homes, NHSSF provides vital programs for financial capability training and homebuyer education that serve residents like Mr. Aldin Hanna, Jr. Serving Communities & Consumers Citizenship Report 2011 21 As a global financial institution, we have a responsibilFinancial Inclusion ity to build effective financial solutions that meet the “Financial inclusion is the touchstone of Citi’s needs of both our clients and the communities where community development efforts in the more we do business. We strive to work creatively and than 100 countries where we operate around collaboratively with our stakeholders to design and the world. Our unique local presence, unrivaled support innovative solutions that address community business expertise, innovative approach and needs and opportunities aligned with public policy committed partners, allow us to make a difference priorities that positively impact the neighborhoods in millions of lives through our community develin which we operate. opment and philanthropic efforts.” We invest our talent, products, operating platforms — Bob Annibale, Global Director, Citi Community and financial resources in this endeavor. We work Development and Citi Microfinance together with community-based organizations and public agencies to revitalize communities and The financial sector fails its customers, shareholders create economic opportunity for underserved and society if companies do not do their best to individuals, through: expand access to affordable, high quality and conve• Financial Inclusion: Ensuring widespread access nient financial services. to affordable, high-quality financial products, Financial inclusion is central to the way we do busiservices and asset-building opportunities for ness and a key component of our commitment to individuals, families and communities responsible finance. Through Citi Microfinance, Citi • Supporting Consumers: Increasing transparency, Community Development, Citi Community Capital affordability, and accessibility of our products, and the Citi Foundation, we focus on working across services, and programs for all consumers, and Citi business lines, and with community groups, providing relief during times of hardship governments, institutions and networks, to develop • Philanthropy: Investing in asset building and initiatives that broaden access for traditionally financial inclusion projects through the Citi Foununderserved communities. By investing capital dation, participating in disaster relief and rebuildand expertise, we work with partners such as ing efforts, and making corporate contributions microfinance institutions, community development • Employee Volunteering: Encouraging our organizations and local governments to: employees to participate in skilled and unskilled • Make it possible for microentrepreneurs and volunteering activities that complement our small business owners to start and sustain their community activity. 1812 1820s 1830s 1840s 1850s 1860s 1870s 1880s 1890s 1900s 1910s 1920s 1930s 1940s 1950s 1960s 1977 1980s 1990s 2000s 2012 Creating Access at All Hours of the Day Ninety percent of the world’s population lives In 1977, when Citi introduced the first ATM in New within a fifteen-minute walk from an ATM, making York City, there was a miniscule number of such our 24-hour-a-day lives possible. We can go almost machines anywhere in the world. Four years later, the anywhere in the world, at any time of the day or convenience of ATMs doubled Citi’s share of deposits night, and get instant access to cash — to make a in the market. Today it has 26,000 worldwide. purchase, pay for a service, or cover a bill. Serving Communities & Consumers Citizenship Report 2011 22 businesses and to create livelihoods for their families and neighbors Microfinance • Enable young people to receive advanced educations and prepare them for productive livelihoods Expanding the U.S. OPIC partnership into new markets • Help consumers build their own financial Since 2006, Citi and the U.S. Overseas Private capability by pairing financial education with Investment Corporation (OPIC) have provided access to appropriate products and services so more than $290 million in funding to 32 they can save, wisely manage their money, and microfinance institutions (MFIs) across 18 weather setbacks countries. The MFIs have, in turn, created • Finance affordable housing and community microloans for more than 940,000 borrowers, infrastructure projects that create a solid founda92 percent of whom are women. tion for financial mobility. In 2011, Citi and OPIC announced the closing of a $20 million term loan to fund the growth of Bank Danamon’s microfinance program Microfinance to support microentrepreneurs and small Microfinance institutions (MFIs) specialize in providing businesses in Indonesia. This is the first loan financial services to traditionally underserved from Citi and OPIC for the microfinance sector communities. Citi has invested philanthropically in in Indonesia and is part of Citi and OPIC’s joint microfinance for 30 years. In 2005, we launched our global initiative to support microfinance in Citi Microfinance business unit, with the goal of using emerging markets worldwide. our on-the-ground presence and partnerships with This funding supports Bank Danamon’s goal leading MFIs to help the microfinance sector achieve to fortify lending from new offices across Indonesia, enhancing customer service and scale and sustainability. expanding access to quality financial services Working across our businesses, product groups and for Indonesia’s underbanked. regions, Citi Microfinance has grown to support over 140 MFIs, networks and investors in more than 40 Citi participates in first ever countries around the world. bond issuance for Peruvian The products and services we provide include: non-profit MFI • Access to capital markets and hedging foreign In 2011, Citi mandated and executed an $85 exchange risk million 10-year bond issuance for Grupo ACP, a 42-year-old non-profit organization involved • Credit, savings, and remittances in microfinance across Latin America. This • Encouraging transparency and proper risk landmark transaction represented the firstmanagement across the industry ever bond issuance for a non-profit in Peru and was two times oversubscribed. • Financing and product development The bond proceeds will finance the growth of with partners Grupo ACP’s operations in Peru, as well as its • Local currency funding and transaction microlender, Forjadores, in Mexico and the services, including innovations in branchless microfinance business it recently launched and mobile banking. in Brazil. We strive to collaborate with partners on new financial products, technology and expanded access with the potential to break new ground in achieving greater impact and increasing the geographic reach of financial services. Serving Communities & Consumers Citizenship Report 2011 23 In 2010, the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance CorporaFinancial Capability and Asset Building tion (FDIC) reported that there were approximately Citi also assists low-income households to build their nine million unbanked American households. This has financial assets. We do this by pairing financial educaencouraged interest in microfinance as a driver of tion with access to appropriate financial products and economic empowerment in the U.S. Citi is partnering services. At the policy level, we convene important with leading MFIs, community development financial stakeholders with the ability to influence policies and institutions (CDFIs) and municipalities across the U.S. practices that can create greater asset building to expand access to appropriate financial products opportunities for underserved households. and services. Since 2009, we have partnered with Grameen America, which provides small loans and encourages Financial Capability and Asset Building savings for microentrepreneurs in financially underserved communities. In New York, Citibank provides Citi partners on first U.S. savings accounts to Grameen America’s borrowers, universal children’s college all of whom are women. At the end of 2011, more than savings program 3,500 such accounts had been opened — often the Citi partnered with the City and County of first the women had ever held. San Francisco in 2011 to introduce Kindergarten to College (K2C), the nation’s first universal In late 2011, we announced our support for the college savings program. Research has shown Chicago Microlending Institute, an organization that children with a savings account held in launched by Mayor Rahm Emanuel with $1 million their name are seven times more likely to attend college than those who do not. One in loan capital from the city and support from Citi and three public school families in San Francisco the MFI, ACCION Chicago. Citi provided the initial had no savings before the K2C program. funding to train new lenders, encouraging sustainable 3,300 accounts have been opened and by the growth in Chicago’s small business community. end of 2012 every kindergartner entering the city’s public schools will receive an account. We work with industry leaders to establish sector The City and County governments provided standards that ensure the quality of financial prodseed deposits of up to $100 per child and EARN, ucts, strengthen clients’ financial capabilities and a San Francisco non-profit partner, matches improve transparency through partnerships and the first $100 contributed by each family. initiatives such as the Client Protection Principles in The groundbreaking K2C program combines Microfinance. We are a global sponsor of important savings incentives with financial education in sector resources, such as the Microfinance Informathe classroom, where kids learn to manage tion eXchange, which provides transparent data their accounts online at a dedicated website. services, analysis, research and monitoring informaThe program illustrates the power of publicprivate partnerships and can be replicated tion on MFIs. Citi is represented on the board of the in other cities. Consultative Group to Assist the Poor, an independent policy and research center housed at the World Bank, dedicated to improving financial access for poor and underserved communities. Serving Communities & Consumers Citizenship Report 2011 24 “We are extremely proud of our affordable Financial Capability and Asset Building housing financing achievements, and will continue in our support of the preservation and revitalization Citi helps found Asset of our neighborhoods across the nation.” Building Policy Network — Vikram Pandit, Chief Executive Officer, Citi In 2011, Citi became a founding member of a new U.S. network of the country’s preeminent In 2011, we made the lead investment of $50 million organizations from the civil rights, financial in the Canyon-Agassi Charter School Facilities Fund. services, community and economic developThe first of its kind in the U.S., the fund will finance ment and consumer advocacy communities. the development of high quality educational facilities The creation of the Asset Building Policy Network was driven by concern over the in distressed urban communities. The fund aims to deepening challenge of achieving financial finance the development of over 75 urban school sites inclusion for all U.S. citizens, especially minorifor best-in-class charter school operators, creating ties, in a challenging economy. new places for approximately 40,000 students over Coalition members include the Center for the following three to four years. American Progress, Corporation for Enterprise Development, Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, National Association for Latino Community Asset Builders, National Coalition for Asian Pacific American CommuRevitalizing Neighborhoods nity Development, National Council of La Raza, National Urban League, PolicyLink and Citi. Bringing hope through new homes Together, we are working to promote saving and asset building among minority communiThe average household income is around ties, and lower income families. We also seek $16,000 in Hunter’s View, a dilapidated public to coordinate recommendations and other housing site in southeast San Francisco. After efforts to promote public policy that achieve years of living in substandard homes built as these aims. temporary shelter in the 1950s, local families (200 of the 430 residents are children) are finally getting new roofs over their heads thanks to an ambitious regeneration effort. The aptly named HOPE project is reviving the Revitalizing Neighborhoods 22-acre site and 267 units, using funds from Citi invests in infrastructure that makes our neighbanks, philanthropic organizations, a city bond borhoods attractive places to live and generates issue and the California Housing and Commuopportunities for economic advancement for nity Development Department. Building work began in the fall of 2011. residents. Innovative financial solutions developed through multi-stakeholder partnerships have the Citi Community Capital has provided $41 million in construction loans. Using green power to generate scaled investment in services building materials, developers are rebuilding that make all the difference, such as high quality a mix of public housing, rental and privately affordable housing and excellent schools. owned units, along with public parks, a childcare facility and retail outlets. The In 2011, Citi Community Capital (CCC) lent and development aims to be a model for mixed invested more than $3.4 billion dollars in 147 transuse development that can dramatically boost actions with communities in the United States. quality of life for residents by making important resources readily available. Reflecting our strong commitment to affordable homeownership, Citi was ranked the number one U.S. lender by Affordable Housing Finance magazine in 2011 for the second consecutive year, with a lending volume of $2.16 billion. Serving Communities & Consumers Citizenship Report 2011 25 Serving Small Businesses, Creating Jobs Revitalizing Neighborhoods Small businesses and their owners drive job creation and create opportunities for reinvestment in New schools for nation’s second their communities. largest Indian reservation Nearly $30 million in Citi Community Capital Internationally, Citi’s Commercial Banking business lending and investing is helping to repair is dedicated to serving the needs of 100,000 small to and expand two dilapidated schools on the medium-sized companies in 32 countries. From 2010 Lakota Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in South to 2011, Commercial Banking loans for such compaDakota, one of the country’s most impovernies rose by 19 percent globally, excluding the impact ished communities. of foreign exchange fluctuations. Each facility, one in Rockyford, and the other in Batesland, will serve a growing school In the U.S., small businesses account for 57 percent population and provide modern facilities of total employment and more than half of gross and enhanced technology, helping to improve domestic product. Serving small businesses is the quality of education. Students will benefit from a new gymnasium, library, community fundamental to Citi’s business strategy, and we have room and cafeteria. The school will house significantly stepped up lending to entrepreneurs in classrooms for pre-school through 8th grade. recent years, from $4.5 billion in 2009 to $6 billion In an innovative financing approach, the in 2010 and $7.9 billion in 2011. In response to the project is being financed through $46 million U.S. Small Business Administration’s call to provide of New Markets Tax Credit allocations and a access to lending and capital that will help create jobs $5 million U.S. Department of Education grant, and speed economic recovery, in 2011 Citi committed as well as Citi loans. A non-profit, community to lending $24 billion to small businesses across the development corporation, GROW South Dakota, has set up a subsidiary to construct U.S. over three years. and own the schools, which will be leased Recognizing that capital alone is often not enough to the school district. to grow a small business, we collaborate with local U.S. Senator Tim Johnson described the technical assistance providers to offer expertise to project, begun in 2011, as “a model of how the public and private sector can work as partners new and expanding small businesses as they work to improve the education of our children and to grow their companies, their incomes, and their provide a near-term boost to the economy.” employee base. The improved environment is expected to reduce the turnover rate for teachers in the Shannon County school district, believed to be Supporting consumers as much as nine times the national average. “[Citi is] helping the customer have the least amount The new schools expect to create 20 new of bounced checks and overdraft fees…[This is] an permanent jobs. example of what Citi has done a lot of over the last few years — taking care of their customers…” — Martin Eakes, CEO, Self-Help The best interests of our customers represent the best interests of our economy and lie at the heart of our business practices. We understand that our consumers’ financial needs and goals change over time, and we listen to those changing needs and respond to fulfill them. Serving Communities & Consumers Citizenship Report 2011 26 Regulatory Responsibilities Doing our best for consumers begins with meeting Serving Small Businesses, Creating Jobs our regulatory obligations. We devote considerable resources to meet and exceed our regulatory Small Business Solutions responsibilities. Citi has received the highest possible In October 2010, Citi launched a new partnerCommunity Reinvestment Act (CRA) rating for each ship with the New York City Department of Small Business Services to help entrepreneurs of our three registered banks in the U.S. Our fair obtain the technical assistance and financing lending policy and standards comply with both the they need to start, operate and expand letter and the spirit of fair lending laws. We have their businesses. received the highest ratings on all fair lending reguCiti Community Development provided lator exams and reviews since 2007. $385,000 in funding to enable NYC Business Solutions to extend the reach of their accountMeasuring Consumer Satisfaction ing and loan packaging assistance, particularly Our business depends on the long-term support to those with lowto moderate-incomes. We also provide ongoing mentorship and consultaof our customers worldwide, and their opinions help tion between Citibank Small Business bankers inform product and service development. Citi uses or underwriters and NYC Business Solutions Net Promoter Scores (NPS) as our global metric financing account managers. to measure customer satisfaction and advocacy — In 2011, NYC Business Solutions Centers defined as willingness to recommend us to others. connected business owners to nearly $39 million in capital through more than In 2011, Citibank N.A. continued to focus on improving 800 financing awards, a 25 percent increase NPS. In direct response to customer feedback, we from 2010. instituted a new policy in July 2011 to process checks, in sequence, from the smallest dollar amount to the largest. The change reflects Citi’s long-standing Communities at Work Fund position to never authorize overdrafts at ATMs or Through the Communities at Work Fund, through debit point-of-sale transactions. Steady established with two nonprofit partners, Calvert Foundation and Opportunity Finance progress through September saw our NPS improving Network, Citi leverages the expertise of 3.3 percent (compared with the fourth quarter of community development financial institutions 2010), and achieving our highest scores to date. (CDFIs) as last-mile providers of financing for small businesses we may not otherwise have In the fourth quarter of 2011, Citibank streamlined, been able to reach on our own. and announced changes to, its consumer checking As of January 2012, the Fund had deployed packages. This generated a high level of customer over $100 million to 39 national and local inquiries and media attention, and as a result, our CDFIs, which in turn lent to small local busiNPS scores declined in the fourth quarter to end nesses, creating over 1,400 jobs. 8.3 percent lower than 2010. In 2012, Citibank N.A. will continue its focus and investment to grow NPS scores among U.S. customers. In China, 89 percent of CitiGold customers (the same as in 2010) and 92 percent of Citibank customers (up from 88 percent in 2010) said they were satisfied or very satisfied with our service and products. Eightyeight percent of CitiGold customers (against 87 percent in 2010) and 88 percent of Citibank customers (compared with 89 percent in 2010) were willing to recommend Citibank to their friends and relatives. Serving Communities & Consumers Citizenship Report 2011 27 Supporting Homeownership homeowners, and our expert staff coach both “Citi’s support for housing counseling and training borrowers and nonprofit counseling organizations. has been deep, and it has helped meet important For the third consecutive year in 2011, our Home needs for communities around the country. Citi’s Affordable Modification program was a top partnership with NeighborWorks America has meant performer as measured by success rates in public that more counselors are in communities, helping Treasury reports. families avoid foreclosure and hold onto their dream of homeownership.” Preserving Homeownership Citi is committed to keeping individuals and families — Eileen Fitzgerald, Chief Executive Officer, in their homes. To promote and preserve affordable NeighborWorks America homeownership, the Citi Office of Homeownership Homeownership has the potential to enable families Preservation (OHP) works closely with our loss to build wealth and assets over the long term, and mitigation units to assist U.S homeowners. To multiply to support the development of stable, prosperous our impact, the OHP partners with community and communities. Citi’s U.S. mortgage originations of nonprofit organizations to help Citi borrowers in $63 billion in 2011 showed continued strong growth. distress find long-term housing solutions. We participate in a variety of proprietary and government The recent economic and housing downturn has assistance programs to help homeowners avoid affected millions of Americans, putting homeownerpotential foreclosure. Since 2007, Citi has helped ship beyond the means of many, and creating financial more than one million homeowners in their efforts hardship for some existing homeowners. We offer to avoid potential foreclosure. several programs to support our customers in their goals of achieving or preserving homeownership. Supporting Credit Card Holders Credits cards provide consumers and businesses Affordable Mortgages with a valuable financial tool for a wide range of daily Knowing how much homeownership means to our financial transactions. In 2011, Citi was the top credit customers, we offer and maintain affordable, flexible, card issuer in the world for the second year in a row. and sustainable mortgages. We also assist borrowers at risk of default by providing outreach and advisory We look to reward responsible cardholders. Our Citi services. Wherever possible, we provide mortgage Forward® credit card shifts to a lower interest rate modifications or other arrangements to struggling if borrowers stay within credit and payment limits for Key Initiatives in Supporting Homeownership in 2011 The CitiMortgage Road to Recovery Tour included The Citi Disabled Veterans Mortgage Relief Program 25 homeowner assistance events in locations across the was introduced in 2011 to allow qualifying veterans or U.S., where hundreds of CitiMortgage customers with their surviving spouses to make reduced payments on financial difficulties received private expert consultatheir CitiMortgage-owned mortgages. tions. The outreach effort provided successful outcomes “IAVA applauds Citi for its new Disabled Veterans Mortfor many homeowners, including a large number of gage Relief Program. This program is a solid step toward borrowers we had previously been unable to contact. helping our wounded warriors and their families who have sacrificed so much for our country. Foreclosure and Citi also launched HomeownerSupport.com, which unemployment have hit military families particularly provides answers to the question: hard in this economic crisis.” “What can I do if I’m having trouble paying my mortgage?” —Paul Rieckhoff, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans The site gives information on potential options and allows of America (IAVA) Founder and Executive Director consumers to get advice from fellow homeowners. Serving Communities & Consumers Citizenship Report 2011 28 three months in a row. In direct response to customer Philanthropy feedback, in the U.S. we introduced the Citi Simplicity® “For 200 years, Citi has been giving back to the credit card, whose benefits are unique and industry communities where we operate, benefiting many leading: one APR, a single rate and no late fees. millions of people. Today, our commitment to We have a range of programs in place to help card responsible finance extends to our philanthropic holders who may be faced with financial difficulties. efforts, as we strive to economically empower These can be either long-term or short-term, low-income people and communities worldwide, depending on individual circumstances, with options both through on-the-ground innovation testing that may include modifying the original loan terms, and global thought leadership.” reducing interest rates, or extending the loan term. — Brandee McHale, Chief Operating Officer, As of December 31, 2011, Citi was assisting more than the Citi Foundation 1.1 million credit card holders to manage their card Our responsibility as a global financial institution debt through a variety of such programs. is to put our money, talent, experience and products We prefer to help people avoid delinquency and to work in communities where access to financial provide support, such as financial calculators and services is limited, and to strive to include more advice on money management at: people in the financial system. Citi’s giving record has www.usecreditwisely.com spanned our 200-year history and benefited millions of people around the world. Customer Privacy In recent years, we have aligned our philanthropy Protecting our clients’ personal information is a critistrategy and financial inclusion objective. In practice, cal priority for Citi, as is maintaining our customers’ this has meant selecting areas of focus where we can trust and confidence. We protect this information by contribute financial resources and business expertise maintaining physical, electronic, and procedural toward programs that help lowto moderate-income safeguards that meet or exceed applicable law. We people gain economic independence. In 2011, Citi and also train our employees in the proper handling of the Citi Foundation gave more than $121 million to personal information. When other companies provide support nonprofit organizations in communities services for us, we require them to protect the confiwhere our employees and customers live and work. dentiality of personal information they receive. Information about privacy for consumers at Citi and Citi Foundation our Online Privacy Statement are available online. The Citi Foundation supports the economic empowerment and financial inclusion of lowto moderateResponsible Marketing Communications income people in communities where Citi operates. Advertising and marketing materials for Citi’s We work collaboratively with a range of partners to consumer products are reviewed by product and design and test financial inclusion innovations with advertising lawyers or by compliance officers. potential to achieve scale, and we support thought They ensure that such materials clearly and fairly leadership and knowledge-building activities. Through represent the offer, satisfy any product-specific a “More than Philanthropy” approach, we put the disclosure and contractual requirements, and strength of Citi’s business resources and people to comply with all legal requirements. Beyond meeting work to enhance our philanthropic investments and these requirements, we seek to communicate with generate measurable positive impact. customers in a straightforward manner, using a tone In 2011 the Citi Foundation gave $78 million. and vocabulary that is jargon-free and transparent. Our principal regulators on these matters are the The Citi Foundation uses a results-oriented measureConsumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and ment framework, outlined in the Citi Foundation Grant the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) Guidelines that informs the way we assess the impact in the U.S. and local regulators worldwide. of programs we fund. Our approach, and the way we Serving Communities & Consumers Citizenship Report 2011 29 measure success, emphasize results for participants Financial Capability and Asset Building rather than the grantees’ completion of funded activities. Every grant is tracked to identify ways to Developing financial solutions ensure success and understand what works and why. to better meet the needs of low-income Americans In 2011, 96 percent of the Citi Foundation’s investWith lead funding from the Citi Foundation, the ments were within our mission and focus. Through Financial Access Initiative at New York Univerthese efforts, we reached 1.6 million individuals sity’s Wagner Graduate School of Public working toward specific financial inclusion and Service launched an innovative study in 2011 economic empowerment goals. Of these, 30 percent to better understand the financial lives of low-income Americans. Other project partners fully achieved their financial inclusion goals in 2011 are Bankable Frontier Associates and The while the remainder will make significant strides Center for Financial Services Innovation. toward improving their financial prospects. In addiThe study uses the Financial Diaries methodoltion, approximately 40 percent of all investments are ogy successfully applied in Bangladesh, India aligned with our goal to support research and thought and South Africa, to gain an accurate underleadership efforts that encourage practitioner innovastanding of household financial behaviors and tion, shape the industry dialogue, and promote public cash flow management. The study collects policy development. highly detailed data from 300 families across the U.S., allowing researchers to identify To learn more about the Citi Foundation’s giving in often-overlooked strategies of financial 2011, see Performance. management, such as informal borrowing and lending with neighbors and family. Financial Capability and Asset Building This, the first study of its kind in the U.S., will A strong understanding of the basic principles of help financial institutions, government, and nonprofits develop solutions to better meet the financial products and how to use them is an essential needs of low-income Americans. element in achieving financial inclusion. In 2011, we invested more than $25 million in financial capability and asset building programs that will enable more Global financial capability than 1.2 million people globally to build their financial building for women knowledge and put that knowledge into action to Women’s World Banking (WWB), a microfinance reduce their debt and/or increase their savings. Our network of 40 Microfinance Institution (MFI) grants support programs that go beyond standalone members, represents more than 24 million low-income clients in 28 countries. classroom-based financial education to promote changing people’s financial behaviors. These In 2011, the Citi Foundation partnered with WWB to test innovative approaches to combine programs employ a comprehensive approach that delivery of women-focused microfinance combines financial knowledge and skill building with products with financial education to improve coaching and access to financial products and client use of asset building financial products, services for lowto moderate-income people. and related outcomes. For example, through product-linked financial education, WWB anticipates 30 percent of dormant savings account holders who receive training will begin making regular deposits, and half of all active account holders will increase their balances by 10 percent. Serving Communities & Consumers Citizenship Report 2011 30 Microfinance Enterprise Development Research has shown that households with access to Micro and small enterprises create more jobs fairly priced and appropriate financial products are than any other segment of the economy. more likely to save on a regular basis, and use credit In 2011, the Citi Foundation invested more than products to accelerate asset building. Citi has been $10 million to support the creation or expansion supporting the microfinance sector philanthropically of 18,000 enterprises, and an additional 5,000 for more than 30 years. We are distinguished in this employment opportunities for low-income people. field by our commitment to working locally with microfinance institutions (MFIs) in 100 countries, and Our investment strategy also includes supporting by our efforts to help the microfinance industry membership organizations that coordinate the achieve scale and sustainability. activities of investors and intermediaries who interact with small enterprises. We actively seek In 2011, the Citi Foundation invested more than $8 opportunities to invest in activities that support million to build the institutional and management green enterprise development and result in a capacity of MFIs, intermediary organizations and “triple bottom line” benefit. industry networks that are expanding the supply of new asset building financial products and services. Enterprise Development Microfinance Fostering a dialogue on sustainable supply Best practices for microfinance chain finance Constraints in the quality of training and In 2011, the Rainforest Alliance, a long-time Citi staff performance in microfinance institutions Foundation partner, received funding to (MFIs) are barriers to the sustainable and develop and host a breakthrough workshop of responsible growth of the sector. In response, leaders driving sustainability in supply chains. the Citi Foundation has partnered with The market for providing sustainable trade Grameen Foundation and its Human Capital finance for farmers, and the small enterprises Center of Excellence, over several years, to that support them, is estimated to be $500 professionalize the human resource systems billion, with the potential to create millions of leading MFIs worldwide. of jobs in low-income farming communities. For example, in 2011, major challenges faced The workshop convened over 50 leading the sector in India. This prompted the Citi actors in supply chains including multinational Foundation to increase its investment in buyers, trading companies, insurers, investors, Grameen Foundation’s work in the country and certifiers to identify new barriers and to implement best practices and innovations. opportunities to provide financing throughout Ten Indian MFIs will receive human capital the value chain. The findings were published advisory services to strengthen their products in a white paper that has been shared widely and services. and is leading to new industry dialogue around This program will serve as an incubator to innovative financing solutions. prove the importance of strategic human capital management and to inform a global implementation strategy. We will carefully measure results and share them throughout the sector. Serving Communities & Consumers Citizenship Report 2011 31 College Success in the United States Enterprise Development A college degree is critical to breaking inter-generational cycles of poverty, increasing earning power Promoting sustainable and contributing to the economy. But fewer than 10 development in Russia percent of U.S. students from lowto moderate-income A changing Russian economy coupled with families graduate from college by their mid 20s. deterioration in environmental quality and degradation of natural resources has reduced The Citi Foundation supports programs that will employment choices for low-income people. increase the number of first-generation college As a remedy, the Citi Foundation has partstudents, and students from lowto moderate-income nered with Fund Aid for Community Sustainfamilies, who enroll in college and complete a degree. able Development (FSD) to support small Our investments support programs that provide businesses that promote financial, social and secondary students with academic preparation for environmental returns. college and education for students and families FSD provides enterprise development focused on how to finance a college career, from training on topics such as business planning and accessing finance to 2,000 aspiring starting college savings accounts to applying for entrepreneurs. In 2011, FSD united nearly financial aid. 200 Russian officials to discuss how to support green small enterprises. In 2011, the Citi Foundation invested more than $8 million in programs that will ensure that close to 15,000 students are on the path to earning a college degree. Neighborhood Revitalization in the United States The recession, rising utility costs, and significant public sector budget deficits have deeply affected the affordable housing delivery system in the United College Success in the United States States. Emerging models of redevelopment, however, Guiding students through are preserving affordable housing in places where the financial aid maze lowto moderate-income people can access jobs, The Citi Foundation funds Financial Aid U, education, transportation, health care, and other a national effort to provide lowto moderatecritical resources. income students and their families with the information and assistance needed to access Leading Community Development Financial Institufinancial aid for postsecondary education. Led tions are demonstrating ways to provide responsible by the Center for Economic Progress and its financial services to the unbanked, and social entrepreNational Community Tax Coalition, Financial neurs are testing and validating new credit scoring Aid U helps families complete their tax returns models. At the Citi Foundation our goal is to find such and the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). successes and invest in them. In 2011, Financial Aid U served 2,892 students In 2011 we invested close to $10 million in Neighborhood and secured access to $22.6 million in federal Revitalization programs. This support will help develop and state grants, plus an additional $11 million or preserve more than 8,000 units of affordable in low-interest student loans. According to the National Student Clearing House, nearly housing as well as build the capacity of 2,500 commu55 percent of the students served in 2011 nity development organizations to better serve the enrolled in post-secondary education and will needs of low-income clients. We also assist programs be awarded over $11.7 million in federal and that are testing these new stabilization models to build state grants to reduce their educational costs. and maintain economically vibrant communities. Serving Communities & Consumers Citizenship Report 2011 32 Youth Education and Livelihoods There are over 81 million unemployed young people Youth Education and Livelihoods in the world. Skills training supports young Through our partners and investments, we have Brazilian jobseekers learned that pathways to improving the learning In Brazil limited educational and professional opportunities and economic outcomes for these development opportunities can make it youth include acquiring the skills and resources difficult for low-income young people to needed to start their own businesses, become establish careers. employed or obtain a post-secondary education. Founded in 2004 with support from the Citi Foundation, Instituto Profissionalizante In 2011, the Citi Foundation invested more than $6 Paulista (IPP) is a pre-employment center million in programs around the world that address the in Sao Paulo that combines basic academic specific needs, in each country, of low-income young and professional training with hands-on people, ages 13–25. Our investments will create experience for low-income secondary school students. improved employment prospects for 15,600 youth, providing them with the entrepreneurial training and The program prepares young people for the job market and increases access to career access to financing to start their own businesses or opportunities, enabling them to generate complete secondary or post-secondary education. income and become productive members of the community. This model aligns closely with the Brazilian government’s policy to reduce unemployment by helping young people build Neighborhood Revitalization skills to get their first jobs. in the United States With continued Citi Foundation support in 2011, IPP provided training and employment Scaling up neighborhood support to 400 low-income students. renewal Areas of vacant and poorly maintained properties left in the wake of foreclosure Market skills boost jobs devalue nearby properties, reduce local for young Indians government revenues for basic services, India’s rapidly growing economy has suppress job creation and drive people from resulted in an increased demand for skilled their communities. Emerging models of workers, but the country’s capacity to meet redevelopment that tackle these issues offer this demand is less than 30 per cent. the potential, with adequate investment, for In 2011 the Citi Foundation forged a brand replication and scale. new partnership with the American India To advance these emerging models, the Citi Foundation’s (AIF) Market Aligned Skills Foundation provided a two-year, $2 million Training Program (MAST) to address this grant to the Housing Partnership Network gap by training unemployed youth for jobs (HPN) in 2011. The program will fund six to in high-growth service sector industries. ten leading housing nonprofits to design and To date, MAST has provided more than 65,000 test scalable models for acquiring, rehabilitatlow-income youth with the knowledge and ing and returning to productive use, vacant skills needed to enter the formal economy foreclosed properties, or those on the verge and secure employment. of foreclosure. HPN will disseminate learning from the program with the goal of shaping public policies that can more effectively promote widespread revitalization. Serving Communities & Consumers Citizenship Report 2011 33 Disaster Response Corporate Contributions As a global bank, Citi recognizes the positive impact we can have on individuals and communities struck ACCION 50th Anniversary by unexpected hardships. Citi and the Citi Foundation In October 2011, ACCION, a nonprofit pioneer have a long and proud tradition of providing support and leader in global microfinance, honored to communities affected by disasters. In 2011, we Citi CEO Vikram Pandit at its 50th anniversary reexamined our disaster response strategy in order dinner in New York City. By bringing the to use resources to generate measurable impact and benefits of financial services to the underserved and unbanked, ACCION has lifted out align investments with our mission and focus. Our of poverty countless individuals, families and new strategy employs a holistic approach to disaster communities, in 31 countries on four contiresponse: supporting preparedness, immediate nents. Citi is ACCION’s longest-tenured response, and rebuilding efforts that all contribute corporate partner. Citi and the Citi Foundation to the long-term economic recovery of communities. have been alongside them every step of the way, providing $14.8 million in Citi Foundation Global disaster response efforts in 2011 included: grants and Citi corporate contributions over Haiti: Citi’s community-related immediate relief and the past 45 years. The dinner raised an additional $1.6 million for ACCION. long-term reconstruction programs following the January 2010 earthquake continued. Half of the pledged funds were directed toward the recapitalization of three local microfinance institutions to help stimulate the nation’s economy. Citi continues to look Corporate Contributions for opportunities to further invest in the economic We make financial donations to nonprofit organizaempowerment and financial inclusion of Haitians. tions in a range of disciplines including community development, education, culture and the arts,  orn of Africa: Citi and the Citi Foundation committed H and diversity. $100,000 to support the World Food Programme (WFP) and the United Nations High Commission for In 2011, Citi contributed $43 million in corporate Refugees to alleviate a famine crisis stemming from giving, outside the Citi Foundation. severe summer droughts. We also established a Citi seeks to support organizations and causes that donation site for Citi employees and partners to are important to our employees and to the communicontribute to WFP. ties in which we operate. Where possible and approJapan: Immediately following the earthquake, priate, we also seek to ensure consistency between Citi established a Disaster Relief Fund to support the our community giving and our business goals and Japanese Red Cross Society, with an initial contribuoperations. This means that we look to support tion of $1.2 million from Citi’s Asia Pacific business. programs that fulfill Citi’s legal or regulatory requireIn addition, the Citi Foundation committed $1.2 million ments or public policy objectives, and/or programs to long-term disaster recovery partners. These that align with our business objectives, corporate investments were supported with generous donations culture, and strategic philanthropic goals. from employees around the world and recovery While we financially support organizations in a wide volunteering efforts by Citi Japan employees. range of areas, a significant amount of our giving assists partners and programs working to expand financial inclusion and economic empowerment in underserved communities. Serving Communities & Consumers Citizenship Report 2011 34 Employee Volunteering Volunteer opportunities for employees include: Volunteerism has always been an important part of • Volunteer Day: We encourage all eligible Citi’s culture and citizenship approach. We encourage employees to take one paid day off each calendar employees to become involved with nonprofits and year to volunteer for an eligible organization of non-governmental organizations supported by the their choice. Citi Foundation. Citi volunteer opportunities allow • Volunteer Management System: Employees use employees to donate time and leverage their profesour online database to research, register for, and sional skills and experience in their local communities. track volunteer opportunities in their area. Supporting employees as they volunteer in their In 2011, our employees reported 789,000 volunteer communities builds stronger teams, fosters company hours. This number represents a 29 percent increase loyalty, and has a positive impact on the areas where over 2010. Citi has a presence. We offer traditional and skillbased volunteering opportunities that make use of Global Community Day the enthusiasm and professional expertise of our Many Citi employees volunteer year-round, but Global employees. At the core of Citi volunteerism are many Community Day provides an annual opportunity to employee-led organizations, including Employee have company employees, along with their families Networks, business-specific outreach committees, and friends, come together as a global volunteer green teams and 25 Volunteer Councils, which mobiteam. Citi’s Global Community Day took place on lize employees, and connect them to existing Citi October 22, 2011. More than 40,000 Citi volunteers community partners. and their families in 78 countries volunteered for community projects focused on literacy, housing, environmental protection, nutrition, health care and disaster relief, among others. Employee Volunteering See map on the next page for examples. Citi Poland volunteers earn top honors in European awards In Poland, Citi Handlowy’s Employee Volunteering Program placed first in the Polish “Companies like ours which have managed to do competition of the European Employee well in Peru have a responsibility to give back to Volunteering Awards program. The volunsociety part of what we have achieved thanks to teering program is coordinated by the Leopold our presence here. In Peru, Citi employees value Kronenberg Foundation, which has implemented financial education programs the importance of social responsibility by helping since 1996. families living in extreme poverty take their first Run in 23 European countries by the European step towards financial inclusion.” Commission, the European Employee Volun— José Antonio Blanco, Citi Country Officer of Peru teering Awards aim to recognize the best employee volunteering initiatives that benefit individuals facing work barriers and those at risk of being excluded from the labor market. Serving Communities & Consumers Citizenship Report 2011 35 Global community day 9 1 10 13 6 5 11 12 3 4 14 8 7 2 North America Europe, Middle East & Africa 1 United States: Citi was a national sponsor of Make a Difference Day, 6 Jordan: Volunteers partnered with microfinance organization the country’s largest day of service. Employees took part in the FINCA to help entrepreneurs improve their businesses. flagship event to revitalize an elementary school in Washington, D.C. 7 Kenya: Citi volunteers restored the homes of displaced people  lorida: More than 1,300 volunteers took part in 72 events F living in camps. benefitting 45 organizations, including efforts to support 8 Nigeria: Volunteers helped beautify surroundings and plant trees active-duty military and veterans. for a community center for children living on the streets. New York: In partnership with New York Cares, Citi volunteers 9 United Kingdom: Students in East London got help from Citi painted community spaces, created murals, planted gardens volunteers to design a “Green Week Campaign” for their schools. and revamped play yards with maps and games. Asia Pacific Latin America 10 China: More than 45 Citi volunteer activities took place in China, 2 Brazil: Across the country, more than 1,200 Citi volunteers including support for migrant worker families and children, and worked on neighborhood revitalization projects, including a wetlands conservation project near Shanghai. painting, organizing fundraisers to support the construction of a sports center, teaching children, and donating blood. 11 Hong Kong: Citi volunteers organized a charity ‘climbathon’ where employees, clients and other tenants ran up the stairs of the 3 El Salvador: More than 2,800 volunteers cleaned up 18 schools, 50-story Citibank Plaza to raise funds for a long-time community orphanages and nursing homes throughout the nation. development partner. 4 Honduras: Employees cleaned up parks, hosted educational 12 India: More than 1,000 volunteers teamed up with community workshops for children and restored houses in partners across the country to teach disadvantaged children impoverished communities. about basic money management. 5 Mexico: Across more than 50 cities, Citi volunteers promoted 13 Japan: Recovery and restoration efforts nationwide were literacy through reading activities with children in foster supported by more than 250 Citi volunteers, following the care homes. devastating earthquake and tsunami that hit the nation in March. 14 Philippines: A series of typhoons in October ravaged the Philippines and took more than 1,000 lives. Citi volunteers provided assistance to typhoon victims and helped restore an important heritage site in Manila. An additional 1,700 volunteers helped with community building and tree-planting restoration projects. Serving Communities & Consumers Citizenship Report 2011 36 PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT For complete performance data, see our Key Performance Indicators Report Card. SUPPORTING CREDIT CARD HOLDERS Preserving homeownership Since 2007, Citi has helped more than 1 million homeowners At the end of 2011, Citi was assisting more than 1.1 million credit card in their efforts to avoid potential foreclosure. holders to manage their card debt. 1,100,000 credit card holders assisted 1,000,000 homeowners helped Citi Microfinance Citi Microfinance supported more than 140 microfinance institutions in 40 countries 140 microfinance institutions supported Philanthropic Impact Global impact from financial inclusion and economic empowerment Citi Foundation grants 0 0.5M 1M 1.5M 480,000 individuals 1.1M working toward have met their their financial goals financial goals Citi Foundation Focus Focus Area Total Financial Capability & Asset Building $25,308,000 11% Microfinance $8,791,500 Enterprise Development $10,611,000 13% 32% College Success $8,724,000 Youth Education & Livelihoods $6,450,000 8% Neighborhood Revitalization $9,865,000 11% 11% Financial Insights & Other $8,285,000 14% Grand Total $78,034,500 Serving Communities & Consumers Citizenship Report 2011 37 DIRECTED $6.4Btoward our $50 billion Climate Initiative in 2011 Credit: First Solar ENVIRONMENTAL Sustainability Operations 40 Environmental and Social Risk Management 43 Investing in Environmental Solutions 49 Performance Snapshot 51 IN 2011 Exceeded 2011 goal to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 10 percent from 2005 levels. As Chair, led the Equator Principles Association through its most active year to date, including the launch of a comprehensive process to update the Equator Principles. Became a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Energy Star Partner of the Year, in recognition of outstanding contributions to protecting the environment through energy efficiency. Directed $6.4 billion toward the $50 Billion Climate Initiative in 2011, bringing the total to $36.35 billion as we hit the halfway mark in the 10-year initiative. Closed a landmark $67 million energy efficiency revenue bond in the State of Delaware. In 2011, Citi financed First Solar’s 550MW Desert Sunlight solar photovoltaic project, expected to be the world’s largest solar energy project. ENVIRONMENTALSustainability Citizenship Report 2011 39 Our environmental sustainability strategy is based on forms of energy. In 2011, we purchased 406 GWH of three pillars: the management of the environmental green electricity in seven countries. We were ranked footprint of our own operations, such as energy use 27th in the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) in our offices; the proactive assessment and manageGreen Power Partnership list of Fortune 500 compament of environmental and social risk in projects we nies for 2011. finance; and our investments in solutions to climate Citi became an EPA Energy Star Partner of the Year change and other environmental challenges. in 2011 — the only financial institution in that year to receive this honor, which recognizes organizations Operations that have made outstanding contributions to We recognize that our greatest environmental protecting the environment through energy effiimpacts are associated with the advice and financial ciency. Over the past four years, there were 69 new services we offer our clients. However, reducing our and 100 re-certifications of Citi-managed buildings own impacts is also important and builds credibility in the U.S. earning the Energy Star label, the energy with our employees and clients. efficiency symbol awarded by the EPA. While Energy Our operational focus is to reduce our greenhouse Star is only recognized in the U.S., internationally gas emissions through efficiencies. We take a three39 Citi locations would also meet the Energy Star pronged approach: investing in more efficient certification criteria. equipment such as LED lighting; improving the We design our new locations to minimize the performance of existing equipment through ‘smart’ impact on the environment. We have embedded the building management; and carrying out special principles of the U.S. Green Building Council’s design projects to reduce emissions, such as using a refrigstandard, LEED, into our design and refurbishment erant additive that reduces our air conditioning process and have 194 LEED-certified projects system’s electricity consumption by 10 percent. (4.1 million square feet) across 14 countries. Additionally, we buy energy from renewable sources to support our LEED (Leadership in Energy and We are one of the first companies to take part in Environmental Design) Green Building Program and the LEED Volume Build Portfolio Program, which because Citi believes it is important to use cleaner strives for uniformity in the design, construction, 1812 1820s 1830s 1840s 1850s 1860s 1870s 1880s 1890s 1900s 1910s 1920s 1930s 1940s 1950s 1960s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2012 Pioneering environmental and social risk management for financing Large infrastructure and industrial projects, such manage those risks. These were based on standards as roads, power plants and mines, can have dramatic used by the International Finance Corporation in impacts on the environment. emerging markets. Until the early 2000s, there was no uniform way The Equator Principles were launched in June 2003 to assess and manage the environmental and social and were initially adopted by ten global financial risks associated with the financing of big projects. institutions, including Citi. The Principles are now well In 2002, Citi and three other financial institutions established with more than 70 signatories globally, voluntarily developed a banking industry framework, and have become the gold standard in environmental which became known as the Equator Principles, to and social risk management in project finance. ENVIRONMENTALSustainability Citizenship Report 2011 40 and management of buildings to achieve economies of scale and reduce costs. Operations We follow the Greenhouse Gas Protocol when Finding the paperless solution measuring our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Electronic statements save resources, but We also measure our operational environmental moving customers away from paper can footprint — energy use, fuel consumption, water use be slow and costly. Citi’s businesses were and waste (generated, recycled and electronic) — pursuing paperless statements with their own software and programs, requiring many and analyze the data to optimize performance. See people to manage the software and physical pages 49–51 for our 2011 performance. infrastructure. Our reporting includes more than 12,000 facilities Everything changed with the integration of globally, from skyscrapers to data centers and ATMs. a centralized platform called EDelivery that streamlines e-statement creation and does Almost all of Citi’s GHG emissions are indirect (Scope away with the need to reinvent the wheel every 2), emitted during the generation of the electricity time a unit wishes to shift to paperless delivery. we purchase. EDelivery went live in 2011 and is being used In 2011, we improved energy efficiency by 6.6 percent in Citi’s credit card unit. It is also being tested in our retail banking, mortgages and private on 2005 levels. Additionally, Citi has reduced its bank divisions. Eventually all units will use the carbon emissions by 109,263 tonnes from its 2005 system. At the end of 2011, 29 percent of Citi’s base line year, which is the equivalent of conserving credit card customers were receiving their 12.25 million gallons of gasoline that would power over statements electronically. 21,400 cars for a year. This represents a 9.22 percent reduction in emissions from 2005 levels brought Cutting waste in South Africa about by greater efficiency. When Citi’s green power Until recently Citibank in South Africa had no for LEED buildings is included, our carbon reduction formal waste management program. But during totals 160,191 tonnes, giving a 13.58 percent absolute 2011 it introduced: reduction. This surpasses our original goal to cut • A full-time person on site to sort waste and absolute GHG emissions by 10 percent from 2005 ensure the separation of recyclable materials levels, by 2011. such as paper, tin, plastics and glass • A collection system for batteries, old Our 2015 goals (baseline 2005) are: computer equipment, and toner cartridges — • 25 percent reduction in absolute GHG emissions with cash received for the cartridges sent • 40 percent reduction in waste to landfill to local charities • 20 percent reduction in water usage • Recycle bins in parking basements that • 15 percent of our global real estate to be encourage employees to bring recyclable LEED certified waste from home • 20 percent energy efficiency gains where • Collection of old cooking oil, the revenue we have direct control of operations. from which also goes to charity • As a result of these initiatives, more than Responsibility for managing the environmental ten tonnes of waste was recycled in 2011, a footprint of our operations rests with our Global considerable improvement on previous years. Operations Group Manager and Global Head of Sustainability in the Corporate Realty Services unit. ENVIRONMENTALSustainability Citizenship Report 2011 41 Sustainable Technology Operations Citi has moved on to its second phase of the Desktop Standardization Initiative (DSI). This will see twoSaving water across the globe thirds of employees using a Virtual Desktop solution Whenever we refurbish washrooms, kitchens, by mid-2014. By using less energy intensive machines and gyms in our facilities, we take the opportuand moving to a cloud computing environment nity to install water efficient appliances and fixtures. through the DSI, Citi will consume less energy and further contribute to our overall environmental In some locations we go further by using rainwater. In Citi’s new Milan office, a rainwater sustainability objectives. harvesting system is providing 344,000 liters Additionally, our PC power management program of water a year and has cut the use of municipal water by 38 percent. cuts energy usage, lowers CO2 emissions, and saves money — partly through a product called NightIn Brazil, treated rainwater is used to flush all the toilets and urinals at our São Paulo Watchman which remotely manages and maintains Citicenter, resulting in a 20 percent reduction employees’ computers. The power management in municipal water consumption and estimated program saved around $3.8 million, or approximately savings of around $3,500 a month on water $35 per PC, in energy costs during 2011, and is estibills. Rainwater is also harvested at our offices mated to have reduced CO2 emissions by over 20 in Senatorska in Poland and Yilmaz Plaza in thousand metric tonnes in that year. Turkey, while at Citi sites in Argentina and Peru we have installed automatic water shut We are also reducing environmental impacts through off valves in every building to reduce the our Citi Work Strategies program, which helps amount of water lost because taps are accidentally left running. employees work flexibly, including from home and at client sites. This often cuts down on commuting These and other water reduction initiatives have helped Citi to cut water use by 16.9 percent by car, which results in reductions in harmful tailpipe across the globe since 2005. emissions and fuel consumption, while less energy is used in our offices. Engaging Employees Citi employees have formed 32 local Green Teams Data Centers in many markets to work together on sustainability Around the world Citi’s data centers support the efforts for our businesses and our communities. delivery of our products and services to our customThese teams increase employee awareness of enviers. These large facilities house thousands of servers, ronmental issues, reduce the impacts of operations data storage, and networking equipment and account at their sites, and volunteer to improve the sustainfor over 20 percent of Citi’s total energy use globally. ability of the communities where Citi operates. Our focus is to optimize IT equipment utilization, virtualize and consolidate hardware, and reduce the amount of energy required to support and cool this equipment. To this end, in 2011, Citi was able to eliminate one data center facility by increasing our percentage of virtual servers to 40 percent, increasing global server utilization to 35 percent, and increasing global storage utilization to 70 percent. In 2010, Citi announced the return of water-cooled mainframes to our facilities, with a 12 percent reduction in energy use over standard air-cooled equipment. ENVIRONMENTALSustainability Citizenship Report 2011 42 For transactions in emerging markets, the policy Engaging Employees requires adherence to: • The International Finance Corporation (IFC) Green team snapshot: St. Louis Performance Standards which cover a range of Citi’s Green Team in St. Louis, Missouri earned cross-sector issues such as biodiversity, resettlethe St. Louis Business Challenge Award of Merit ment, Indigenous Peoples, community health, for Greatest Gain. and labor conditions, and The Green Team’s efforts throughout 2011 demonstrated its commitment to support Citi’s • IFC Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) environmental sustainability goals and included: Guidelines, which provide pollution prevention, safety and best-practice guidance to 63 industry • Creation of a supply room for collecting and sectors. redistributing excess office supplies saving the office nearly $10,000 Incorporated into the ESRM Policy are a number • Hosting quarterly Green Days where they of Citi-specific sector standards, including: organized presentations by local sustainable community organizations for colleagues • Sustainable Forestry Sector Standard • Collecting pledges from over 700 employees • Nuclear-Related Transactions Sector Standard to be more responsible consumers. The team • Mountaintop Removal Mining Environmental helps colleagues uphold these commitments Diligence Process by providing information and sustainability • Carbon Principles (for US coal-fired power plants). tips regularly • Conducting new hire sustainability training The ESRM Policy gives guidance on transactions • Coordinating a wireless phone drop off, in “Areas of High Caution and Special Focus”, which clothing drives and regular environmentally include critical habitats and areas of high conservafocused volunteer opportunities. tion value, significant cultural and heritage value, Indigenous Peoples, and large scale resettlement. It prohibits the financing of transactions involving forced labor, harmful child labor and illegal logging. Environmental & Social The ESRM Unit is responsible for review, advice and Risk Management consultation on new transactions, as well as internal We use our Environmental and Social Risk Managetraining, communications, policy implementation, ment (ESRM) Policy to manage risks in the projects tracking and reporting. Supporting the unit are “ESRM we finance, help our bankers advise clients, and to Champions” — credit risk officers with additional promote environmentally and socially sound ways of ESRM review and advice responsibilities — located doing business. in each region. ESRM Policy and Management Approach Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Review to Screening Transactions Committee (ESPRC), made up of senior managers Established in 2003 and updated periodically, Citi’s from across Citi business units, provides guidance ESRM Policy is built on managing risk at the project on ESRM issues and related environmental issues. level. The policy covers a broad range of financial The Director of Corporate Citizenship and the Vice products in various sectors where the use of proceeds Chairman of Global Banking co-chair the committee. is known and tied to a specific physical project or asset, and which meet certain financial thresholds. These are: $5 million for equity investments; $10 million for project finance transactions; and $50 million for corporate loans, acquisition finance, and debt and equity placements or underwritings. ENVIRONMENTALSustainability Citizenship Report 2011 43 ESRM Review Process ESRM Unit and client agree on an Action Plan — We have developed a thorough process for ensuring a formalized to-do list of environmental and social compliance with our ESRM Policy. First, at the initial actions with firm deadlines and persons responsible. greenlight (marketing) stage, Citi bankers and risk This Action Plan becomes a binding covenant of the managers around the world identify transactions loan agreement and compliance with it is monitored, subject to the ESRM Policy, via appropriate trigger either by an independent consultant or internally by points found in Citi’s credit risk policies and procethe client’s environmental team members. dures. Once a transaction is identified, the ESRM Unit In addition, within Citi, portfolio managers conduct reviews it and determines which risk category it falls annual credit reviews of all transactions, ensuring into, using the following criteria (as defined by the IFC): client compliance with covenants, including those on • A — expected to have significant adverse social environmental and social matters. Citi’s Internal Audit and/or environmental impacts that are diverse, team selectively audits transactions across Citi to irreversible or unprecedented ensure due diligence and compliance with all Citi • B — expected to have limited adverse environpolicies, including the ESRM Policy. mental and/or social impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific, largely reversible TRANSACTIONS RECEIVING ESRM REVIEW in 2011 and readily addressed through mitigation measures Total Total 433 • C — expected to have minimal or no adverse Category A impacts. The ESRM Unit then lays out requirements to meet 52 international good practice, and thereby comply with Citi’s ESRM Policy. If a deal goes ahead, the team works with the bankers to help the client properly 0 100 200 300 400 500 identify risks, mitigate and manage impacts, and meet all ESRM requirements. If needed and relevant, the TRANSACTIONS RECEIVING ESRM REVIEW: BY REGION Since 2009 150 Total 146 Category A 129 68 56 55 157 2 4 5 2009 2010 2011 161 US and Canada 111 112 24 26 24 120 2009 2010 2011 91 Europe, Middle East and Africa 18 23 14 2009 2010 2011 18 21 9 Asia and the Pacific 2009 2010 2011 Latin America and the Caribbean ENVIRONMENTALSustainability Citizenship Report 2011 44 TRANSACTIONS RECEIVING ESRM REVIEW: TRANSACTIONS RECEIVING ESRM REVIEW: BY PRODUCT TYPE BY sector 2011 2011 Total Category A Total Category A Project Finance 33 Infrastructure 94 16 & Transportation 4 Project Finance 18 Metals & Mining 75 Advisories 4 19 Corporate or 250 Oil, Gas & 76 Government Loans 23 Petrochemicals 14 Debt & Equity 44 Power (including 32 70 Underwriting 6 renewables 11 projects) Private Bank 11 Manufacturing 42 Transactions 0 & Industrials 2 Forestry AR 12 Other 21 0 0 Equity 4 Forestry, 15 0 Pulp & Paper 0 Acquisition 24 Agribusiness 17 Finance 2 (including palm oil) 2 Other 37 Telecom23 (letters of credit, 1 munications 0 derivatives, etc.) 0 50 100 150 200 250 0 20 40 60 80 100 Training ESRM Training data Since 2009 ESRM Policy training is an important part of preparing our bankers and risk managers around Over 4,000 Citi employees have been trained on environmental and social risk issues since the ESRM Policy was released in 2003. the world to take the first steps in implementing our policy. We use online and in-person training to famil250 iarize employees with ESRM Policy and procedures. Approximately 168 Citi employees received ESRM 200 210 training in 2011, including in-person training sessions in China, France, U.K., U.S. and Vietnam. 150 168 157 100 50 0 2009 2010 2011 ENVIRONMENTALSustainability Citizenship Report 2011 45 The Equator Principles — 2011 EP-COVERED PROJECT FINANCE ADVISORIES Sharing Good Practice Beyond Citi Citi was a co-founder of the Equator Principles (EP), 14 Reviewed 14 the gold standard for managing environmental and Mandated social risks in project finance. From ten initial 12 members at the 2003 launch, the EP Association 10 membership has grown to more than 70 financial 9 institutions from around the world. 8 In 2011, Citi continued its role as Chair of the EP 6 Association Steering Committee, successfully 4 leading the association through its most active year 4 to date. In May 2011, the Association completed a 2 strategic review of the EP with the public release of 1 0 1 0 its conclusions available here. CATEGORY A CATEGORY B CATEGORY C Throughout the summer and fall of 2011, Citi, as Chair, Total Reviewed: 18 helped the EP Association organize and launch an Total Mandated: 11 ambitious and comprehensive process to update the principles, using existing working groups on climate and social risks, and establishing task forces to 2011 Funded Project Finance Deals by Sector address additional areas emerging from the EP A B C Total Strategic Review, for example reporting, transparPower* 1 3 0 4 ency and scope. The EP Association will conduct Oil and gas 3 1 0 4 public consultation on the proposed Equator Principles updates in 2012. Mining and metals 1 0 0 1 Water 0 1 0 1 2011 EP-covered Project Finance Deals Total 5 5 0 10 *Power deals included one solar project, one wind project, one natural Reviewed 20 gas project, and one transmission project. Funded 17 15 16 10 5 5 5 $19.3B $3.2B 0 0 CATEGORY A CATEGORY B CATEGORY C Total Reviewed: 33 Total Funded: 10 Total Cost: $22.5B ENVIRONMENTALSustainability Citizenship Report 2011 46 The Equator Principles — Sharing Good Practice Beyond Citi Biodiversity for Banks Assessing lending for During 2011, as co-leader of the Equator Principles aluminum smelting in India Biodiversity Working Group, Citi developed an In 2011, Citi structured a project finance deal for innovative biodiversity capacity building program a $1 billion greenfield development of an aluminum for the finance sector in partnership with the World smelter in India, including related infrastructure. Wildlife Fund (WWF) and the Business and BiodiverThe project required the acquisition of 1,500 sity Offsets Program. hectares, the resettlement of 1,400 families, The program aims to help Equator Principles and impacts to native forests. financial institutions and the wider banking and Citi’s ESRM Unit determined this was a Category investment community incorporate biodiversity A project subject to the Equator Principles, and ecosystem services into their lending and and required a robust Independent Review of investment decisions. A full-day workshop on the the project’s environmental and social impacts program, held in Washington, D.C. in October 2011 by a qualified firm acceptable to Citi against following the Equator Principles AGM, was attended IFC Performance Standards and relevant by more than 20 financial institutions. The success IFC Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines. of the first workshop has opened opportunities for The client was very open and responsive — and further engagement with clients and financial was willing to answer any questions the consultant institutions on biodiversity. The coalition plans to had. Resettlement and land acquisition were largely replicate the workshop in 2012 in Brazil, Singapore, on track, and no scheduled tribes were affected. South Africa, and the U.K. Any gaps identified with IFC standards were addressed through the project’s Environmenta l and Social Action Plan, and agreed on by the client. Infrastructure in Turkey For example, the Independent Review identified In 2011 Citi became financial advisor to an infrastructhe need for further consideration of the replaceture project in Turkey that had potential impacts on ment value given to resettled families under the archaeological remains. existing project resettlement policy. The project We helped our client comply with the Equator was required to provide additional benefits to Principles by hiring a renowned archaeological resettled families to fill gaps between Indian laws team to contribute to an environmental and social and IFC standards, and to report regularly to impact assessment. lenders on continued progress with resettlement and compensation. A predictive model was developed to calculate possible impacts on the environment, and archaeological sites within 200 meters of the project were mapped so that they could be protected. ENVIRONMENTALSustainability Citizenship Report 2011 47 Human Rights Reporting uses MTR as an extraction method. Read about Citi’s Citi’s ESRM Policy incorporates many human rights MTR Environmental Due Diligence Process here. issues, including labor risks, security risks, Indigenous One of the four MTR transactions we reviewed and Peoples, and resettlement, via the IFC Performance closed was subject to a high level of stakeholder Standards and the Equator Principles. The IFC Perforscrutiny. Citi closely engaged the client on sustainmance Standards, which are consistent with relevant ability matters throughout the due diligence period, International Labour Organization Core Labor Stanand after financial closure. dards and Conventions, were further updated in 2011. The EP Association supported the IFC’s inclusion of 2011 Transactions subject to the MTR Process strengthened human rights language and appropriate triggers in the updated Performance Standards, in Transactions reviewed and closed 4 order to reflect emerging good practice consistent Transactions reviewed that did not proceed 1 with the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Total 5 Human Rights. Further information on Citi and human rights can be found in the Ethics and Public Policy section of this report. Carbon Principles In 2011, Citi closed 13 transactions where our Human & Project Finance Carbon Emissions Rights Statement was relevant or invoked. The ESRM Citi is a founding signatory of the Carbon Principles, team identified those transactions with human rights which are relevant when Citi is leading any transacrisks during the initial due diligence phase and tion for a client that is constructing, or planning to ensured, prior to close, that the risks were properly construct within six months, a coal-fired power plant mitigated and managed by our clients. in the U.S. that will generate more than 200 megawatts of electricity. This applies whether the plant is Human rights issues managed new or an expansion. In 2011, Citi participated in one in 2011 transactions bond transaction subject to the Carbon Principles. Resettlement Indigenous People Citi reports annually on the aggregate lifetime carbon 2 5 Security Risks dioxide emissions from thermal power plants (new Labor Risks builds and expansions) that it finances globally through project finance. Project-specific emissions are calculated for both a 30and 60-year plant 4 lifetime, and are derived from the plant’s capacity and heat rate, the carbon content of the fuel, and 3 projected capacity utilization. We report the percentage of lifetime emissions equivalent to the The total in the chart above adds up to up more than 13 because one percentage of total project costs financed by Citi. In transaction may have more than one human right risk. 2011, we project financed one thermal power plant (the other three power sector project finance deals Due Diligence on Mountaintop were for solar, wind, and transmission projects). Removal Mining Mountaintop removal (MTR) coal mining is a surface Lifetime thermal power plant project financed emissions mining method used particularly in the Central Appalachian region of the U.S. In 2009, Citi impleReporting Year 30-Year Plant Life 60-Year Plant Life mented a robust MTR Environmental Due Diligence 2011 7.4 mmtCO2 14.8 mmtCO2 Process that has been incorporated into our credit 2010 0 0 risk policies and procedures. The Due Diligence Total 7.4 mmtCO2 14.8 mmtCO2 Process is triggered when engaging any client that ENVIRONMENTALSustainability Citizenship Report 2011 48 Investing in Emerging Markets, Emerging Issues environmental solutions Helping to develop sustainable “Over the past two years, EDF has been working with banking principles for Nigeria Citi as part of a multi-stakeholder process to create The Nigerian Central Bank, working with markets that finance energy efficiency projects. EDF commercial banks, announced plans in 2011 to is encouraged by Citi’s commitment to issues that introduce sustainable banking principles for may not provide immediate revenue opportunities, Nigeria. Citi Nigeria was nominated to be part of the working group for this project, collaboratbut will provide long-term economic and environing with other Nigerian banks to develop new mental solutions.” “Nigeria Sustainable Banking Principles.” The — Brad Copithorne, Environmental Defense Fund (EDF), working group is focusing on a few priority Energy and Financial Policy Specialist development areas, including issues around oil and gas, renewable energy and agriculture. The Citi seeks opportunities to use its products and standards are in the early stage of development services to help develop solutions to major environand are intended to encourage environmentally mental problems, including climate change, threats responsible lending in Nigeria. to biodiversity, and water scarcity. We are doing this through our traditional business channels but also Sustainable palm oil by setting up units dedicated to environmental 2011 was the first full year of Citi’s membership business development. of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), a not-for-profit association of stakeClimate change in particular presents significant holders throughout the palm oil supply chain — challenges to our global economy, national security, palm oil producers, processors and traders, infrastructure and public health. It also creates risks consumer goods manufacturers, retailers, associated with our facilities, some of which are in financial institutions, and NGOs. The RSPO areas that could be affected by severe weather develops global standards for sustainable palm resulting from climate change. Our clients face oil production to address, for example, biodiversity impacts of the sector. climate-related risks from regulatory, physical and other business impacts. Such risks are referenced in Citi requires clients involved in the palm oil industry to commit to a time-bound Action Plan our Annual Report on Form 10-K. to achieve, over time, RSPO certification, or Citi supports market-based policy solutions to tackcertification by an equivalent credible third party body acceptable to Citi. ling climate change. Such solutions need to be applicable across various countries and regions, but we also support existing and emerging regulation as important building blocks for a global framework on tackling climate change. Through our transactions, we have a degree of potential influence over activities that contribute to climate change. We work with clients to reduce their carbon footprint, and to finance low-carbon initiatives in the energy and other sectors. At the project level, we help clients to assess their vulnerability to climate change and implement adaptation measures. For example: • We provide financing and investments that help our clients to develop projects, technologies and services to reduce emissions ENVIRONMENTALSustainability Citizenship Report 2011 49 • We develop innovative clean energy financing the energy consumed in commercial buildings in the structures to help clients access new sources U.S. by 2020, through a combination of new financing of capital models and tax incentives. Citi co-hosted an energy • We conduct research on climate change, clean efficiency finance conference with the Environmental energy, water and green building and convey the Defense Fund at our headquarters in New York. This findings to our clients. was attended by over 200 bankers, clients, government officials, NGOs, and real estate owners. We pursue these activities through teams in Citi’s business units. For example, we have a global alternaWe have an internal Climate Council, which is made up tive energy finance group and a municipal securities of senior bankers and line managers and is chaired by renewable energy team. An energy efficiency group Alberto Verme, the chairman of EMEA (Europe, Middle is developing and implementing ways to unlock, East and Africa) banking. The purpose of the Climate catalyze, and scale the market for energy efficiency Council is to develop Citi’s climate change strategy and building retrofits. across the EMEA region, assess government policies on climate change, and identify related business During 2011, we helped clients and stakeholders opportunities at the regional level. It had three meetunderstand and overcome barriers to accessing ings in 2011, and hosted two events for clients and energy efficiency finance. Citi served as the sole stakeholders — one on alternative energy finance, underwriter for a landmark issuance of $67 million and another on energy efficiency. worth of energy efficiency revenue bonds in the State of Delaware to finance the development of We engage regularly with stakeholder groups — local energy efficiency projects and create an estiincluding from the NGO and socially responsible mated 1,000 jobs. investment communities — to discuss climate change impacts and challenges, to talk about our role as a We became the first major financial institution to sign financier of the energy sector, and to learn about up as an inaugural ally of President Obama’s Better emerging issues and trends. In particular, we collaboBuildings Initiative, which aims to reduce by 20 percent rate with NGOs and research organizations such as the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions (formerly the Pew Center on Global Climate Change), EnvironInvestigating in Environmental Solutions mental Defense Fund, Natural Resources Defense Council, Ceres, Renewable Energy and International Citi creates new ESG-focused Law Policy Network and the Clinton Climate Initiative. solution for investor clients In 2011, Citi launched OpenLend for Socially In June 2011, we met with the Rainforest Action Responsible Investors, a program that enables Network and the Union of Concerned Scientists to clients to tailor cash collateral investments in discuss the financing of coal-fired power plants, a topic accordance with environmental, social and we also discussed with Jantzi-Sustainalytics, governance (ESG) factors. Participation in this the socially responsible investment research firm. solution enables investor clients to optimize portfolio returns while satisfying commitments to sustainability goals. $50 Billion Climate Change Developed in partnership with Sustainalytics, an Investment Initiative award-winning ESG research firm, Citi applies We are confident that we will achieve our goal, customized multi-dimensional ESG screens to announced in 2007, to direct $50 billion over 10 years create a universe of eligible securities for to activities that mitigate climate change. These investment by the collateral management team actions include internal operational projects as well pursuant to the client’s investment guidelines. as financing alternative energy, investing in clean techOpenLend was developed after discussions with nology and researching carbon reduction strategies key stakeholders, including Ceres. on behalf of our clients. We have directed $36.35 billion into such initiatives so far; a process that has ENVIRONMENTALSustainability Citizenship Report 2011 50 CUMULATIVE TOTAL DIRECTED While the Alternative Energy practice serves as a TO $50 BILLION TARGETS coordinator of activity across the bank, many other $36.35B total committed units within Citi — including Municipal Securities, Global Transaction Services, Community Capital, $5.49B $5.11B $6.4B 2007 2009 2011 Microfinance, and Consumer and Commercial Banking — are active in the area of alternative energy. $0B $40B $50B The Citi Investment Research and Analysis (CIRA) Sustainable Investment team conducts equity research into climate change, carbon trading and clean energy $9.4B base $4.29B $5.67B Goal (including identifying a global “climate change 2007 2008 2010 2017 universe” of stocks), water, and green buildings. Our Sustainable Investment team also provides clients included increased internal coordination, additions with environmental and social risk analysis for listed of new talent, and development of new products companies. These research streams reflect demand such as financing for portfolios of residential rooftop from an increasing number of investors who are solar installations. seeking more broker research on ESG (environmental, social and governance) issues. In the U.S., Citi has the largest market share (28 percent) of U.S. Department of Energy Section Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 1703/1705 Loan Guarantee Program financings for Citi has responded to the CDP since it began in Alternative Energy, and we are the leader in such bond 2003. In 2011, we scored 70 out of 100 on disclosure transactions. Our Alternative Energy practice of emissions, which means we were judged to be completed the largest alternative energy finance deal showing increased understanding and measurement of 2011, for the $2.3 billion Desert Sunlight project in of company-specific risks and opportunities related California, which will provide enough solar energy to to climate change. We were placed in band B on serve the needs of about 160,000 California homes by performance, which indicates that integration of 2015, displacing around 300,000 tonnes of carbon climate change is recognized as a priority for strategy, dioxide per year — the equivalent of taking 60,000 but that not all initiatives are fully established. Our cars off the road. response to the CDP is available here. PERFORMANCE snapshot LEED Projects by building type LEED Certification by region & level achieved Projected North Leed Projects 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 for 2012 Asia Pacific Emea America Total Data Centers 1 1 2 0 0 0 Certified 2 0 145 147 Dc File Storage 0 0 3 0 0 0 Silver 4 2 11 17 Office Buildings 0 4 14 6 8 18 Gold 12 3 13 28 Operations Centers 1 1 1 3 0 1 Platinum 1 1 0 2 Branches 0 52 65 16 16 49 Total 19 6 169 194 Total 2 58 85 25 24 68 Cumulative Total 2 60 145 170 194 262 ENVIRONMENTALSustainability Citizenship Report 2011 51 PERFORMANCE snapshot For complete performance data, see our Key Performance Indicators Report Card. Operational Environmental Results Indicator 2005 (baseline) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Absolute CO2e 1,198,195 5.0% 11.9% 9.7% 1.7% -4.8% -13.6% emissions (mt) Green energy 9,704 MWh 40,988 MWh 60,154 MWh 132,175 MWh 125,899 MWh 233,377 MWh 406,000 MWh procurement* 2 countries 3 countries 5 countries 6 countries 7 countries 7 countries 7 countries Data center 51 42 37 32 27 22 20 consolidation * Citi does not count 100% of green energy purchases towards carbon offsets. Only certified energy purchases meeting strict standards based upon the GHG Protocol are calculated as an emissions offset. Operational Environmental Goals & Performance since 2009 2009 Business Air Travel Goals Performance Citi reports annually on its Scope 3 GHG emissions from our Complete ENERGY STAR 1,600 branches benchmarked in employee travel on commercial airlines. These emissions tend benchmarking of 1,500 branches ENERGY STAR, over 100 major to fluctuate with the growth of our business, and we continue to and expand major buildings buildings benchmarked implement IT solutions such as video conferencing to help portfolio to over 100 sites reduce our business travel footprint. Achieve ENERGY STAR All 11 2008 ENERGY STAR facilities Certification in at least 20 new recertified and 43 new facilities sites and re-certify all 2008 certified in 2009, totaling Scope 3 GHG Emissions recipient facilities 54 certified facilities from Business Air Travel Expand LEED training program LEED training organized and available CO2e to assist employees in earning in all regions — resulting in 35 percent emissions LEED Accreditation increase in number of LEED (mt) Accredited staff members 150,000 2010 125,000 127,000 Expand ENERGY STAR Completed benchmarking of over benchmarking to over 6,000 4,500 facilities globally, earned 100,000 119,179 100,243 facilities globally energy star label for 64 US facilities to date, achieving a 7.3 87,000 75,000 percent reduction in energy consumption across entire portfolio 50,000 2011 25,000 Achieve 10 percent reduction in Surpassed goal, to achieve 13.58 absolute levels of GHG emissions percent absolute GHG emissions 0 globally from 2005 base year reduction from base year 2005 2008 2009 2010 2011 2015 Achieve a 25 percent reduction in absolute GHG emissions from 2005 base year (building upon current 2011 goal of 10 percent) Achieve a 40 percent reduction in waste stream to landfill from a 2005 base year Achieve a 20 percent reduction in water usage from a 2005 base year 15 percent of global real estate portfolio will be LEED certified Improve portfolio energy efficiency by 20 percent from 2005 base year as measured in ENERGY STAR’s Portfolio Manager ENVIRONMENTALSustainability Citizenship Report 2011 52 Citi’s Environmental Footprint 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 RSF 1 85,696,201.70 86,525,074.36 91,137,792.36 89,225,486.75 82,624,643.50 78,774,466.80 75,413,960.00 Seats 391,601.19 398,349.11 441,709.95 447,658.08 413,410.67 391,576.42 378,872.92 Headcount 383,100.94 381,960.94 423,866.44 406,618.29 392,619.15 386,867.17 394,015.08 ABSOLUTE INDICATORS2 Electricity (GwH) 2,153.09 2,311.14 2,465.89 2,471.33 2,269.11 2,106.75 2,062.79 District Heating 86.68 86.26 91.45 66.50 76.65 77.35 61.63 (Steam & Chilled Water) Energy Purchased (GwH) 2,239.78 2,397.40 2,557.34 2,537.83 2,345.76 2,184.10 2,124.42 Scope 2 Natural Gas (GwH) 179.21 163.55 170.02 156.44 167.42 161.25 141.69 Fuel Oil (GwH) 53.02 56.41 54.54 51.59 70.00 52.17 42.95 Energy Consumed (GwH) 232.23 219.97 224.57 208.03 237.42 213.41 184.64 Scope 1 Total Energy (GwH) 2,472.01 2,617.36 2,781.91 2,745.86 2,583.18 2,397.51 2,309.05 Recycled Office Paper (mt) 18,981.22 21,727.33 21,569.15 23,340.52 22,796.98 22,644.17 22,005.83 Refuse and Other (mt) 72,227.41 73,384.08 75,371.00 68,760.38 58,463.24 49,542.80 46,985.92 Total Waste (mt) 91,208.63 95,111.41 96,940.16 92,100.90 81,260.22 72,186.96 68,991.75 Total Water Consumption (m) 3 7,416,842.86 7,628,724.44 7,638,214.04 8,321,462.49 7,097,694.30 6,165,322.99 6,165,483.29 CO2e EMISSIONS Direct CO2e (GHG Scope 1) 46,151.62 44,162.72 44,865.51 41,639.14 48,326.58 42,660.97 36,750.52 Indirect CO2e (GHG Scope 2) 1,139,036.75 1,215,623.59 1,260,568.85 1,246,700.60 1,137,158.67 1,065,729.08 1,039,178.20 Total CO2e (mt) 1,185,188.37 1,259,786.31 1,305,434.37 1,288,339.74 1,185,485.25 1,108,390.05 1,075,928.72 Green Power Offsets (CO2e) 5,953.00 25,904.00 30,223.00 57,084.00 47,309.00 42,084.00 56,881.67 Net CO2e (mt) 1,179,235.37 1,233,882.31 1,275,211.37 1,231,255.74 1,138,176.25 1,066,306.05 1,019,047.05 RELATIVE INDICATORS Total Energy Consumed KwH / RSF 28.85 30.25 30.52 30.77 31.26 30.44 30.62 KwH / Seat 6,312.56 6,570.52 6,298.04 6,133.83 6,248.46 6,122.71 6,094.54 KwH / Headcount 6,452.63 6,852.43 6,563.17 6,752.92 6,579.35 6,197.24 5,860.32 Net CO2e Metric Tons / RSF 0.0138 0.0143 0.0140 0.0138 0.0138 0.0135 0.0135 Metric Tons / Seat 3.01 3.10 2.89 2.75 2.75 2.72 2.69 Metric Tons / Headcount 3.08 3.23 3.01 3.03 2.90 2.76 2.59 Adjusted to normalize for business acquisition and disposition changes in real estate portfolio. 1. “RSF” is rentable square footage. This value is a 12-month average of the 3. Data in this table will differ from prior years’ reports due to accuracy total owned/leased portfolio, excluding sublet space in which utilities are improvements in historical consumption data, as well as the recalculation consumed by non-Citi tenants. of all emissions using the most up-to-date eGRID (United States) and WRI (non-US) GHG conversion factors for purchased electricity. 2. All absolute indicators and CO2e emissions are rounded to whole number values. ENVIRONMENTALSustainability Citizenship Report 2011 53 We encourage best practices among our diverse base of suppliers, which in 2011 numbered more than 14,000 across 100 countries Our Suppliers Sustainable Purchasing 56 Supplier Diversity 56 IN 2011 Citi began developing a Corporate Responsibility Questionnaire and Assessment Form for Suppliers that will focus on securing acknowledgement and ratification of Citi’s Statement of Supplier Principles. OUR SUPPLIERS Citizenship Report 2011 55 Our size and geographical reach provides a tremenSustainable Purchasing dous opportunity to address ethical, social, and Citi has developed a supplier rating system to select environmental challenges through the way we manproducts based on environmental performance, age our core business operations. leading to reduced energy use and landfill waste, while providing an incentive for our vendors to As one of the largest financial services institutions in make sustainable improvements to their products the world, we want to lead by example. Citi aims to and operations. advance human dignity, reduce waste, improve efficiency, and reduce our carbon footprint. We In 2011, we developed a questionnaire for suppliers encourage these best practices among our diverse on their sustainability practices. The 26 questions base of suppliers, which in 2011 numbered more than focus on whether suppliers have policies on areas 14,000 across 100 countries. such as climate change, waste management and human rights, but also seek details on topics such Our sustainable supply chain initiative is anchored by as whether they have been guilty of breaches of the guidelines we have set out in our Statement of environmental regulations. Supplier Principles. The information is used to create a score for each We also encourage adoption by our suppliers of their supplier. This helps with decisions on whether or not own codes or statements of best practice. to use suppliers, as well as identifying areas where we can encourage them to improve. Statement of Supplier Principles The Statement of Supplier Principles, introduced in Supplier Diversity 2010, is communicated to existing and potential It is important to work with a wide range of diverse suppliers when we contact them about contracts and suppliers and consultants in the communities we as part of our normal supplier relationship manageserve. Citi has had a supplier diversity program since ment. It is also available to suppliers through our 1977, and spending with diverse suppliers is tracked Citi Procurement Services public website. and reported quarterly by category, although not During 2011 we began developing a corporate responpublished publicly for commercial reasons. sibility questionnaire and assessment form that will Since 2008, our spending with first and second tier focus on securing supplier acknowledgement and suppliers has decreased. Despite this, we boosted our ratification of the Statement of Supplier Principles. efforts to improve supplier diversity, increasing our We aim to have this fully implemented in 2012. internal focus and requiring sourcing managers to identify areas of opportunity. Additional actions we will take include: • Establishing a Senior Sponsor/Champion to promote Diversity Supplier spend • Strengthening Diversity Supplier language in our standard contracts to increase Tier 2 spend and implementing more effective monitoring of Tier 2 Diversity Supplier spend • Identifying additional categories for near-term Diversity Supplier spend opportunities OUR SUPPLIERS Citizenship Report 2011 56 • Continuing to leverage Supplier Connection Our goal is to find ways to continue to improve our (see below) across all categories of spend spend with diverse and small businesses wherever • Re-communicating the Citi Supplier Diversity possible. This will require us to share best practices Program internally to raise awareness not only among those within our industry, but with • Supporting Citi Community Development’s other corporations who share our commitment in Partnership for Small Business Development this area. and other similar programs. We work with various business groups that introduce us to diverse suppliers, including: Supplier Diversity • Supplier Connection: In 2011, Citi became a Supporting job growth through founding member of the group, which provides a diverse supply chain a free internet service to small businesses to apply to become suppliers for big businesses. Havens & Company is a New Hampshire-based, five-person company that negotiates life, Citi tracks the number of buyers that are trained disability and accidental benefits programs. in and use Supplier Connection, as well as the After trying unsuccessfully for 15 years to sell number of small businesses we contract. (See its services to large corporations, the company case study) registered with Supplier Connection (see • Centers of Excellence, National Minority above) in March 2011. Within four months, Supplier Development Council (NMSDC): Havens & Company was invited to meet with Citi to discuss its expertise in non-medical This small group of companies implements the benefits. NMSDC’s minority business development best practices, developing relationships with select “Supplier Connection provided us with a minority-owned businesses over a period of up connection point at Citi that we wouldn’t have been able to gain without the portal.” to two years — Lynne Noel, Vice President of Underwriting • Small Business Services Corporate Alliance and Technical Services, Havens & Company Program: In 2011 Citi became a founding member of the program which brings together large companies and minority and women-owned firms. Citi serves as the leading corporate member on the program’s Corporate Skills and Training initiative, with four Citi representatives coaching small business participants. We help small diverse businesses expand their customer base. Each year we host a networking/ matchmaking event for our suppliers. In 2011, for the fourth year, we hosted a “Doing Business with Citi” workshop for potential suppliers and co-sponsored the seventh Annual Broker Dealer Breakfast in New York, where suppliers receive a briefing on Citi’s plans for the upcoming year. OUR SUPPLIERS Citizenship Report 2011 57 Citi is a global bank connecting 1,000 cities in 160 countries and millions of people. Regional Citizenship at a Glance Asia Pacific 60 Europe 61 Latin America 62 Africa and Middle East 63 Citi is a global bank doing business in more than 160 countries, with approximately 200 million customer accounts. In every country and jurisdiction we are committed to being good corporate citizens. Outside of the U.S., we organize and assess our citizenship efforts by region: Asia Pacific; Europe; Middle East and Africa; and Latin America. We work in partnership with organizations that strive to improve economic conditions, enhance the financial inclusion of communities, and protect the environment in these areas. This section provides a selection of our citizenship work in these regions over the past year. Evelyn, a successful microentrepreneur in Venezuela, was a finalist in the 2011 Citi Microentrepreneurship Awards. The Awards, which aim to highlight best practice among microentrepreneurs and microfinance organizations, took place in 28 countries around the world in 2011. Regional Citizenship at a Glance Citizenship Report 2011 59 Citizenship in Asia Pacific Citi has been in Asia Pacific for more than a century, and has around 60,000 employees across 19 markets. As 1.5 billion adults in the region lack access to basic financial services, Citi Asia Pacific has steadily increased its support for initiatives that increase financial inclusion. In 2011, nearly 80 percent of its grant portfolio was invested in financial capability and microfinance initiatives, representing $9.6 million in funding for 72 programs. Citizenship in Action: 2011 Around 270 senior policymakers and financial educaAwards and Recognition tion experts from 33 countries gathered in Jakarta for Our 2011 citizenship efforts were recognized by the eighth annual Citi-FT Financial Education Summit, various external parties. Highlights include: sponsored by the Citi Foundation, in November 2011. • Singapore Compact named Citi Singapore as Best Discussions focused on how financial capability can Community Developer, recognizing its sustained be used to boost financial inclusion and better protect Citizenship efforts in financial education and microentrepreneurs, migrant workers, and out-ofyouth development school youth. • For the second year in a row, Citi Thailand’s In 2011, Citi Foundation funding supported the achievements in corporate citizenship were APEC Business Advisory Council’s Financial Inclusion honored, earning the 2011 Corporate Social Advisory Group through sponsorship of the second Responsibility Excellence Recognition award APEC Financial Inclusion Forum held in Tokyo, which from the AMCHAM Thailand CSR Committee provided a chance for policy dialogue on “Expanding • For the third consecutive year, Citi Philippines Financial Access through Regional Public-Private was recognized by the Philippine Department Cooperation”. of Energy through the Don Emilio Abello Energy In September 2011, the Citi Foundation announced Efficiency Awards Program a $1 million commitment to Habitat for Humanity • Citi Taiwan was awarded Appreciation for Particito support a three-year, multi-country micro-savings pation in Financial Education in Communities and and financial education initiative. The program aims Schools by the Financial Supervisory Commission to help 3,000 low-income homeowners in disaster• Rotary Club Shanghai awarded Citi China a prone areas of the Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam Leadership Award for Building Communities. to save a total of $2 million to help strengthen their homes. In 2011 we launched the Citi-ASKI Overseas Workers Financial Stability Program in partnership with ASKI Global, a subsidiary of a leading microfinance institution in the Philippines. The program helps Filipino workers in Singapore build small businesses. Regional Citizenship at a Glance Citizenship Report 2011 60 Citizenship in EUROPE Citi employs nearly 30,000 people and has a presence in 30 countries in Europe. We have maintained a strong presence in the region despite economic problems. In addition, we have kept up our commitments to engage with communities, particularly on encouraging financial responsibility and entrepreneurship. Citizenship in Action: 2011 Our Climate Council, headed by Alberto Verme, the Czech Republic, Hungary, and Slovakia. The program Chairman of Europe, Middle East and Africa banking, has reached more than 460,000 people and enabled held three meetings in 2011. The Council then devel57 percent of social enterprises to meet or exceed oped an environmental scorecard, made available to their financial goals. all employees, which charts progress on our reduction targets in carbon emissions, energy, waste and Awards and Recognition water usage. Citi businesses across Europe were recognized in 2011 for citizenship accomplishments. Here is a Citibank and WWF Russia celebrated Cedar Day in the sample of awards: Primorye region, part of a project aimed at restoring pine-broadleaved forests in the Russian far east. WWF • Citi Poland came first in the Financial Institutions volunteers planted one million Korean cedars on category of the national Corporate Responsibility behalf of Citibank Russia’s one million clients. Leaders Competition. The competition is organized by the Corporate Responsibility Coalition, headed In partnership with the Tomillo Foundation, Citi Spain by the Association of Polish Employers runs a financial education program for children aged • Citi Hungary won third place in the Best Bank for 10 to 12. Lessons on responsible consumption and Corporate Social Responsibility category in the money management are delivered using vehicles such 2011 MasterCard Bank of the Year Awards. Citi was as comic books and theater productions. More than recognized for its focus on financial education, 1,000 children in 11 schools in Madrid took part in 2011, building social enterprises and spreading environbringing the number educated through the program mental awareness among clients to 9,500 since 2007. • Citi Russia’s enterprise development training In the U.K., the Citi Roots employee diversity network program, run with the Fund for Sustainable partnered with Leaders in Community, a London Development, won a Leaders in Corporate Philancharity run for and by young people to cultivate thropy award for Best Program Facilitating the community leaders. Citi volunteers ran cooking Development of Local Communities. The program sessions with 16 to 18 year-olds, providing an informal provides business development training to around opportunity to talk to young people about careers 300 residents in the Nizhniy Novgorod and Sverdand aspirations. lovsk regions Since 2006, the Citi Foundation has supported the • Citi Italy earned LEED Gold certification for Nonprofit Enterprise & Self-sustainability Team its new headquarters in Milan. (NESsT) in Central and Eastern Europe. The Citi-NESsT Social Enterprise Competition encourages the development of social enterprises and nonprofits in the Regional Citizenship at a Glance Citizenship Report 2011 61 Citizenship in Latin America With operations in 23 countries and more than 70,000 employees, Citi Latin America serves more than 29 million retail accounts (including Mexico). At Citi Latin America, our focus is on executing our responsible finance mandate — a collaborative effort between Citi Foundation and the local businesses in the region. Citizenship in Action: 2011 Throughout 2011 we promoted Citizenship integration We developed an adherence strategy for Brazil’s strategies to better align our work with Citi Latin Green Protocol and are establishing a similar plan for America’s business goals and stakeholder expectathe protocol in Colombia. These protocols are national tions. We now have five leadership committees initiatives under which financial institutions commit to focusing on citizenship activities in key countries in institute policies, launch products and services, and the region: Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador and promote risk management strategies that take Guatemala. We have also set up specialized groups, account of social and environmental considerations. such as volunteer councils, women’s councils, and green teams, which report to the leadership commitAwards and Recognition tees in these countries. Several Citi Latin America businesses were recognized externally for their work in citizenship. Awards In 2011, Citi sponsored and participated in the XIV and recognition included the following: Foromic in Costa Rica, the region’s most prominent microfinance and microentrepreneur event, orga• Manuel Medina-Mora, Chairman of Citi Latin nized by the Inter-American Development Bank America and CEO of Global Consumer Banking, (IADB). Leaders from Citi met delegates from local received the Microfinance Supporter of the Year government and multilateral agencies to promote award from Pro Mujer, the international women’s financial inclusion in Latin America. At the event we development and microfinance organization launched a program to promote savings, developed in • The American Chamber of Commerce in partnership with the IADB and the International Guatemala bestowed the Award for Employee Development Research Center. The program will and Community Development on Citi for efforts provide $6 million over three years for the developin employee training; attention to health, security, ment and evaluation of savings products adapted for freedom of association and working conditions; welfare recipients. diversity programs; employee engagement in decision making; and community development The Citi Foundation supported women’s entrepreneurship in collaboration with Junior Achievement in • Citi El Salvador was recognized by USAID for Argentina, Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Paraguay, its diversity programs to support employees and Peru. with disabilities. Regional Citizenship at a Glance Citizenship Report 2011 62 Citizenship in AFRICA AND Middle East In Africa and the Middle East, Citi employs more than 3,600 people, and does business in 24 countries. Across this varied region, community and business needs differ according to locality. This is why we supplement our regional citizenship approach with country-specific activities. Our focus in Africa is to promote financial inclusion and to build financial capability in rural communities. In the Middle East, we encourage youth employment and economic empowerment for women. Citizenship in Action: 2011 Africa • Financial Capability and Youth Education: During 2011, Citi introduced initiatives in Africa to help We improved the employability of young people disadvantaged communities that have limited access in Algeria, Egypt, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, to banking. Citi’s Opportunity International program, Morocco and UAE by providing access to educawhich provides financial education, is helping one tion programs and entrepreneurial training million people in the Democratic Republic of Congo, through Junior Achievement programs Ghana, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda make more • Microfinance and Microentrepreneurship informed choices on financial products and adopt Support: Since 2005, we have committed positive financial behaviors such as saving regularly. $8 million to the Middle East region, building We strive to increase the number of small, sustainable up microfinance institutions that have helped enterprises that can provide employment opportunimore than 8,000 people ties for people with low incomes, while making envi• Women’s Empowerment: We partnered with ronmental improvements. In 2011, we partnered with AMIDEAST, a non-profit organization providing the Kew Foundation in Kenya to develop plant nurseducation and training programs in the Middle eries, generating incomes while protecting plant East and North Africa, to expand our women’s diversity and the environment. Our $150,000 grant entrepreneur training model, which was developed enables the Kew Foundation to determine which native with the University of Dubai in 2005. The expantrees offer the best business opportunities, as well as sion will reach another 80 women in Dubai, to identify markets and train microentrepreneurs. Kuwait, Lebanon, and Morocco, to add to the 162 women who have graduated from the program In South Africa, we partnered with Endeavor, a nonat the University of Dubai. governmental organization, to help entrepreneurs open a chain of internet cafés which employs 65 Awards and Recognition people across seven townships and offers affordable Citi Pakistan (in our Middle East region) won the IT training for locals. Poverty Alleviation category at the 2011 Asian CorpoMiddle East rate Social Responsibility Awards for its community In 2011, we re-evaluated our Citizenship strategy in the initiative in partnership with Thardeep Rural DevelopMiddle East and now focus on four key areas: ment, a non-profit organization that helps rural • Entrepreneurship Training: We worked with communities develop more sustainably. academic centers, including the American UniverCiti Pakistan also won Best Community Program in the sity of Beirut, American University Cairo and the Gold Category at the Global CSR Summit 2011 — for University of Dubai, to train entrepreneurs and their work on microfinance and vocational training. members of family-owned firms to become business leaders Regional Citizenship at a Glance Citizenship Report 2011 63 38h of training provided on average per employee OUR EMPLOYEES Diversity 66 Engagement & Training 68 Health, Safety & Wellness 69 Performance Snapshot 70 IN 2011 Provided approximately 38 training hours on average per employee worldwide. Supported 61 employee networks with approximately 15,000 members across 18 locations. Achieved 88 percent participation in 2011 employee survey and a 73 percent satisfaction score. Students attend an MBA preparatory program hosted by Citi and Management Leadership for Tomorrow (MLT), one of our strategic partners. Raymond J. McGuire, Head, Global Banking, Institutional Clients Group (pictured), was a keynote speaker. OUR EMPLOYEES Citizenship Report 2011 65 Citi is a global community of people. We operate in Citi Women 160 countries and value each and every employee. More than half of Citi’s workforce is female, including 44 percent of managers and executives. Supporting We provide a safe and stimulating workplace while women’s advancement is very important to us, and helping our employees gain knowledge and improve includes, among other elements, the following leadertheir skills. A vibrant, diverse workforce that reflects ship development programs. our global client base is key to our success. Women Leading Citi, launched in November 2009, is a sponsorship program designed to promote and Diversity accelerate the advancement of high-performing Diversity and inclusivity are business imperatives women in senior management positions. Participants for Citi, and are vital to our future. gain opportunities to network and to broaden their We promote a work environment where diversity leadership skills with a three-person support team — is embraced, where people are promoted on their their manager, a talent professional and a senior merits, and where colleagues treat each other with advocate who serves as their sponsor. respect and dignity. We seek to make career development opportunities widely available and encourage employees to fulfill professional and personal goals. Put simply, our goal is to be a company where the Recognition in 2011 for Citi’s best people want to work. Leadership on Women Our diversity strategy focuses on four areas: manageEmployer of Choice for Women 2011 ment accountability, attracting talent, workforce Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency, Australia development, and work environment. Gender Equity Model Certification Priority objectives are defined annually and National Women’s Institute, Mexico implemented through the Citi diversity operating committee, comprised of diversity and human Top 50 Companies for Executive Women National Association for Female Executives, resources professionals, as well as local business United States and regional diversity councils. The Citi board of directors reviews progress annually. Programs and initiatives are in place across our businesses and functions to support and foster Citi’s diversity Women’s Leadership Development, designed and strategy. These include, among others, leadership launched in conjunction with the UCLA Anderson development programs, employee networks and School of Management in 2008, combines lectures, diversity-focused recruitment programs. discussions, small group work and assignments. The program helps high-performing director-level women prepare for executive roles, become champions and “Citi’s diversity efforts are central to who we are. role models within our company, and nurture profesThrough them, we aspire to be viewed as a sional networks. To date, 298 women have attended. respectful, equitable and inclusive workplace by our employees, our clients, our business partners Coaching for Success, designed for mid-level and our communities — everywhere we operate emerging female talent, is offered by several Citi around the world.” businesses. The program is delivered through work— Ana Duarte McCarthy, Chief Diversity Officer, shops and engages senior management as coaches. Citigroup Inc. Goals include improving retention, promotion and internal mobility among participants. OUR EMPLOYEES Citizenship Report 2011 66 Diversity Week Diversity and Recruitment Diversity Week is a longstanding and important Citi makes significant efforts in all the regions where vehicle for increasing awareness of diversity among we operate to attract diverse candidates by partour employees, and 2011 was no exception. In Europe, nering with targeted colleges and universities and the Middle East and Africa 52 countries took part, with external organizations that foster workforce diversity. 278 events around the thought-provoking theme of Examples include: “Perception: Do You See What I See?” Among the highlights, the Center for Talent Innovation shared Asia: In India, the Citi Women Leader Program encourtheir research on Generation X — children of the post ages future women business leaders by recognizing World War II generation — in the workplace. one female student selected from each of nine premier business schools who demonstrates exemIn Latin America activities included conferences, plary leadership potential and has attained excellence panel discussions, and an art exhibition where in both academics and extra curricular activities. Horacio Franco, a world famous flutist, shared part of his autobiography about his personal experiences as Europe, the Middle East and Africa: In the United a musician, the flute as an instrument, and being gay. Kingdom, Citi brought together university disability The week ended with more than 23,000 employees officers and career advisors to agree on strategies and their families attending a private event at the Six to target students with disabilities for employment; Flags amusement park in Mexico City. Attendees were the learning from the event will be used across the invited to express themselves using color on a “DiverEMEA region. sity Wall.” The wall will be displayed at different Latin America: In Brazil, Citi has an internship corporate buildings. program with Zumbi dos Palmares University where more than half the places are reserved for African Employee Networks Brazilians. Citi’s size and workforce diversity lends itself to affinity groups across locations and borders. United States: In the United States Citi partners with Employee networks are initiated and led by organizations to attract diverse talent, including the employees, and are open to all. At the close of 2011, Consortium for Graduate Studies in Management, the there were 61 employee networks representing some Executive Leadership Council (ELC) and Management 15,000 members across 18 locations in Canada, the Leadership for Tomorrow (MLT). Republic of Ireland, the United Kingdom and the For more about diversity at Citi, please see our United States. In 2011, we launched ten new employee Diversity Annual Report 2011. networks. These included six for military veterans, two for women, one Pride network, and the first U.S. disAbility network. Diversity and Recruitment Pioneering Partnerships Since 2004, Citi has achieved 100 percent on the Human Rights Campaign’s (HRC) annual Corporate Equality Index. This benchmark measures an organization’s ability to provide a safe and welcoming environment for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender employees and customers. Citi employees also sit on HRC’s national Board of Directors and Business Council. OUR EMPLOYEES Citizenship Report 2011 67 Engagement & Training Understanding Our Employees We work in a fast moving, competitive and We do our best to keep abreast of, and responsive skill-centered industry, where listening to employees, to, employee opinions. We gather feedback in many helping them constantly to develop their skills, and ways, including periodic “pulse surveys” and our building strong workplace partnerships are integral annual confidential opinion survey, the Voice of the to our success. Employee (VOE). The survey is available online in almost 30 languages and to employees in 100 counProviding Opportunities tries. Topics covered include job satisfaction, recogniLearning and development is a strategic investment tion and rewards, work-life balance, innovation, for Citi. Excellent learning supports our business partnership and client focus. strategy by increasing job satisfaction, building a This employee feedback is critical to our business. It common culture and developing our company’s helps us monitor workplace trends, measure key manfuture leaders. In 2011, 98 percent of Citi employees agement practices, and target areas of opportunity. took advantage of training opportunities, averaging approximately 38 hours of training across our Our most recent survey, in September 2011, garnered four regions. a global response rate of 88 percent. Employee satisfaction hit a new high of 73 percent. Our classroom and online training programs cover: leadership and management, business and productEmployees reported that their skills and abilities were specific content, new hire onboarding, professional put to good use, and that they see a clear link between development, technology and compliance. their daily activities and company objectives. They also praised the quality of teamwork at Citi and had In 2011, we also introduced new flagship executive a favorable view of their managers. development programs, and our core leadership and management programs were scaled up to reach over 9,000 mid-level managers. To foster inclusion, we Evaluating Employees An effective performance management process is added training on unconscious bias in the workplace critical to our company’s success. All employees, for executives. In 2012, we will launch a new learning including executives, are evaluated annually. center in the New York area to further our goal of making our training programs a key source of competIn measuring employee performance we seek to itive advantage. promote a culture of meritocracy and strong risk 1812 1820s 1830s 1840s 1850s 1860s 1870s 1880s 1890s 1900s 1916 1920s 1930s 1940s 1950s 1960s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2012 Setting Universal Standards for Leadership Citi alumni go on to become chiefs of multinational development curriculum — dwelling not only on the rigors corporations, ministers of finance, governors of of banking, but also on the tools of general management central banks, ambassadors of nations — even heads and the study of foreign languages and cultures. It of state. Citi has a rich history as a training ground equipped the program’s graduates with the skills and for future leaders. In 1916, as the bank continued to sensibilities necessary to serve a new kind of worldly expand internationally, president James Vanderlip clientele. This was the precedent for the reputation that formalized that role in Citi’s first official learning and Citi still enjoys today as the university of banking. OUR EMPLOYEES Citizenship Report 2011 68 Voice of the Employee Survey 2011 management. Employees are evaluated not just on end results but on how business goals are achieved. Response Satisfied Neutral Dissatisfied Managers provide comprehensive feedback to clarify Rate per Year employee expectations, inform pay and promotion decisions, and highlight individuals’ strengths and 2011 88% 73% areas on which they need to work. 16% 11% Engaging Unions Corporate citizenship includes embracing workplace 2010 85% 67% rights for employees. Citi’s Statement on Human 20% Rights (see page 17) supports freedom of association 13% for employees and the right to organize and bargain collectively, as expressed in the International Labour 2009 Organization’s core conventions. In some Citi offices 64% 85% 20% around the world, employees have joined or estab16% lished trade unions and works councils. 2008 84% 63% Health, Safety & Wellness 22% Our employees are mainly office-based, and face few 15% direct occupational health and safety risks. We focus on issues related to sedentary workplaces, helping our 2007 70% employees to improve their health, fitness and 89% 17% productivity. We also provide travel health assistance 13% for employees globally. 2006 Each region develops programs that meet employee 70% 94% needs, local regulations and best practice standards, 17% including on-site medical and fitness facilities. For 13% example, in the U.K. and U.S. employees receive online 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% ergonomic training and assessment tools. In Vietnam, we responded swiftly to a workplace communicable Employees and sustainability Health, Safety & Wellness In spring 2011, for the second year, we asked Focus on wellness recognized employees to take a Green Survey. The result was encouraging, with a 178 percent increase Physical inactivity doubles the risk of heart (to 9,388) in staff taking part. Employees were disease. Since many people spend most waking virtually unanimous (92 percent) in their belief hours at a desk, the American Heart Associathat Citi has a business responsibility to protect tion (AHA) works with employers to promote the environment. Among specific initiatives, workplace activities and cultures that cut this there was big support for local recycling efforts risk. In 2011, Citi was awarded the AHA’s Gold and for Citi to act on climate change. However, Level Fit-Friendly Company Award, given to fewer than half of employees were aware of some employers “who go above and beyond” in Citi green initiatives, demonstrating a need for promoting employee health. more internal promotion. OUR EMPLOYEES Citizenship Report 2011 69 disease outbreak in 2011 with a targeted health educaOur web portal provides information about employee tion and prevention program. In the U.K. a wide options and gives managers the tools to implement variety of health awareness programs and screenings the program. It also hosts online training courses include cholesterol and mole checks. to assist employees and managers to operate in a flexible work environment, supporting our commitPromoting healthy lifestyles is a priority. We offer ment to transforming our corporate culture. In programs including flu shots, smoking cessation, January 2012, we launched an enhanced global nutrition counseling, oral and skin cancer screenings, program with an improved website, more resources mammography and biometric screening. In the U.S. and comprehensive training for managers and and Puerto Rico, for example, employees were offered employees. Over 12,000 employees are formally free flu shots in 2011, while Citi Mexico encouraged registered in our flexible work program. staff to follow a workplace exercise program. We also support employees in their responsibilities Promoting Work/Life Effectiveness outside work. For example, we offer childcare Flexible working arrangements support employee and elderly care services to more than 100,000 well-being and help us attract and retain talented employees in Europe and the United States. people. It can also reduce our real estate costs and enhance productivity. Through our flexible work program, Citi Work StrateOur strong support for work/life effectiveness gies, all employees may request a flexible schedule, programs has earned us recognition from Working Mother Magazine as one of the 100 Best Companies such as remote work, a compressed work week or in the U.S. for 20 consecutive years. flexible start and stop times, via our online system, for their manager and HR representative to consider. PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT 2011 Global Employee Training Asia Pacific Emea Latin America North America Total Population 61,745 38,095 73,314 93,272 266,426 Web-based Trainings 630,612 362,288 1,324,302 1,665,946 3,983,147 Instructor-led Trainings 1,316,720 960,143 1,047,292 2,392,683 5,716,838 Other (External Training, Virtual Classroom) 30,159 23,157 40,557 243,041 336,914 Total Trainings Completed 1,977,491 1,345,588 2,412,150 4,301,669 10,036,899 Total Number of Training Hours Delivered 2,021,458 1,346,298 2,560,925 4,305,836 10,234,517 Average Hours of Training per Employee 32.74 35.34 34.93 46.16 38.41 This data does not include non-employees. Data may seem different from prior reporting years due to our global data cleanup initiative to improve accuracy of learning-related data in our Learning Management System. In 2011, 98 percent of Citi employees underwent an average of approximately 38 hours of training. OUR EMPLOYEES Citizenship Report 2011 70 PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT For complete performance data, see our Key Performance Indicators Report Card. U.S. Workforce Diversity Data Over the period from 2009 to 2011, the U.S. employee population declined by 1.0 percent, by 0.9 percent for professionals, by 8.6 declined by 13.4 percent. During that period, total representation of percent among technicians and by 4.3 percent for sales workers. women declined by 1.9 percent and for minorities 0.8 percent. The Minority representation among officials and managers grew by representation of women in official and management positions 1.2 percent and declined for professionals by 0.3 percent. 2011 Citigroup Consolidated Employer Information Report (EEO-1)* Native Hawaiian/ Total Other Pacific Native Total by Number Job Category White Black Hispanic Asian Islander American Multi-Racial Gender of People Executive/ Female 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 6 28 Senior Managers Male 19 1 1 1 0 0 0 22 First/Mid-Level Female 4,862 755 883 805 3 19 17 7,344 16,750 Managers Male 6,579 493 867 1,435 3 15 14 9,406 Professionals Female 5,271 1,016 1,020 1,590 6 22 36 8,961 22,249 Male 8,155 834 1,206 3,006 16 29 42 13,288 Technicians Female 676 179 175 197 5 3 5 1,240 2,923 Male 996 177 213 287 1 5 4 1,683 Sales Workers Female 4,251 1,118 1,593 719 14 37 21 7,753 13,443 Male 3,464 557 960 667 6 19 17 5,690 Administrative Female 12,493 5,160 4,644 1,456 47 129 96 24,025 32,460 Support Male 4,398 1,546 1,791 603 31 31 35 8,435 Craft Workers Female 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 8 Male 1 3 1 2 0 0 0 7 Operatives Female 136 62 27 94 0 0 0 319 665 Male 119 74 54 96 3 0 0 346 Laborers & Female 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 2 Helpers Male 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 Service Female 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Workers Male 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Female 27,696 8,291 8,342 4,861 75 210 175 49,650 Total 88,528 Male 23,731 3,685 5,094 6,097 60 99 112 38,878 *Data as of July 2011 Global Female Workforce EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION Over the period of three years, Citi’s global female In 2011, we achieved an 88 percent global response rate representation fell from 55 percent at the beginning for our annual employee survey. of 2009 to 53 percent in December 2011. The survey found a 73% employee satisfaction rate. 80% 73% 60% 64% 67% 40% 20% 0 2009 2010 2011 OUR EMPLOYEES Citizenship Report 2011 71 u.n. global compact table Principle Information in Report HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights human rights; Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management LABOR STANDARDS Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the Engaging Unions right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Human Rights Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Human Rights Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Diversity ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Environmental and Social Risk Management Investing in Environmental Solutions Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Environmental and Social Risk Management Investing in Environmental Solutions Operations Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Investing in Environmental Solutions Operations ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Corporate Governance GRI Index Number Type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Core Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization about Yes Letter from CEO the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy 1.2 Core Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Yes Letter from CEO Environmental and Social Risk Management Profile 2.1 Core Name of reporting organization Yes Citigroup Inc. 2.2 Core Primary brands, products and/or services Yes About Citi 2.3 Core Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operatYes Annual Report ing companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures UN GLOBAL COMPACT TABLE Citizenship Report 2011 72 Number Type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location 2.4 Core Location of organization’s headquarters Yes Proxy Statement 2.5 Core Number of countries where organization operates and names of countries Yes Annual Report with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Core Nature of ownership and legal form Yes Annual Report 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served and types Yes Annual Report of customers/beneficiaries) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization, including: Yes Annual Report • Number of employees • Net sales • Total capitalization broken down in terms or debt and equity • Quantity of products or services provided 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or Yes Annual Report ownership, including: • Location of, or changes in operations, including facility operations, closings and expansions • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance and alteration operations 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Yes Citi Awards & Recognitions 2011 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Yes About This Report 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Yes About This Report 3.3 Reporting cycle Yes About This Report 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Yes About This Report Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: Yes Citizenship • Determining materiality Approach • Prioritizing topics within the report Stakeholder • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report Engagement 3.6 Boundary of the report Yes About This Report 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Yes About This Report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outYes About This Report sourced operations and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including Yes Operations assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in Yes No such earlier reports and the reasons for such re-statement restatements 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary Yes No such or measurement methods applied in the report restatements Global Reporting Initiative Index Citizenship Report 2011 73 Number Type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in the report Yes This Index Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the Yes Citi does not report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainabilcurrently seek ity report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. external assurance Also, explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the for Citizenship assurance provider. reporting. Governance, Commitments and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the Yes Corporate highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting Governance strategy or organizational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also Yes Annual Report an executive officer (and if so, their function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number Yes Corporate of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or Governance non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for stakeholders and employees to provide recommendations Yes Proxy Statement or direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance Yes Proxy Statement body, senior managers and executives (including departure arrangements) and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts Yes Proxy Statement of interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members Yes Proxy Statement of the highest governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental and social topics 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct Yes Letter from CEO and principles relevant to economic, environmental and social performance, Citizenship and the status of their implementation Approach Citi Code of Conduct Ethics and Public Policy 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s Yes Corporate identification and management of economic, environmental and social Governance performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, Yes Corporate particularly with respect to economic, environmental and social performance Governance Guidelines Global Reporting Initiative Index Citizenship Report 2011 74 Number Type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle Yes Environmental is addressed by the organization and Social Risk Management Investing in Environmental Solutions 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, Yes Various, including: principles or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or The Carbon endorses Principles The Equator Principles United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights 4.13 Members in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizaYes Various, including: tions in which the organization: The Equator • Has positions in governance bodies Principles • Participates in projects or committees 2011 Global • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues Diversity Report • Views membership as strategic Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization, e.g., communities, Yes Stakeholder civil society, customers, shareholders and providers of capital, suppliers and Engagement employees, other workers and their trade unions 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Yes Stakeholder Engagement Includes process for defining stakeholder groups and for determining the groups with which to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement Yes Stakeholder by type and by stakeholder group. Examples of approaches include: surveys, Engagement focus groups, community panels, corporate advisory panels, written communication, management/union structures and other vehicles. Say whether any engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Yes Stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics Engagement and concerns, including through its reporting. Due Diligence on Mountaintop Removal Mining Performance: Economic Disclosure on Management Approach Yes Corporate Provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to the Governance following economic aspects: economic performance, market presence and indirect economic impacts. Citizenship Approach Economic Performance Indicators Aspect: Economic Performance EC1 Core Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, Yes Annual Report operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and governments Global Reporting Initiative Index Citizenship Report 2011 75 Number Type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location EC2 Core Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organizaYes Investing in tion’s activities due to climate change Environmental Solutions EC3 Core Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Yes Annual Report EC4 Core Significant financial assistance received from government Yes Citi does not receive financial assistance from government Aspect: Market Presence EC5 Additional Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum Not Reported wage at significant locations of operation EC6 Core Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at Not Reported significant locations of operation EC7 Core Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from Not Reported the local community at locations of significant operation Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Core Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services Yes Investing in provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or Environmental pro-bono engagement Solutions Serving Communities and Consumers EC9 Additional Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, Yes Investing in including the extent of impacts Environmental Solutions Serving Communities and Consumers Performance: Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach Yes Environmental Provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to the Sustainability following environmental aspects: materials, energy, water, biodiversity, emissions, effluents and waste, products and services, compliance, transport and overall. Environmental Performance Indicators Aspect: Materials EN1 Core Materials used by weight or volume Not Reported EN2 Core Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Not Reported Aspect: Energy EN3 Core Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Yes Citi’s Environmental Footprint EN4 Core Indirect energy consumption by primary source Yes Citi’s Environmental Footprint EN5 Additional Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Yes Operations EN6 Additional Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based Partial Environmental products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result Sustainability of these initiatives EN7 Additional Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved Yes Environmental Sustainability Global Reporting Initiative Index Citizenship Report 2011 76 Number Type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location Aspect: Water EN8 Core Total water withdrawal by source Yes Citi’s Environmental Footprint EN9 Additional Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Not Applicable EN10 Additional Percentage and total water volume of water recycled and reused Not Reported Aspect: Biodiversity EN11 Core Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, Yes Not material protected areas and areas of high biodiversity outside of protected areas to Citi’s own operations. Environmental and Social Risk Management with regard to lending and project financing policies EN12 Core Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Yes Not material biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside to Citi’s own protected areas operations. Environmental and Social Risk Management with regard to lending and project financing policies EN13 Additional Habitats protected or restored Not Applicable EN14 Additional Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impacts on Not Applicable biodiversity EN15 Additional Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with Not Applicable habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Aspect: Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16 Core Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Yes Citi’s Environmental Footprint EN17 Core Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Yes Citi’s Environmental Footprint EN18 Additional Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved Yes Citi’s Environmental Footprint EN19 Core Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Not Applicable EN20 Core NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight Not Reported EN21 Core Total water discharged by quality and destination Not Reported EN22 Core Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Yes Citi’s Environmental Footprint EN23 Core Total number and volume of significant spills Not Applicable EN24 Additional Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed Not Applicable hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EN25 Additional Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water bodies and Not Applicable related habitats significantly affected but the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff Global Reporting Initiative Index Citizenship Report 2011 77 Number Type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location Aspect: Products and Services EN26 Core Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, Yes Environmental and extent of impact mitigation and Social Risk Management EN27 Core Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are Not Applicable reclaimed by category Aspect: Compliance EN28 Core Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Yes Citi did not receive sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations any significant fines for non-compliance with environmental laws or regulations EN29 Additional Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods Yes Business Air Travel and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Aspect: Overall EN30 Additional Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Yes Investing in Environmental Solutions Performance: Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on Management Approach Yes Our Employees Provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to the following labor aspects: employment, labor/management relations, occupational health and safety, training and education and diversity and equal opportunity. Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators Aspect: Employment LA1 Core Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region Yes Performance Snapshot Regional Citizenship at a Glance LA2 Core Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender Not Reported and region LA3 Additional Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary Not Reported or part-time employees, by major operations Aspect: Labor/Management Relations LA4 Core Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Not Reported LA5 Core Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether Not Reported it is specified in collective agreements Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Additional Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint managementNot Reported worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs LA7 Core Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and number Not Reported of work related fatalities by region Global Reporting Initiative Index Citizenship Report 2011 78 Number Type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location LA8 Core Education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programs in Yes Health, Safety, place to assist workforce members, their families or community members and Wellness regarding serious diseases LA9 Additional Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Not Reported Aspect: Training and Education LA10 Core Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category Yes Engagement and Training LA11 Additional Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the Yes Engagement continued employability of employees and assist them in managing their and Training careers LA12 Additional Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Yes Engagement development reviews and Training Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Core Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Partial Diversity category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and Board Composition other indicators of diversity LA14 Core Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee Not Reported category, by significant locations of operation Performance: Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach Yes Human Rights Provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to Citi Code of the following human rights: investment and procurement practices, non-discrimination, freedom of Conduct association and collective bargaining, abolition of child labor, prevention of forced and compulsory labor, complaints and grievance practices, security practices and indigenous rights. Human Rights Indicators Aspect: Investment and Procurement Activities HR1 Core Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that Yes Human Rights include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights Reporting screening HR2 Core Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone Not Reported screening on human rights and actions taken HR3 Additional Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning Not Reported aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees that are trained Aspect: Non-Discrimination HR4 Core Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Not Reported Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Core Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association Yes Engaging Unions and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Aspect: Child Labor HR6 Core Operations identified as having a significant risk for incidents of child labor, Not Applicable Engaging Unions and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Global Reporting Initiative Index Citizenship Report 2011 79 Number Type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Core Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or Not Applicable compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Aspect: Security Practices HR8 Additional Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies Not Reported or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Aspect: Indigenous Rights HR9 Additional Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous Yes Human Rights people and actions taken Reporting HR10 Additional Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to Yes The Equator human rights reviews and/or impact assessments Principles—Sharing Good Practice Beyond Citi HR11 Additional Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved Yes Human Rights through formal grievance mechanisms Reporting Performance: Society Disclosure on Management Approach Yes Public Policy Provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to Involvement the following society aspects: community, corruption, public policy, anti-competitive behavior Citi Code of and compliance. Conduct Human Rights Society Performance Indicators Aspect: Community SO1 Core Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, Not Reported impact assessments and development programs Aspect: Corruption SO2 Core Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related Not Reported to corruption SO3 Core Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies Yes Citi Code of and procedures Conduct SO4 Core Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Not Reported Aspect: Public Policy SO5 Core Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Yes Public Policy lobbying Involvement SO6 Additional Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, Partial Political politicians and related institutions by country Contributions Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7 Additional Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and Not Reported monopoly practices and their outcomes Aspect: Compliance SO8 Core Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Not Reported sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Global Reporting Initiative Index Citizenship Report 2011 80 Number Type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location Performance: Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach Yes Supporting Provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to the Consumers following society aspects: customer health and safety, product and service labeling, marketing communications, customer privacy and compliance. Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Aspect: Customer Health and Safety PR1 Core Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services Not Applicable are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR2 Additional Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Not Applicable codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and service during their life cycle, by type of outcomes PR3 Core Type of product and service information required by procedures, and Not Reported percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR4 Additional Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Not Reported codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes PR5 Additional Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys Yes Measuring measuring customer satisfaction Customer Satisfaction Aspect: Marketing Communications PR6 Core Programs for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes concerning Yes Responsible marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorMarketing ship Communications PR7 Additional Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Not Reported codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of outcome Aspect: Customer Privacy PR8 Additional Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer Not Reported privacy and losses of customer data Aspect: Compliance PR9 Core Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and Not Reported regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Financial Services Sector Specific Disclosure On Management Approach FS1 Core Policies with specific environmental and social components applied Yes Environmental to business lines and Social Risk Management FS2 Core Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks Yes Environmental in business lines and Social Risk Management FS3 Core Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with Yes ESRM Review environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions Process Global Reporting Initiative Index Citizenship Report 2011 81 Number Type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location FS4 Core Processes for improving staff competency to implement the environmental Yes ESRM Training and social policies and procedures as applied to business lines FS5 Core Interactions with clients/investors/business partners regarding Yes Environmental environmental and social risks and opportunities and Social Risk Management The Equator Principles Stakeholder Engagement Approach Product and Service Impact Indicators Aspect: Product Portfolio FS6 Core Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size and by Yes Annual Report sector FS7 Core Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social Yes Financial Inclusion benefit for each business line broken down by purpose FS8 Core Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific Yes Investing in environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Environmental Solutions Aspect: Audit FS9 Core Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmenYes ESRM Review tal and social policies and risk assessment procedures Process Aspect: Active Ownership FS10 Core Percentage and number of companies held in the institutions portfolio with Not Reported which the reporting organization has interacted on environmental or social issues FS11 Core Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative social and environNot Reported mental screening FS12 Core Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over Not Reported which the reporting organization holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting Aspect: Community FS13 Core Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas Yes Financial Inclusion FS14 Core Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people Yes Financial Inclusion Aspect: Product and Service Labeling FS15 Core Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services Yes Financial Inclusion Supporting Consumers FS16 Core Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type and beneficiary Yes Financial Capability and Asset Building Global Reporting Initiative Index Citizenship Report 2011 82 Citi Awards & Recognitions 2011 Corporate Citizenship 50 Best Companies for Latinas to Work in U.S. FTSE4Good Index Since 2002 Latina Style Magazine Dow Jones Sustainability World Index Since 2001 Top Companies for Diverse Managers Diversity MBA Magazine Dow Joes Sustainability North America Index Since 2001 Employer of Choice Award for Women 2011 Equal Opportunity for Women in the STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index Since 2011 Workplace Agency, Australia Environment Best Companies for Hispanics Newsweek Green Rankings: #1 U.S. Bank Hispanic Business Magazine Newsweek Magazine Gilberto Rincón Gallardo Inclusive Company Award Top Green IT Users 2011: #8 Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, Mexico Computer World Magazine AHEAD Disability Inclusion Award Greenest Banks in the World: #5 AHEAD, Ireland Bloomberg Markets Gender Equity Model Certification EPA ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year National Women’s Institute, Mexico U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Great Companies St. Louis Green Business Challenge: Expansión Magazine Award of Merit, Greatest Gain, Owner Category Best Companies for Kids Saint Louis Regional Chamber Working Mother Magazine and Growth Association Good Employer Certification Green Globe Banking Special Prize for Good Employer Association & American Direct Impacts Green Globe Banking, Italy Chamber of Commerce, Peru Diversity Community 100 Best Companies for Working Mothers Top Affordable Housing Lender Working Mother Magazine Affordable Housing Finance Magazine Best Companies for Multicultural Women Outstanding Supporter Award Working Mother Magazine Community Services of Nevada 100% Corporate Equality Index Company CRA Community Impact Award Human Rights Campaign CRA and Fair Lending Colloquium, Baltimore Corporate Inclusion Index Rating 95 Organization of the Year Hispanic Association on Corporate Responsibility Community Housing Council of Fresno Top 50 Companies for Executive Women National Association for Female Executives citi awards & recognitions Citizenship Report 2011 83 www.citigroup.com © 2012 Citigroup Inc. Citi and Arc Design is a registered service mark of Citigroup Inc.
