Jotun Protects Property Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Contents 2 Introduction 1 2 Our business 4 Our CR commitment contents 6 Managing Corporate Responsibility 8 PEOPLE 8 Sound working conditions for employees 10 Competence development 11 Creating the best 12 Technical advisor proficiency 13 HEALTH, SAFETY and environment 13 HSE in Jotun 14 A safe working environment 16 Assessing our own performance 18 Safety and preparedness 19 OPERATIONS 19 Raw materials 20 Paint production 21 Powder coating production 22 ENVIRONMENT 22 Jotun GreenSteps 24 Our carbon footprint 26 Environmental impact 28 CUSTOMERS & SUPPLIERS 28 Customer-driven innovation 30 Expressing Jotun values through customer care 31 Responsibility down the supply chain 32 LOCAL SOCIETY 32 Contributing to strong local societies 33 Corporate responsibility in action 34 ANTI--CORRUPTION 34 Anti-corruption 36 The UN Global Compact Copywriting: Blue-C Design: SAY PR & Communications AS All pictures by Morten Rakke Photography, except: Front cover: Getty images; p. 4, 7 & 10: Paal Andre Schwital / Metro Branding; p. 24: Gearbulk; p. 27, 28,32: Jotun; p. 22,30: Svein Brimi; p. 33 Félix Genêt Laframboise/ IFRC Printed by: BK Gruppen The paper used to print this report has the Nordic Eco-labeling – the ØMERKE ILJ Swan – and is also approved by M T the PEFC Council (Programme 1 24 45 for the Endorsement of Forest Trykksak 6 Certifications schemes). Our business Group Key Figures (Figures in USD million from consolidated group accounts) 2011 2010 2 Jotun is a global leader in paints Jotun Dekorativ has segment Jotun Coatings has global segment 3 REVENUE and coatings, with 74 companies responsibility for Jotun’s decorative responsibility for marine and protective our business our business and 39 production facilities on paints, stains and varnish deliveries coatings. The division also sells Operating revenue 1 902 1 617 all continents. In addition, Jotun to the trade and do-it-yourself (DIY) decorative paints in selected markets Operating revenue outside Norway in % 77 75 has agents, branch offices and markets in Scandinavia. in Europe and in Asia. distributors in more than 80 countries. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Jotun Paints has segment Jotun Powder Coatings has global responsibility for decorative paints segment responsibility for powder Operating profit 171 205 The Jotun Group consists of four in all markets outside Scandinavia. coatings. The product portfolio caters divisions, each with specific products, The division also sells marine and for the architectural, functional and Profit before tax expense 159 198 segments and geographical protective coatings to selected industrial market segments. Net cash flow from operations 54 117 responsibilities. markets in the Middle East and South East Asia. PROFITABILITY Return on capital employed, in % 1) 18.3 29.2 Operating margin, in % 2) 9.0 12.7 Return on equity, in % 3) 13.1 19.9 YEAR-END FINANCIAL POSITION Total assets 1 522 1 329 Investments in intangible and fixed assets 144 95 Equity 837 801 Equity ratio, in % 55.0 60.3 Number of employees in group (FTE) 6 013 5 577 Number of employees in group (FTE), 8 296 7 819 including 100 per cent in joint ventures and associated companies DEFINITIONS 1) Return on capital employed % = Operating profit amortisation of intangible assets x 100 Average total assets non-interest-bearing liabilities 2) Operating margin % = Operating profit x 100 Operating revenues 3) Return on equity % = Total comprehensive income for the year x 100 Average equity business DIVISIONS business segments 50% Jotun Coatings 36% Marine Coatings 27% Jotun Paints 34% Decorative Paints 14% Jotun Dekorativ 21% Protective Coatings 9% Jotun Powder Coatings 9% Powder Coatings Welcome to our Corporate Responsibility (CR) report. At Jotun, we are committed to best practice and the improvement of every element of our business. This focus on continuous improvement also extends to our dedication to corporate responsibility. Through Our CR commitment 4 the pages of this report we aim to provide an overview of our Corporate Responsibility (CR) means managing our business responsibly 5 corporate responsibility efforts during the past year, as well as a towards all stakeholders, be they customers, society, shareholders, INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION guide to our key areas of focus in the future. employees, suppliers or the environment. Over the last years, CR has become much actively against corruption. To enhance more visible and a more structured part of this work, in 2011, Jotun launched new our agenda. Our expectations regarding anti-corruption programmes and training CR are linked to the values and the core of tools. our corporate culture. Health, safety and environment (HSE) is For decades, Jotun has played an imporof crucial importance, since just one motant and responsible role in the societies ment of carelessness can seriously damage in which we have become established and our business and our lives. HSE complioperated. At all times we must: ance also contributes to long-term profitability. We are committed to ensuring that • Respect local customs every single employee understands that • Care for local people HSE is paramount in our daily lives. Our • Develop the local workforce commitment to HSE is total and it relies • Act as a responsible citizen on every employee following the rules and meeting the same standards, wherever we Jotun is a leading and dynamic participant operate. in a competitive global market. We have a number of big and smaller companies Environmental performance is higher in over 40 countries around the world. on the agenda than ever before. It is an We operate in diverse regional markets, important part of a sustainability proinvolving different cultures, and we need gramme. In 2011, Jotun launched Jotun to work together across these regions and GreenSteps to embrace our past, present cultures to achieve our superior strategic and future initiatives to better protect our targets. These targets should be achieved environment. Small and big steps are bewith integrity, through fair competition ing taken in all parts of the value chain, and inspired by our own values and busifrom purchasing of raw materials, through ness principles towards all our stakeholdR&D, supply chain and to the end-user. ers. By doing so we create healthy develThrough continuous product development opment, long-term profitability and job we are helping our customers to improve security. their environmental footprint. For a responsible company, it is crucial to By conducting our activities responsibly, take the right decisions in the right way. we all contribute to a sound, sustainable At Jotun, responsible conduct is a natural organic growth founded on a solid ethical part of our day-to-day operations and all platform. We call it “The Penguin Spirit”. of our 8,600 employees play an important role in embodying and practicing our important business principles. In a global market in constant change, Jotun’s values can be challenged. CorrupMorten Fon, tion and bribery represent such challenges President & CEO and threats to our integrity and reputation. To be able to handle difficult situations it is important to have deeply rooted values. We owe it to our customers, the local societies, our shareholders and our employees to hold high ethical standards and work Managing Corporate Responsibility 6 Jotun recognises and embraces its corporate responsibility vision. 7 This means that it conducts its business operations with Loyalty, Care, INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION Respect and Boldness in the interest of customers, suppliers, employees, shareholders, the environment and the society at large. Our CR vision embraces four corporate activities. Through these activities we values to provide a strategic and operationalways seek to enhance long-term comal framework that drives the entire organipetitiveness and financial performance. sation. CR is a commitment by Jotun that is driven from the top of the organisation It is the responsibility of every company and downward through to every employee. within Jotun to report on its HSE perforCR is guided by the principles of Openmance based on pre-determined criteria. ness, Transparency and Accountability. The results of this reporting are provided to the Board of Directors of Jotun CR begins through the direction and drive on a regular basis throughout the year. of the Board of Directors of Jotun A/S, Through this information the Board takes the ultimate parent of the Jotun group an active role in the analysis and direction of companies. There is a continuous and of HSE activities. open dialogue with the Board to develop the areas of commitment. These are furJotun believes that when CR is tightly ther supported through governing bodies, integrated into day-to-day operations it documents and follow-ups at a corporate, makes a significant positive difference to regional and divisional level. the way it conducts its business. Policies and regulations A responsible company Jotun’s own policies and attitudes are Being a responsible company in all locabased upon the Human Rights conventions in which we operate, contributes to tion of the United Nations (UN), the Inthe development of the country. Respect ternational Labour Organization (ILO) for the right to freedom of association, convention, Organisation for Economic non-discrimination and development of Co-operation and Development (OECD) people are also integral to the CR agenda guidelines for multinational companies, for Jotun, not only because it forms a part and the UN’s Global Compact principles. of UN Human Rights, but because it is a At all times, Jotun shall also abide by and true part of the culture and attitude of the enforce local laws in all locations in which company. we operate. Jotun continually takes initiatives to enOn a local level, CR is followed up through sure that our stakeholders recognise that business reviews, financial audits, human we will uphold standards when it comes resources (HR) reviews, health, safety and to anti-corruption, transparency and reenvironment (HSE) audits, supplier audits spectful attitude. and CR reporting activities. This ensures that Jotun standards and responsible corporate thinking are developed on a global scale and applied locally. Loyalty Care Respect Boldness HSE standards • Reliable and trustworthy • Help and support others • Values differences in people • Take initiatives to create the future • Long-term relationships between • Display trust and empathy • Be honest and fair • Initiate and nurture change A core element of Jotun´s CR policy is customers, Jotun and colleagues • Appraise and judge fairly • Build diverse teams across culture and • Communicate openly, honestly and adherence to high HSE standards. The • Commitment to Jotun’s values, • Protect internal and external gender with integrity objectives of all Jotun companies are to • Follow laws and regulations • Be proactive strategies, policies and decisions environment safeguard life, health and property, pre• Treat others the way they expect to • Address difficulties constructively vent pollution of the environment and be treated other undesirable impacts caused by our Sound working conditions for employees 8 Employee wellbeing is incorporated in every aspect of Jotun’s global 9 business, from strategic and business planning to operations. This has PEOPLE PEOPLE resulted in an excellent reputation as a company that treats its employees respectfully. We not only support the UN Human Hay grading system Rights and the International Labour OrJotun seeks to ensure that it provides a ganisation (ILO) conventions, but go well fair and competitive salary to its employbeyond these obligations. We have firm ees wherever they are employed around and common Human Resources policies the world. To obtain this, the company is and undertake HR reviews to ensure that evaluating salary levels using the globally corporate policies and sound practices are recognised Hay grading system. followed in each company and region. This salary structure is based upon measDiversity ures of employee roles and responsibiliJotun is committed to creating a workties – job classification – against those of force as diverse as the customer base we peers. The classification is a system for serve around the globe. Our understandobjectively defining and evaluating the ing of diversity is equally broad. As well duties, responsibilities and authority level as race, gender and physical disabilities, of a job. it includes personal differences, lifestyle, age, religion, economic status, sexual oriHay Group’s competitive pay assessment entation, gender identity, marital status shows whether specific roles are in line and geography. with the market – and illustrates internal equity too. Jotun considers discrimination because of gender, religion or reduced operability The approach of Jotun is formal and to be unacceptable. The company costructured. The company continuously operates with institutions that facilitate monitors salary levels, both among peers job training for people who, for different and across industry, to ensure fact-based reasons, are unable to fulfil usual working remuneration processes. commitments. Connecting people Over the years, Jotun has sought to bring people with different backgrounds together in organisations and networks. Connecting people across borders has been the key to securing mutual respect throughout our global business and within its differEmployees by numbers ent entities. Jotun employees are working Jotun total: Europe (+ South Africa) Asia (+ Australia) with people from other countries. Jotun Number of staff: 8,514 Number of staff: 2,283 Average age: 33 years promotes cultural understanding through Female: 1,584 Female: 522 Number of staff: 4,333 initiatives like its tradition of encouraging Male: 6,930 Male: 1,761 Female: 918 international assignments. This is seen as Turnover: 6% Turnover: 3% Male: 3415 a long-term investment. It cultivates an 74 different nationalities 40 different nationalities Turnover: 7.4% environment of increased understanding 29 different nationalities and provides employees with experiences Americas (Brazil and USA): MENA (Middle East and North Africa) that enrich their capabilities long after Number of staff: 133 Number of staff: 1765 they return. Jotun aims to create balance Female: 32 Female: 112 Male: 101 Male: 1,653 between local workforces and expatriate Turnover: 6.5% Turnover: 5.8% assignments. 6 different nationalities 41 different nationalities Competence development Creating the best 10 A company is only as good as the employees make it. This is why the development of employees is of critical Competence development is not about training, it is about best practice development and changing 11 importance. Over many years Jotun has created extensive development programmes at all levels to make sure behaviour to bring about continuous improvement. Employment is for life and you need constant competence PEOPLE PEOPLE that staff are trained to do their job and provide them with further develop opportunities at all levels. development to keep you up-to-date, interested and fulfilled. Competence is a combination of Knowledge, Skills and Attitude and all three elements must be present to obtain full effect: 1. Knowledge = taught 2. Skills = trained/experienced 3. Attitude = willing to, able to, dare to By using these three elements, Jotun has devised an extensive programme of learning that has components that can be applicable to every employee in the company. Coordinated under the auspices of the Competence Development department, it gathers and coordinates training activities that are beneficial for all business areas. It also develops, facilitates and harmonises training initiatives and programmes that support the group’s and all segment business strategies. Finally, it mobilises employees to utilise knowledge and skills to become a strong competitive advantage for Jotun. Three competence areas Competence development is created in Jotun Academy Jotun through: The Jotun Academy concept started in programmes were undertaken using over • Jotun Academy, supports development 2006 to gather training into a school. 150 internal Academy trainers. by providing employees with the right We gathered the resources to do this and Competence development programmes learning programmes refined the training over a number of years. are possibly the most important tool we • Jotun Learning Gateway, which has The Jotun Academy now covers learning have to create “the Penguin Spirit” within over 90 courses available through in Human Resources; Sales; Purchasing; our organisations, where employees an e-learning portal for every Jotun R&D; Operations; Technical Sales Support; understand our values and our strategic The process of competence development Trainers in Jotun travel around the world and can pass on the specific skills required employee worldwide Management, alongside some Stand-alone business goals. Furthermore, it is an in Jotun begins with the Jotun Competo drive the competence development by Jotun sales staff. • International Trainee Programme, an modules. important reason why people stay with us tence Board that meets quarterly to deprogrammes. These visits also provide 18-month course for recently arrived In 2011 Jotun ran approximately 150 – they know they are always able to build cide on new initiatives. There is a direct them with the opportunity to see how the For all of Jotun´s training and developAcademy training programmes around the their knowledge further, which then leads graduates who have the potential line to the various departments who put programmes work ‘on the ground´ and to ment activities, whether through the Jotun world for over 2,000 employees. These to greater career opportunities. to contribute to Jotun’s continued forward ideas on how to best develop embe able to constantly improve the various Academy or e-learning, employees are expansion and success ployee skills. There are some core skills modules using best practice principles. carefully followed up afterwards. This is that are applicable to all divisions, such to ensure that the employees understand Through these areas, Jotun can internally The objective is to establish a culture as management training, and operations In-house skills how to use their newfound skills and to offer a wide range of life-long learning whereby employees appreciate and value training. This helps customers to find the Jotun believes that some learning happens see how the next level of competence deprogrammes. In addition, Jotun cooperlong-term learning that makes it possible same level of competence among Jotun best by using in-house competences. As velopment can be planned. ates with leading universities and external for them to grow and maintain their enemployees wherever they are in the world. an example, 60 sales managers around training providers to meet all Jotun´s emthusiasm for developing themselves and Specific training applicable to different the world are trained to provide the sales ployee training needs. Jotun. departments and job roles then augments training for employees locally. When they these core skills. train their own people they understand what the operating environment is like Technical advisor proficiency HSE in Jotun 12 With responsibility for paint inspection, the coating advisor has a very important role in coatings projects. Considerations about health, safety and environment (HSE) are pervasive at Jotun. All decisions are informed 13 Lack of understanding of the importance of correct application often results in weakness in the paint film, by, and operations governed by, our belief in zero harm to employees and the wider community. PEOPLE Health. Safety and Environment reduced lifetime, or higher maintenance cost for the construction. However, technical advisors can ensure that this doesn’t happen and report deviations that may cause reduced lifetime for the paint film. Our HSE performance is gradually improving, and we are commited to continue With the valuable role of coating advisors making systematic improvements to our well recognized, Jotun decided in 2005 to Total number of participants HSE practices. However, a tragic accidevelop a training programme – under the dent resulting in the death of a Chinese name Team No.1 – initially for technical 1800 employee in July reminds us that there is advisors that worked on projects in partalways room for improvement. nership with customers. 1600 1400 This year the HSE-reporting has been imThe reason for this was simple. The more 1200 proved by introducing key performance knowledge Jotun’s technical employees indicators at a divisional and company 1000 have about the company’s activities and level, enabling managers to increase their products, the better equipped they will be 800 focus on HSE performance. to understand and serve customers, lead600 Nos. participants ing to greater customer satisfaction. 400 Level 1 Exam Jotun understands the importance of trainLevel 1 Completion ing in nurturing robust HSE practices. As An expanded programme 200 Level 2 Completion well as conferences for HSE coordinators, After initially just having technical advi0 HSE days are held for employees at the Feb’08 Jun’08 Jan’09 Jun’09 Jan’10 Jun’10 Jan’11 Jun’11 Nov’11 sors participate in the Team No.1 trainmajority of our locations. ing project, it is now being expanded to include all Jotun employees who have We have evaluated Jotun’s carbon foota technical aspect to their job functions, Module updates print based on the reported figures for Jotun’s HSE vision such as technical service, technical supAt the end of 2011 the Team No.1 project 2011: Participants by regions 2011 and have goals for cuts in energy Jotun will enhance long-term competitiveness and financial performance through a port, and technical sales. There are three had been active for four years. During the consumption and emissions over the comresponsible approach, attitude and actions regarding Health, Safety and Environment. levels of training modules, with each modpast year all the existing modules have ing year. All of Jotun’s activities shall: ule needing to be passed before moving to been updated and new ones have been • Prevent work-related illnesses the next level. A fourth level for individual added. We continue to emphasise the importance • Promote employees’ physical and mental health training is presently being developed. of HSE to management and have succeed• Protect life and property Continuous training of employees is maked in making it a part of the agenda in all • Prevent pollution By the end of 2011, 1,284 participants had ing a difference to the experience offered management meetings. been classified as ‘technical’. Of these, 78 to customers – and this will help cement per cent had successfully completed Level Jotun´s position as an industry leader, 1 and 65 per cent had progressed to comglobally. A systematic programme plete Level 2. The number of non-techHSE standard HSE accounts performance, HSE objectives have been nical participants is steadily increasing, Team No.1 training includes an extensive All Jotun’s activities shall be carried Jotun compiles tertiary and annual accounts defined. with sales and customer service personnel module within HSE training. Last year Far East: 65% out in accordance with local laws and on health, safety, use of resources and being the most active participants. this module was expanded to include a Europe: 20% regulations, and the Jotun HSE standard. environmental pollution. The purpose of the Jotun’s reports are based on statutory special section, “working at height”. The Middle East: 7% In addition, all producing companies shall HSE accounts is to monitor the performance Norwegian requirements and include the The rise in the number of Team No. 1 parreason was to reduce the risk of falls while Rest of the World: 8% be certified according to ISO 14001 and of the group; to enable continual most important effects of the company’s ticipants has been dramatic, particularly working in shipyards. OHSAS 18001. This forms the basis for the improvements; to provide a benchmark for activities on the working environment and for coating advisors. In China alone, Jotun group’s systematic HSE programme, and the group’s results against other companies the environment. now has 510 technical advisors. is the foundation for Jotun’s long-term of a similar nature; and to provide competitive strength. information, both internally and externally, The HSE accounts cover a total of 38 Material for all courses is standard across about the group’s effects on people and the factories, of which there are: An updated and improved HSE standard environment. • Five factories in Jotun Dekorativ all territories, though there is some adwas introduced in 2011 throughout the • 12 factories in Jotun Paints ditional localisation by local trainers to group’s factories. HSE reporting and HSE reporting from all producing companies • 10 factories in Jotun Powder Coatings ensure that the training takes into account internal audits are carried out according is also the back bone of our commitment • 11 factories in Jotun Coatings specific territory needs. to the same guidelines throughout all of to continuously improve our level of HSE. Jotun’s production units. Based on the analysis of the last year’s A safe working environment 14 Worker safety is the most important thing in Jotun and everyone has 15 the right to a healthy and safe working environment. Identification, How do we learn from Health. Safety and Environment Health. Safety and Environment evaluation and reduction of risk attached to occupational health and safety is all part of our day-to-day work. incidents and accidents? All producing companies report nonPreventive measures 2011 the level of absence through illness conformances in defined categories to One of the most important preventive in Jotun A/S was 4.5 per cent, compared the Group HSE department. Based on analyses of the non-conformances from measures in Jotun includes training in to 5.1 per cent in 2010. the last years, the main focus areas are how to handle hazardous chemicals and defined. We do this to improve and to the use of protective equipment. Occupational injuries reduce the risk for accidents. In 2011 there were 1,081 days of absence For 2011 the main focus areas were: The level of training in this area has derecorded as a result of injuries. This creased from 1,200 working days in 2010 equates to less than 0.1 per cent of the total Fire to 930 working days in 2011. working hours, which is at the same level • Continue focus regarding earthing as in 2010. The H-value for Jotun group and fire risk related to solvent-based In addition, we have had special focus arfor 2011 was 5.5, the same level as for production eas for 2011 to reduce risk for injuries or 2010. The H-value for Jotun A/S in Nor• Specific training regarding hot work fatal accidents. The areas have been: way was 4.3 for 2011 which is an increase and permits • Evaluate maintenance and replacement •“Work at height” in shipyards, from 2010 with a H-value of 0.6. programme of fork lifts warehouses and maintenance • Reduce risk for “falling objects” in Over the last years there has been a posiInjuries and fatal accidents warehouses and raw material handling tive trend in the number of days of ab• “Work at height” – special focus • Strain – introduce more lifting sence per injury, though there was a slight in shipyards, warehouses and equipment thus reducing long-term sick increase in the last year. maintenance leave. • Reduce risk for “falling objects” – Deaths special focus in warehouses and raw Training There was one death at Jotun’s Chinese material handling In order to promote the health of its emoperations in 2011 as a result of an acci• Strain – introduce more lifting ployees, Jotun conducts health surveys, dent. An operator was hit by a falling palequipment ergonomic surveys and provides systemlet during work in the warehouse. Accidental release – spill atic first aid training. In 2011, 2,070 em• Internal transportation ployees attended first aid training courses. • External transportation A total of 1,200 working days were spent on this training, marking an increase on the 900 days in 2010. Over this time Jotun Jotun Group has a great focus on has been able to increase the total HSE HSE training of employees. However, training per employee. general HSE training was not a part HSE Training in Jotun Group Absence due to sickness (%) H-values of the HSE reporting before 2008. hours per employee for Jotun Group Number of injuries leading to absence per From 2008 to 2011 the amount of HSE Until 2008, training in preparedness, million working hours – H1-value training per employee has increased from medical training and protective measure 5.4 hours to 7.3 hours per employee. HSE hazardous chemicals – was reported. 10 2.5 10 training is one of Jotun’s main HSE objecThis is the main reason for the increase in HSE training per employee from 2007 8 2 8 tives. to 2008. 7.2 7.2 7.3 6 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.6 1.6 6 Absence through illness 5.4 5.4 1.4 6.1 5.6 5.5 5.5 Absence due to illness for the group in 4 1 4 4.4 2011 was 1.6 per cent, the same level as 3.5 for 2010. In 2011 a total of 28,521 days of 2 0.5 2 absence through illness were recorded, as opposed to 29,103 days in 2010. 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The figures from the activity in Norway are included in the total figures above. In The purpose of audits • To reduce undesirable risk • To improve the level of HSE • To maintain and promote sound ethical attitudes Assessing our own • To maintain the attention on our corporate culture and attitudes • To report weaknesses and non-achievement to the required level in the organisation performance 16 The challenge is to acknowledge internal audits as tools for 17 improvement and make it a positive experience. Health. Safety and Environment Health. Safety and Environment In 2011 Group HSE carried out fourteen Areas like order and tidiness, safety walks internal audits. The reports from all of the and emergency routines, have improved. audits carried out have been made availHowever, the audits reveal that Jotun facable to the Jotun management. es challenges linked to maintenance, safe operations and storing and labelling of Internal audits hazardous raw materials. The system for The Board of Directors in Jotun has rewaste handling and separation of hazardsolved to implement regular internal ous and non-hazardous waste is showing a audits of factories and warehouses. This positive development in most companies shall ensure Jotun’s own requirements for even though it needs further improvement. a systematic review of routines, systems and production processes. It also involves In order to pursue our vision and meet the systematic, documented, objective asgoals that we have set, we must ensure sessments being carried out on factories that necessary actions from the audit are planned for the future. carried out. Four of the sites have been revisited in 2011 to follow up an action. Internal audits will be carried out by perTighter follow up of the audits with a possonnel who are sufficiently independent to sible revisit of sites has been introduced as provide an impartial attitude and judgea HSE standard. ment. The auditors must have sufficient knowledge of the areas that are being reNew HSE standards viewed, including knowledge and experiIn 2011 HSE objectives at group level and ence of relevant matters within HSE, mana new HSE standard for company managagement, technical issues and regulations. ers have been introduced. As a part of the audits we have increased our focus on local Internal audits and controls are important management behaviour and incorporation elements of Jotun’s HSE policy and are of Group HSE objectives on local level. carried out at all Jotun’s factories throughout the world. Using systematic controls, During 2009 and 2010 most production Group HSE creates a foundation for comsites were certified according to ISO mon learning and improvements. 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Two companies have been certified during the last year. Audits include discussions with personOut of 38 sites 35 are certified according nel, inspection of the production site’s to these standards. Three companies will indoor and outdoor area, inspection of be certified at a later stage. operating conditions and equipment, review of journals, written procedures and The audits also revealed that Jotun needs other relevant documentation. The purto carry on the programme on preventive Group highlights 2011 pose of the audits is to determine whether maintenance with regard to production • HSE objectives at group level have been focus on HSE and CR. 45 suppliers were and LEAN practices. The programme will the business is fulfilling relevant requireequipment and buildings. Jotun initiated a introduced. The process of implementing audited in 2011, and in total 325 suppliers continue. ments in legislations, set targets and has standard for maintenance and the implethese objectives, together with action have been audited. The programme will • All companies now have a documented acceptable HSE standards. mentation started in 2008. By 1 July 2011 plans on a local level, are ongoing. continue. system for Crisis Managementand almost all production sites had achieved • An updated HSE standard in a new and • Jotun Operator Training with a substantial Business Continuity Planning in place. Main audit features “white belt” – which is the first step of improved format has been introduced. HSE focus has been introduced in 2011. During 2011 all companies undertook The internal audits carried out in 2011 our five step maintenance improvement • For the first time, Group HSE had a world This training is mandatory for all operators educational exercises related to realistic showed that some sites need to increase programme. Several companies have also wide HSE coordinator meeting; a three day in all our producing companies. crises scenarios. their focus on HSE to improve the level. It received “yellow belt” which is the second conference. The feedback has been very • 54 empolyees graduated from the Jotun • Sick leave in Jotun Norway has been positive. Operation Academy – JOA 1 – which is substantially reduced is important to say that some sites have a step in this programme. • Jotun has for several years run a for operational managers to improve and good HSE level. programme to audit our suppliers, with train in technical issues with focus on HSE Safety and preparedness Raw materials 18 Thanks to knowledge and training, the fire incidents last year were handled quickly and averted the risk of Every Jotun product contains a number of chemicals and materials, each of which contribute to the qualities of 19 major fires. the finished product. This presentation describes the key elements of Jotun paints and powder coatings, and Health. Safety and Environment OPERATIONS how they work together. Site security and training employees with training, fire-resistant faSolvents dispersed in the paint. The particles come give them their final performance and Security and safety are essential in the enThe outbreak of fire is regarded as the cilities and personal protective equipment. Solvents are only used in paint and not in in different sizes and shapes. In powder characteristics. For example, in paint tire chemical industry, which needs to be greatest risk factor at Jotun’s plants. powder coatings. Solvents are the liquids coatings it is important that the extender they provide UV protection, inhibit tanprepared for a wide range of threats and Preventive measures against fire and The correct fire-detection system and firethat carry the solid components in paint. is heat resistant. nin staining, inhibit corrosion, protect explosions are therefore given high incidents, such as intoxicants, organised fighting equipment are vital for preventing They must be present to ensure the paint is the film against mould growth and ensure priority in order to prevent personal crime, violence in the workplace and even and limiting the scope of a fire. of the correct consistency for application Binder good flow and levelling. injuries and damage to property. terrorism. In order to manage security by brush, roller or spray. Paint is divided The binder or resin is one of the most imrisks Jotun needs to evaluate which measFire-detection and fire-fighting systems into solvent-based paint, using organic portant components in paint and powder Hardener ures to take at any given time. shall be activated automatically. Foamsolvents like mineral spirit, and in water coatings, and can be thought of as the glue In powder coatings and two component Specific incidents in 2011 based extinguishing equipment shall norborne paints. which holds the pigments together and paint, the hardener is used to cross-link Active learning There were four serious fires reported, mally be used at factories and warehouses sticks them to the surface. In paint it is the the resin at a given temperature. The deAlso in 2011, Jotun continued the imporwhich had a potential to cause injuries or handling solvent-based products. Pigments basic solid film former that remains after gree of cross-linking can also be adjusted tant training of all staff at its production major damage to property. In addition, we The pigments used in paint and powder the solvent has evaporated, and which to determine the gloss level, degree of surfacilities worldwide on the issues of earthhad some initial stages of fires, mainly reAny conditions which result or could recoatings are normally present as fine binds the pigment particles together into face and other aspects, including structure ing and static electricity. Earthing and lated to electrical equipment. sult in any damage to the environment or solid particles that are dispersed, but not a cohesive paint film. and texture effects. static electricity are the biggest challenge personal injury shall be treated as nonsoluble, in the binder and solvent. The Jotun faces in terms of guaranteeing the All fires and initial stages of fires were conformities. These conditions must be pigments contribute to colour and opacity The binder determines many of the necsafety of its employees and property. extinguished by Jotun personnel and did rectified in order to prevent any recur(hiding powder) to the paint and protect essary film properties such as adhesion, not result in injuries, major damage to rence. This applies to incidents involving the binders and substrate from UV deggloss level, hardness, abrasion resistance, In 2011 10,300 hours of preparedness trainproperty or environment. fires, early stages of a fire, injuries and radation. flexibility, drying speed and durability. ing were carried out, as compared to 8,250 accidental pollution of the environment. hours in 2010. On average this represents Fire prevention measures Extenders Additives 5.5 hours of training for each of the 1,900 Jotun is active in the area of fire prevenExtenders are natural or synthetic minerAdditives are the specialised components rescue personnel in the organisation. tion measures. This includes providing als like talc, clay, etc., which are evenly used in paint and powder coatings that EMISSION TO AIR Solvents EMISSION TO AIR Dust Dust Air Water Pigments Binders Binders DUST Pigments FILTER Solvents Additives Additives CYCLONE 20 21 CLASSIFIER OPERATIONS OPERATIONS WASTE RESULT Dust Paint Product waste PREMIXING DISPERSION FILLING/MIXING TANKS moisturising grinding let down MIXER stabilising colour adjustment Extruder COOLING CONVEYOR/CRUSHER MILL WASTE DISCHARGE RESULT Failed batch production TO WATER Powder coatings Washing solubles Washing water Water dilutant Solvent-based Paint production Powder coating production We consider there to be four stages in paint production and the sequence in which they come is important. The production of powder coating is quite different from paint production, though technically it can be divided into the same stages. Premixing • Stabilising: Once the moisturising and • Size of grain: Checks whether the pigIn the first stage pigments, extendgrinding stages of the dispersion process ments and extenders have been ground Mixing Cooling and flaking sized particles drop down for return to the ers, binders and solvents are accurately have been completed the mixture must finely enough This is the same as the first stage in paint The hot melt from the extruder is then milling chamber. weighed and mixed. be stabilised. To achieve this, binders are production, in which the raw materials are cooled, achieved by passing it through added to the mixture • Viscosity: Checks the consistency of the accurately weighed and then mixed. cooled rollers. The final operation in the Collection Dispersion paint and its suitability for application cooling stage is to break the extrudate intoThe milled and classified powder is then Dispersion is important for the quality of Adjusting Compounding small flakes using rotating hammers. transferred to a collection chamber. This the product and this process can be subThis is the stage at which the paint is pre• Sagging: Checks the thickness of the The mix then goes into an extruder where may be a cyclone in which powder falls to divided into: pared for use. The mixture is drained into film that can be applied without the paint it is melted. This is the second stage, Milling and classification the bottom while air is exhausted from the large tanks and binders and additives are starting to drip or sag known as compounding. The pigments The final stages of the manufacturing top, filtered and then exhausted into the • Moisturising: The air that surrounds the then added. The final step is to adjust the are treated to form a homogenous disperprocess are milling and classification. The atmosphere or a bag filter system. pigments and extenders is replaced by colour and viscosity. • Specific weight: Checks whether all the sion, which is subsequently discharged flakes are ground into a fine powder with binders correct raw materials have been added from the extruder. It is difficult to adjust a specified particle size range. The milled Filling the colour after this stage. powder is transferred from the mill on an • Grinding: The interconnection between Before the product is filled into tins it goes Depending on the type of paint, further air stream designed to ensure that overpigments in lumps (agglomerates) must be through a quality control inspection. The criteria are checked including colour and ground so that each pigment can be moismost common checkpoints are to analyse drying time. turised. This is done in machines with the: cutting and grinding functions Jotun GreenSteps 22 In 2011 Jotun launched a new programme to coordinate the company’s past, present and future efforts 23 to support a more sustainable environment. Known as Jotun GreenSteps, the programme serves both as ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT a platform to strengthen Jotun’s environmental performance and a framework to help promote Jotun’s corporate profile as an environmentally responsible company. Smart engineering to reduce waste Part of the challenge in manufacturing loss-rate in half. Built to Oner’s own design only one operator. In one shift, the machine Jotun GreenSteps covers five main focus taken an active part in the regulatory propowder coatings is the waste produced specifications, the machine uses natural gas can re-work up to a half a ton of powder a areas: Reduction of solvent/VOC emiscess in the EU. Jotun is working actively to during the handling process. Unlike wet to re-heat unused powder collected at the day, or 40 tons of powder per year. Jotun paints, which do not disperse easily, powder factory. The melted powder is fed into a has calculated that the savings produced by sions, reduction/substitution of hazardous contribute to good REACH solutions and coatings are more difficult to contain, microniser, where it is pulverised. While the the machine will exceed its cost in as little as materials, reduction of energy consumpeasy-to-use customer information that will resulting in a factory-average waste loss of re-cycled powder cannot be sold as finished two years. tion, reduction of carbon footprint and enhance safe use. two per cent, annually. goods, it can be used as an intermediary Oner’s initiative is a great example of how reduction of waste. In more detail, the five In Jotun Toz Boya San ve Tic., Factory product or be re-worked into existing a small idea from one single employee can areas of focus covered by Jotun GreenJotun is actively working, internally and Manager, Ali Oner, engineered a machine batches, with no impact on quality. result in a bigger Jotun GreenStep. Steps are set out below. with industry peers and raw material supto recycle powder waste that has cut this The machine is easy to use and requires pliers, to reduce the concentration and quantity of hazardous substances in our products. produce and has units of tons (or kg) of as well as production waste. Reducing and The key objective is that hazardous raw Jotun continuously takes steps to save carbon dioxide equivalent. disposing of chemical waste is a major Jotun is committed to offering our cusmaterials are to be replaced by less hazenergy. First and foremost, Jotun’s confocus area. tomers greener products that at the same ardous alternatives. sumption of energy is linked to our faBy looking at all of our operational and time maintain high product quality and cilities, including production and waremanufacturing activities we are finding Obsolete goods are a major contributor reliability standards. That includes makWhile working to reduce and replace the house. When building new premises, or ways that will allow us to reduce our own to chemical waste at Jotun. We therefore ing a large part of our products VOC-free. number and quantity of such substances, maintaining or extending existing ones, Jotun has a particular commitment to recarbon footprint, those of our suppliers continuously work on how to rework and Jotun shall ensure that high product quality energy consumption is a main focus area. ducing the carbon footprint throughout the and even those of our customers. dispose of them in a more environmenVOCs (volatile organic substances) are and reliability standards continue to be met. In addition, we develop products that can whole value chain. The carbon footprint tally friendly way than just scrapping. traditionally used as solvents in paint save energy for our customers and end usis a measure of the impact our activities products. These substances can give negaREACH is the new chemical regulation in ers. By taking a holistic approach to the have on the environment, and in particular tive health effects and contribute to high the EU and EEA, shifting responsibility for energy use of our business – and not just climate change. It relates to the amount of levels of ozone and smog at ground level, risk assessment and registration of chemiwithin our manufacturing operations – we greenhouse gases produced in our day-toand they are therefore regulated in many cals to industry, and is to be completed by can take bigger steps to reducing energy day lives through burning fossil fuels for countries. Over recent decades, Jotun has 2018. Jotun has carried out a research proconsumption. electricity, heating and transportation etc. At Jotun, we dispose of chemical waste put much effort into R&D, so that today ject together with suppliers, customers, uniresponsibly. Our key objectives are to we can offer products with low VOC conversities and research institutes, financed The carbon footprint is a measurement reduce, re-use and recycle across all our tent in all categories. by the Research Council of Norway, and of all greenhouse gases we individually operations, including waste from offices Emissions by source Scope 3: Indirect Voluntary Purchased Waste goods and services Chemical process emissions Employees flights / work travel Internal transportation Use of products Energy generation Purchased transportation services Suppliers Electricity Our carbon footprint Mandatory Purchased energy Scope 2: Indirect Purchased electricity 24 For many years Jotun has been working towards a more environmentally 25 District heating friendly way of running its business. ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT Mandatory In 2009 we produced our first Carbon an economic benefit, it will significantly Emissions from own production Footprint Report. A Carbon Footprint reduce the amount of CO2 emitted from Scope 1: Direct Audit was carried out to provide Jotun the site. In the Abu Dhabi facility, stateTransportation with own vehicles, people and goods with an overview of the total emissions of-the-art windows in the roof of the facOwn power and heating generaof CO2equivalents. The report contains tory that magnify light have brought about tion, boilers, etc. detailed information on our global carbon a reduction in the use of internal lighting Chemical or physical footprint, with carbon indicators for 2008 during the day. Also new powder coatings processes (industry) for our four divisions covering the 39 with low temperature curing – less energy production facilities, along with the cordemanding production – have been develporate unit in Norway. A similar Carbon oped lately. Footprint Audit has been carried out for both 2010 and 2011. Measures • As seen from the “Emissions by source” The results of the audits show that the graphic, purchased electricity is the total global emissions for Jotun Group in main source of Jotun´s CO2 footprint. A 2011 was 61,900 tonnes of CO2 equivaGroup HSE objective for 2011-2013 is to lents, which is a slight increase from 2010 reduce the use of purchased electricity due to increased production. However, the by three per cent per tonnes produced carbon-footprint per tonnes product proand per year. duced has decreased by 6 per cent. • From 2012, when we build a new factory a CO2 -audit will be undertaken to From this year, a carbon footprint audit see where CO2 is being created in order will be undertaken every year, with the to take measures to reduce this figure. results published annually in our Corpo• Our CO2footprint and reduction rate Responsibility report. measures for energy use are also a part of Jotun GreenSteps, which has signifiJotun knows that the major part of our cantly raised the profile of this issue at a CO2 footprint comes from purchased corporate level. electricity – around 70 per cent, so if we are able to reduce our electricity consumpJotun recognises sustainability as a longtion we will also reduce our CO2 output. term competitive advantage, which is Each factory is responsible for reducing why we are working hard to reduce the its CO2 footprint and guidelines are about amount of CO2 emissions we release in to be drawn up and communicated which the atmosphere. will help reduce electricity use. Many of Helping customers reduce their carbon footprints Hull Performance Solutions the hints and tips on how to use less elecMethod Jotun realises that an effective way to been measured. Through HPS, Jotun makes generation silyl methacrylate binder tricity are common sense whether it is The greenhouse gas emissions have been contribute to a better environment is to a difference, providing a tool that helps the technology switching off lights, not using equipment calculated according to the international provide our customers with high quality customer both reduce their impact on the • A dedicated project manager for each when not needed, or regulating the air standard, the Greenhouse Gas Protocol products that help reduce their emissions. environment and save money. project, as hull performance is dependent conditioning to an optimal level. Even miInitiative, and includes all consumption on the quality of the application as well as nor reductions make a difference, because of fossil fuels for energy production and Our development of Hull Performance Environmentally friendly biocides used in the paint this is also a part of changing our attitude transportation with own vehicles at the Solutions (HPS) exemplifies this effort, Jotun’s antifouling paints keep the hull free • A reliable and transparent method of and focus regarding consuming energy. facility premises, process emissions and creating a shared value. from fouling and slime and are therefore measuring, quantifying and reporting the purchased electricity. All of our greenessential to minimising bunker consumption relation between hull performance and fuel Some sites are beginning to go much furhouse gas emissions are converted into HPS combines premium antifouling, and greenhouse gas emissions. economy ther than this. In Italy, solar panel systems CO2 equivalents. Based on the reporting priority technical service and reliable tools to measure hull performance over time. HPS is a unique system, which combines the for the production of energy from renewprocedures of the GHG-protocol, two difThe impact of antifouling systems on fuel following elements related to reduced fuel able sources has been installed that almost ferent types of emissions were highlighted consumption and carbon emissions has long consumption as a consequence of fouling: fully meet the energy needs of the main in the report – Scope 1 Direct emissions been acknowledged, but has never really • SeaQuantum X200, based on the next warehouse and offices. As well as having and Scope 2 Indirect emissions. In 2011, Jotun Italy installed 42 solar cells that are capable of producing 12,000 kWh/year and will almost fully meet the energy needs of the site’s main warehouse and offices. Environmental impact 26 Jotun has been able to strike a balance between waste, energy consumption and production volume. It is our 27 goal to become even more efficient and further reduce waste and energy. ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT The treatment of waste is an important asA particular focus during the past year has Discharge to water Energy consumption for Jotun Group (GWh) pect of how our resources are used. Jotun been to develop a waste system to ensure Washing of production equipment is the is committed to reducing the amount proper separation of hazardousand nonmain cause of discharge from the producGroup of generated waste and to recycle while hazardous waste. tion. In 2011, Jotun’s factories generated avoiding risk to health, safety and envi70,700 tonnes of washingand process ronment. Waste that has to be disposed Contaminated sites water, compared to 74,400 tonnes in 2010. 120 of should preferably be used for energy A number of our plants have been at the The waste water was either treated in 110 production. same location for a long period of time, or separate waste water treatment plants or 100 are located in areas where another indusdelivered to an approved waste contractor. 90 Non-hazardous waste try was previously situated. New rules and 80 The total waste volume: Hazardous and regulations have also resulted in changes No accidental release of any substance 70 non-hazardous waste from Jotun’s factories as to which chemical substances are alwith significant consequences to the envi60 amounted to 18,000 tonnes in 2011. This lowed to be used and how to treat them. ronment was reported this year. 50 was 2.5 per cent of the production volume, 40 the same level as last year. Jotun’s objective Surveys have been conducted at a number Energy consumption 30 is to reduce the total amount of waste from of plants, and initiatives have been impleThe production of paint consumes rela20 2.5 per cent to 2.3 per cent in relation to the mented at some sites. We cannot rule out tively little energy compared to other pro10 0 production volume in the period 2011-2013. that contaminated sites may exist at some cess industries. The main energy source 07 08 09 10 11 of the plants. We are particularly aware is purchased electricity. In 2011, Jotun Hazardous waste of such conditions in connection with the registered a consumption of 111 GWh, an Hazardous waste at Jotun consists mainly purchase and sale of production plants. increase from 109 GWh in 2010 for the of process water, solvent-based waste and Before purchasing of property for indusproduction sites world wide. We have also included energy packaging from hazardous raw materials. trial activity and storage of chemicals, consumed by offices and branches Process water is formed as a by-product investigations are undertaken to identify The energy consumption has increased connected to production sites. This is from the production of binders. The largany potential sources of environmental due to increased production volume. Use the main reason for the increased use est volumes of solvent-based waste result risks and to clarify whether any measures of purchased electricity per tonnes proof purchased electricity in Jotun Group from washing the production equipment. for avoiding pollution are necessary. Asduced has been reduced by 6 per cent from 2007 to 2008. This waste is recycled to a large extent in sessments and measures are carried out by compared to 2010. production. Hazardous waste can also be external specialists. a result of production errors or returned In 2011, the volume of oil used on-site for Production volumes Non -hazardous and hazardous waste Non-hazardous and hazardous waste (1000 tonnes) as per cent of produced volume for Jotun Group for Jotun Group (1000 tonnes) goods. Production failures can be recycled creating energy was 1,500 cubic meters to production or be hazardous waste. Operations at Jotun require resources compared to 1,900 cubic meters in 2010. Non-hazardous waste Hazardous waste Dekorativ Paints Non-hazardous waste Hazardous waste – and this involves emissions to air, The major part of the oil is used for heatCoatings Powder Coatings discharges to water and generation 11,000 tonnes of hazardous waste were ing and production of binders in Norway. of waste. Increasing production generated at Jotun’s factories in 2011, 350 3.5 12 volumes mean that Jotun must equating to 1.5 per cent of production focus on efficiency-improvement Purchased electricity contributes to ap300 volume, which is a slight decrease from initiatives to enable a reduction of the proximately 70 per cent of our carbon3.0 10 1.8 last year. Jotun’s production waste mainly environmental footprint. footprint. Due to the climate challenge, 250 2.5 consists of packaging, such as cardboard, Jotun group has an objective to reduce 0.9 0.9 8 1.3 paper, plastic and metal. National return the consumption of purchased electricity 200 2.0 1.2 schemes are becoming more widespread – the main energy source – with three per 6 and, where these are established, Jotun’s Emissions to air cent yearly related to the production. 150 1.5 1.5 1.5 activities will also be covered. Emissions to the air from Jotun’s factories 1.2 1.2 4 100 1.0 are mainly linked to the production of sol1.1 Production planning is the key to the revent-based paints. Air emissions mainly 50 2 duction of waste. Through the production consist of solvents and a marginal amount of greater series, the washing of producof dust. The emission of dust is reduced 0 0 0 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 tion facilities and generation of waste can by dust filters to a level below 10 mg susbe reduced to a minimum. pended solids per cubic meter. Customer-driven innovation 28 Jotun has built a reputation for continually developing new products to meet customers’ needs. This requires 29 us to constantly seek feedback from our customers while predicting market trends. CUSTOMERS & SUPPLIERS CUSTOMERS & SUPPLIERS Innovation is essential to Jotun. Without ent with consumer demand for more sustics, sales strategies, and what impact, if it, our position would dissipate. We betainable paints. any, the introduction of a new product will lieve and insist that any additions and imhave on existing products. All new prodprovements to our products and services Jotun’s Substitution Principle is also an ucts are subject to intense scrutiny from must offer more value to our customers. initiative aimed at developing more susconcept to launch to ensure the product is tainable paints. We aim to replace hazsafe, reliable and profitable and is consistEnvironmental solutions ardous substances in new and old paints ent with Jotun’s requirements. Today’s paints and powder coatings are with more benign materials. We have far superior from those produced decades banned the use of substances like coal tar Understanding different customers ago. Increased demand for healthier, more and alkylphenols in our products, and are While the technical properties of Lady sustainable coatings solutions has encourphasing out or restricting the use of other Pure Color are vital to its scratch-resistant aged a fresh wave of innovation. raw materials. The Substitution Principle finish and low chemical emissions, Jotun has resulted in Jotun R&D developing understands that, in the decorative segIn line with this trend, Jotun has demore VOC-free water borne paints and ment, consumer choices are often driven veloped a number of innovative paint the replacement of banned substances in more by complex emotional associations solutions in the past few years. In 2010, existing paints (such as anti-corrosives) than what is printed on the label. By conMajestic EcoHealth, a low-VOC water with more environmentally friendly altertrast, products in the Powder Coatings, borne paint using more sustainable raw natives. Protective or Marine segment, which may materials was launched. Jotun has also have a genuine impact on a company’s refined its premium silyl acrylic antifoulWhile this process requires time and rebottom line, require a different set of priing marine coating, SeaQuantum, proven sources, the results are consistent with orities. Understanding how consumers to help shipowners reduce fuel costs and both customer demand and Jotun’s comand companies in different parts of the corresponding carbon emissions. mitment to improved environmental perworld make purchasing choices lies at the formance. The real achievement is that heart of Jotun’s R&D efforts, which comWith the ever-growing demands for inJotun has been able to make these advancbine a blend of market intelligence, expedustrial consumer goods in mind, Jotun es while also improving the protective rience and technical competence. Powder Coatings introduced in 2011 its quality of its coatings. new powder coatings range, Jotun Guard Miles, Guard Miles+ and Guard Gaze. The Innovation Process The range enables customers to reduce the Creating new and better products does average film thickness, lower the curing not happen by chance. It requires close temperature and cover higher surface arecollaboration within a sophisticated R&D as with the same amount of powder, while network – of which there are nine laboraHow Jotun develops sustainable products and concepts – Sens maintaining the appearance and protectories around the world (including three In recent times, consumers have become understanding of what consumers want in tion features. The innovation represents a exclusively devoted to Powder Coatings). more sensitive to health issues associated their products. significant step forward for Jotun Powder These laboratories do not work in isolawith allergies and respiratory illnesses. In SENS is safe to use by everyone, including Coatings in the field of low temperature tion, but constantly share ideas, set pri2008, Jotun launched SENS, an odourless families with small children, pregnant curing and more sustainable powder soluorities, and review their innovation goals and solvent free paint that has virtually no women and painters, as well as those tions. to make sure their efforts are focused on odour. This is because solvents have been suffering from allergies, asthma or other their objectives. reduced to lower levels than any other respiratory disorders. Formulated from Jotun has also applied the same focus on interior paint on the market. SENS emits quality assured ingredients, there is no risk health and environmental sustainability to Jotun personnel representing marketing, virtually no hazardous substances making of allergy induction or irritation. The level other high performance brands. In 2010, R&D, sales and supply chain management it safe for everyone, particularly those who of preservation is below EU’s approved the company launched Lady Effects in the meet regularly in Innovation Boards to have experienced reactions to other paints. concentrations for skin care products. SENS Middle East, and in Scandinavia, Lady evaluate new concepts, products in the deIt was developed in cooperation with is not harmful to health during application Norway’s Asthma and Allergy Association or drying. The only solvent in SENS is water Pure Color, a premium, scratch-resistant velopment cycle, new products ready for (NAAF). In 2010, the brand was launched and it contains pure raw materials. SENS is matte finish interior paint. While not marthe market and those already launched. in Europe and was well accepted in the ideal choice for situations where health keted specifically as healthy or environThese Innovation Boards evaluate a broad the market, proving Jotun’s intimate considerations are paramount. mentally sensitive brands, these products range of issues, ranging from potential are nevertheless formulated to be consistmarket demand, production costs, logisExpressing Jotun values through customer care Responsibility down the supply chain 30 Active in more than 80 countries worldwide, Jotun employees serve a diverse range of industries, segments Jotun wants to be perceived as a serious, dependable and long-term business partner. This is why we 31 and markets, with each requiring a different strategic approach. But whatever the challenge, how we interact adhere to a high standard in business ethics and integrity. But we realise that we also need to develop these CUSTOMERS & SUPPLIERS CUSTOMERS & SUPPLIERS with customers is an expression of Jotun’s core values: Loyalty, Care, Respect and Boldness. standards through the supply chain and that means working with our suppliers to ensure that they also meet the highest ethical standards. For Jotun, quality customer care is the bedrock for building loyalty among existing customers, winning contracts and strengthening our international brand for quality, professionalism and ethical business standards. Decorative In the retail Decorative segment, Jotun markets interior and exterior paints through dealer networks. We provide dealers with in-shop design, as well as access to branded marketing materials, to help them attract customers and to be profitable. However, Jotun also demonstrates its long-term commitment to dealers by actively supporting their efforts to grow and meeting frequently with them to discuss market trends, share information, and find solutions to their concerns. By demonstrating a long-term commitment to dealers and encouraging open dialogue, Jotun has been successful in strengthening the Jotun brand. Marine In the Marine segment, Jotun works closely with shipyards, drydocks and shipowners to provide quality customer care. For global customers, we have specountries. However, it should be noted ers improve results and win new business. Jotun’s desire to do the best for employIf any suppliers are found to contravene Assistance to transform cial customer programmes, headed by asthat most contracts in the Protective segWe also supply powder coatings to high ees, society and the environment has our rules on these, we immediately stop Suppliers that get a low score in the ausigned Key Account Managers (KAMs) to ment are regional, initiated by local muprofile projects, such as window frames also stretched back into the supply chain, working with them. dit are normally warned and sent a notice provide a single point of contact and connicipalities responsible for high-profile for skyscrapers and prominent real estate by ensuring that suppliers meet certain period. There are many examples of supsistent handling of important customers. infrastructure projects or the construction developments. To serve our customers in standards. In August 2011, we began a new initiapliers that have managed to go through A KAM is supported by a dedicated team of energy facilities, such as refineries or a professional way, Jotun personnel from tive environmental auditing of suppliers, a transformation and thus avoid being of Jotun professionals who actively listen power stations. To compete for these prodifferent regions and segments work toTo ensure we are using the right suppliers based on the Jotun GreenSteps principles. banned as a Jotun supplier. to customers and work to gain a better unjects, Jotun’s local reputation for quality gether to offer customers a Single Source around the world, we have conducted 325 derstanding of different needs in different service and ethical business practices are Solution, a fully integrated package to audits of separate locations over the past We realise we cannot change the world Suppliers in the “danger zone” will, sub-segments and regions. By interacting critical – a reputation that can only be meet the specific needs of the project. three years. In total, this means as many overnight, but most of the suppliers give through the audit, be provided with the with global customers in a firm, profesbuilt over time. as 700 different visits, including follow-up feedback that they value the audit, espeincentive to make necessary changes, or sional and transparent manner, we can Jotun’s focus on building long-term revisits to check on areas of improvement. cially in the area of HSE. At Jotun, we are face losing our business. An important provide uniform services to shipowners Powder Coatings lationships in different segments and very happy to run the supplier audit proconsequence of the changes is that the around the world. Most of Jotun’s interactions with customregions has helped Jotun grow in partnerAll new suppliers are subject to audits, gramme, as we are meeting not only legal, supplier’s workers will have better ers in the Powder Coatings segment are ship with customers – from dealers to arcovering 15 different areas. Jotun has but also ethical obligations. conditions. At Jotun we are proud of Protective with local manufacturers of consumer chitects, shipowners to energy companies. highlighted three disciplines that will helping to contribute to a better life for Quality customer care is also an imporgoods, such as kitchen appliances, lawnThese relationships are built on trust and never be tolerated: It is Jotun’s experience that our audits these workers. tant part of Jotun’s activities in the Promowers and office furniture. By providing mutual respect, consistent with Jotun’s • Child labour/ forced labour are beneficial, as we have found that tective segment, where large projects customers with innovative products and core values. • Discrimination quality is rising as suppliers become more often involve stakeholders from different fresh ideas, Jotun works to help custom• Bribery/ fraud proficient. Contributing to strong local societies Corporate responsibility in action 32 Good local community relations are critical to our business success. The local communities in which we operate The Red Cross is one of the world’s oldest, largest and most respected Non Governmental Organisations. 33 around the globe are our hosts; they provide us with our working environment, workforce and licences to Operating in 187 countries, it is not only there to help when tragedy strikes, but also to provide numerous LOCAL SOCIETY LOCAL SOCIETY run our operations. Jotun is mindful of creating mutually beneficial relationships by providing employment, community services. Jotun has supported the Red Cross for many years with emphasis on contributing to the paying taxes and contributing to the overall development of the community. communities in which it operates. Jotun’s support over the years has been substantial. It has supported and worked with local Red Cross organisations in many of the countries where it is represented. These include areas that have suffered terrible hardship during the last few years, including the recent floods in Thailand, the tsunami in Japan and conflicts in Libya and the Darfur region of Sudan. Global recognition The Red Cross and Red Crescent (used in Islamic states) emblems may be the most recognised symbols in the world. According to Red Cross Norway’s Secretary Félix Genêt Laframboise/IFRC General, Åsne Havnelid, children come running up as soon as they see the Red Cross uniform. That kind of recognition comes from a long tradition of excellence in disaster relief, helping people when they need it most, regardless of race, religion or ideolyears after the earthquake in Haiti, there ogy. However, the Red Cross does much are still around half a million people livmore. ing in tents. As well as helping to rebuild infrastructure, we are educating children The relief work it carries out is compreabout sanitation so that a potential cholera Common understanding and respect are India hensive and ongoing. It is also varied, deoutbreak can be avoided,” she says. essential for both parties to get the most The Jotun India CR team has recently initiatives are part of an overall effort by pending on the needs of the people in each out of this association. Our ability to taken the first steps in creating a healthier Jotun to improve the livelihood of people country. It could include anything from A partnership approach support communities through initiatives population in the Indian cities of Mumbai in the region. providing medical and food supplies in When done right, corporate responsibility and Pune, by visiting local orphanages, has grown as our business has expanded Pune and Mumbai have long histories of war torn regions, to day-to-day commugoes hand in hand with this preventative alongside volunteers, to inform the over the years. Building and maintaining widespread poverty. Slums in Pune account nity services including: caring for the elstrategy. By partnering with organisachildren about personal hygiene. vibrant and sustainable communities refor an estimated 2.2 million people, while derly, sick and lonely, running emergency tions, the Red Cross is better positioned quires action and involvement. Jotun representatives presented simple Mumbai’s Dharva slum, which is one of telephone helplines for children and the to build local networks and put in place “It is great to see Jotun taking guidelines to ensure the kids know how many, houses 800,000 people. In both young, and supporting refugees. preventative measures. Havnelid says this responsibility for the environment to take care of their own health, such as cities, these people are considered lucky by We have numerous examples of well-funcrelationship benefits both parties, because in which they work. The support brushing their teeth and washing their the many thousands that have no shelter tioning operations all around the world. A great asset it creates an open dialogue where the Red they provide is channelled hands before a meal. Many charitable at all. Jotun’s initiative is one small step in Wherever we operate, we are committed Red Cross volunteers are one of the greatCross can help the organisation reach its through the Red Cross societies organisations see hygiene education as the tackling the poor public health information to being a responsible citizen and providmost effective method of making quick and civic and educational standards in est assets a community has when a crisis corporate responsibility goals. in these countries so that they ing opportunities for local communities. and noticeable health improvements. these underprivileged parts. The company occurs. Each year 13 million active Red are better able to respond in hopes to provide some foundation to build Cross and Red Crescent volunteers pro“Organisations partner with us because emergency situations.” The company also agreed to cover living Jotun makes a difference every day by on for two of India’s largest metropolitan vide voluntary service worth six billion they know that their support goes straight expenses for ten children so that they Åsne Havnelid partnering with organisations in our loareas. dollars. Havnelid explains why working to where it is needed most. We help them could focus on their education. These Secretary General, Red Cross Norway cal regions to support initiatives and proto prepare for and prevent disasters is key. focus their support to the greatest effect grammes that respond in a meaningful and build something their employees can way to community needs and priorities. “A focus on prevention makes fewer really be proud of, ” she says. resources go further. For example, two Transparency International Jotun supports Transparency International’s Politically non-partisan, TI does not (TI) fight against corruption and TI’s vision. undertake investigations of alleged corruption or expose individual cases, Transparency International is a global but at times will work in coalition with network including more than 90 locally organisations that do. Anti-corruption established national chapters. These bodies fight corruption by promoting transparency Jotun is a member of Transparency in elections, in public administration, in International. 34 In accordance with well-established values and business principles, procurement and in business. 35 Jotun has a strong commitment to maintaining high standards in business ANTI--CORRUPTION ANTI-CORRUPTION ethics and integrity. This is a major driver in combatting corruption. All Jotun employees have a common reJotun boosted its anti-corruption work sponsibility to conduct business and treat in 2011 by launching a new policy, trainsuppliers, customers and other contacts in ing material, workshop material and an accordance with our Business Principles e-learning module. Jotun employees are and applicable rules. Likewise, we have a thus provided with tools that prepare them common responsibility to communicate to make decisions that are in line with this clearly, where relevant, to avoid operJotun’s expectations. ating in areas that fall outside the acceptable frames of activity. Anti-corruption training In 2011 around 500 leaders undertook Anti-corruption represents an important extensive training, including e-learning, part of our ethical guidelines. As cordilemma training and discussions. In 2012 ruption prevents economic development, the programme will be expanded further. undermines free competition and is a contributor to global poverty, Jotun as an Through our commitment to both Transinternational player has a responsibility to parency International and UN Global contribute to fighting corruption. Compact, through practical and specific actions and programmes, Jotun has Jotun’s anti-corruption policy reinforces showed that it takes its responsibility as a our Business Principles and embraces our global player seriously. legal and moral obligations. The policy applies to, and is mandatory for, all Jotun entities, affiliated companies and all Jotun employees. It is critical that each Jotun entity works locally to ensure that all employees who can be exposed to corrupt actions are well informed about the specific laws and guidelines applicable and prepared to take the right decisions. Business risk Jotun is located in some parts of the world where corruption represents a challenge and a risk to our business and reputation. We believe that by being active in these areas with ethical, sound values and business conduct, we can make a difference. Furthermore, Jotun believes that openIn support of whistle blowing ness, discussion and training are the best Whistle blowing is the act of calling employees and management, is vital to ways of eradicating corruption. Therefore, attention to intolerable circumstances creating a culture in which people dare to in addition to developing and communirelating to Jotun´s activities, by notifying raise difficult subjects. someone who can do something about it. cating rules and written guidelines for It is Jotun’s responsibility to ensure that behaviour, Jotun initiates practical trainAt Jotun, all employees are invited to whistle blowers are well taken care of ing. Only when our employees have shared contribute to an open discussion about internally. This means that the person must best practice and discussed dilemmas responsible attitudes and actions in a not be discriminated against directly or openly with peers, can the right and sound constructive way. Integrity and awareness indirectly. attitudes be conducted in the marketplace. of Jotun´s relevant policies, on part of both The UN Global Compact 36 The United Nations (UN) Global Compact, Compact or UNGC, is a UN initiative to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and the UN global compact socially responsible policies, and to report on their implementation. The Global Compact was first announced The Global Compact states ten principles by the then UN Secretary-General Kofi in the areas of human rights, labour, the Annan and was officially launched at UN environment and anti-corruption. UnHeadquarters in New York in July 2000, der the Global Compact, companies are and is now supported by more than 8 000 brought together with UN agencies, labusinesses spread across 130 countries. bour groups and civil society. Human Rights pages Principle 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 5, 6, 8, 10, 36 Principle 2 Make sure the company is not complicit in human rights abuses 5, 6, 8, 10, 32 Labour Principle 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining 6, 8 Principle 4 Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 6, 8, 31 Principle 5 Abolish child labour 6, 8, 31 Principle 6 Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 6, 8, 31 Environment Principle 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 5, 13, 16, 22-28 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 5, 13, 16, 22-28 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 5, 13, 16, 22-28 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including exortion and bribery 5, 6, 34, 35 Jotun A/S For more information on the Global Compact, see www.globalcompact.org P.O. Box 2021 3202 Sandefjord Norway www.jotun.com Jotun Protects Property
