Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 expert partnership education reliable committed sustainable energy Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 2 Contents Policy statement 3 Company profile 4 Corporate governance 6 Key figures 10 Performance in 2011 12 Our objectives for 2012 16 Our daily practice 18 UN Global Compact progress 22 Summary: Results and targets 24 Management disclosure 26 GRI index 28 External assurance 32 GRI certificate 33 Addresses 34 Policy statement The year 2011 has been a remarkable year for the engineering sector in the Netherlands. A survey carried out by the Dutch Association of Consulting Engineers shows that employability, turnover, profit and the project portfolio of consulting and engineering firms are under pressure. Almost all engineering companies are dealing with a decline in turnover and profits. Witteveen+Bos has reacted to these market developments in a flexible and dynamic way. The number of employees and the company’s turnover declined slightly in 2011, but financial results almost equalled the 2010 level. At the same time, we have not lost our focus on the company’s four key priorities in the area of Corporate Social Responsibility: embedding CSR principles in products and services, education and research, being a preferred employer, and reducing the ecological footprint of the company’s operations. In 2011 Witteveen+Bos conducted a competition among its employees to uncover the most innovative, creative, economically valuable and sustainable designs and ideas. A total of 46 innovative and sustainable designs were submitted. Among the prize-winning projects were an energy-neutral, fully recyclable composite ‘ecoduct’ serving as an integrated fauna and bicycle passage and requiring a minimum of maintenance during its lifetime, an innovative solution for the renovation of a listed pumping station, and a sand wall erected on a construction site to attract the swallow population. In cooperation with Royal Haskoning, we developed in 2011 a sector-specific annex to the CO 2 Performance Ladder, in the form of a tool to measure ‘carbon consciousness’ and progress in reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Using the annex, the engineering sector can accomplish substantial reductions in carbon emissions by focusing on the impact of various design alternatives on CO 2 emissions during the lifecycle of a designed object. The sector-specific annex will be introduced in procurement procedures for major infrastructure projects. In 2012 we will continue to work on our four key priorities. Our main focus will be to embed CSR principles in our projects in the Netherlands as well as in our international projects. In 2012 we will continue to endorse and implement the United Nations Global Compact principles. This Corporate Responsibility Report is based on the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) guidelines. For this report, we have used the GRI G3 matrix to achieve GRI Level B+. Assurance has been sought through review of the current Corporate Responsibility Report by a stakeholder panel consisting of external experts. The panel process helped contribute to wider learning and debate. The findings of the panel have been incorporated into this report. This Corporate Responsibility Report concerns the period from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2011 and covers the economic, environmental and social performance of Witteveen+Bos. H.A.A.M. Webers H.E. Nieboer Managing Director Director 4 Company profile Witteveen+Bos is a company based in the Netherlands that provides consultancy and engineering services for projects in the water, infrastructure, spatial development, environment and construction sectors. Our multidisciplinary approach to projects is the distinctive feature of the way we work. Our clients are public bodies, private-sector companies, industries and different types of joint ventures. We serve our clients from eight offices in the Netherlands and six international offices. We have a workforce of more than 900 specialists. They take pride in delivering quality. Partnership is their keyword: partnership with clients and with Witteveen+Bos. Personal development and acquiring new expertise are key drivers. Employees feel at home at Witteveen+Bos because we are a company firmly committed to delivering quality and making an extra effort for our clients and staff. … Mission Witteveen+Bos offers its clients value-added consultancy and top-quality designs in the water, infrastructure, environment and construction sectors. We use our high-end expertise to resolve complex issues and are a committed partner for our clients. We attach great importance to our independence and to our corporate culture, which allows all our employees to excel, utilise their talents to the full, and maximise value for clients. … Vision At Witteveen+Bos we are committed to being a first-rate engineering and consultancy firm. In our everyday work we are driven by a healthy set of ambitions. Our ambitions are to grow as an organisation and personally, to excel in our field of specialisation, and to grow as entrepreneurial consultants and engineers. Another ambition is to tackle issues and challenges that society faces in such a way that our approach makes a difference and truly benefits the community at large. ... CSR vision Planning, shaping and designing society in a responsible manner is the core business of an engineer, whereby we need to weigh up the consequences of our choices for people and society. We have elaborated basic principles that are directly linked to the principles of sustainable development. When designing, we consider the ‘here and now’ by creating designs for people who live in contemporary society and who will directly benefit from the objects designed. We also think of ‘there and later’: less developed countries that often supply the raw materials needed to realise our designs should ideally also benefit from, or at least not suffer disproportional damage from, the objects designed. We wish to pass on a better world to future generations, a world in which they can make their own choices. We apply these principles within the limitations of our day-to-day business operations, while we simultaneously endeavour to be a good, stable employer. ... Code of Conduct A Code of Conduct has been in force at Witteveen+Bos since 1998; this Code sets out the standards and values that are characteristic of our company and to which we are committed. In 2010 the Netherlands Association of Consulting Engineers (NLengineers) established a network of CSR experts which prepared a CSR Manifesto for engineering companies. The Manifesto was adopted by the Association. Witteveen+Bos co-chairs the Association’s CSR expert network. ... Operational structure The Witteveen+Bos organisation consists of 28 ProductMarket Combinations (PMCs). With its own products each PMC serves a distinct segment of the market. The PMCs work together on complex, integrated projects. Our PMCs are clustered into seven sectors: Ports and Hydraulic Engineering; Infrastructure and Construction; International; Environment, Climate and Energy; Spatial Development and Mobility, Urban Development and Water. These PMCs are assisted by our support departments: Finance and Administration, Personnel and Organisation, Legal Affairs, Quality Affairs, and General Affairs. A Sustainability Team operates within the company to assure that sustainability opportunities are seized and cross-connections are made. … Financial highlights Operating revenues decreased by 6.2 % to € 98.1 million. Outsourced work totalled € 14.8 million. Operating income dropped by 10.3 %. Net profit came to € 10.4 million and our net margin was 10.6 %. Table 1: Key financial figures 2011 2010 Turnover* 98.1 104.5 Salaries and social security payments* 50.0 49.6 Result before taxation* 15.4 17.3 Result after taxation* 10.4 12.1 Net profit margin (expressed as % of the turnover) 10.6 % 11.5 % Cash flow* 12.3 13.8 Total number of staff at year in FTEs (consolidated) 856 869 Total turnover per FTE** 114.6 120.3 Value per share € 6.06 € 6.41 Dividend per share € 0.83 € 0.98 Community investment*** € 175,900 € 244,000 * Amounts in millions of euros. ** Amounts in thousands of euros. *** In 2011 Witteveen+Bos invested in several projects in the fields of sport, education, health, renewable energy and culture as well as in the Art+Technology Award. Additionally, we made a significant in-kind contribution to socially relevant projects. ... Workforce composition Forty-three percent of our employees have university qualifications, 34 % have higher vocational qualifications and 23 % have intermediate vocational or administrative qualifications. The average age of our workforce is 37.2 years. The average number of years of experience is 12.7, and the average number of years of service is 9.5. The workforce consists of 25 % women and 75 % men. ... Workforce Witteveen+Bos’ average number of FTEs in 2011 was 856, excluding employees working under on-call contracts. In absolute numbers, the company employed 924 people at 31 December 2011, including 81 employees working at our international offices. The inflow of 56 employees confirms that we succeeded in recruiting personnel for most disciplines. At 80 persons our employee turnover was below the 10 % mark. Exit interviews are helping us analyse the reasons why people leave the company. … Witteveen+Bos awards The Witteveen+Bos Art+Technology Award was presented for the tenth time in 2011. The winner was composer, theatre maker and theoretician Dick Raaijmakers. He was one of the pioneers of Dutch electronic music in the 1950s and was a multimedia artist years ahead of his time. The Jaap van der Graaf Award for the best article published in English about the treatment of effluent went to Mari Winkler. 6 Corporate governance ... Employee ownership Since 1992, Witteveen+Bos has been a private limited company with full financial participation by its personnel. The participation system is a key element of our identity and provides an important stimulus for commitment and entrepreneurship. The degree of participation is 76.5 %. As of 1 July 2011, the senior partners (19) hold 60.5 % of the shares, the premium partners (3) 2.9 %, the partners (80) 22.6 %, and the participants (491) 14.0 %. At 1 July 2011, the internal price of the Witteveen+Bos share stood at € 6.41 (compared with € 6.19 at 1 July 2010). With effect from 2011, a number of selected partners have been given an opportunity to become premium partner and thus acquire a larger number of shares in the company. ... Stakeholder involvement The employees of Witteveen+Bos are the main in-house stakeholders of the company. They provide the knowledge, creativity and experience for our products and services. At the same time, they are our shareholders. In 2008, after consultation with senior partners and the Works Council, we defined four long-term CSR policy priorities. Our clients, suppliers, society as a whole, and communities we work in, are our external stakeholders. In 2011, Witteveen+Bos has developed a branchetool to achieve a CO2 reduction in the engineering sector, in cooperation with a number of stakeholders including clients, environmental NGOs and colleagues. As of 2011 we will install a stakeholder panel for the purpose of an annual external review of our CR Report and policy. ... Works Council The Works Council looks after the interests of all Witteveen+Bos employees. It has a maximum of thirteen members who are elected by the sectors, PMCs and staff departments. The rights and duties of the company and the Works Council are set out in the Works Council Act (WOR). In some cases, proposed policies can only be implemented if both the Board of Directors and the Works Council agree on the matter. In 2011 the Works Council focused on improving communications with the employees through the intranet and a Works Council Annual Report. The company’s participation structure has also improved: the percentage of shares owned by participants has increased compared to the percentage of shares owned by senior partners. The Council worked on further improvement of, and more robust, retirement pensions. This issue is still pending due to the restructuring of the company’s legal framework. In 2011 a poll on the functioning of the Works Council was conducted among 79 employees. The poll will be analysed and used as input for the employee regulations. Furthermore, the company negotiated a health insurance discount for our employees. In 2012 the Works Council will focus on the revision of employee regulations, topics of workforce ageing, changing working environments, flexibility and the ‘learning organisation’. The Works Council is involved in discussions about the process to change the legal status of Witteveen+Bos, initiated in late 2011. The main reason for this transition is the growth of the organisation, the increase in international activities, and the need for greater protection of the business against external liability risks. The Works Council focuses on employees’ interests and on safeguarding the position of the Council as an interlocutor of the Board of Directors. ... Strategic Advisory Council The Strategic Advisory Council advises Witteveen+Bos on such matters as products, markets, strategy, policy and organisation. The members act as a sounding board for the Board of Directors. Additionally, each member of the Strategic Advisory Council identifies relevant developments in his or her network. … Social commitment Besides our work we make specific contributions to the society and communities in which we live and work. Witteveen+Bos is an active member of professional associations, and several of our employees are part-time lecturers or professors. Similarly, some of our employees hold board positions in civil-society organisations. Noteworthy in 2011 was our involvement in a cultural education project called ‘De Veldtocht’, which gave 350 primary school pupils from Deventer an opportunity to discover the world of art and culture. … Student involvement In 2011 Witteveen+Bos supported 104 students by providing long-term traineeships. A number of these traineeships and research projects covered sustainability topics, including a master thesis on carbon-driven design, and an investigation into the possible use of fibreglass in designs. We participate in an engagement programme aimed at encouraging girls to take up technical professions. We organised a one-day workshop to introduce a group of high school girls to various fun and practical aspects of engineering. … Cultural commitment We give substance to our commitment to culture through the annual Witteveen+Bos Art+Technology Award. By means of this award we want to boost the image and standing of the engineering sector. We sponsor several initiatives in the field of art and culture. The Art+Technology Award expresses our special appreciation for the creativity that plays a major role in the work of both engineers and artists. Awarded by independent judges and presented annually in November, the prize comprises a sum of € 15,000, the publication of a book on the award-winning artist, and an exhibition. To make a positive contribution to the image of Kazakhstan, we organised the ‘Discover Kazakhstan’ festival in 2011. ... FIDIC and DUBO The International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC) is the global representative of the consulting engineering industry. As such, the Federation promotes the business interests of companies supplying technology-based intellectual services for the built and natural environments. FIDIC recognises that the services provided by the consulting engineering industry are critical to the sustainable development of society and the environment. Witteveen+Bos subscribes to the FIDIC principles. We are also listed in the DUBO register for sustainable construction. … CSR Code of Conduct Witteveen+Bos subscribes to the CSR Code of Conduct for engineering companies, adopted by the Dutch Association of Consulting Engineers. The Code covers work-related values such as independence, integrity and expertise, as well as responsible behaviour in relation to people, the environment and the wider society. The Association takes active measures to ensure that the Code of Conduct is respected by its members. 8 ... Network Green Consultants Witteveen+Bos is a member of the ‘Green Consultants Network’. Companies belonging to this network specialise in ecological consultancy pertaining to spatial planning and area management. The mission of the network is to improve the quality of the environment and society, keeping the interests of following generations in mind. Members of the network subscribe to a Code of Conduct that describes how to provide consulting services in the field of nature and landscape in a professional, responsible, respectful and honest manner. ... NLengineers Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct of the Dutch Association of Consulting Engineers (NLengineers) is a code for Dutch engineering companies and consultants. Members of NLengineers are obliged to be independent and avoid potential conflicts of interest, to be aware of the importance of the (human) environment to society, to closely follow new developments in technology, to accept assignments and offer services only if they have the professional capacity to perform the relevant tasks, to respect confidentiality, and to practice compliance. NLengineers can impose sanctions if these principles are not observed. … Environmental Team In 2010 Witteveen+Bos adopted a new environmental management system, based on cyclic principles and environmental aspects. In accordance with this management system a special Environmental Team was set up and a separate environmental report is now issued annually. In 2011 Witteveen+Bos was certified at level 3 of the ProRail CO 2 Performance Ladder. This implies that Witteveen+Bos achieved the following goals: insight into its carbon footprint (the 2009 CO 2 emissions inventory statement was verified by KEMA Emission Verification Services) reduction targets formulated in the CSR Report transparency in internal and external communication participation in sector initiatives on CO 2 reduction. The Environmental Team is responsible for the preparation, monitoring, implementation and updating of the environmental management programme. The environmental management programme consists of three parts: energy consumption related to our (office) buildings mobility environmental care (waste, paper use, recycling). … Integrity Committee The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s integrity policy and is assisted by the Integrity Committee. This Committee consists of three people, at least one of whom is a member of the statutory Board of Directors. ... Nominations and awards Our employees individually and Witteveen+Bos as a company regularly receive awards. The projects ‘Factory of the Future’, ‘Smart Tailings’ and ‘Waterwissel’ were nominated for the Vernufteling Award 2011. The Vernufteling Award is an annual prize for the most resourceful project carried out by a Dutch consulting or engineering firm. Witteveen+Bos also received an encouragement prize from software producer Bentley Systems Incorporated for the highly efficient use of their products in sustainable regional development. ... Operational structure At 31 December 2011 our operational structure, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures was as follows: Witteveen+Bos Raadgevende ingenieurs B.V. 100 % 100 % Witteveen+Bos Witteveen+Bos Russia B.V. Deelnemingen B.V. 40 % FishFlow Innovations B.V. 25 % PT Inowa Prima Consult 100 % Witteveen+Bos Projectrealisatie B.V. 100 % Witteveen+Bos Procurement B.V. 0.8 % Witteveen+Bos Belgium N.V. 99.2 % 100 % Witteveen+Bos 100 % International B.V. LLC Witteveen+Bos Latvia 33 1/3 % 100 % Tunnel Engineering Witteveen+Bos Kazakhstan B.V. Consultants V.O.F. 100 % rato omzet Witteveen+Bos Kazakhstan Railinfra Solutions V.O.F. Deelnemingen B.V. rato omzet 100 % Adviesbureau Witteveen+Bos Caspian LLP Noord/Zuidlijn V.O.F. 100 % 100 % Witteveen+Bos Witteveen+Bos Leeuwenbrug B.V. Vastgoed B.V. 100 % Witteveen+Bos Onroerend Goed B.V. 25 % Witbog B.V. 10 Key figures Witteveen+Bos reports on performance indicators that relate to the Performance Indicators outlined in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 sustainability reporting guidelines. … Economic The financial highlights of Witteveen+Bos are listed in the chapter ‘Company profile’ on page 5. … Environment Environmental protection entails more than just complying with legislation and official regulations. It also covers all aspects of sustainability, which we consider a management issue. We carefully manage our impacts at all stages, from business operations to the impact of our designs. To ensure a systematic approach in our business operations, we apply an environmental management system based on international guidelines and standards. We apply sustainable design principles to our products and services. ... Materials In 2011, Witteveen+Bos used approximately 51 tonnes of photocopying paper in its offices in the Netherlands, none of which had recycled content. ... Energy We use natural gas for office heating purposes. The remaining direct energy consumption results from the use of fuel by our fleet. The direct and indirect energy consumed is shown in the tables below. The chapter ‘Our daily practice’ gives an insight into company initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and services. Table 2: Consumed energy 2011 2010 District heating (hot water, GJ) 584 331 Use of gas for heating purposes (m 3 ) 226,350 243,678 Use of company cars for business travel (km) ** 2,761,219 2,788,070 Use of company cars for commuting (km) ** 386,861 430,242 Consumption of electricity (kWh) 1,544,734 1,770,326 Air travel (km) 3,920,614 3,972,736 Use of private cars for business travel (km) ** 3,066,967 2,836,058 Paper use* (kg) 50,910 48,604 Use of private cars for commuting (km) ** 4,052,592 1,978,168 Use of public transport (km) 9,586,541 5,348,759 * Excluding office paper, printing of books and leaflets. ** As of 2011, we performed the calculations for our carbon emissions inventory in litres of fuel. Use of company cars for business travel accounted for 201,556 litres of fuel, use of company cars for commuting accounted for 32,162 litres, use of private cars for business travel accounted for 237,690 litres and use of private cars for commuting accounted for 314,076 litres. Table 3: Emissions classified according to emission source in tonnes of CO 2 2011 2010 2007 Electricity 261 1,044 849 Heating 424 451 258 Paper 48 46 44 Public transport 563 313 181 Business travel by air 652 890 807 Business travel by car 1,223 1,035 1,210 Commuter travel by car 917 469 478 Total 4,089 4,248 3,827 ... Workforce Our workforce (2011 average: 856 employees) forms the basis for our sustained success. At 31 December 2011 Witteveen+Bos employed 924 employees. In 2010 we withdrew the on-call contracts from HR accounting, resulting in a bias in the total employee figures. In 2011 a total of eleven employees were employed under an on-call contract. The workforce may be classified according to employment type, employment contract and country. Table 4: Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and country 2011 2010 Full-time 524 559 Part-time 319 308 Fixed term or temporary contract 92 105 Indefinite or permanent contract 751 762 The Netherlands 843 867 Indonesia 23 16 Kazakhstan 42 48 Russia 2 2 Latvia 7 7 Belgium 6 5 Vietnam 1 0 Total workforce in the Netherlands (FTEs) 769.2 796 Total global workforce (FTEs) 844.6 867 (Number of employees) The breakdown shows that a large majority (89 %) of our workforce is employed under a permanent contract. For the year ending at 31 December 2011, voluntary employee turnover as a percentage of the total workforce population amounted to 9.2 %. The average length of service was 9.5 years. We do not publish the employee turnover by region. The approximate breakdown of the total workforce by gender was 75 % male and 25 % female, a slight change compared to 2010. Witteveen+Bos does not register the composition of governance bodies according to gender or age group. Witteveen+Bos does not register minority group membership. Table 5: Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group and gender 2011 2010 Employees leaving 80 77 Female employees leaving 35.0 % 32.5 % Employees < 30 leaving 37.5 % 42.9 % Employees 30-45 leaving 46.3 % 37.6 % Employees > 46 leaving 16.3 % 19.5 % Average number of years with the company 9.5 8.4 In our company, employees with a temporary contract and regular part-time employees receive the same benefits as full-time employees, except for stock ownership, which is only possible for employees with a permanent contract. Table 6: Benefits provided to employees Benefits Full-time/part-time employees Accident insurance with life and All employees disability/invalidity coverage Collective health care insurance All employees can participate Maternity/paternity leave All employees Retirement provision All employees Stock ownership Full-time and part-time employees with permanent contract Tax free savings scheme and All employees life course savings scheme ... Training and education Witteveen+Bos has a system of in-company training courses for its employees. Additionally, the company contributes financially to relevant private studies by employees and to external seminars, workshops and training courses. As the various business segments have specific training needs and training programmes that are not centrally managed, Witteveen+Bos does not expect to be able to report company-wide statistics on the annual average number of training hours. In 2011, Witteveen+Bos spent over € 705,379 on leadership and employee development. Table 7: In-company training and trainees at Witteveen+Bos 2011 2010 Number of employees that received in-company training 712 789 Money spent on training per employee € 837 € 755 Number of trainees 104 128 12 Performance in 2011 Our main objectives for 2011 were to form partnerships for sustainable design with partners possessing complementary expertise, to further develop a standard carbon calculation system for engineering designs, to invest in education and research to enhance the company’s expertise in sustainability assessment tools (BREEAM, DuboCalc, CO 2 Performance Ladder), to raise awareness among line managers of employees’ reasons for leaving the company, and to continue facilitating the network of female engineers and consultants. We also committed to raising employees’ awareness of the carbon impact of business air travel, developing an emissions reduction communications plan for internal and external communication, and purchasing green electricity. ... Partnerships In the field of education and research we continued our cooperation with the Honours Class at Saxion University of Applied Sciences on the development of the ‘Factory of the Future’ concept. We collaborated on case studies with Auping, Hurks Beton, Mosa Tegels and Enfer to raise awareness of the need for Cradle to Cradle ® solutions and recycling in production facilities. Although the ‘Factory of the Future’ concept is very promising and has received a number of awards, it is still difficult to scale up practical applications and translate the concept into business cases for clients other than the members of the partnership (AkzoNobel, DSM, DPI Value Centre, Beco, Cosun and Search). Witteveen+Bos is an active participant in Biodiversity Future Industry, an initiative of various companies ranging from the chemical industry to engineering and design firms, aimed at developing effective biodiversity management systems and incorporating these into their daily practice. The starting point of their philosophy is the ‘no net loss’ principle, which aims to put an end to the accelerating loss of global biodiversity as a result of human activities. Witteveen+Bos has contributed by designing and implementing a lifecyclebased biodiversity assessment of various production chains. These studies revealed the local and global impacts of the industries’ activities on biodiversity, thus providing guidance towards redesign of production and market processes and enabling management to take mitigating actions. The Biodiversity Future Industry initiative is taking shape as a platform for industry partners to join forces and share insights in their advances towards ‘no net loss’ in the field of biodiversity. In January 2011 the Dutch annual UN Global Compact conference took place. The theme of the conference was partnership. At this conference the first contact between Witteveen+Bos and Cordaid Urban Matters was established. Both organisations subsequently decided to combine their knowledge and expertise to generate practical solutions to urban development problems in developing countries. Witteveen+Bos has the knowledge and experience in the areas of water, climate, infrastructure, energy and waste, to contribute to poverty reduction. In partnership with Cordaid Urban Matters, we started to explore base-of-the-pyramid solutions for major urban development problems in developing countries. Although we feel responsibility to contribute to achieving the Millennium Development Goals, we did not yet formulate a satisfying answer for our type of engineering services to the issue of transition ‘from aid to trade’. ... Sustainability assessment tools In 2011 we actively contributed to the development of several sustainability assessment tools. Representatives of Witteveen+Bos are members of the working groups developing BREEAM Gebiedsontwikkeling, an assessment tool for sustainable area development and BREEAM Infra, a tool that assesses the sustainability score of infrastructure projects. A number of our experts have shared their knowledge and experience to contribute to the development of the new BREEAM tools. As indicated above, we also invested in the development of the CO 2 Performance Ladder. A number of our employees are currently undergoing training in the use of all these tools. ... Women in key positions In 2009 we defined ‘key positions’ as attaining the status of senior shareholder. Witteveen+Bos employees can develop their careers by focusing on either the development of professional and management skills, or commercial skills. Those employees who have proven to be assets to the company are invited to become senior shareholders (partners, premium partners or senior partners) of the company. The number of female senior shareholders has increased from three in 2008 to five in 2011. Although this is a significant increase, the number is still low. Witteveen+Bos facilitates an in-company network of female consulting engineers and participates in initiatives aimed at increasing the number of girls and women taking up technical studies. ... Employment In-house research has shown that career development is the main reason for employees to leave the company. We plan to take further measures to retain our employees, including timely identification of specific career preferences and matching mutual expectations. The existing performance and career development reviews are important tools in this regard. The frequency of these reviews has been increased in 2011. ... Carbon management In cooperation with Royal Haskoning, we developed in 2011 a sector-specific annex to the CO 2 Performance Ladder, in the form of a tool to measure ‘carbon consciousness’ and progress in reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Using the annex, the engineering sector can accomplish substantial reductions in carbon emissions by focusing on the impact of various design alternatives on CO 2 emissions during the lifecycle of a designed object. This will ensure that smart solutions are rewarded and low-emission designs realised in practice. Witteveen+Bos is proud to have contributed to a development which goes beyond ‘turning off the light’ and touches the heart of the matter. The sector-specific annex will be introduced in procurement procedures for major infrastructure projects. The construction and cost calculation departments of our company further developed the concept of carbon-friendly design by linking cost calculation programmes to carbon emissions. Including carbon calculations in engineering designs is not yet standard procedure, but we do offer this option to our clients. 14 ... Reporting and vision development electricity (6 %) The Corporate Responsibility Reports for 2008, 2009 and 2010 were based on GRI principles (application level C and commuter travel heating (10 %) B). The current report merits application level B+ and inby car (23 %) cludes additional environmental and social key performance paper (1 %) indicators, as well as a stakeholder panel review statement. CSR vision development is part of the annual plan of each public transport (business travel) (3 %) Product-Market Combination. As of 2012 CSR will be a 2011 mandatory topic in the annual plans. A substantial number of the plans for 2011 include a paragraph on sustainability and/ public transport or Corporate Social Responsibility. air travel for (commuter travel) (11 %) business pur... Carbon footprint poses (16 %) Witteveen+Bos mistakenly reported only one-way trips for commuting purposes in its emission inventories for 2007 up to 2011. The inventories for 2007 and 2010 have been recalbusiness travel by car (30 %) culated. Based on the results of this recalculation, the company has achieved a per capita emissions reduction of 18 % Figure 1: Emissions per activity and/or source in tonnes of CO 2 in 2011 compared to 2007. As a consequence of the recalculations it became clear that travel by car accounts for over 50 % of the company’s carbon footprint. We realise that car travel should be the main focus of reduction in the coming years. electricity (22 %) The Witteveen+Bos carbon footprint for 2011 includes commuter travel emissions from the company’s offices and from employby car (20 %) ees in the Netherlands. It includes our participations in the Netherlands, but excludes emissions related to the workplaces of employees who have been seconded to clients, as well as emissions by the company’s international offices. heating (10 %) The Witteveen+Bos carbon footprint for 2011 also includes 2010 emissions related to the mobility of the employees of air travel for business purDeutsche Bahn International working at the Railinfra Solupaper (1 %) poses (13 %) tions office in Utrecht. The footprint includes scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. The Witteveen+Bos carbon footprint for 2011 has public transport (business travel) (2 %) not been verified by a certification company. public transport Witteveen+Bos has used the emission factors stated in the business travel (commuter travel) (10 %) by car (22 %) SKAO CO 2 Performance Ladder (CO 2 Performance Ladder Manual, 23 June 2011) to calculate the company’s footprint. The emission factors were updated in June 2011. For the curFigure 2: Emissions per activity and/or source in tonnes of CO 2 in 2010 rent report we recalculated previous emission inventories using the updated emission factors. Table 8 presents the CO 2 emissions in 2011, 2010 and 2007 (reference year) based on the updated emission factors. Table 8: Emissions per activity and/or source in tonnes of CO 2 electricity (21 %) 2011 2010 2007 commuter travel Electricity 261 1,044 849 by car (23 %) Heating 424 451 258 Paper 48 46 44 Public transport (business travel) 115 96 74 Public transport (commuter travel) 448 434 214 heating (6 %) Business travel by car 1,223 1,035 1,210 Air travel for business purposes 652 588 532 2007 paper (1 %) Commuter travel by car 917 938 956 Total 4,089 4,633 4,137 air travel for public transport business pur(business travel) (2 %) poses (13 %) public transport (commuter travel) (5 %) business travel by car (29 %) Figure 3: Emissions per activity and/or source in tonnes of CO 2 in 2007 The emissions factors for electricity and air travel for business purposes have been updated. As a consequence, the emissions resulting from air travel for business purposes are substantially lower than in 2010, although the number of journeys and the destinations did not differ significantly from 869 856 last year. Our emission reduction commitment has been set at 30 % per capita reduction in 2020 compared to the refer708 ence year 2007. In 2011 we achieved a per capita emission reduction of 18 % compared to 2007. Witteveen+Bos has 5,84 5,33 drafted an emission reduction schedule for the years up to 4,78 2020. This schedule is shown in Table 10. Table 9: Per capita carbon emissions in tonnes of CO 2 in 2007, 2010 en 2011* Number of employees** Emissions 2011 856 4.78 2010 869 5.33 2007 708 5.84 2007 2010 2011 * Based on the SKAO emission factors ** Annual average in FTEs Number of employees The average number of employees decreased from 869 FTEs Tonnes of CO 2 in 2010 to 856 FTEs in 2011. The CO 2 emissions per capita decreased from 5.84 tonnes in 2007 to 5.33 tonnes in 2010 Figure 4: Per capita carbon emissions in tonnes of CO 2 in 2007, 2010 en 2011* to 4.78 tonnes in 2011. ... Carbon compensation Witteveen+Bos purchased certificates for green electricity for all electricity consumed for the purpose of our operations in the Netherlands. These certificates guarantee that Witteveen+Bos purchased (the equivalent of) 834 MWh of hydropower and 916 MWh of wind power produced in the Netherlands. As in 2010, the CO 2 emissions related to air travel for business purposes were compensated by the purchase of Voluntary Carbon Standard Credits in a geothermal 30 % power plant in Indonesia, as Indonesia was the destination of many of our business flights in 2011. The project activity comprises a capacity upgrade of an existing geothermal 25 % power plant from 3 x 55 MW to 3 x 60 MW. The plant generates and supplies electricity to the JAMALI grid. The project aims to promote and increase the use of geothermal energy 20 % as a renewable energy source. Table 10: Emission reduction schedule 15 % Year Reduction 2020 30 % 2015 29 % 10 % 2012 25 % 2011 17 % 2010 9.5 % 0% 2010 2011 2012 2015 2020 Table 11: Percentage of employees participating in performance and career development reviews Emission reduction target Year Performance Career Emission reduction achieved review development 2011 41 % 13 % Figure 5: Carbon emission reduction schedule 2010 38 % 8% 16 Our objectives for 2012 ... Priority 1: Embedding CSR principles in products and services Although our employees are aware of the importance of sustainability, it is not easy to explicitly embed sustainable design principles in our daily design practice. Sustainability is not yet fully incorporated in the procurement systems of our major clients. Consequently, sustainability does not result in a direct competitive advantage in our daily practice. A proactive attitude is needed and we are determining the best approach to achieve this without jeopardising our position in the market. Cooperation within the engineering sector is one of the ways in which we try to achieve this priority. As co-chair of the CSR expert network of the Dutch Association of Consulting Engineers, we took the lead in developing an agenda for 2050: a shared long-term vision of the major societal challenges within the field of influence of the engineering sector. Another priority is to raise awareness among employees concerning our CSR vision and its practical implications. Actions and targets for 2012: to embed the company’s CSR vision in introduction programmes for new employees to incorporate CSR in the annual strategic plans drafted by each Product-Market Combination to develop a ‘practical guideline’ to measure the CSR benefits of the company’s services and designs for our clients to carry out research on the ethical dilemmas faced by Witteveen+Bos employees in their design practice to identify the top five sustainable development topics relevant to our consultancy practice to develop an agenda for 2050 together with the Dutch engineering sector to obtain a Level 5 CO 2 Awareness Certificate. The Witteveen+Bos sustainable design principles are: 1. We endeavour to produce nature-based and climate-proof designs. Our designs take into account the natural environment as much as possible. The ecosystem is our starting point and we strive to use natural processes wherever possible, thus maintaining or even improving biodiversity. 2. We employ the Trias principle for our sustainable solutions. This principle is applied to design aspects such as energy, commodities, water, soil, waste, CO 2 and other greenhouse gas emissions, mobility and operation, and maintenance. The three steps of the Trias principle are: Step 1: limit the demand and prevent unnecessary use Step 2: use renewable resources Step 3: use non-renewable resources intelligently and efficiently. 3. In our designs we strive to consider the entire process and project chain as an integrated whole. Our aim is to provide sustainable solutions which offer optimum results from the point of view of the entire chain, as established through lifecycle analyses, for instance. Where possible, we aim to apply a Cradle to Cradle ® approach by taking the closing of biological and technological cycles into account in our designs, enriching the environment and using sustainable energy options. Thus, we strive to provide upcycled products with a new lifecycle. 4. In developing the built environment, we endeavour to allocate the right function to the right location and search for the optimum use of existing values. In combining functions such as living, employment and recreation, this enhances sustainable development. Multifunctionality and flexibility are important requirements for sustainable design. For the existing built environment we focus on efficient revitalisation. 5. We recognise the importance of public participation by stakeholders and end-users when it comes to decisionmaking within the design process. We value effective communication because sustainable design requires extensive public support. 6. Human well-being physiological needs, safety, social contact, respect from others and self-actualisation is our basic principle for the design process. ... Priority 2: Education and research We value high-quality engineering and we understand that innovation requires constant investments in education and research. Partnerships with knowledge institutes are initiated or supported by Witteveen+Bos. In 2012 we aim to focus on sustainable development innovations. Actions and targets for 2012: to continue research into Eco-Dynamic Design as part of the ‘Building with Nature’ programme the practical implementation of knowledge gained in studies of the ‘Factory of the Future’ concept to develop and promote sustainable remediation concepts to contribute to the transition to a bio-based economy to invest in research into access to engineering solutions for the ‘base of the pyramid’. ... Priority 3: Being a preferred employer Witteveen+Bos aims to be a preferred employer. We try to achieve this aim by realising a diverse workforce, discussing employee satisfaction, and expanding our in-company training programmes. In 2011 we raised awareness among line managers of employees’ reasons for leaving the company. The network of female engineers and consultants established five thematic working groups on professional image, social responsibility, quality, social media and market expansion. Actions and targets for 2012: to motivate more girls and women to take up careers in science and engineering to continue facilitating the network of female engineers and consultants. ... Priority 4: Reducing the ecological footprint of the company’s operations Witteveen+Bos calculated the carbon footprint of the company’s business operations in the Netherlands using the updated SKAO emission factors. In 2007 CO 2 emissions from our operations amounted to 5.84 tonnes of carbon per capita (recalculated figures). In 2010 the CO 2 emissions were reduced to 5.33 tonnes per capita. In 2011 the CO 2 emissions from our operations amounted to 4.78 tonnes per capita, a decrease of 18 % compared to the reference year 2007. Actions and targets for 2012: to develop a separate reduction plan for carbon emissions resulting from travel by car for business purposes to reduce the carbon footprint of our business operations by 25 % compared to 2007. 18 Our daily practice ... Introduction Embedding CSR principles in products and services is the top priority of our CSR policy. Our sustainable design principles provide guidance for this process (see ‘Our objectives for 2012’). By implementing these principles in our design practice, we integrate CSR into a wide range of projects. The principles are interconnected and our designers seek to achieve an optimal balance and a comprehensive assessment of all principles. However, a focus on specific principles may be noted in specific projects. The projects described in this chapter provide examples of the embedding of sustainable design principles in our daily practice. The numbers in the headings refer to the sustainable design principles specified in the previous chapter (‘Our objectives for 2012’). ... Improving the ecological quality of the Markermeer (1) Dutch water management authorities wish to improve the ecological quality of the Markermeer, an artificial lake in the west of the Netherlands. Visibility is poor and water plant abundance is low due to floating sludge particles. This has resulted in a lack of shelter for fish and a lack of substrate for benzofauna. As a consequence, birds do not have enough foraging possibilities. Witteveen+Bos designes a dam constructed from reusable GC elements (Ground Consolidators). The cube-shaped elements can be woven together to form a three-dimensional structure which minimize wave action. The aim is to improve the ecological quality of the Markermeer by allowing natural processes to take over. The project offers an appealing example of ‘Building with Nature’. ... Sand Engine (1) The Sand Engine project is a peninsula off the North Sea coast which offers an innovative solution for coastal protection. By constructing an artificial peninsula, an excess supply of sand is added to the coastal system. The sand is scattered along the coast by wind, waves and currents and moved to the right location through natural processes. Due to climate change the North Sea is exerting growing pressure on the Dutch coast. A regular sand supply along the shore is needed to improve safety. The Sand Engine offers unique opportunities to investigate nature’s capacity to provide sand replenishment. Working together with the specialised consultancies Waardenburg, Vertegaal and Arens, Witteveen+Bos is monitoring the impact on coastal protection, dune areas and the environment. The Sand Engine is an excellent example of ‘Building with Nature’, an innovation programme which aims to develop new methods of hydraulic engineering by integrating natural processes in sustainable designs that maintain or even improve the functioning of ecosystems. ... Aqueduct at Leeuwarden (1+2) The infrastructure in and around the city of Leeuwarden is being upgraded. The provincial government wants sustainability principles to be incorporated in the designs. In association with Grontmij, we realised the designs for a number of structures including an aqueduct. The western portal will be constructed in a natural polder. A naturally present loam layer with poor permeability makes it possible to create a ‘dry’ portal. The project makes as much allowance as possible for re-use of the released soil, with the advantage of greatly reduced consumption of raw materials and energy compared to alternative solutions. A rainwater infiltration system which filters out pollution can be integrated into the western portal. Rainwater can be pumped directly into the waterway, without first pumping it to a sewage treatment plant. ... APM Terminals office building, Maasvlakte II (2) The new office building for APMT was designed in accordance with the BREEAM-NL sustainability certification guidelines. The project’s location posed a challenge. The building has to be sustainable in and of itself. We applied the ‘Trias Energetica’ principles to design a building which is 30 % more energy-efficient than required by law. The office building is heated by means of aquifer thermal energy storage, and heat is recovered from the ICT data rooms, from the indoor air and from hot shower water. Water and electricity usage are monitored by means of a smart metering system. Employees will be offered alternatives to individual transport by car. ... Master plan for Kirchberg Plateau, Luxembourg (2+4) In association with an urban planning agency we have produced a master plan for a 4.5 hectare development in the Kirchberg district of Luxembourg city. We provided advice on incorporating sustainability into the design, focusing on water, energy and flexibility. The resulting master plan offers an appropriate mix of housing, work and recreation. The buildings have been designed to accommodate other functions in the future. A smart grid was designed in order to reduce the energy consumption of the different building blocks. Each block must generate at least 10 % renewable energy, and exchanges energy with the other blocks. Residents will become more aware of their energy consumption, as the different blocks are in competition and residents are responsible for the procurement of their own energy. This is the basis for sustainable development. The plan recently received an award and the go-ahead on construction has been given. ... Aquifer Storage and Recovery (2) Extraction of groundwater has led to a decrease in the amount of available groundwater, in addition to drought, seawater intrusion and land subsidence in and around the Indonesian capital of Jakarta. Some aquifers are now depleted due to excessive groundwater extraction. Aquifer Storage and Recovery (ASR) is the injection of water into the subsoil during periods when water is available, and its recovery during times when it is needed. The ASR method uses the aquifer for storage instead of extracting the groundwater, thus achieving a sustainable system of groundwater management. We carried out a feasibility study, investigating the technical, financial and legal (permitting) aspects of ASR. The study showed that ASR is indeed technically and financially feasible, although current groundwater management legislation will need some amendment. ASR limits or stops the use of groundwater and is therefore not a burden for future generations. ... New Energy (3) The provincial government of Overijssel wishes to have so-called ‘new energy sources’ account for 20 % of current fossil energy consumption by 2020. To achieve this aim, a Natural Gas Infrastructure is to be developed in the Salland region. Witteveen+Bos is providing project management services during the development phase of this project. The aim is to use local biomass for local energy consumption, and not to compete with food production. When the project is completed, some 15,000 households will be able to heat their homes using natural gas. Of course, the new infrastructure will also need to be operated and maintained and this will create jobs in the Salland region. The gas produced will contribute to achievement of the European targets for blending of transport fuels with renewable energy sources. 20 ... Adding value to fallow locations (3) At many sites in the Netherlands planned developments have been postponed due to the financial crisis. Pantanova-Green Value promotes the temporal cultivation of the industrial crops fibre hemp (a non-psychoactive variety of cannabis) and Miscanthus (a perennial grass) on these locations. A wide range of materials can be produced from these crops. Fibres of both crops are already used in building materials (concrete) and energy production. Fibre hemp can also be used in textiles and composites. Both crops grow on almost any soil, do not require pesticides and need just small amounts of fertilizer. Growing the crops in this way adds value to fallow locations and produces sustainable raw materials for industry. ... Logistics Park at Moerdijk (4) Logistics Park Moerdijk (LPM) is a new industrial estate for value-added logistics companies, located between the ports of Rotterdam and Antwerp. Witteveen+Bos was involved in the planning process, producing an environmental impact assessment, preliminary technical design, zoning plan and quality plan. The sustainability ambitions of the province of Noord-Brabant and the municipality of Moerdijk had to be implemented and aligned in all reports. A stakeholder workshop was held to translate the sustainability ambitions into specific elements and measures. This resulted in an overview of ambitions and measures that could be implemented in the current stage of planning, but also in later stages. ... Conversion of ENCI mining site (5) The ENCI cement mine located near the city of Maastricht is the only cement production site in the Netherlands. Growing public resistance against the activities of ENCI has resulted in an ongoing legal struggle. Limburg province, the city of Maastricht, and HeidelbergCement-ENCI therefore decided to draw up a conversion plan calling for a gradual phase-out of cement production and conversion of the production site into a recreational area and nature reserve. Witteveen+Bos provided the project management team. Its mission was to put together a solid plan which would be supported by ENCI, regional and local government authorities, and private and public stakeholders. The team drafted a comprehensive plan within a year and obtained full support from all the parties concerned. The way in which the process was set up proved to be crucial, with the involvement of all relevant stakeholders and co-creation as key features. ... Public participation in government projects (5) The Public Participation Centre promotes socially supported decision-making in the spatial-economic plans of the government. Public participation results in greater public support for the decision and adds value to the relevant plans. Witteveen+Bos has been commissioned by the Public Participation Centre to study how public participation may be more effectively embedded in the administrative and decision-making processes of government projects. Our study resulted in a set of explicit goals that clients can use in commissioning project teams. The control objectives for public participation are based on the four pillars of socially supported decision-making. These are: an effective decision (content), rapid decision-making (process), an efficient legal process (procedure), and good relationships with local residents and stakeholders (trust). ... Ghana (2+6) One of the goals of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals is to reduce by half the proportion of people without sustainable access to drinking water and basic sanitation by 2015. We intend to contribute to these goals by means of our projects. Since 1998 we have been involved in several drinking water supply projects in Western Africa as part of the Dutch government’s ORET and ORIO development cooperation programmes. All of these projects pursue a common goal: making sure that local residents have access to sufficient and reliable drinking water. The projects completed in Ghana supply a total population of almost one million people. Our activities in Western Africa are still ongoing, with new drinking water supply projects being undertaken. ... Active Road Marking (2+6) Active Road Marking (ARM) involves the installation of lightemitting diodes (LEDs) in the road surface in order to light the way outside the range of car headlights, with the aim of ensuring or enhancing road safety. With ARM the use of streetlights can be avoided or minimised. Compared to conventional road lighting, ARM uses over 90 % less materials and results in improved road safety. In 2011 the joint Dutch provincial authorities (IPO) commissioned Witteveen+Bos to update the Active Road Marking Directive. The project’s goals include adjustment to recent technical developments, enhancing sustainability, and raising the profile of ARM among governmental organisations. Although the sustainability level is already high, it can be further improved by making ARM units recyclable and by making greater use of solar power instead of hardwired ARM road studs. ... Aqua for all (6) Many people all over the world suffer from water-related diseases. Diarrhoea is still one of the most frequent causes of death. Apart from improvement of hygiene practices, making drinking water safe (i.e. free of pathogens) is essential in this regard. Many people, however, have no access to safe water. Witteveen+Bos is realising piped-water projects in developing countries in order to support sustainable development in bigger communities. Small communities often have no access to tap water. In cooperation with the ‘Aqua for All’ foundation, we contribute our expertise in the assessment of small-scale water treatment products. Such products can make an important contribution towards achieving the UN’s Millennium Development Goals. The suitability of these products is assessed by means of a multi-criteria analysis, based on People, Planet and Performance aspects. In 2011 we designed a web-based application and made the results available worldwide. ... Rehabilitation of copper mine complex in Serbia (6) In the Serbian town of Bor, Europe’s largest copper mine complex is undergoing remediation and rehabilitation as part of a World Bank project. Witteveen+Bos has been actively involved in the design and execution of the environmental and geotechnical fieldwork aimed at investigating the processes active in the project area. This covers the soil and ecosystem in and around the mine waste storage and mining facilities, the impact of mining activities on the water system and water quality, and the various air emissions and resulting air quality issues. Environmental and safety issues were identified and mitigating measures designed. Where possible, the natural phenomena have been put to beneficial use in order to facilitate a more cost-effective and robust solution. 22 UN Global Compact progress In 2011 Witteveen+Bos continued its commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility and increased its efforts to contribute to a sustainable society. Our objectives and intentions for 2011 were listed in the Corporate Responsibility Report for 2010. Our UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (CoP) has been integrated into our existing communication with stakeholders via the annual Corporate Responsibility Report. All employees and major clients receive a paper copy of the report and it is published on our external website. Witteveen+Bos is pleased to be able to report on the key actions in terms of progress on each of the UN Global Compact principles (see page 23). The UN Global Compact principles are: 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. 6. Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Businesses should undertake activities to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10. Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. ... Principle 1: Our Code of Conduct states that ‘Assignments in contravention of national and international law and rules will not be accepted’. We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Safe and good working conditions for employees in the Netherlands are also of concern to the company. In 2011 we participated in briefings on the Ruggie Framework on Business and Human Rights. ... Principle 2: Corruption is not a significant issue in the Netherlands; our performance in other countries has not yet been analysed for risks related to corruption. No cases of complicity in human rights abuses were reported in 2011. ... Principle 3: Witteveen+Bos is an employee-owned company. Through shareholder meetings, employees can influence the company’s policy. Furthermore, employee involvement is guaranteed through the Works Council. The Works Council looks after the interests of all employees. Witteveen+Bos is not bound to formal agreements with trade unions as the company has its own agreements with employees. These agreements have been ratified by the Works Council and laid down in the Employee Regulations and the Quality Manual. ... Principle 4 and 5: Our Code of Conduct prohibits forced and compulsary labour in our operations. Witteveen+Bos endorses the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. ... Principle 6: In 2011 Witteveen+Bos worked actively on appointing more women in key positions. Further information on progress in this regard may be found on page 13. ... Principle 7, 8 and 9: Finding solutions to environmental challenges is one of the core activities of our company. We promote innovative technologies and approaches and enhance partnerships. We provide our clients with unsolicited advice on environmentally friendly alternatives in investment projects. We promoted the principles of sustainable design within the company in 2011 and implemented them in a number of projects. Further information on progress in this regard may be found in the chapter entitled ‘Our daily practice’ (page 18). ... Principle 10: We will not engage in bribery and we will not accept any assignment which has been assigned to us on dubious grounds. We reject payments which can influence our objective and socially responsible approach. Corruption-related issues have been incorporated in the Employee Regulations, in the chapter on standards and values. By signing the employment contract, every employee agrees to comply with these values. An Integrity Committee oversees compliance with our business code and employees can contact a confidential adviser, appointed by the directors, to report integrity issues or dilemmas. In 2011 no incidents were reported. Additionally, Witteveen+Bos is subject to the (new) Code of Conduct of the Dutch Association of Consulting Engineers. This Code covers matters related to corporate responsibility and states that members shall not tolerate any form of corruption, extortion or bribery. 24 Summary: Results and targets Priority: Embedding CSR principles in products and services Result 2009 Target 2010 Result 2010 Target 2011 and beyond Result 2011 Target 2012 and beyond We developed design To promote the Sustainable design princiTo form partnerships for Partnerships for BiodiverTo continue existing partprinciples, process steps Witteveen+Bos sustainples were implemented in sustainable design with sity Future Industry were nerships and participation and assessment indicaable design principles a sustainable master plan partners possessing comformed, with Cordaid Urin the Dutch Sustainable tors for sustainable cities. within the company and project. plementary expertise. ban Matters, and others. Remediation Forum. implement at least two major pilot projects. A sustainability quick scan To implement a sustainThe sustainability check To organise a symposium To identify the top five for projects was develability check for planning was implemented in two on sustainable area develsustainable development oped. purposes in at least one major infrastructure projopment. topics relevant to our conurban planning and one ects and in our advise. sultancy practice. area development project. Clients were offered the Internal workshops deTo offer clients a standard Calculations were included To develop a ‘practical option of a carbon neutral sign principles for carbon carbon calculation for enwhen requested by the guideline’ to measure the or carbon friendly alternafriendly design were congineering designs, based client. CSR benefits of the comtive based on a life cycle ducted. on a life cycle emission pany’s services and deemission calculation. calculation in 2012. signs for our clients. We worked on an integral To set up an internal trainInternal workshops on To offer a training module The training module To include a paragraph on vision on CSR in two working module ‘sustainable Cradle to Cradle ® and ‘sustainable development ‘sustainable development CSR and sustainability in shops with senior partners development’. sustainable development and sustainable design’ and sustainable design’ strategic year plans of all and the Works Council. were conducted at the as part of standard interwas implemented as part Product-Market Combinamajority of our offices in nal training in 2012. of the internal training tions. the Netherlands. ‘project management’. The number of indicators To develop a CSR Report Development of a CSR To develop the CSR Development of a CSR To develop the CSR Reand level of reporting were for 2009 based on GRI Report based on GRI G3 Report for 2012 based Report based on GRI G3 port for 2012 based on increased. G3 guidelines, application guidelines, application on GRI G3 guidelines, apguidelines, application GRI G3 guidelines, applilevel C and to have it GRI level B. plication level A. level B+. cation level B+. checked. Priority: Education and research Result 2009 Target 2010 Result 2010 Target 2011 and beyond Result 2011 Target 2012 and beyond Continuation of research To invest in education We set up Cradle to CraTo invest in education to Substantial contribution To implement knowledge for carbon friendly design; for sustainable developdle ® knowledge group. enlarge the company’s to development of BREEgained in research for the continuation of research ment. We educated four emcapacity in sustainability AM Gebiedsontwikkeling Factory of the Future confor sustainable cities. ployees to be certified assessment tools (BREE(sustainable area develcept in practical cases. Cradle to Cradle ® conAM, DuboCalc, CO 2 peropment tool), BREEAM sultants. formance ladder). Infra and CO 2 performWe conducted several ance ladder. business courses with sustainability focus. We involved young engiTo involve young talented The development of the Continuation of partnerWe continued our coopContinuation of partnerneers in several innovaengineers in new, innova‘Factory of the Future’ ships with knowledge eration with the Saxion ships with knowledge tive projects (e.g. Energy tive projects. concept. institutes on sustainable University of Applied institutes on sustainable Factory, Columbus Quardevelopment topics. Sciences (Honours Class development topics. ter Almere). 2011) and the Wageningen University & Research centre (Biodiversity Future Industry). To contribute actively to We participated in the Continuation of contribuDevelopment of guideContinuation of contribunational research initiaBuilding with Nature initions to national research lines and interactive detions to national research tives in the field of sustiative. initiatives in the field of sign tools to apply Buildinitiatives in the field of tainable development. sustainable development. ing with Nature in practice sustainable development. (Eco Dynamic Design). To promote internal reContinuation of research To continue promoting We continued research To continue to promote search projects for defor carbon friendly design; internal research projects for Sustainable cities, internal research projects velopment of sustainable continuation of research for development of susFactory of the Future, Eco for development. products and services. for sustainable cities. tainable products and Dynamic Design and Bioservices. diversity Future Industry. Priority: Being a preferred employer Result 2009 Target 2010 Result 2010 Target 2011 and beyond Result 2011 Target 2012 and beyond The number of female To monitor the results of Numbers of female partTo continue to facilitate Six thematic working To continue to facilitate partners/senior partners our 2009 coaching proners/senior partners did the network of female engroups were formed within the network of female enhas increased from three gramme for female enginot increase in 2010. gineers and consultants. in network of female engigineers and consultants. in 2008 to four in 2009. neers and consultants. neers and consultants. To carry out an exit audit An exit audit was carried To raise awareness The outcome of the exit To increase the number of to analyse employees’ out and the main concluamong line managers audit was distributed performance and career reasons for leaving the sions communicated in of employees’ reasons among all line managers. development reviews. company. CR Report 2010. for leaving the company. The number of performTo additionally monitor ance and career develregular performance and opment reviews was career development reincreased. views. To monitor the implemenThe Works Council moniEvaluating the revised The regulations were not To provide input for the tation of the revised emtored the implementation employee regulation in evaluated. employee regulations’ reployee regulations. of the revised employee 2011. view. regulations. Priority: Reducing the ecological footprint of the company’s operations Result 2009 Target 2010 Result 2010 Target 2011 and beyond Result 2011 Target 2012 and beyond We reduced the carbon To reduce the carbon footThe carbon footprint per To reduce the carbon footThe carbon footprint per To reduce the carbon footfootprint per capita with print per capita by 30 % in capita was reduced by print per capita by 30 % in capita was reduced by print per capita by 25 % 9 % compared to 2008. 2012 compared to 2007. 9.7 % in 2010 compared 2020 compared to 2007. 18 % compared to 2007. compared to 2007. to 2007. A long-term energy saving To implement our energyWe introduced an extendTo introduce the young The programme is not yet To obtain the CO 2 Awareprogramme and long-term efficiency and mobility ed environmental manprofessional engagement operative. ness Certificate on level 5. mobility programme were programmes and introagement programme and programme in cooperation drafted. ducing renewable energy we received the certificate with partners (and/or engisources, if feasible. on the ProRail CO 2 -presneers without borders). tatieladder (level 3). The first internal commuTo report twice a year on Our emission reduction To develop an emission An emission reduction To develop a separate nication expressions on our progress with regard was reported in the CSR reduction communication communication plan was reduction plan for carbon emissions reduction and to attaining the emission Report. plan for internal and exterdeveloped and is operaemissions from car travel the company’s policies reduction target. We issued press renal communication. tive. for the company. were issued. leases on CO 2 -certification, and other items. 26 Management disclosure This index summarises the approach of Witteveen+Bos to managing sustainability topics associated with risks and opportunities, and was drawn up in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative G3 guidelines. Economic Economic performance, market presence and indirect economic impact Our management approach to economic and financial performance is given in our annual report and our sustainable design principles. Goals, performance and contextual information. Detailed information on financial goals and performance can be found in our annual report, as well as in the progress towards targets, and the economic performance data (page 12). Further information can be found at the link below: Annual report www.witteveenbos.nl/jaarverslag Environmental Overall; materials; products and services; compliance; transport; emissions; We carefully manage our impacts at all stages, from business operations to the effluents and waste; water; biodiversity impact of our designs. We apply an environmental management system based on international guidelines and standards. For our products and services we apply sustainable design principles. Goals, performance and contextual information See Performance 2011 and Our objectives 2011, page 12 and 16 of this report. Organisational responsibility See our policy statement, page 3 of this CR report. Monitoring and follow-up Is taking place within our environmental management system for our business operations and during project evaluations for our products and services. Further information can be found at the link below: CSR policy www.witteveenbos.nl/mvo Energy and climate change www.witteveenbos.nl/energie-en-klimaat Eco Dynamic Design Guideline publicwiki.deltares.nl/display/BWN/Guideline Building with nature www.ecoshape.nl Social: product responsibility Customer health and safety; product and service labeling; marketing communicaThe safety assurance system applicable to relevant services of Witteveen+Bos tions; customer privacy; compliance is certified against the SHE Checklist Contractors standard (SCC**). The Witteveen+Bos instructions ‘Safety and Health in the design phase’ prescribe the preparation of Health and Safety plans and records and Risk Assessment and Evaluation for all designs that are planned to be constructed. The plans contain answering questions about safety and health in the design and implementation. Goals, performance, policy Information on goals and performance and policy can be found on our website. Organisational responsibility Witteveen+Bos Constructionand Industrial Safety Group. Training and awareness SCC instruction courses at two levels are provided to employees providing relevant services Monitoring and follow-up Available certificates: SCC**, ISO9001 Further information can be found at the link below: Policy on health and safety in design phase www.witteveenbos.nl/bouwveiligheid www.witteveenbos.nl/risicomanagement www.witteveenbos.nl/veiligheid Social: labour practices and decent work Employment; labor/management relations; occupational health and safety; Our approach is driven by our CSR policy: training and education; diversity and equal opportunity We aim to be a preferred employer. We try to achieve this by offering diversity of workforce, discussing employee satisfaction and providing training. Witteveen+Bos values high quality engineering. We understand that innovation requires constant investments in education and research. Various educational and research programmes are either initiated or supported by Witteveen+Bos. Information on our approach to occupational health and safety can be found on page 9 of the annual report. Witteveen+Bos endorses and implements the ten principles of UN Global Compact. Goals, performance and contextual information Detailed information on goals and performance can be found in the chapters ‘Summary of targets and results’ and ‘Performance 2011’. Organisational responsibility See our policy statement, page 3 of this CR report. Monitoring and follow-up See the table ‘Summary of targets and results’ on page 24. Further information can be found at the link below: CR report www.witteveenbos.nl/nl/maatschappelijk-verantwoord-ondernemen UN Global Compact www.unglobalcompact.org/participant/10135-Witteveen-Bos Social: human rights Investment/procurement practices; non-discrimination; freedom of association Witteveen+Bos endorses and implements the ten principles of UN Global and collective bargaining and other human rights issues Compact. Goals, performance and contextual information Detailed information on goals and performance can be found in the chapter UN Global Compact progress and the company profile, page 22 and 4. Organisational responsibility See our policy statement, page 3 of the CR report. Monitoring and follow-up See the UN Global Compact table. Further information can be found at the link below: CR Report www.witteveenbos.nl/nl/maatschappelijk-verantwoord-ondernemen UN Global Compact www.unglobalcompact.org/participant/10135-Witteveen-Bos Social: society Community; corruption; public policy; anti-competitive behaviour and compliance We endorse and implement the ten principles of UN Global Compact. We understand acting responsibly means taking social expectations into account without losing sight of our business targets. We also subscribe the new Code of Conduct of the Dutch Association of Consulting Engineers. This Code includes corporate responsibility and states that members shall not tolerate any form of corruption, extortion or bribery. Goals, performance and contextual information Information on goals and performance can be found in the chapter UN Global Compact progress and the company profile (page 22 and 4). Organisational responsibility See our policy statement on page 3 of this CR report. Monitoring and follow-up See the UN Global Compact table. Further information can be found at the link below: CR Report www.witteveenbos.nl/nl/maatschappelijk-verantwoord-ondernemen UN Global Compact www.unglobalcompact.org/participant/10135-Witteveen-Bos 28 GRI index Table 12: GRI index GRI reference Description References in Corporate Responsibility Report Page Vision and strategy 1.1 Vision and strategy statement (Board of Directors) Policy statement, company profile, priorities, summary of targets 3, 4, 24 and results 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Performance 2011, Our objectives for 2012, our mission and 12, 16, 24 priorities, summary of targets and results Profile 2.1 Name of the reporting organisation Witteveen+Bos Raadgevende ingenieurs B.V. 4 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Company profile 4 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, Company profile, Corporate governance, Operational structure 4, 6, 9 operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Van Twickelostraat 2, 7411 SC Deventer, the Netherlands 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names Six countries with major operations: Indonesia, Russia, 4 of countries Kazakhstan, Latvia, Vietnam, Belgium 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Employee-owned, private limited company; more information can be 6 found in the chapter ‘Corporate governance’ 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, National, regional and local government and private companies 4 and types of customers/beneficiaries) in the Netherlands and other countries where we operate, international financial institutions 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation Financial highlights, Key figures 5, 10 Annual report 2011 (http://www.witteveenbos.nl/nl/jaarverslag) 22-23 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period None 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Nominations and awards 8 Governance structures and management systems 3.1 Reporting period 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2011 3 3.2 Date of most recent previous report May 2011 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual 3.4 Point for contact for questions regarding the report or its contents H.E. Nieboer, Director info@witteveenbos.nl Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content In 2008, in a dialogue with shareholders and the works council, 3, 32 Witteveen+Bos has set four long-term CSR priorities apart from the regular economic, environmental, and social performance data. The priorities have been topic for discussion with our stakeholder panel and were endorsed by its members. 3.6 Boundary of the report While this report covers Witteveen+Bos overall, the performance 3 data is focused primarily on operations in the Netherlands. Report content does not include sustainability performance data from external organisations or activities over which the company has limited control or influence, such as contractors and suppliers. More information can be found in the chapters: Company profile, Key figures, Corporate governance and Operational structure. 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report See 3.5, 3.6 and chapter ‘Policy statement’ 3 http://www.globalreporting.org/ReportingFramework/G3Online/ Profile/ _ftn1 3.8 Reporting on joint ventures and subsidiaries No significant impacts 4 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Key figures 10 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information proKey figures, Performance 2011 10 vided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods Key figures, Performance 2011 10 (scope, boundary, measurement methods) GRI reference Description References in Corporate Responsibility Report Page GRI content index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the Table 12: GRI Index, management disclosure table 26, 28 report 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurExternal assurance obtained through report review by external 32 ance for the report stakeholder panel. Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation Corporate governance, operational structure 6 4.2 Independence of board members Corporate governance, operational structure 6 4.3 Independence of unitary governance body Not relevant 4.4 Shareholder and employee feedback mechanisms Corporate governance 6 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governThe company’s shareholding system is the linkage between com6 ance body, senior managers, and executives, and the organisation’s pensation and performance for economic, social and environmental performance (including social and environmental performance). performance; see Corporate governance 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure Corporate governance 6 conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the Corporate governance 6 members of the highest governance body for guiding the organisation’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of Company profile, Corporate governance, Sustainable design prin4, 6, 16 conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and ciples social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the Corporate governance 6 organisation’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own Corporate governance 6 performance Commitments to external initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or Our daily practice 18 principle is addressed by the organisation 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charCertificates and commitments 6 ters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations Corporate governance (certificates and commitments) 6 Stakeholder engagement 4.14 List of engaged stakeholders Corporate governance 6 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to Our stakeholders include employees/shareholders, suppliers, cus6, 32 engage tomers, authorities, local communities, NGOs, and the general public. After consultation with the senior partners, Witteveen+Bos has invited stakeholders that are important to our business and relevant to our four CSR priorities to engage in a stakeholder dialogue. The engagement of stakeholder is an ongoing process. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Stakeholder dialogue takes place in both structured and unstruc6 engagement by type and by stakeholder group. tured ways. The structured way is through our stakeholder panel (annual). 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder External review 32 engagement 30 GRI reference Description References in Corporate Responsibility Report Page Performance indicators economic performance indicators (EC) EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revKey figures, Table 1: Key financial figures 5 enues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and governments. environmental performance indicators (EN) EN1 Materials used by volume Key figures 10 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Key figures 10 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Table 2: Consumed energy 10 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source Table 2: Consumed energy, total indirect energy use: 14,067,303 MJ 10 (Calculation based on caloric value of 35 MJ/m 3 natural gas) EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based Our daily practice 18 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions Our objectives for 2012, Performance 2011 16, 12 achieved EN16 Total direct and indirect green house gas emissions by weight Table 3: Emissions classified according to emission source in 10 tonnes CO 2 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Table 3: Emissions classified according to emission source in 10 tonnes CO 2 EN18 Initiatives to reduce GHG emissions and reductions achieved Performance 2011, Our objectives for 2012 12, 16 social performance indicators: labour practices (LA) LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and Workforce, Table 4: Total workforce by employment type, 11 region employment contract and country LA2* Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender Workforce, Table 5: Total number and rate of employee turnover by 11 and region age group and gender LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Workforce, Table 6: Benefits provided to employees 11 temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 0 %, see LA9 6 agreements. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 0% 6 and total number of work-related fatalities by region. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade 0 %, Witteveen+Bos is not bound to formal agreements with trade 6 unions. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with unions as the company has its own agreements with employees. trade unions. These agreements are ratified by the Works Council and laid down in the employee regulations and the quality manual LA10* Average hours of training per year per employee by employee Table 7: In-company training and trainees at Witteveen+Bos 11 category LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Performance reviews in 2011: 41 % 15 development reviews. Career development reviews in 2011: 13 % LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees Key figures 10 per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity GRI reference Description References in Corporate Responsibility Report Page social performance indicators: society (SO) SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks 0 %, Corruption is not a significant issue in the Netherlands; our related to corruption performance in other countries have not been analysed for risks related to corruption yet. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption 0 %, Corruption related issues are incorporated in the employee policies and procedures regulations, in the chapter on standards and values. Signing the employment contract, every employee agrees to comply with these values SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy developNone ment and lobbying SO6 Total value of financial and in kind contributions to political parties, No contributions politicians and related institutions by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antiNo legal actions in the Netherlands trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonNo fines and/or sanctions in the Netherlands monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations social performance indicators: human rights (HR) HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements No significant investment agreements that include human rights and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights conclauses or that have undergone human rights screening. cerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business 0 %, no actions undertaken partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures conNo employee training provided, 0 %; employees; human rights cerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, issues are incorporated in the employee regulations (standards including the percentage of employees trained. and values and responsibilities to our stakeholders). social performance indicators: product responsibility (PR) PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products Management disclosure product responsibility. 26 and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures * Partial reporting is carried out for indicators marked with an asterisk. Full reporting takes place for all other indicators. 32 External assurance This is the first year that Witteveen+Bos asked a panel of ... Statement external stakeholders to review our reporting practices, to This panel’s role is to offer an informed, independent and give us an independent opinion of our performance and to balanced view of Witteveen+Bos’s approach on Corporate make recommendations for improvements. Social Responsibility (CSR) and reporting and, where appropriate, to provide the company with challenging recommen... 2012 stakeholder panel dations for improvement. A panel of key stakeholders gave us their independent opinion of our 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility report Key issues and our approach to sustainability. Four experienced sustainIn our opinion Witteveen+Bos reports comprehensively on ability and CSR practitioners met in April 2012 and in May CSR, with emphasis on sustainability and covers the most 2012 to review our report. significant issues for the company. We would suggest to focus less on actual figures, but pay more attention on a The panel members were: benchmark against peer companies. Strong elements in the H. Versteeg, Sustainability Programme Manager, reporting are the sustainable design principles and the four Directorate-General for Public Works and Water CSR priorities set by the company. Management (Rijkswaterstaat) S. Schöne, Environment Programme Director, Transparency HIER climate agency We believe that transparency would be enhanced particularly J.P. Kimmel, CSR Coordinator and Sustainability by disclosing the intrinsic motivations of management and Advisor, Royal Haskoning employees. We would like to read about the dilemmas and L. Urlings, Corporate Advisor, van Gansewinkel Groep BV. challenges that the company faces, about the considerations and choices made in the transition towards more sustainWitteveen+Bos presents without amendment the views exability and about relevant distinctive characteristics of the pressed by the 2012 panel. company. In short: we would welcome a greater insight into the soul of the company. Objectives We recommend that the company should consider defining SMART targets when formulating objectives for next year, including information on how they were identified and whether they were achieved. We feel that it is very important to give readers an insight into the roadmap of the company’s sustainability journey. The chapter on objectives should provide a clear picture of the direction in which the company is heading. We would welcome inclusion of the objectives in an overall view of the company’s added value to society and its development. Specifically, we would like to see information on the progress in the coming year on embedding the sustainable design principles in everyday working practices at the company. Code of Conduct We recommend that future reports include a review of dilemmas related to the company’s Code of Conduct and integrity in general, rather than a summary of the various codes endorsed by the company. Daily practice Finally, we would welcome an analysis of the company’s impact on sustainable development topics and a presentation of best-practices on these topics in the chapter headed Our daily practice. This will facilitate a better understanding of the company’s key priorities, strategies, next steps and investments in specific areas and technologies. In our opinion, this section should make the link between vision, figures, tools and targets on the one hand and the actual changes made in the company’s core business and output on the other. Utrecht, 21 May 2012 GRI certificate 34 Addresses The Netherlands Witteveen+Bos Raadgevende ingenieurs B.V. Deventer Breda Head office Willemstraat 28 Van Twickelostraat 2 P.O. Box 3465 P.O. Box 233 4800 DL Breda 7400 AE Deventer The Netherlands The Netherlands t +31 76 523 33 33 t +31 570 69 79 11 f +31 76 514 44 42 f +31 570 69 73 44 The Hague Office building ‘Leeuwenbrug’ Alexanderstraat 21 Leeuwenbrug 8 P.O. Box 85948 P.O. Box 233 2508 CP The Hague 7400 AE Deventer The Netherlands The Netherlands t +31 70 370 07 00 t +31 570 69 75 11 f +31 70 360 00 98 f +31 570 69 71 23 Heerenveen Office building ‘Stationsplein’ K.R. Poststraat 100-3 Leeuwenbrug 27 P.O. Box 186 P.O. Box 233 8440 AD Heerenveen 7400 AE Deventer The Netherlands The Netherlands t +31 513 64 18 00 t +31 570 69 75 11 f +31 513 64 18 01 f +31 570 69 99 48 Maastricht Almere Leidenlaan 16 Louis Armstrongweg 6 P.O. Box 1080 P.O. Box 10095 6201 BB Maastricht 1301 AB Almere The Netherlands The Netherlands t +31 43 328 12 22 t +31 36 548 29 00 f + 31 43 325 37 99 f +31 36 533 38 83 Rotterdam Amsterdam Willemskade 19-20 Hoogoorddreef 56 F P.O. Box 2397 P.O. Box 12205 3000 CJ Rotterdam 1100 AE Amsterdam The Netherlands The Netherlands t +31 10 244 28 00 t +31 20 312 55 55 f +31 10 244 28 88 f +31 20 697 47 95 info@witteveenbos.nl www.witteveenbos.com Trade Register Enschede number 38020751 Belgium Russia Witteveen+Bos Belgium N.V. Witteveen+Bos Russia B.V. Posthoflei 5-1 Nab. Reki Moyka 24, Office 16 2600 Antwerpen-Berchem 191186 St Petersburg Belgium Russia t +32 3 286 75 75 t +7 812 570 02 13 f +32 3 281 86 01 f +7 812 312 75 41 e info@witteveenbos.be e spb@witbo.ru Indonesia Vietnam Witteveen+Bos Raadgevende ingenieurs B.V. Witteveen+Bos Raadgevende ingenieurs B.V. Park View Plaza, 6th floor Le Quy Don Street 31 Jl. Taman Kemang no. 27 Ward 7, District 3 Kemang – Jakarta Selatan 12730 Ho Chi Minh City P.O. Box 1687 JKS 12016 Vietnam Indonesia t +84 839 30 92 90 t +62 21 719 12 82 f +84 839 30 92 72 f +62 21 719 12 83 e info@witteveenbos.vn e info@witbo.co.id Kazakhstan Witteveen+Bos participations Witteveen+Bos Kazakhstan B.V. Aktau Adviesbureau Noord/Zuidlijn V.O.F. Building 39B(PUS), 1st floor P.O. Box 233 Microdistrict 8 7400 AE Deventer 130000 Aktau The Netherlands Republic of Kazakhstan t +31 570 69 79 11 t +7 7292 30 04 50 f +31 570 69 73 44 f +7 7292 30 04 51 e aktau@witbo.kz Railinfra Solutions V.O.F. Jutfaseweg 1 Atyrau P.O. Box 24088 Novaya Street 2 3502 MB Utrecht 060005 Atyrau The Netherlands Republic of Kazakhstan t +31 30 283 39 00 t +7 7122 32 01 20 / 97 00 69 f +31 30 283 39 01 f +7 7122 97 00 70 e info@railinfrasolutions.nl e atyrau@witbo.kz Tunnel Engineering Consultants V.O.F. Witteveen+Bos Caspian LLP Barbarossastraat 35 Almaty P.O. Box 108 Begalin Street 130 6500 AC Nijmegen 050010 Almaty The Netherlands Republic of Kazakhstan t +31 24 382 04 30 t +7 727 341 09 98 f +31 24 322 95 89 f +7 727 341 09 97 e info@tec-tunnel.com e almaty@witbo.kz Latvia SIA Witteveen+Bos Latvia Torna iela 4, III-C, Office 203 1050 Riga Latvia t +371 6 722 31 44 f +371 6 722 38 30 e info@witteveenbos.lv Colophon Editing and design Witteveen+Bos Photography, illustrations APM Terminals Directorate-General for Public Works and Water Management, Joop van Houdt Erik Karst Femern A/S Fonger de Vlas Gerard Dubois Jurriaan Nijkerk Martijn Bronswijk Studio Marco Vermeulen Witteveen+Bos Your Captain aerial photography Printing Te Sligte, Enschede
