NIREUS GROUP OF COMPANIES Communication on Progress Year : 2011 Country : Greece STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to submit again our Communication on Progress and to re-affirm our support to the Ten Principles of the Global Compact. The support of the United Nations Global Compact Principles is a valuable investment for us. NIREUS group, since its inception, consistently develops policies that promote social responsibility, the protection of the environment, the respect for the law and institutions, the endeavor for continuous improvement, the impartial offer to groups of people with special needs and the continuous concern and care for our employees. The following report presents the progress we made in 2011 towards advancing our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact Principles in all our operations. Additionally it highlights, for the first time, the actions and measures we took to reduce our environmental imprint and to contribute to the sustainability to the planet. In 2012 we will continue our efforts and take more important steps towards supporting the Ten Principles of the Global Compact, to which we hereby renew our commitment. May 2011 Aristides Belles, Chairman & CEO NIREUS Group of Companies Contact : Rhea Eleftheraki, Human Resources Manager E-mail : r.eleftheraki@nireus.com, Phone : +30 210 6624280, Fax : +30 210 6626804 Description of nature of business Nireus SA has the following activities: ü Production and sales of juveniles for marine fish farmed in the Mediterranean Sea ü Production and sales of Mediterranean marine fish (mainly seabass and seabream) in raw and processed form (fresh and frozen, whole, gutted and fillets) ü Production and sales of fish feed for Mediterranean farmed fish and trout ü Production and sales of aquaculture equipment (cages and nets) ü Sales of genetic material, feed, medicine and hygiene products to swine, poultry and cattle farmers For all these activities the Group owns and operates hatcheries, farming units, factories etc. We have 1,100 employees in Greece, Spain and Turkey who work in over 60 locations. Principles of the UN Global Compact: HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights. PRINCIPLE 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses. Commitment Our company is committed to upholding the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We also comply with the relevant Greek Legislation, as well as the local laws and legislations of all the countries in which we operate. To ensure that we constantly improve on our commitment, we continuously review and revise our internal and external policies. Our company’s operation is supported by the following committees and governing bodies: • Audit Committee • Strategic Planning Committee • Committee on Corporate Governanc • Group Executive Committee • Documentation, Organisation & Planning Unit Nireus is also a member of local and international networks, chambers and associations. ü Athens Chamber of Commerce & Industry ü Hellenic Russian Chamber of Commerce ü Italian Chamber of Commerce ü Greek – Turkish Chamber of Commerce ü Arab-Hellenic Chamber of Commerce & Development ü Hellenic Federation of Enterprises ü Entrepreneurship Association ü Panhellenic Exporters Association ü Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility ü Hellenic Management Association ü Union of listed companies ü Alba Graduate Business School Our company, as an entity inseparable from the society, within which it operates, affects and is affected by the circumstances of our times and its place of action. It acknowledges the responsibility it has towards the society . It respects the principles and values that characterize our culture and meets the social challenges and sensitivities. The actions that we undertake cover basic needs, develop and relieve local communities, which we recognize as our main social partners. Outcomes Nireus has donated fish fillets (fresh and frozen) to refugees organizations, children’s campuses, houses for homeless etc., has supported financially sport associations and schools and has sponsored cultural events. In 2011, NIREUS, wanting to relieve the socially vulnerable groups that were affected by the economic crisis, took a series of voluntary actions, to which our employees responded eagerly and in a great extent. Valuable assistance in terms of items of basic necessities was offered to many associations and organizations. Also in the context of our Group’s voluntary activities, voluntary blood donations were organized by our employees in January and in October, in our headquarters in Koropi. A Company’s Blood Bank is also kept in our branches in Patras and Chios, which has helped many times our employees and their relatives in their needs. We also offer practical training in aquaculture to university students. Additionally, Mr Belles, Nireus Chairman, has given lectures at many events sponsored by Universities and professional associations. Future Commitments We will continue to support materially the social groups in need, as well as universities and students. LABOR PRINCIPLE 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. PRINCIPLE 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labor PRINCIPLE 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment We recognize that our employees are our greatest asset and to ensure that we are able to recruit, hire and retain the most talented people we strive to assist all of our employees in maintaining a healthy work-life balance. Nireus is committed to supporting, encouraging and facilitating employee’s personal and professional growth and well being and offers them many benefits. We encourage them to develop their professional skills through enrollment in seminar courses and conference attendance in order to enhance and broaden their skills and knowledge. To maintain the highest standard of honesty, openness and accountability employees are encouraged to express their opinions and concerns to any member of the management. Our company complies with the Greek Labor Legislation on all of its activities, as well as the local laws and legislations of all the countries in which we operate. These, among other things, forbid all forms of forced and compulsory labor, give the right to employees to resign form their work voluntarily and reward extra-hours of work with additional payment. We have a workers’ union in our company with which we communicate openly and frequently. We do not support, encourage or endorse any form of child labor in all of our operations in Greece and abroad. Outcomes Given the wide dispersion of our branches, NIREUS is, in most areas, the largest and most preferred employer. The selection of our personnel is based on their qualifications, work experience, and, if necessary, on personal interviews without gender or age discriminations. A recruitment procedure approved by the Group Management is strictly followed by all branches. All employees sign a contract of employment upon hire that includes: date of hire, place of work, working hours, job title, wage and collective agreements applicable to the specific job, as well as the relevant laws that determine the amount of indemnity in case of involuntary termination of employment. The government authorities check wages for employees at the time of hire and every time there is a change to verify that the rate and overtime provisions are equal or greater to the minimum rates applicable for each job. The same authorities also check that there is no illegal or forced labor. Regarding our support on the abolition of child labor on our application form for employment, we ask for the age of the applicants to ensure that we don’t consider, when hiring, persons under the age of 18. Again, upon hire, the age of the employees is checked from official documentation provided by them. Our personnel has the following age distribution: Age group % of total 20-30 14% 31-40 38% 41-50 32% 50+ 16% At the date of payment all employees receive a wage receipt with an analysis of their payment that includes tax and social security deductions. Nireus provides its employees the following benefits: ü No interest loans to help offset health problems (available both to the employees and their families). ü Extra paid annual leave for health problems. ü Financial gifts (cash) when they are married or have children ü An annual painting contest for our employees’ children with special prizes and gifts for all the contestants. One of the paintings becomes the company’s Christmas card. ü Special discount on the company’s products. ü A company restaurant with reduced prizes for the employees Job descriptions have been designed for all work positions within the Group and, apart from the central organizational chart, each individual Department has its own detailed organizational chart. Furthermore, the operating procedures of each Department are documented under the ISO system. Since 2009, the group has applied a Performance Appraisal System based on quantitative and qualitative targets, which are set each year according to the company’s strategic goals and are communicated to the employees. The performance appraisal system is linked to the compensation and benefits system of the company, with the career and development plan of each employee together with its annual training. In 2011, emphasis was given on long-term training courses for those employees with more extensive knowledge and expertise in their jobs. Training on 63 subjects (such as HACCP, foreign languages, employment legislation, financial topics etc) was carried out throughout the year, both at the company’s headquarters and at the other branches of the Group, with a total duration of 3,060 hours and a value of EUROS 70,000. All our facilities are been frequently visited by a doctor and a safety technician in order to inspect or solve Health & Safety issues. Medical records for all employees are kept. In 2011 we have hired a Health & Safety Manager. Safety inspections are carried out frequently by our safety technicians in order to oversee that safety rules are kept and to train workers in the use of personal protective equipment. All employees working on the fish cages are required to wear special lifejackets suitable for work in aquaculture. In 2011, we had (in a total of 1,100 employees) 8 minor accidents, two of them were traffic ones (to and from the workplace and not during working hours). The number of accidents per site is an indicator in the performance evalution system for all our production managers. Future Commitments We shall continue to support universities for the required practice of their students and to provide all our employees with a balanced work-personal life. We shall continue to expand our employees’ education to enhance their personal and professional development. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges PRINCIPLE 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility PRINCIPLE 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies. Commitment As stated in its Environmental Policy, Nireus Aquaculture S.A. commits to: complying with the environmental legislation and all the codes and principles that apply to the company’s activities preventing pollution in coastal and marine establishments preserving the quality of the marine environment that surrounds the existed production units, as well as the new ones promoting recycling monitoring the environmental performances of all its production sites providing the appropriate environmental training and educating employees on the environmental aspects of the activity working cooperatively with third parties to further promote common environmental objectives Nireus always conducts an Environmental Impact Assessment before starting any new activity. Also, when we plan for new and existing operations, all the environmental factors such as wastes, water and land, emissions, natural resources and energy consumption are considered. We set environmental targets and we monitor critical parameters in order to establish early indications of any possible environmental risks. We promote recycling and manage natural resources in order to enhance the viability and sustainability of aquaculture. Nireus identifies and evaluates all the environmental aspects related to its activities and sets measurable objectives and targets. This procedure is standardized and applicable to all the activities and all the sites of the company’s operations. Outcomes In 2011, the implementation of the Environmental Management System according to ISO 14001:2004 standard continued for the seventh year in the Group’s production facilities. In July 2011, a surveillance inspection by the certification body TUV Austria Hellas was carried out and was successfully completed. Sea water Quality Monitoring In 2011, 290 physicochemical and 650 microbiological analyses were carried out in breeding waters. The physicochemical analyses concern heavy metals, mercury, residues of pesticides and nutrients, and the microbiological ones include TVC (Totalmesophilic flora), Total Coliforms, E. coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Salmonella, Listeria, Fecal streptococci, Clostridium perfringens, Pseudomonas, Fecal coliforms. The intensification of the analyses and the systematic monitoring of the breeding parameters ensure the preservation of the marine environment’s quality. Wastewater Monitoring Parameters All liquid waste is monitored in terms of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), the chemical oxygen demand (COD), the total suspended solids (TSS), total nitrogen and total phosphorus through laboratory analyses which are carried out in inhouse laboratories and in external accredited ones. The purpose of the tests is to ensure that the wastewater will not alter the physicochemical properties of the final recipients (sea, underground, sewage networks). In 2011, 800 analyses were carried out in wastewater. Benthos and sediment monitoring Systematic monitoring of the seabed is performed under and around the breeding units, where biological and chemical agents are monitored. Specifically, in 2011, 80 analyses of benthic animal at Classes level and 156 analyses of sediment for nutrients and chemicals were carried out. Recycling programs The company participates actively in Collective Recycling Programs that have been developed at national level, but also in smaller programs developed by the company itself. • In 2011, 9.5 tons of paper were collected for recycling. It is disposed to a subcontractor approved by the Ministry and licensed to manage used paper. • The ink ribbons from all the facilities are gathered at headquarters and given for recycling and / or reuse to licensed subcontractors. • The portable batteries delivered to the management agents AFIS and SYDESYS totaled 1,251 kilos. • The old electrical and electronic equipment and fluorescent lamps are collected and made available to Recycling Inc. and Fotokyklosi respectively. In 2011, 50 appliances and 250 bulbs were collected. • Great emphasis is also put on the management of packaging materials. For this reason, programs are developed to reduce the use of carton boxes made of expanded polystyrene on intercompany transports, along with programs to recycle the remaining packages. In 2011, 3 tons of plastic bags of fish and 40 tons of polystyrene were recycled. The used lubricating oils are gathered in specially designed containers and collected by ELTEPE operator. In 2011, the amounts collected from the company’s production centers reached 7,000 lt. • The used reagents from the laboratory of physicochemical analyses are delivered to the suppliers who has developed a network for the collection and exploitation of the materials they produce. In the last year, 60 pounds of laboratory materials were collected. • Significant quantities of iron, resulting from the upgrading projects that are taking place in the production facilities, were delivered to approved subcontractors for recycling. In 2011, 10.5 tons of plastic from floating facilities and 6.61 tons of iron were given for recycling and / or utilization. Production by-products management All the by-products of processing are utilized in accordance with the European regulations for the management of seafood by-products. The guts and heads are delivered to a fur animal breeder who uses them as raw material for food production. The by-products of fish farms are incinerated in the company’s veterinary incinerators or in affiliated licensed facilities. Redesigning the Nireus Supply Chain Network started by using the logic of nearshoring to reduce the multiple intermediate stops and to reduce inactive kilometres. Thus during 2011: • 5,700 tons of fresh fish were shipped abroad directly from the Group’s packaging points. In 2010, 2,500 tons were shipped in the same way. Through this change, products are transported directly abroad, leading to a reduction in inactive kilometres, more specifically a reduction in transfer kilometres by approximately 100 km for every 13 transported tons. Given that the consumption of one (1) litre of petrol leads to an average emission of pollutants of 2.31 Kgr CO2 and that with 1 litre of petrol we cover 2.5 km (trailer truck), redesigning the supply chain of fresh fish resulted in an average reduction of pollutants by about 40.52 tonnes or 43% less CO2 than in 2010. • In the same logic of reducing the emission of such forms of pollutants, we introduced the use of alternative modes of transport, other than road transport. In 2011, over 6,000 tons of dry cargo was transported by using special shipping means, reducing the routes by 40,000 kilometres annually. • One of the most common problems that a logistics system faces is the return trips without cargo, which lead to a reduction of the performance of the transport system and contribute to an increase in transportation costs and, inevitably, to an increase of the environmental impact. In 2011, in the context of redesigning the supply chain, a cooperation was agreed among three parties: two different manufacturing firms, one of which was Nireus, and a forwarding company. The production centres of the companies constituted the dispatch point of the one and the destination point of the other, which enabled the transport company to do 82% of its total runs with no empty kilometres. Through this method, the final distribution by the respective vehicles is performed with an increased exploitation of the supplied volume, thus lowering the cost and environmental impact of transport. Educating People and the creation of the “Green Operation” philosophy • Our drivers and our motorist associates were trained through specific programs focused on the knowledge of the mechanical parts of cars, road behavior and driving styles and methods that will save up 8-10% of fuel consumption, which has already been achieved. Examples of such driving behavior, which constitute part of the rules throughout the company’s Logistics system, is to switch off the engine during short stops, to set a maximum speed, to check tire pressure and to report and repair mechanical problems and leaks immediately within 24 hours, while the car remains out of circulation. • Focusing on these particular rules of driving behavior led to zero road accidents throughout the year 2011. • Furthermore, the on-going training and the strict observance of the rules for hygiene and safety led to zero accidents across the entire circuit of the supply chain, either in the transport circuit or in the warehouse circuit and especially that of fresh and dry cargo products management. Future commitments We shall continue our environmental efforts in order to contribute to the decrease of our ecological footprint We shall also continue our collaboration with the universities and other educational institutions. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Business should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Commitment Nireus SA is against all forms of corruption (bribery, extortion, money laundering, law disobedience). Outcomes The Group's supplies policy requires an assessment of Nireus suppliers in Greece and abroad, apart from the traditional aspects of cost, quality and consistency, and is in line with the Group’s code of values and the principles of corporate governance. The group acknowledges the important role of chain markets for its growth and wishes its suppliers to act with responsibility, integrity, honesty and transparency. We evaluate suppliers based on the following standards: • The overall business activity should be guided by respect for and compliance with the applicable laws and regulations. • Fair competition and refraining from unfair trade practices. Suppliers must also take care to safeguard the integrity, prestige and dignity of the profession to which they belong, with respect for the interests of consumers. • Disposal of products and services consistent with the applicable quality and safety standards. • Conduct of business with respect for the environment and compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. The group has long standing relationships of healthy and profitable collaboration, which require trust, honesty and constant communication between the parties. For this reason, key suppliers are visited at least once a year. Also an international auditing firm audits our financial statements every six months. Regular and extra audits are also conducted for all departments by the Internal Audit Department. Future commitments We are also in the process of forming a written Code of Conduct for the entire Group and to develop clear and precise policies and procedures that would prevent all forms of corruption.
