ANNUAL number №1 2011 SOCIAL REPORT SHARE YOUR LOVE FOR UKRAINE ON T HE ONL INE P OR TA L IL OVE UK R A INE .C OM.UA 65 SPONSORED MORE THAN SCHOOLS IN UKRAINE 200 ORPHANAGES AND ARE CONNECTED TO HIGHBOARDING SCHOOLS SPEED FREE INTERNET «KYIVSTAR» THE BEST EMPLOYER IN UKRAINE Reputation of the company and corporate social responsibility Throughout all «Kyivstar» history, the service quality has been and remains a basic priority of our Dialogue with company. Due to such a policy, consumers and the «Kyivstar» earned the respect and confidence of millions of people public in social networks living in Ukraine. Just that is why, in 2011, under conditions of inLike • Comment • Share • 24 hours ago near Kyiv tegration with «Beeline-Ukraine», it was fundamentally important to strengthen the reputation of combined «Kyivstar» – Ukrainian 4 587 people like this. business unit of Vimpelcom LTD. Reputational Institute’s studies show that the company has successfully coped with this task. 1 058 share «Kyivstar» has saved its high reputation level among telecom-operators in the world and won the Zhanna Parkhomenko. Internet provides us the 2-nd place within all industries great opportunity to dialogue directly with clients, to lisUkrainian companies with the ten and hear their opinions, to get a feedback, to consult highest reputation. These results them on the operation of services and products, etc. It were achieved due to the right was in 2009, when «Kyivstar» began to work with social work with clients, high communinetworks as a separate direction. During this time, there cation quality and service, useful were built and adjusted the communication processes to modern products and facilities, a dialogue with people in such a format. There was also clear understanding of our goals, developed and implemented the «Kyivstar» communicaa responsible approach to work tion strategy for social networks. At the moment, «Kyivand competent reputation manstar» keeps communicating with customers on all key web agement. sites, where the discussion of our products and services is Among the major pro-active repoccurring. It is established and actively operating the reputation management emphases, resentatives of «Kyivstar» and mobile youth brand Djuice in 2011, were: the project «Share in Facebook, VKontakte, YouTube, and Twitter. At presyour love for Ukraine», a number ent, 17 employees, «Kyivstar» internet-volunteers, are of charitable projects, the develexpressing the interests of the company on social online opment of dialogue with clients venues. As a result, «Kyivstar» and Djuice are the most on social media sites. positively referred telecom-brands in Ukrainian Internet. According to a study of the monitoring company SemanticForce, the references to «Kyivstar» in social networks increased by 12 times from 2009 to 2011. The total number of «Kyivstar» and Djuice adherents in social networks has exceeded 150 thousand people. A number of content viewings of «Kyivstar» video channel on YouTube resource overstepped the mark 500,000. 23 hours ago • Like Comment 2 Annual report – 2011 «Share your love for Ukraine» «Kyivstar» was and remains a national telecom leader in Ukraine, the company that truly loves and makes every effort to support the development of its country. In 2011, «Kyivstar» decided to engage Ukrainians in practically the national internet movement, which aims to enhance the love of Ukrainian citizens for their country. For this purpose, the operator created a multi-functional internet portal iloveukraine.com.ua, where anyone can upload one’s own favorite photos of Ukraine, talk about interesting travel routes, and put curious historical facts. Today this area has become a huge database of knowledge about the country and its sights – as of quite popular ones, so of rare objects. During six months working period, nearly 850 thousand Ukrainians visited the portal and joined the project. The total number of «Kyivstar» and djuice adherents in social networks exceeded 150 thousand people Annual report – 2011 3 The social program «Internet Implemented the unique in Ukrainian telecom-market social service – «Parental Control» for mobile internet, which allows access only to «white list» of safe Child Safety» children's sites. It was in 2009 when «Kyivstar» started Signed the Memorandum of Cooperation with the Ministry of Education and the long-term social program «Internet Science of Ukraine; more than 200 schools across the country were connected Child Safety». The purpose of the proto a free high-speed internet. gram was to teach children the rules of 5,000 teachers, working within in the program, instruct students about the online safety, what has been contributbasics of online security. ing to the creation of internet territory for safe communication, education and «Kyivstar» volunteers performed open lessons and game workshops about the development. In 2011, the work on this online safety for more than 2,500 children in schools and summer camps. program was continued. As a result, the social program «Internet Child Safety» is recognized as the best volunteer project in Ukraine in the category «Education and Culture» by results of the All-Ukrainian competition «Corporate volunteerism in Ukraine – 2011», organized by the Eastern Europe Foundation. The social program «Internet Child Safety» is recognized as the best volunteer project in Ukraine About 25 million Ukrainians consume «Kyivstar» telecommunication services, and relatively large proportion of customers is children. Responsibility for its own products and services is the main area of social responsibility of «Kyivstar». In 2011, «Kyivstar» systematically proceeded to develop social initiatives in its areas of responsibility: products and services, corporate philanthropy and also environmental responsibility. 4 Annual report – 2011 On May 9th «Kyivstar» traditionally carried out a campaign «Call to a front-line friend». Veterans and children of war could call freely to all their friends and relatives in Ukraine, Belarus and Russia. Altogether, the war heroes made about 2,000 calls. As a gift to veterans, «Kyivstar» staff organized the voluntary concerts of wartime songs in 18 cities of Ukraine. All-Ukrainian charitable initiative «For people, for country!» «Kyivstar» for almost 10 years has been carrying out the large-scale charity initiative «For people, for country», systematically helping those, who are most in need – children with disabilities and children deprived of parental care. In 65 boarding schools and orphanages, the company works with; there are learning and living more than 10,000 children with health problems and orphaned children too. The main focus in 2011 was directed to helping children and young people with disorders of the musculoskeletal system. For them «Kyivstar» settled down multimedia rooms in 10 special boarding schools and created a series of video master classes for professional orientation, inviting the The program best experts. By the New Year the staff of «Kyivstar» gathered more than 5,000 of environmental gifts, and 100 volunteers gave Christresponsibility mas performances for the children of Since 2008 «Kyivstar» realizes the prosponsored boarding schools. Altogether gram of environmental responsibility «Kyivstar» employees played 13 conin three main areas: the use of energycerts in 10 cities of Ukraine for more saving technologies in different parts than 1,500 children in orphanages and of business, replacing a paper-based boarding schools. Also, «Kyivstar» reguworkflow with electronic one, environlarly helps to 3500 elderly people, living mental initiatives. In 2011, volunteers, alone in 11 geriatric centers throughout involved in «Kyivstar» environmental Ukraine. That contributes to solving a project, gardened cities of Ukraine, lot of current housing problems. planted trees and flowers, and cleaned green areas. Also, in the chief office in Kiev there was set a bicycle parking. Annual report – 2011 5 «Kyivstar» activity closely connected with the life of society – because every second Ukrainian already chose our services. We work hard to make modern telecommunication technologies accessible to everyone. By providing high quality services, we improve people's lives and all the country. We take the responsibility for business solutions, partake of solving urgent social problems and take care of those who are most in need. Celebration of Independence Day 6 Annual report – 2011 «Chestnut Run», Independence Square, Kyiv Annual report – 2011 7
