Building valueS WoRldWide Sustainability Report 2011 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Group performance highlights Local development unit 20101 20111 africa asia europe Job creation (local workforce) % 90 92 96 69 85 local supply % 78 73 53 84 86 infrastructure development projects no. 32 34 26 6 2 Social support projects no. 33 36 16 11 9 Community expenditure €’000 2,885 793 599 53 141 Care for our people Workforce no. 12,873 15,508 12,210 1,812 1,483 Workforce variation no. 2,680 2,635 2,416 –224 442 Workforce under 30 years old % n/a 38 41 32 24 graduated at Headquarters % 50 55 – – – Women at Headquarters % 35 33 – – – Training provided 2 hours 32,542 32,085 n/a n/a n/a injury frequency rate 3 iR 17.18 14.74 15.49 1.35 34.75 Health & Safety expenditure €’000 3,236 3,046 972 338 1,736 HSe audits at operating sites no. 33 59 11 37 11 Environmental protection environmental expenditure €’000 8,599 9,942 556 522 8,864 Rocks and soil reused % 47 49 58 19 62 Waste recycled/reused % 9 15 78 0 7 Water withdrawal m3’000 14,682 6,995 5,415 612 968 Co2 emissions t’000 173 223 149 39 35 HSe meetings and short sessions at operating sites no. 231 758 434 35 289 environmental-friendly shipment (goods transported by sea) % 94 95 100 31 6 n/a: not available 1 data on Workforce includes South america. 2 data does not include training hours provided to Todini operating sites’ workforce, except e-learning training. 3 data does not include Headquarters personnel because it is considered not material for the rates’ calculation. Contents Group performance highlights IFC Local development 18 Environmental protection 40 3.1 Progress against commitments 20 5.1 Progress against commitments 42 CEO introduction 01 3.2 Job creation 21 5.2 Climate change 43 About Salini 02 3.3 Supporting local supply chains 21 5.3 Biodiversity 44 1.1 governance structure 04 3.4 enhancing local wealth 22 5.4 efficient use of natural resources 46 1.2 Strategy and performance 05 3.5 Business integrity worldwide 24 5.5 environmental protection 48 1.3 generating and distributing value to stakeholders 06 3.6 Future commitments 24 5.6 Future commitments 49 1.4 Salini’s strengths and capabilities 07 3.7 Performance data sheet 25 5.7 Performance data sheet 50 Managing sustainability 08 Care for our people 26 Appendix 54 2.1 Progress against commitments 10 4.1 Progress against commitments 28 6.1 Membership 55 2.2 Strategy and approach 11 4.2 Focusing on people 29 6.2 Methodological note 55 2.3 The construction sector’s contribution to 4.3 development of human resources 29 6.3 glossary 58 sustainable development 11 4.4 Health and safety 31 GRI data and assurance report 2.4 Sustainability risks and opportunities at Salini group 12 4.5 Human rights 34 2.5 integrating sustainability into Salini’s business 12 4.6 Security at operating sites 34 GRI Application Level Check Statement 60 2.6 Material issues 14 4.7 local personnel management 35 GRI and UN Global Compact Tables 62 2.7 Stakeholder dialogue and engagement 14 4.8 Future commitments 35 2.8 Future commitments 17 4.9 Performance data sheet 36 Third-party Assurance Report 72 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 CEO introduction Our strength in dams and hydroelectric power in particular enables us Pietro Salini About Salini to help new and emerging markets exploit opportunities from renewable CEO energy while generating significant revenue for the Group. A year of achievement You will discover many examples of progress during 2011 in this Report, but the following in particular have made me feel privileged to lead this committed company: 01 – Continued to deliver positive economic impact on the countries where we operate, by increasing the proportion of local personnel from 90% to 92% and spending € 797 million with locally-based Managing sustainability providers of goods and services; – Delivered 70 infrastructure development and community support projects, primarily in Africa; – Developed a new Sustainability Policy and a specific procedure to collect and share sustainability performance data; – Improved our sustainability reporting system, including updating our reporting tools to the GRI’s latest standard protocol; Local – Continued our commitment to the UN Global Compact’s principles, making further progress in the areas of human rights, labour, development environment and anti-corruption; – Taken part in meetings with other Italian members of the UN Global Compact, to share experiences and develop a common approach towards human rights; – Improved the injury frequency rate at our operating sites of 14% Dear Stakeholders, in comparison with 2010; Care for As the Group celebrates its 75th – Increased our focus on Health, Safety and Environmental Training to our people anniversary, I am pleased to present our the point where it represents 89% of all our global training hours; third sustainability report, prepared in – Increased to 49% the rocks and soil reused within our projects, with compliance with the GRI G3.1 guidelines significant benefits for the environment in terms of less raw material consumption and waste; to level A+ and assured by KPMG. – Connected many construction sites to power grids, leading to a fall We believe there are clear links between building value for our in emissions from diesel generators (our largest source of emissions) Environmental shareholders and building value for our employees and the of 5.5%; communities we work with. As the following report demonstrates, the – Reclaimed 77,639m 2 of former quarries and landfill areas, and carried protection last 12 months have been characterised by further excellent progress out over 146,178m 2 of reforestation and topsoil restoration activities. on a range of important sustainability issues, as we consolidate our commitment to the principles of sustainable development – and in doing so build shared value for our stakeholders. Looking to the future With a new strategic plan in place to cover the period 2012–2015 and Making a difference the project for Impregilo gathering pace, the year ahead will see a steadfast focus on delivering our sustainability commitments. At Salini, sustainability matters. It is not a luxury, but an essential part of our business and our strategy. Despite the continuing global economic We will build on our experiences during the successful integration with Appendix uncertainties, sustainability remains part of every decision and acts as Todini to make sure that we evaluate and share best practices with a guiding hand on every project – no matter where we are in the world. Impregilo. At the same time, we will continue to focus on stakeholders, earning their trust and building value for them. In fact our success As a major player in the global construction sector, we play an depends on achieving nothing less. important role in addressing many of the critical challenges facing society today, from climate change and resource scarcity to poverty Finally, I would like to thank employees across the business for their and energy security. support and expertise as we strive to become a more sustainable business. We have made significant progress so far, but there remains By focusing on sustainability, we can improve our financial performance much more to achieve – and I look forward to working alongside you through improved risk management to meet legislative demands, and in pursuit of our sustainability goals. GRI data and by enhancing our corporate reputation. assurance Perhaps most importantly of all, by providing the physical infrastructure report to manage natural resources and ecosystems wisely – as well as contributing to economic development through urban mobility solutions and infrastructures to improve access – we believe that Salini can help provide solutions to a range of critical sustainability challenges, improving our own financial performance at the same time. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Chapter 1 ABOUT SALINI AREAS OF ExPERTISE DAMS AND HYDROELECTRIC PLANTS Salini is a global leader in the construction of dams and hydroelectric power plants, with projects of significant scale and complexity completed across three continents. New works, with an installed capacity of almost 8,000 MW 2 of clean, affordable energy – an essential prerequisite for economic growth – are currently underway. The Salini Group1 is a leading Italian General Contractor, specialising in the construction of major works. It is ranked as one of the foremost players in the construction of ROADS AND MOTORWAYS hydroelectric power plants. The expansion of road networks is essential for economic growth and the social development We believe that sustainable such growth enables. A range of studies provide empirical evidence of the positive relationship development is an inherent feature between investment in infrastructure and good of the Company’s business given economic outcomes. However, in many parts of the world, environmental conditions make that the projects we realise – energy construction of roads and motorways extremely from renewable sources, urban challenging. Salini has proven its capacity mobility solutions for decongesting to complete projects of varying scale and complexity in locations as diverse as Sierra metropolitan areas, territorial Leone, Kazakhstan and central Dubai. infrastructures as a factor to access and enhance strategic areas – create lasting value for the affected RAILWAYS communities and provide grounding Whilst it is inconceivable to imagine a future in which motor vehicles play no part in the global for further economic development. transport mix, it is also undeniable that as road usage increases dramatically, rail transport offers a more sustainable alternative or addition. Salini is an active participant in the current urban transport ‘renaissance’ underway across Europe through projects such as the new B1 Metro line in Rome and the Cityringen Metro for Copenhagen. CIvIL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION Working in partnership with many renowned architecture and design practices, Salini continues to play a significant role in the In this section… creation of innovative, iconic civil buildings 1.1 Governance structure 04 around the world; significant undertakings, including hospital complexes, university 1.2 Strategy and performance 05 campuses, government buildings and other 1.3 Generating and distributing value structures, which meet both a practical social to stakeholders 06 need and frequently also provide a key cultural focus within a community. 1.4 Salini’s strengths and capabilities 07 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 About Salini GLOBAL PRESENCE We operate in over 40 countries across four continents, employing 02 about 15,500 people 03 representing 67 different Managing nationalities. sustainability We have a presence in the following countries around the world: Albania Algeria Argentina Australia Azerbaijan Belarus Local Brazil Bulgaria Chile China Czech Republic Denmark Ethiopia Gabon Georgia Ghana Greece Guinea Hungary development India Ireland Italy Jordan Kazakhstan Liberia Libya Malawi Malaysia Morocco Nigeria Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russia Saudi Arabia Sierra Leone Somalia Sudan Tanzania Tunisia Turkey Ukraine Uganda United Arab Emirates Zimbabwe Care for our people Revenue Revenue 2011 by main sectors euro/000 % 1. Dams and hydroelectric plants Environmental 4 1 30.0% protection 1,433,146 1,122,823 3 2. Roads and motorways 49.9% 653,954 3. Railways 2 15.5% 4. Civil building construction 4.6% Appendix 2009 2010 2011 +27.6% GRI data and The increase of revenues in 2011 assurance compared to 2010 report 1 The Group is composed by Salini Costruttori S.p.A. and the companies that it controls directly or indirectly. Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. is the main subsidiary with operational activities. The term ‘Salini’ is used in the report to indicate the entire group, the term ‘Todini’ indicates only Todini’s activities. 2 At the end of 2011 the hydroelectric projects underway were Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (5,250 MW) and Gibe III (1,870 MW) in Ethiopia, Ulu Jelai (382 MW) in Malaysia, Bujagali (250 MW) in Uganda and Gurara Dam (30 MW) in Nigeria. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 About Salini continued 1.1 Governance structure The Company’s governance structure is shown below. Salini voluntarily adopts a corporate governance model which is The Company’s aim is to establish an ongoing dialogue with based on the main Italian governance principles including the Code of shareholders and the market to ensure the timely distribution Conduct for Listed Companies stated by the Italian Stock Exchange of comprehensive information on our activities. In accordance with (Borsa Italiana S.p.A., July 2002) and the recommendations issued by the provisions of the Company’s Self-Regulatory Code, the Chairman the Italian Commission for Stock Market and Companies (CON SOB). and the CEO communicate with shareholders in full compliance We are also guided by other recognised best practices, such as the with the procedures for disclosure of documents and information main principles of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (US, July 2002) and of concerning the Company, limited only by confidentiality requirements the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (UK, July 2003). where applicable. Adhering to international best practice requires a strong commitment to continuous improvement of governance systems, which is embraced throughout Salini. Dialogue INvESTOR RELATIONS In 2011 Salini became the second largest shareholder of The Company’s aim is to establish an ongoing Impregilo, the first Italian General Contractor. A dedicated dialogue with shareholders and the market to Investor Relations department has been established to ensure transparent and effective communication between the company, ensure the timely distribution of comprehensive the financial community and other interested parties. information on our activities. Shareholders’ meeting Composition: all shareholders with voting rights or their representatives Approves the financial statements Elects the Board of Directors and the Appoints the External Auditors Approves amendments to the by-laws Statutory Auditors Integrity Board Board of Directors Statutory Auditors External Auditors Composition: one non-executive Composition: Chairman, CEO, Composition: Chairman, Provider: Reconta Ernst & Young Director and two external one executive Director and four two permanent Auditors, S.p.A. independent members non-executive Directors two alternate Auditors verifies the adequacy of the 231 Defines the Company’s strategic Monitor the compliance with the law On the base of the Audit assignment Model and supervises, develops and organisational policies and the by-laws and supervise the they perform the audit of the and promotes its continuous update; Company’s operating performance Company’s financial statements supervises the functioning and Ensures the implementation and and perform quarterly reviews observance of the Code of Ethics achievement of the Company purposes of its accounting records Supervises the Company’s overall management performance Executive Committee Remuneration Committee Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee Composition: Chairman, CEO Composition: three independent Composition: three independent and one executive Director non-executive Directors non-executive Directors Decides about the participation Proposes to the BoD schemes for Evaluates the adequacy of the internal to tenders and the out-of-Court management incentive pay systems control system and supervises the settlements and the annual remuneration of the observance and the periodic update Chairman and the CEO, as well as of the corporate governance rules reviews the remuneration criteria of the top management Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 1.2 Strategy and performance In line with our Strategic Plan, at the end of May 2012 Salini invested About Salini € 123 million (around 29%) in Impregilo’s shares, the first Italian General Strategic Plan 2012–2015 Contractor, to become Impregilo’s second largest shareholder. This In December 2011 Salini approved the Strategic Plan 2012–2015, which investment has strong strategic intent and is based on a project aims to position the Group as the first General Contractor in Italy and to to combine top Italian players to create a leading European-based maintain one of the highest levels of profitability globally (in terms of group with the scale and expertise to compete in the global EBITDA). The Plan is founded on five fundamental pillars: infrastructure sector. 04 1. Sustained growth (over 110% of revenues over the period with an annual compound growth rate ‘CAGR’ of 21%) through a focus on Financial performance in 2011 05 the core business of construction in which the Group boasts proven 2011 results confirm strong growth, which consolidates the Group’s Managing experience and a solid track record; strategic position in the sector of large complex infrastructure companies. Indeed, 2011 revenues have reached a new record level, sustainability 2. Sustainable growth, based on an outstanding backlog at the end equal to € 1.433 billion (+27.6% compared with 2010), mainly due of 2011 that will generate approximately 70% of revenues in the time to the increasing contribution of the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance frame of the plan and a selective approach with regards to the Dam-GERD (Ethiopia), Cityringen Metro (Denmark) and South-West acquisition of new projects; Roads (Kazakhstan) projects. The Group’s backlog also reached 3. Greater use of the Group’s assets, in order to further improve the a record level, equal to € 10.4 billion after a new order intake of return on average capital employed (‘ROCE’), owing to improved € 1.4 billion during the fiscal year. utilisation ratio of internal and external resources; It is important to underline that, even after the investment in Impregilo’s Local 4. Maximising of operating cash flows, continuing to fund the growth shares, the Group’s net financial position is positive (net cash) at entirely by cash flow generation from operating activities; and € 33.9 million. development 5. Strengthening of capital structure through sustained growth of equity. Care for our people 2011 Work in hand % Environmental 1 1. Dams and hydroelectric plants 1 1. Africa 48.3% 55.3% protection 4 2. Roads and motorways 2. Asia Portfolio of Portfolio of work in hand by area of 10.1% work in hand by 9.6% 3. Railways geographical area 3. Europe expertise 31.1% 3 35.1% Appendix 3 4. Civil building construction 2 2 10.5% GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 About Salini continued 1.3 Generating and distributing value Community expenditure amounted to € 0.84 million including direct to stakeholders donations and voluntary services made available to local communities 2011 witnessed sustained growth of the economic value generated in the period, such as the direct construction of social infrastructures and distributed to the various stakeholders of the Group. (e.g. schools and hospitals) and the direct support of social initiatives. There are many other social activities that do not entail direct expenses Most of the economic value distributed to stakeholders is represented for Salini but that positively impact local communities. These include by operating costs € 1,087.1 million, composed mainly of payment to the free use of the Group’s medical clinics, wells and access roads and suppliers (for materials), contractors and subcontractors (for services) facilities. These initiatives clearly describe the Group philosophy to share and other providers of goods/services, for example for the leasing of its assets with the host communities. Further details can be found in equipment. After this, personnel payments represented an expenditure section 3.4. of € 162.9 million and include wages, social security contribution, employees leaving entitlement during the period and other costs related to the personnel such as staff training. Payments to lenders (bank interest) was equal to € 25.2 million in the period. Payments to government as taxes 3 represented € 35.8 million. Dividends proposed to be distributed to shareholders were about € 13.0 million. Economic value generated and distributed (euro/000) 2009 2010 2011 Revenues 653,954 1,122,823 1,433,146 Other incomes 1,489 – 26,717 Financial income 6,960 11,490 8,819 Total economic value generated 662,403 1,134,313 1,468,682 Operating costs 459,338 793,100 1,087,082 Personnel wages and benefits 90,890 158,783 162,930 Payments to shareholders 10,829 12,995 12,995 Return to lenders 10,177 25,639 25,193 Payments to government 9,644 17,850 35,802 Community investments 1,997 2,885 793 Total economic value distributed 582,875 1,011,252 1,324,795 Amortisation, depreciation and adjustments 60,343 89,655 83,952 Self-financing 16,841 20,100 41,289 Provisions and reserves 2,344 13,306 18,647 Total economic value withheld 79,528 123,061 143,887 3 For the allocation of current taxes on the basis of the countries where the Group operates, please refer to note 22) Income taxes of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2011 and published on the website www.salini.it. In addition, we report that the taxes paid by the Branches in their respective countries in which they operate are considered, coherently with current Italian tax legislation, tax credits for business incomes generated abroad, through a permanent establishment. 4 The significant variation in respect to 2010 data is due to non-recurring expenses made in 2010, as the celebrations for the 50th anniversary of Nigeria’s independence and the completion of the Gefersa Mental Hospital in Ethiopia. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 1.4 Salini’s strengths and capabilities – maintaining a high degree of flexibility in order to enter or enhance About Salini the Group’s presence in emerging markets; Partnering for success Salini is committed to enhancing its reputation as a client-centred – operating within different contractual models, from performing a business and to putting clients’ needs first. To this end, the Group single service (e.g. construction) to providing a full service for the adopts advanced technologies and construction methods to ensure execution of complex projects (e.g. EPC – engineering, procurement and construction); and high quality, safe and sustainable performance. 06 Salini develops its projects based on close partnerships with the world’s – maintaining strategic relationships with some clients, which go most renowned professionals and engineering companies, producing beyond the execution of a single project to sharing experience 07 bespoke project proposals. This strength makes the Group competitive and knowledge, as well as identifying business opportunities Managing across the world, even in the most challenging contexts. To meet of common interest. clients’ varying requirements efficiently, Salini has developed a business model based on: Innovative solutions to complex client challenges sustainability The following table highlights some of the innovative techniques and solutions recently adopted by Salini on its projects. Local development DAMS AND HYDROELECTRIC PLANTS Care for our people Salini has developed and fine-tuned a construction method – named Fast Track Implementation – based on starting all the most important phases of hydroelectric projects at the same time, allowing a drastic reduction in the completion time of works, with obvious benefits for clients and host communities who benefit from earlier access to water and energy. The method was successfully adopted in Ethiopia’s hydroelectric projects and is intended to be introduced in other markets around the world. ROADS AND MOTORWAYS Environmental Todini, the Group’s company specialising in road projects, has developed innovative solutions for drivers’ safety at Capo Boi project, a new road with galleries which is under completion in Sardinia (Italy). Thanks protection to a collaboration with ‘Politecnico di Torino’, the client’s basic design has been amended to improve safety facilities, mainly consisting of a new emergency tunnel with access every 150 metres (instead every 300 metres as required by law) and an automated fire control system inside the tunnels, capable of managing different emergency scenarios by activating innovative fire-extinguishers and ventilation systems. These solutions were realised without extra costs for the clients, thanks to an efficient management of the project’s resources. RAILWAYS Tunnel-boring machines (TBMs) have revolutionised the underground construction sector by increasing Appendix excavation speed. In urban areas this could pose problems due to the presence of buildings. To minimise risk and for the safety of citizens, Salini has used – for the first time in Italy – an innovative technique at Metro B1 underground project in Rome. The technique, named compensation grouting, consists of pumping a cement mixture into the soil between existing buildings and the underground tunnel. This stabilises buildings during the TBM’s transit and avoids subsidence. The system is managed by a computerised system, which constantly controls the buildings level and adjusts the compensation pressure. CIvIL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION GRI data and A team of renowned designers and engineering companies has been working with Salini to develop and assurance build an iconic landmark in Abuja’s (Nigeria) landscape. The Millennium Tower and Cultural Centre was report funded by the Federal Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Nigeria and draws its inspiration from Nigerian cultural traditions and heritage. At 160 metres high, the tower will, once completed, become the highest building on the African continent. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Chapter 2 MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY For Salini combining business values with the principles of ethics and sustainability represents the best way to strengthen its risk management and identify new opportunities. The Group is committed to maintain the highest management standards, in accordance with major recognised international guidelines and best practices. In this section… 2.1 Progress against commitments 10 2.2 Strategy and approach 11 2.3 The construction sector’s contribution to sustainable development 11 2.4 Sustainability risks and opportunities at Salini Group 12 2.5 Integrating sustainability into Salini’s business 12 2.6 Material issues 14 2.7 Stakeholder dialogue and engagement 14 2.8 Future commitments 17 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 GRI data and Appendix Environmental Care for Local Managing About Salini assurance protection our people development 08 09 sustainability report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Managing sustainability continued 2.1 Progress against commitments COMMITMENTS MADE IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 ACTIONS IN 2011 PROGRESS Establish a process for reporting sustainability During the year the Company has developed a new performance to the Board of Directors by means of one of its committees. Sustainability Policy and a specific procedure to collect and share sustainability performance data. A report on sustainability activities carried out in 2011 has been ◊ submitted to the Board of Directors in early 2012. Work with other Italian multinational companies within the Global Compact Network Italy in order to develop a common Human Rights assessment tool to be used In 2011 the Company has taken part in meetings and consultations of Global Compact Italian members to share experiences and proceed with developing a common , in every operating site. approach towards human rights assessment and subsequent management. Carry out specific audits about sustainability issues. During the period the Company has conducted three audits on the security systems in place at some African operating sites, to verify compliance towards human rights issues. , Furthermore, a self-assessment tool has been developed and tested at an Ethiopian site to check the implementation level of the Global Compact’s principles. Improve internal communication processes and tools, In 2011 the sustainability reporting system was improved, especially between Headquarters and operating sites. with the endorsement of a new group procedure and the updating of reporting tools to the GRI’s latest standard protocols (G3.1 and sector supplement). ◊ Implement an audit plan at every operating site in order to carry out HSE audits on subcontractors. Audits have started to be undertaken at a project level. It is expected however, that an enhancement of this activity will occur in 2012. , ◊ Achieved , In progress x Not met/rescheduled FOCUS ON: Support Global Compact Network Italy in international initiatives Besides the joining of the UN Global Compact, Salini is also a member of Global Compact Network Italy, the Italian platform aimed at promoting the Compact in the Italian context. In October 2011, the Group has supported the Italian network to arrange the annual meeting of the European based Global Compact Local Networks, which took place in Rome (Italy). The meeting was aimed at coordinating the European business contributions towards Rio+20, the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (UNCSD) that will be held in Rio De Janeiro in June 2012. During the meeting have been discussed innovative approaches in the field of public-private cooperation for sustainable development on three selected themes: food security and sustainable agriculture, green jobs and social inclusion, sustainable cities. Further information and final position papers are available at www.globalcompactnetwork.org. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 2.2 Strategy and approach Transition to a low carbon economy – investment in energy, water, About Salini The Group operates according to strict environmental, ethical and transport and building sectors has been highlighted by the United professional principles and policies that conform to the highest Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) as key to achieving a international criteria of governance and citizenship. low-carbon, resource-efficient future. Operating in a wide variety of contexts and geographies means the Demonstrating compatibility of economic growth and Group is required to meet the expectations of host countries, clients, sustainability – under the ‘green economy’ scenario, economic growth local communities, and consumers as well as technical-operational and socio-environmental sustainability are not incompatible but mutually counterparts – each of whom have different histories, cultures and reinforcing. Some commentators suggest that the path towards a green backgrounds. Salini has addressed this challenge by working towards economy creates jobs and develops economies, while avoiding considerable downside risks such as the effects of climate change, Managing a united vision and subsequent business model focused on the value of our people, care for the environment, and principles of social water scarcity and the loss of ecosystem services 5. sustainability responsibility and ‘good citizenship’ for the benefit of local communities. Poverty alleviation – there is growing awareness of the inextricable The sustainability strategy adopted by the Group aims to maximise link between poverty alleviation and infrastructure improvement – benefits for local stakeholders. Our priorities are related to job creation, in particular in low income countries, where ecosystem goods and care for people, improvement of local professional skills, the growth of regional economies through local procurement, strict adherence services (such as water and biodiversity) are a vital resource for poor rural communities and provide a safety-net against natural disasters 10 to environmental standards and investment in local communities. and economic shocks. 11 Energy security – access to energy represents one of the major pillars 2.3 The construction sector’s contribution to Local for the development of society. Yet, the current fossil fuel based energy sustainable development system leaves about 1.4 billion people without access to electricity The construction sector plays an important role in addressing critical around the world, also known as ‘energy poverty’. development challenges facing today’s society. By providing the physical Thanks to its vision, approach and track record of delivery, Salini infrastructure to manage natural resources and ecosystems wisely as has a major role to play in the international arena in addressing these well as contributing to economic development through urban mobility challenges – supported by the goodwill and license to operate that solutions and infrastructures which improve access and enhance clients, workers, business partners, public administrations and strategic areas, we believe that Salini can help provide solutions to communities grant to the company. a range of sustainability challenges, including: Care for our people Environmental protection MISSION To develop construction methods and solutions capable of enhancing the territories’ resources thereby contributing to the economic and social growth of nations Appendix vALUES Excellence Respect Innovation Integrity Transparency Co-prosperity SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES GRI data and Job creation People care assurance Local procurement Capacity building report Environmental Communities protection investments 5 ‘Towards a Green Economy – Pathways to Sustainable Development and Poverty Eradication’, UNEP, 2011. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Managing sustainability continued 2.4 Sustainability risks and opportunities UN Global Compact at Salini Group Since 2010 Salini has been a signatory of the Like many businesses in the twenty-first century, Salini faces a complex UN Global Compact, the world’s largest strategic range of sustainability risks and opportunities that can have a material policy initiative for businesses that are committed impact on our business performance in the short, medium and long to aligning their operations and strategies with ten term. A selection of these risks and opportunities is presented below, universally accepted principles relating to human alongside actions taken by the Group. rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. WE SUPPORT Salini recognises the need to collaborate with 2.5 Integrating sustainability into Salini’s business governments, civil society, employees, suppliers and the United Nations Salini is firmly committed to operating in accordance with strict to help advance UN Global Compact priorities. Todini joined the environmental, ethical and professional principles and company UN Global Compact in 2004 and it confirms its commitment to policies. The Group has established an integrated system of policies implementing the principles in its operations. and procedures, in accordance with major recognised international This Sustainability Report shows the progress achieved by Salini and standards of reference. Todini against the Global Compact Principles. A cross reference table – The diagram at the end of the next page shows the overall framework available at the end of this Report – links the Global Compact principles adopted by the Group to manage sustainability in our day-to-day with the Group’s performance in each category 6. operations, allowing Salini to be aligned with global best practice. Corporate policies The Group adopts the precautionary principle in the management of The Group has adopted corporate policies that define principles issues related to economic, social and environmental sustainability. and priorities in key areas such as Occupational Health and Safety, Quality, the Environment, Human Resources management and Thanks to the policies and management systems and controls Sustainable Development. implemented, Salini is able to identify aspects that could expose the organisation to potential risks, classifying them according to An overarching Sustainability Policy (in place since 2007 and revised their significance and treating them appropriately in accordance in 2011) commits the Group to contribute towards sustainable with procedures. development by operating with integrity and fairness, ensuring human resources protection and development, guaranteeing Sustainability risks and opportunities at Salini Group Risks Examples of mitigating strategic and operational initiatives Page Safety of workers and staff Continuous workplace monitoring, training on safety and work methods, focused on 31–32 personal protective equipments (PPEs) and equipment use Human rights protection and respect Corporate policies in place, training on Ethics for all new hires, fair HR procedures in 34 at operating sites compliance with ILO standards, Countries’ Labour laws and collective agreements Business integrity Code of Ethics binding for all parties, specific organisational management and 24 control model to monitor the respect of the Code, Internal Audit system in place, specific training for all employees with sensitive tasks Conservation of scarce natural resources Implemented ISO 14001 certified management system at operating sites, rocks 47 and environmental impact control and soil classification and reusing system Energy security and conservation Innovative solutions to recover energy from existing plants, preventive maintenance 47 of equipment and machinery Water scarcity and management Use of technologies that reduce water consumption, water treatment plants 47–48 designed to create closed-loop systems Social license to operate Community needs analysis; supporting initiatives for local schools; authorities, 22–23 hospitals and villages in case of natural disasters Opportunities Examples of enhancing strategic and operational initiatives Page Unskilled/unemployed rural people Hiring of people living near projects, on-job training and specialised training 21, 29 to be employed in construction at operating sites Skills and capabilities enhancement Customised training programmes and careers development 30 Know-how sharing and transfer from Job opportunities for recent graduated people on complex construction 29 experienced people to young personnel projects worldwide Health and hygiene Site clinics accessible to workers and community’s members, training 32 of workers and their families courses and preventive control activities on major endemic diseases Developing local suppliers to Research and qualification of local suppliers, and subsequent monitoring activities 21–22 contribute to local economic development to enhance their quality and HSE performance Biodiversity and restoration activities Meet and exceed contractual obligations on recovery of construction areas 44–45 and surrounding environment by planting native species 6 In accordance with ‘Making The Connection – Using GRI’s G3 Guidelines for the COP’, United Nations Global Compact Office, May 2007. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 environmental protection, building strong and lasting relationships HSE and quality certifications have been achieved by Salini Costruttori About Salini with institutions and communities, and contributing to economic S.p.A. and Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A.7 covering all offices growth and social progress. and operating sites of these companies. However, the procedures of management systems apply to all Group Companies and Management systems and certifications operating sites. To meet the needs and expectations of all stakeholders, Salini In 2011, the certified scope of the quality management system has been conducts its business in line with the highest international standards extended to the ‘management of general contractor’s activities carried of management certification. The Quality and HSE Division (DQS) is in out pursuant to article 176 of the Italian Legislative Decree No. 163 of charge of defining and updating management systems, in accordance 12 April 2006’ (both Salini and Todini). with the standards ISO 9001, ISO 14001, BS OHSAS 18001. It also Managing supports the CEO in defining policies and targets for these issues. HSE expenses and investments At operating site level, the Quality and HSE Division (DQS) supports The Group invests annually in significant resources at corporate and the organisational units in the management of quality, health and safety operating site levels to protect the health and safety of workers and sustainability and environment issues, and ensures the appropriate circulation of the surrounding natural environment. In 2011, Salini invested about information. DQS performs regular audits at operating sites to assess € 12.9 million into HSE initiatives, of which € 8.8 million was spent on the compliance of systems in relation to corporate procedures. The Company’s top management reviews annually the suitability, adequacy environmental management (waste treatment and disposal, emission treatment, land restoration). € 1.6 million was spent on Health & Safety 12 and effectiveness of the management systems, evaluating their protection and the remaining € 2.5 million was spent on HSE prevention 13 strengths and weaknesses and taking all necessary corrective actions and management activities (management systems, training, etc.). Local to ensure a continuous performance improvement. development Care for our people Protection Total HSE expenses (euro/000) 11,835 12,988 The Group invests annually in significant resources at corporate and operating site levels to protect Environmental protection 6,160 the health and safety of workers and the surrounding natural environment. 2009 2010 2011 Appendix Corporate Code Code of Ethics External Principles UN Global Compact embraced Human rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption Sustainability Policy Corporate Policies Human Resources Occupational Health Quality Environmental Management Policy and Safety Policy Assurance Policy Protection Policy GRI data and Internal Control System assurance Management and report Health and Safety Environmental Quality Organisational Control Systems Management System Management System Management System Management and (OHSAS 18001) (ISO 14001) (ISO 9001) Control Model 7 Salini Costruttori S.p.A. is certified against ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards, Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. is certified against ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 standards. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Managing sustainability continued 2.6 Material issues 2.7 Stakeholder dialogue and engagement In order to identify and prioritise the most important sustainability Dialogue and transparency are key elements of our sustainability issues, a materiality analysis has been carried out in accordance with strategy. The approach to sustainability adopted by the Group is the GRI guidelines. This process allows Salini to identify and address based on encouraging relationships and engagement with various issues of greatest concern to our stakeholders. The materiality analysis stakeholders, both at a corporate and local level with the aim of is periodically reviewed and updated according to two main factors – understanding their views and integrating them into the Group’s the relevance of issues in the construction industry and their activities. Thanks to this approach, Salini fosters excellent relationships importance for Salini and for its stakeholders. with clients, institutions, employees, suppliers, communities and other third parties. To identify the relevance of issues we carry out an analysis of the internal and external context: Engagement practices are flexible and diversified and vary according to differing needs and specific interests. In general, at a corporate level, The internal context analysis takes into account Salini’s corporate engagement activities involve stakeholders with groupwide interests, values, the strategies and the management systems adopted by the such as investors, clients, governments and media. At an operating site Group (Code of Ethics, Policies, Organisational Management and level, engagement relates to a project’s features and considers workers, Control Model, HSE and Quality management systems). local communities, suppliers, contractors and subcontractors, clients, The external context analysis takes into account the main local authorities, and other organisations, such as NGOs. sustainability frameworks of reference (GRI-G3.1, Global Compact, The following table summarises the communication channels ISO 26000, Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes) and the requirements established by Salini and related issues of interest for each stakeholder of the major international institutions for the construction industry category. More extensive descriptions of engagement activities carried (UN, World Bank, NGOs, etc.). out during the reporting period are provided in the following chapters. The importance of issues for Salini and for its stakeholders is defined by management through an analysis based on a three-level scale of assessment: low, medium and high. The materiality matrix shows the high-medium issues derived from this analysis. Materiality matrix Sen Jcr Cbu Hsa Importance for Salini’s stakeholders Cin High Fpe Ibu Rhu Cgo Epr Lpr Cch Qco Inn Aco Sop Csa Dhu Bio Medium Ama Iau Sch Medium High Relevance on Salini’s activities Aco Anti-corruption Dhu Development of human resources Jcr Job creation Ama Assurance of management systems Epr Environmental protection Qco Quality control Bio Biodiversity Fpe Financial performance Rhu Respect of human rights Cbu Capacity building Hsa Health and Safety Sop Security at operating sites Cch Climate change Inn Innovation Sen Stakeholder engagement Cgo Corporate Governance Ibu Integrity in business management Sch Supply chain monitoring Cin Community investments Iau Internal audit Csa Clients’ satisfaction Lpr Local procurement Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Stakeholders About Salini Employees Clients Shareholders and Suppliers, Local communities Public Governments, and Staff Investors Contractors, and NGOs Administrations Institutions, Trade Subcontractors and associations Business partners and Media Communication channels Regular meetings, Stable and continuing Shareholders’ Selection processes, Meetings with Stable relations with Participation in trade internal training relationships with meetings, reports and regular meetings, community host countries’ associations activities, activities, trade union clients, in all accounts, investor training activities, representatives and authorities and systematic press meetings, intranet project’s phases relations, stable feedback systems, NGOs, sponsorships, local institutions review activities, relations with financial stable relationships social contributions (often clients) press releases, institutions and with partner firms, activities, website, organisation Managing insurance companies in all project’s phases communications’ of events carried activities out by the External Relations Office Issues of interest sustainability Working environment, Quality performance, Corporate Governance Quality performance, Project-related Projects management, Project awareness, health and safety, technical support in system, financial technical concerns, transfer anti-corruption, infrastructures security, skills development, fair evaluations and planning and implementation of projects, capacity performance, future development plans, investments in enhancement, shared management of HSE of know-how, social services and facilities, local auxiliary services development, renewable energy, job creation, 14 compensations building’s activities listed companies development supports safe workplaces 15 Local development Influence on stakeholders In order to identify the material issues and set Care for the engagement practices, Salini analyses its our people sphere of influence, mapping its stakeholders into four main groups. The following map shows the relationship between Salini and its various stakeholders. Environmental protection Clients Business Local Trade partners communities associations Employees and staff Suppliers, Public Governments Shareholders contractors and administrations subcontractors Media NGOs Investors Appendix GRI data and assurance report Core business activities Supply chain Community interactions Public policy and advocacy + Salini’s influence on stakeholders – Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Managing sustainability continued FOCUS ON: Salini wins the 2012 Uganda Responsible Investment (URI) Awards In March 2012 Salini received an award for best responsible investor in Uganda in the category of Civil Engineering and Construction. URI awards are granted every year to companies marked for their commitment to promote and uphold international best practices and standards in their day-to-day operations. The awards are organised by Public Opinions, a civil society organisation. The awards aim to link public policy with voluntary private sector action to ensure the national vision is adequately embraced by companies. URI awards identify, monitor and assess the performance of investors in Uganda, through a complex process that in 2012 – starting from 10,000 questionnaires sent by Public Opinion – led up to the nomination of 87 companies. Salini has been awarded for its commitment to internationally proclaimed respect for the rights of workers, working against any form of corruption; the quality of its products and services; corporate social responsibility; and environment protection, as defined by the United Nations Millennium Development Declaration and the ten Universal Principles of the UN Global Compact. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 2.8 Future commitments About Salini Salini has set itself the following sustainability targets for completion by 31 December 2012. We will report on our progress against these targets in our 2012 Sustainability Report. WHAT Sustainability management WHY Managing Maintaining the highest standards in term of ethical responsibility and good citizenship enhances our reputation and helps to sustainability build trust amongst our stakeholders – especially project affected communities. HOW 16 – Establish an internal Sustainability Committee which supervises 17 the implementation of the Sustainability Strategy and defines Local plans and specific activities. development – Define a set of Sustainability KPIs applicable to operating sites, in order to better measure performance achieved. – Combine sustainability reporting from operating sites with the HSE periodic reporting, in order to better integrate sustainability into the HSE management systems. – Introduce specific sustainability issues in the induction training courses for newly hired employees. Care for – Continue carrying out specific audits about sustainability issues at operating sites. our people Environmental protection Appendix GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Chapter 3 LOCAL DEvELOPMENT Building infrastructure and major works means deploying ideas, people, knowledge, and investments that aim to enhance a given territory’s capabilities. The delivery of a Salini project benefits a number of stakeholder groups, in terms of job creation, local skills enhancement, local supplier growth, increase of revenues for governments and voluntary contributions for local communities. For these reasons, Salini plays a key role in the development of countries where the Group companies operate, in line with the Group’s Mission. In this section… 3.1 Progress against commitments 20 3.2 Job creation 21 3.3 Supporting local supply chains 21 3.4 Enhancing local wealth 22 3.5 Business integrity worldwide 24 3.6 Future commitments 24 3.7 Performance data sheet 25 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 GRI data and Appendix Environmental Care for 18 Local Managing About Salini assurance protection our people development sustainability report 19 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Local development continued 3.1 Progress against commitments COMMITMENTS MADE IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 ACTIONS IN 2011 PROGRESS Maintain excellent relations with local communities, During the year the Relation Managers and the Project ensuring they receive support to meet their own health and social needs. Managers have been in constant contact with the local communities and their representatives, implementing projects to better meet their own needs. ◊ Continue implementation of a model to calculate the social benefits of Salini projects in local communities. During the year a first step of the project has been implemented. In 2012 it will continue with a focus on a specific representative country. , Adopt Organisational Models and establish Integrity Boards for the most relevant Group Companies. During the year the preliminary assessment activities have been carried out. In 2012 these activities will be completed and the new Organisational Models will be adopted. , ◊ Achieved , In progress x Not met/rescheduled FOCUS ON: Helping local communities in need in Ethiopia Salini is strongly committed to helping local communities across its countries of operation and our support is targeted to address challenges affecting local populations. HIv/AIDS continues to be a major challenge to the health and development of many African nations. In Ethiopia, Salini has implemented an HIv/AIDS prevention and control programme in collaboration with the Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation. Activities that we have supported include behaviour change communication through peer education and information materials, condom distribution and voluntary counselling and testing services and training. In Ethiopia we have also contributed to the construction of the Gefersa Mental Health Rehabilitation Centre in Addis Ababa. The Gefersa Centre includes facilities for occupational therapies and rehabilitation of patients. The Centre’s focus is on rehabilitation, re-integration, contact with family and social acceptance through the work of a team of psychiatrists and doctors. Salini is proud to be participating in this project, promoted by the National Initiative for Mental Health in Ethiopia. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 3.2 Job creation 3.3 Supporting local supply chains About Salini The first measure of Salini’s contribution to local growth is job creation In addition to the job creation in countries where the Group operates, in host countries. The Group adopts a strategy oriented towards the Salini provides opportunities for economic development to the providers use of the local workforce in areas where projects are located. of goods and services based in host countries. The Group’s supply strategy aims to satisfy the project’s requirements as much as possible Hiring of local personnel within the territories in which projects are located, according to local In 2011, 92% of Group staff consisted of local employees – the availability of needed goods and services. equivalent of 14,197 full-time employees. Within our African continent operations, local personnel make up some 11,676 employees, or 96% Local supply chain spend of personnel. The use of local workforces worldwide has increased In 2011, Salini’s links with local providers of goods and services – by 2% since 2010. considered as suppliers, contractors and subcontractors in the country Managing where the project is implemented – remained strong. Indeed, in 2011 sustainability Group policies require that management roles in operational sites the percentage of spending on local-based providers of goods and are primarily undertaken by expatriate Italian employees. services was equal to an average of 73% 8. In monetary terms, the total Developing local skills and competencies amount of Salini’s spend on locally-based providers of goods and services was € 797 million 9 in 2011, of which € 318 million was in Europe, In addition to salaries paid, job creation plays an important role in € 275 million was in Asia and € 204 million was in Africa. enhancing the capabilities of developing countries, thanks to the provision of skills and competencies training, health surveillance The potential to procure from local businesses depends primarily on and high employment standards adopted. the capacity of local providers of goods and services to ensure supply Local in the quantities and qualities necessary for the implementation of each project. This explains the variation in local spend in Africa compared to Asia and Europe, as shown in graph on local spending by region. development 20 21 Care for our people Proportion of local personnel Proportion of spending on locally-based providers % of goods and services % 90 90 92 78 73 Environmental 58 protection 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Local personnel in 2011 by region Spending on locally-based providers of goods and services Appendix % in 2011 by region % 96 84 86 85 69 53 GRI data and assurance Africa Asia Europe Africa Asia Europe report 8 The decrease of 5% in comparison to 2010 is due to the entrance of the new project ‘CMT Copenhagen –Cityringen’ (Denmark), that has non-local subcontractors totalling € 46 million. 9 Data include only the supplies for operational sites, excluding headquarters and other offices. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Local development continued Salini’s procurement procedures 3.4 Enhancing local wealth The purchasing process is governed by corporate procedures, The Group aims to create opportunities for the countries in which including qualification (before a contract is signed) and performance it operates, respecting local cultures, needs and expectations and, evaluations (during and after the execution of contract). In selecting its moreover, creating and strengthening development drivers of the suppliers, contractors and subcontractors, the Group is committed to socio-economic system of each host country. transparency and fairness, firmly prohibiting any form of inequitable business transaction and bribery. To deliver on this commitment, Managing community relationships Group companies require that their partners comply with specific Salini’s approach to local communities varies depending on the type rules and standards, including Salini’s ethics, HSE and human of contract and the client’s requirements. Salini directly interacts with rights-related principles. The Group has a duty to assure the communities when it operates as a general contractor in EPC reliability, integrity and professionalism of third parties (suppliers, (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) contracts. When Salini contractors and subcontractors) before establishing relationships performs only some phases of the project, we engage with the with or contracting them. community under the client’s supervision. There are specific clauses in the contracts for the supply of goods and The main characteristics of the Group’s local approach are as follows: services which specify that third parties are committed to adhere to Salini’s Code of Ethics principles. Furthermore, in Italy suppliers are – dialogue and engagement with local communities and authorities bound to refrain from behaviours that may lead to the risk of committing before, during and after the execution of projects; crimes defined by the Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/2001. The – adaptation of the work to diverse local contexts, in consideration violation of this obligation, including the undertaking of or attempting of local or client requirements; and to undertake acts that contravene the Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/2001, is in effect a serious breach of contract and may be penalised – initiatives for socio-economic development, carried out directly or with cancellation of the contract. in collaboration with the client. During and after the execution of contracts, Salini supports and Salini pays great attention to the socio-environmental context of the monitors its subcontractors in order to improve their performance territories in which it works, preparing detailed plans for managing and regarding quality, health, safety and the environment. Specific training monitoring its most significant impacts – including community issues. activities are regularly delivered on these issues. Salini is committed to These activities are carried out in the design phase of projects, in sharing its knowledge and skills with local suppliers and subcontractors accordance with the legislative and contractual requirements. in order to develop strong partnerships, promoting their growth and technical improvement. SUBCONTRACTORS’ MONITORING COMMUNITY RELATIONSHIPS M06 Road Project (Ukraine) Jenikal-Salyan Road Project (Azerbaijan) Specifically, in M06 Road Project (Ukraine) periodic monitoring In the Jenikal-Salyan Road Project (Azerbaijan), Todini has audits are carried out by the HSE service on the subcontractors created a specific communication system with the communities in order to check the treatment of its personnel. To this end affected by the project. In addition to the project information given HSE service interviews subcontractors’ personnel verifying the to allow people to understand the project’s importance and the regularity of the salary payment, supply of the Personal Protective impacts on the territory, the company has dedicated a phone-line Equipment, cases of human rights’ violation, etc. to answer any grievances and constituted a Grievance Committee. Moreover, periodic public meetings are planned and carried out with the community. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Every operating site establishes a public relations manager in charge of Community investments (Unit no.) About Salini maintaining relations with local communities and authorities, giving them Africa Asia Europe Total information about the progress of the project and managing complaints. The requests received by the public relations manager are reported to Infrastructure development site management, who seek to identify solutions to meet local needs. projects 26 6 2 34 Social support projects 16 11 9 36 Community investment Total 42 17 11 70 Salini’s attention to the needs of local communities becomes apparent through a wide range of programmes and activities. In short, Salini Besides donations and contractual requirements, infrastructure evaluates local communities’ needs and provides them with the means investments may also result from the reuse or reallocation of Group Managing to address sanitation, housing and recreational requirements. In the last facilities, such as access roads to sites, offices and worker few years, the Group has allocated significant resources to developing accommodation, which are made available for the community once buildings, schools, hospitals and roads, and has also secured the the project has been completed. During the delivery of projects, local sustainability distribution of energy, water and healthcare to host communities. communities can also access some of these facilities, such as on-site Globally during 2011 Salini carried out 70 projects of this kind, of which clinics, training rooms, wells, roads and bridges. 34 were related to infrastructure investments and 36 to social initiatives. Because of the high rate of poverty and corruption in many countries Our expenditure totalled € 792,600 during the year. The community in which Salini operates, the Group prefers to intervene directly on expenditure made by Salini in 2011 went mostly to Africa, followed by local communities’ behalf instead of giving money to people. The only Europe and Asia. In the reporting period, data on these community financial donations made are granted to well-recognised associations, interventions shows that most expenditure related to the Group’s work Local foundations and religious bodies primarily involved in social welfare, are in the roads and motorways sector. followed by sponsorships to support cultural and sport initiatives. development 22 23 REDUCING INCONvENIENCES FOR CITIZENS Care for our people In Algeri (Algeria), Todini is delivering a hydraulic project in the city centre. The project has implemented a special technique called ‘Milano’ which releases micro pales to strengthen soil, allowing work to continue in densely populated residential areas while avoiding damage to existing buildings and street closures. Environmental protection Community expenditure by region in 2011 Community expenditure by sector in 2011 Appendix % % 1 1. Africa 1 1. Dams and hydroelectric plants 5 3 75.5% 4 37.0% 2. Asia 3 2. Roads and motorways 2 6.7% 43.6% 3. Europe 3. Railways 17.8% 4.5% 2 4. Civil building construction GRI data and 6.3% assurance report 5. Corporate 8.6% Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Local development continued 3.5 Business integrity worldwide Internal Control System Salini conducts its business worldwide in accordance with the principles In order to identify, minimise and manage business risks to which the of legitimacy, fairness, transparency and verifiability of the corporate Group companies are exposed the Internal Control System plays a key Code of Ethics. role. It is the central element of the Corporate Governance System 10. Every year, the Internal Audit Division draws up an audit and monitoring Salini’s Code of Ethics plan based on potential risks and gaps detected through risk The Code of Ethics was drawn up to account for the cultural, social and assessment and compliance analysis concerning the Italian Legislative economic diversity of the different countries in which Salini operates. Decree no. 231/2001. In 2011 the Internal Audit Division has carried out All Group companies require that anyone entering into a direct or 29 audits at Headquarters and at operating sites. indirect relationship act in line with these principles. The Code of Ethics is binding, without exception, for corporate bodies, top management, The Organisational Management and Control Model provides employees, consultants and associates. compliance with the Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/2001, which introduces into the Italian legal system a corporate administrative liability Compliance with the provisions contained in the Code of Ethics deriving from crimes committed by employees. In December 2011 the is considered an essential component of Salini employees’ Model was updated to include environmental crimes 11. contractual obligations. Breaches of the Code are addressed through legal procedures, as described in the contracts in force, The Group pays close attention to the business processes exposed to with penalties proportionate to the gravity of the violation and to corruption risks and the Internal Audit Division focuses its activities on the extent of the breach. these areas. We believe that the effective implementation of the Code of Ethics is shown by the absence of cases of corruption identified through With regard to trading partners and external consultants who are bound internal audit and through checks by judicial authorities. to the Group by a non-subordinated employment relationship, breaches of the Code of Ethics may cause termination of or withdrawal from, the 3.6 Future commitments agreed contract, according to any specific contractual clauses. Salini has set itself the following sustainability targets for completion by 31 December 2012. We will report on our progress against these targets in our 2012 Sustainability Report. THE INTEGRITY BOARD WHAT Local communities and human rights In accordance with the Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/2001, in 2003 an Integrity Board was established to reflect evolving social WHY norms and relevant regulations. The Board checks compliance Maintaining constructive relationships with local communities with the Code through inspections which are carried out by the and ensuring direct support and protection of human rights Internal Audit Division. All recipients of the Code can use a direct grants us a licence to operate. mailbox to provide information to the Integrity Board regarding possible breaches. The Board manages this process to ensure anonymity and protection. HOW – Finalise human rights assessment tool in co-operation with Global Compact Network Italy members. – Start a pilot project at an operating site to identify an underrepresented group within the local community and assess its specific needs, with the aim of developing initiatives to support this group. 10 The Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee, consisting of three non-executive and independent Directors, evaluates the adequacy of the Internal Control System through the activities carried out by the Internal Audit Division (in charge of internal control). 11 Environmental crimes have been introduced into the Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/2001 (article 25 undecies) in July 2011. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 3.7 Performance data sheet Performance indicator Unit 2009 2010 2011 GRI Reference About Salini Proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers by category 1 EC6 Africa Materials % 51% 56% 44% Subcontracts, consultings and shipments % 38% 58% 67% Leasing and rentals % 16% 23% 23% Capital assets (amortisation on charges) % 31% 37% 43% Total local supplies in Africa % 41% 53% 53% Managing sustainability Asia Materials % 98% 84% 91% Subcontracts, consultings and shipments % 87% 87% 85% Leasing and rentals % 58% 36% 64% Capital assets (amortisation on charges) % 84% 92% 78% Local Total local supplies in Asia % 87% 84% 84% Europe development Materials % 100% 100% 99% Subcontracts, consultings and shipments Leasing and rentals % % 100% 100% 99% 83% 80% 85% 24 Capital assets (amortisation on charges) % 100% 100% 99% 25 Total local supplies in Europe % 100% 99% 86% Care for Total our people Materials % 65% 76% 67% Subcontracts, consultings and shipments % 58% 85% 78% Leasing and rentals % 32% 45% 57% Capital assets (amortisation on charges) % 47% 76% 69% Total local supplies % 58% 78% 73% Environmental Employees from local community EC7 Africa no. 8,870 9,031 11,676 protection % 95% 95% 96% Asia 2 no. – 1,285 1,259 % 0% 63% 69% Europe no. 347 1,242 1,262 % 100% 95% 85% Appendix Total employees from local community no. 9,217 11,558 14,197 % 90% 90% 92% Community expenditure by region EC8 Africa 3 euro/000 1,890 2,105 599 Asia euro/000 0 51 53 Europe euro/000 107 729 141 Total euro/000 1,997 2,885 793 GRI data and 1 Data includes only the supplies for operational sites, excluding headquarters and other offices. assurance 2 In 2009 the Group’s activities in Asia were carried out only in UAE (Dubai), where there is an insufficient availability of local workers. For this reason, the Group has hired non-local workers. report 3 2011 data was affected by the termination of Gibe II project and Gefersa Mental Health Rehabilitation Centre in Ethiopia. In addition, it should be noted that 2010 data was affected by a non-recurrent event, related to the celebration for the 50th anniversary of Nigeria’s independence, promoted and organised by Salini Nigeria Ltd. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Chapter 4 CARE FOR OUR PEOPLE Salini believes that its human resources are strategically important to future growth, since they make a significant contribution to achieving the Group’s objectives. In this section… 4.1 Progress against commitments 28 4.2 Focusing on people 29 4.3 Development of human resources 29 4.4 Health and safety 31 4.5 Human rights 34 4.6 Security at operating sites 34 4.7 Local personnel management 35 4.8 Future commitments 35 4.9 Performance data sheet 36 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 GRI data and Appendix Environmental Care for Local Managing About Salini assurance protection 26 27 our people development sustainability report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Care for our people continued 4.1 Progress against commitments COMMITMENTS MADE IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 ACTIONS IN 2011 PROGRESS Launch of the new e-learning tool to train employees on During the year the tool was launched at some pilot sites. the Code of Ethics, the Organisational Model and other issues worldwide. In 2012 it will be extended to other sites as well as other topics (e.g. induction, safety at work and anti-corruption). ◊ Complete the mapping of employee competencies and the implementation of the Human Resources management system, with the release of a process In 2011 the project’s action plan was defined, with the delivery of the first stage. The project is due to be finalised in 2012. , for careers management and the adoption of an MbO system. Establish a centralised security management system for operating sites, in order to guarantee sites and personnel’s safety and protection, ensuring respect In 2011 the project started with assessments in a number of sensitive countries. In 2012 we will establish a specific structure at our Headquarters who will be in charge of , for human rights. security systems. Strengthen the H&S organisational structure, increasing the number of dedicated staff at Headquarters and at operating sites. During 2011 the Group has increased its H&S manpower at our Headquarters. A number of overseas projects still need to appoint , OHS resources. Improve safety performance in the workplace, in In 2011 the global accident frequency rate fell to 14.74, with particular reducing the accident frequency index to 2009 levels. a reduction of 14% in respect of 2010 and 6% compared with 2009. ◊ Arrange specific training courses at every operating Training sessions have been delivered by Headquarter site on primary H&S risks. personnel during supporting site visits. ◊ ◊ Achieved , In progress x Not met/rescheduled Leaders The well-balanced mix of young people and experienced staff ensures know-how and expertise is steadily transferred to the next generation of leaders. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 4.2 Focusing on people Personnel management About Salini Personnel management is undertaken at the Group’s Headquarters Salini Group employee profile in Rome, which manages all employees operating in EU, as well At the end of 2011, the Group employed 15,508 people worldwide, as European management and technical-administrative staff or of which 38.4% were under 30 years old and 50.6% were between TCN 13 operating outside of Europe. In non-EU sites, administrative 30 and 50 years old. In comparison with 2010, our workforce increased management of local personnel is undertaken directly by site by 2,635 employees (+20.5%). The majority of our workforce are based management and is mainly focused on recruitment, administration, in the Africa region (78.7%). theoretical and field training, evaluation, and compensation. Site workers represent the majority of our people (13,033). Worker numbers fluctuate according to the phase of projects and the duration 4.3 Development of human resources of contracts, which are mostly fixed-term contracts. Headquarters Salini is strongly committed to employee professional growth to Managing personnel are almost permanent contracts 12. enhance knowledge and awareness, particularly regarding health, safety, human rights and anti-corruption policies and procedures sustainability Human resource management policy (in line with Legislative Decree no. 231/2001). The well-balanced mix Equal opportunities, non-discrimination, physical and moral integrity, of young people and experienced staff ensures know-how and fairness, honesty and professional enhancement guide the Group with expertise is steadily transferred to the next generation of leaders. regards to human resources management. To manage the complex processes of personnel recruitment, management and development Staff training and development in an organised and structured manner, the Group implemented a The Group staff management policy, both in Italy and abroad, makes specific Human Resource Management policy in 2007 which was provision for employees to receive adequate training for assigned duties updated in 2011. in order to strengthen core competencies and develop individual skills. Local development In doing this, Salini creates a working environment that promotes the Attracting and retaining talent exchange of knowledge between all cultures. The Group is committed To safeguard its competitive market positioning, Salini aims to to the development of local resources through specific training courses attract and hire the best candidates and individuals with the highest that provide both theoretical and practical training, which helps to create professional standards during the recruitment and selection process. a sense of identity and of belonging to the Group. The Group identifies candidates in a number of ways, for instance through annual career days at several key Italian and foreign universities to source graduates to join the Group. Care for our people 28 29 Group personnel by category in 2011 Group personnel % no. Environmental 12 3 1. Executives 0.7% protection 15,508 4 12,873 2. Middle managers 0.7% 10,193 3. Employees 14.6% Appendix 4. Workers 84.0% 2009 2010 2011 Group personnel by age group in 2011 Group personnel by region in 2011 % % 1 1. <30 years 1 1. Africa 3 3 38.4% 78.7% 2. 30–50 years 2 2. Asia 50.6% 11.7% GRI data and 3. >50 years 3. Europe assurance 11.0% 9.6% report 2 12 The number of fixed-term contracts at headquarters is irrelevant in respect to the total workforce. 13 TCN (Third-Country National) is considered an employee of non-EU nationality working in a non-EU country that is not his country of origin (e.g. a worker of Indian nationality working in the UAE). Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Care for our people continued An office dedicated to Organisational Development issues was Compensation and benefits established in 2009 to define a structured system for tailoring training Salini’s compensation policy ensures that – in addition to an individual’s and development activity. Training needs are specifically identified merits – high and robust competitive standards are maintained following a gap analysis of employees’ current competencies and externally, in order to avoid conflicts among employees. Salini’s policies those required for each organisational position. However, to support comply with statutory and regulatory requirements for the payment of development on specific issues of general importance, training through wages and benefits. The remuneration system is primarily composed of e-learning was launched in 2010; reaching out to employees around a fixed salary, supported by a variable bonus (una tantum) related to the the world in a targeted and more efficient way. individual and/or corporate performance. Data on training hours shows the great commitment towards HSE In addition, Salini provides various benefits to all employees, depending issues, representing 89.2% of the global training hours 14. on their role and level. These benefits include additional insurance and Besides HSE, training is also delivered on role-specific issues, healthcare, a complementary pension system, accommodation, a languages, administration, the Code of Ethics and Organisational Model company car, economic support for child education, a contribution to (Legislative Decree no. 231/2001), and privacy. Training data does not relocation expenditure and company loans. include on-the-job training activities carried out at operating sites. The Group is 100% compliant in the payment of minimum wages required by relevant authorities. Performance management system Another pillar of the HR Development Model is represented by Salini’s Performance management system, which measures and evaluates competencies, performance objectives, behaviours and potential of the Group’s employees according to their role in a defined period. WORKER COMMUTING The system is in place for the personnel managed by the Group’s Headquarters and aims to: – link an individual’s achievements and performance to an appropriate role profile and benefits; – monitor and update records on an individual employee’s professional development; – differentiate performance levels to inform salaries; – provide information that feeds into action plans for individual training and development; and – plan room for improvement, job rotation and career growth paths. A system of collective transportation is granted at most of Salini’s operating sites. Workers are provided with a free means to reach The evaluation process is closely linked to the remuneration system. their workplace in a safe way. The use of collective transport also For each organisational division, the Division Manager is in charge reduces greenhouse gas emissions and other air pollution of monitoring performance and competencies of employees. resulting from the use of private vehicles. The evaluation process is formalised by an evaluation form, filled out by the Division Manager for each individual. Training hours by workplace Training in 2011 by topic no. % 1,750 3 1 1. Health,Safety and Environment 89.2% 3,508 2 30,792 1,512 28,577 26,244 2. Languages 6.9% 3. Others 3.9% 2009 2010 2011 Operating sites Headquarters 14 Data does not include training hours provided to Todini operating sites’ workforce, except e-learning training. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Equal opportunities 4.4 Health and safety About Salini Salini is committed to addressing issues of gender discrimination Salini recognises the utmost importance of occupational health by ensuring that women are entitled to the same opportunities as and safety and the protection of employees and third parties during their male counterparts concerning employment, compensation all activities within its offices or operating sites. and career progression. Health and safety policy The issue of equal opportunities has been mainly tackled at the Headquarters in Rome, where women represent 33% of the total The Group’s main health and safety objectives are eliminating or workforce. In contrast, at operating site level, the vast majority of reducing to a minimum the risk of accident by adopting a prevention workers are men. In consideration of the current low level of females and protection system applicable to all operating activities, following the at Todini’s personnel, the Company has set the objective to increase principle that all accidents can be prevented. We also apply the strictest the number of senior female staff employed in the next few years. health and safety standards wherever possible. Managing sustainability Considering the issue of equal compensation, notably that men and Salini’s commitment to health and safety is shown through the adoption women of an equal level should receive the same salary, in 2011 the of a dedicated corporate policy in July 2009, which was updated in ratio between actual remuneration paid to women and men employed April 2011. The policy clearly emphasises that ‘the health and safety of by Salini is 86% 15. This represents a 3% decrease in wage disparity personnel and third parties always comes first’ when delivering projects. It also states a commitment to actively promote initiatives for employees, compared with 2010. The gaps are generally accounted for by the clients, suppliers, authorities and interested parties to help Salini attain higher seniority of men compared to women. It should be underlined the highest health and safety standards. that management posts, which account for the highest level of Group management tasks, are made up predominantly of men. Local The Group’s commitment to health and safety was recognised in 2009 by OHSAS 18001 certification. To gain accreditation, the Group development implemented a Health and Safety Management System designed to minimise the risk of accidents in all workplaces (offices and operating sites). Appropriate procedures ensure the effective management of safety including risk assessments, planning and implementation of training, employee engagement activity and performance monitoring. Care for our people 30 31 Environmental protection Women personnel by workplace in 2011 Women personnel by category in 2011 Appendix % % 33 33 17 8 6 4 GRI data and assurance Italian Headquarters Operating sites Executives Middle managers Employees Workers report 15 Calculation is made on the basis of the gross wages paid, rather than minimum wages required by law for each category. As Salini applies national or site-specific collective agreements, ratio of basic salary of women compared with men’s ones is equal to 1. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Care for our people continued Injuries rates Representation and agreements on HSE In 2011, injury performance for Group employees saw a decrease in In addition to general agreements on some issues including the Injury Frequency Rate (IR16) by 14% while the Severity Index (LDR17) selected HSE issues, there are specific agreements with trade increased by 4%. The IR was affected by the fall of the Lost Time unions on operating sites such as Copenhagen Metro, Gibe III and Injuries occurred in 2011, decreased of 172 compared with 2010. Bujagali Hydropower. Unfortunately, during the year we tragically lost four of our colleagues, Salini applies current Italian legislation in all its worldwide operations, three at Gibe III (Ethiopia) and one at Idu Industrial Area (Nigeria). At Gibe establishing worker safety representatives (RWS) at every operating site. III one of our colleagues was fatally injured during the maintenance of These representatives also take an advisory role on the Group’s policy the RCC plant, while the others two were involved in vehicle accidents on managing workers’ health and safety risks. The RWS are often trade during operational activities. At Idu the accident involved our colleague union representatives. Salini recognises the continuing importance of at a crushing plant during a maintenance operation. engaging with trade unions mainly on HSE issues. Furthermore, in October 2011 a commuting accident involved a minibus Workforce health and wellbeing which was transporting 33 workers from Gibe III site to Yello village, In our Italian operations, a company health service carries out regular at the end of the nightly shift. The vehicle went out of the road to avoid health surveillance campaigns, based on specific labour-related risks a collision with an oncoming vehicle. The driver and two passengers affecting its people – both for Headquarters and for operating sites. were fatally injured. The Group also provides an additional level of medical care by We recognise our commitment to provide safe working conditions offering employees and their families’ access to public and private across all our operations and we are firmly dedicated to reducing health facilities. health and safety risks. The variability of the working environment at In each operating site outside of Italy, medical facilities are in place in construction sites can result in unforeseeable events despite rigorous order to provide 24-hour medical advice and ambulance service and a risk, health and safety management procedures. In response to the fatal guarantee that each work shift has access to medical staff. Moreover, all accidents we conducted deep internal investigations that identified operating sites have a pharmacy to provide access to urgently required causes and responsibilities. As a result, we have identified specific medicines and those needed for the treatment of chronic diseases that areas of improvement. Besides the installation of additional protective may affect workers. measures at plants involved in accidents, we identified the need to do more efforts in awareness and training of our personnel, in particular The company health service runs inspections on operating sites at with reference to vehicles use. least once a year, to ensure that all health surveillance protocols are respected. In addition to this, the service regularly visits local hospitals Despite the deterioration in global Severity Index, the situation at the to assess their quality and accessibility. majority of projects has noticeably improved. Indeed, in Asia the Injury frequency rate (IR) decreased of about 40% and the Severity index At non-EU operating sites all personnel receive prophylaxis information. (LDR) of 65%. The best performance were recorded in South-West They are also informed about disease prevention and control Roads (lots 9–14) in Kazakhstan (–71% for IR and –80% for LDR). procedures. In countries where malaria is endemic, special attention Also in Europe both the indexes saw a decrease (–15% for IR and –29% is paid to the prevention protocols suggested by the World Health for LDR). The best performance were recorded in variante di valico Organisation. project in Italy (–20% for IR and –22% for LDR). In Africa there was Activities carried out by Salini do not expose personnel to high risk improvement at Sfax-Gabes (–36% for IR and –85% for LDR) in Tunisia, of specific diseases. Bujagali Hydropower (–68% for IR and –52% for LDR) in Uganda and Algiers Inter-city collector (–45% for IR and –39% for LDR) in Algeria. In consideration of the particularly serious environmental pollution present in Kazakhstan the existing legislation provides for an increase Contractor accident reporting in pay to local employees working in the concerned areas. The Group’s The Group also monitors the safety conditions and performance activity fully respects this legislation. of subcontractors present at its operating sites, in order to ensure compliance with Salini’s procedures. In the reporting period no subcontractor accidents were attributable to Salini. Injury frequency rate Severity Index IR LDR 17.18 1,975.02 15.73 14.74 1,220.05 1,274.23 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 16 IR represents the number of injuries occurred each 1 million of worked hours and it is calculated as indicated in the Glossary (6.3.). 17 LDR represents the number of days lost as a consequence of injuries each 1 million of worked hours and it is calculated as indicated in the Glossary (6.3.) Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 About Salini FOCUS ON: Taking care of employees and their families’ health Salini is aware that health is a fundamental right of all people, not just its employees and have put in place a service to support the daily needs of employees and their families, both in Italy and abroad. In Italy, besides the health company service mentioned Managing above, Salini provides health insurance to each sustainability employee, and their partners and children. Outside of Italy, medical facilities are in place in each operating site in order to provide 24-hour medical advice. Salini makes these health facilities available to employees’ family members at operating sites, as well as to local people for any acute and serious medical matters. Local Beyond this, doctors responsible for the operating sites regularly offer local personnel training courses and provide information to local communities on improving development environmental sanitation and preventing the spread of endemic diseases (like malaria) and sexually transmitted diseases (HIv and hepatitis). Care for our people 32 33 Environmental protection Appendix 14% GRI data and assurance report The decrease in 2011 in the Injury Frequency Rate (IR) due to the fall of the Lost Time injuries in comparison with 2010. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Care for our people continued 4.5 Human rights The minimum notice period for communicating significant changes in In some geographical areas in which Salini operates – especially Salini’s assets is a legally fixed period, recognised in the collective and outside of Europe – there is a risk of human rights violation. local negotiation contracts of reference 19. Policy commitments and compliance Incidents of discrimination Salini has implemented specific policies and procedures aimed at During the reporting period, no cases of discrimination or violation promoting the respect and protection of employees’ human rights, of workers and local communities’ human rights within the Group’s ensuring no discrimination of any sort (including that based on activities were recorded. political or religious belief, race, gender, language reasons, or for trade union affiliations), in accordance with the provisions of the 4.6 Security at operating sites Code of Ethics. Salini is committed to ensuring the security of its workplaces and operating sites, in order to protect the integrity of the Group’s tangible The Group rigorously applies legislation concerning employment and intangible resources. contracts, thus guaranteeing the respect of human rights set out by the ‘Universal Declaration of Human Rights’ wherever we operate, Security risk assessments and in particular in relation to the exercise of freedom of association Salini always assesses potential risks faced in countries with security and collective bargaining, and the elimination of forced, compulsory problems and, if needed, implements specific plans to properly protect and child labour. sites. Security managers in collaboration with the client hold periodic In order to identify potential risk situations relating to human rights at all meetings with local communities in order to create a safer climate of the Group operating sites, Salini analyses local employment regulations, mutual trust in the operating sites. They also help sites to adopt the working hours, contractual conditions and facilities (accommodation, most appropriate protection measures by setting up specific mitigation health structure, canteens, etc.) during the tender process. programmes based on prevention, protection and information. In the near future, Salini is planning to implement more defined security Rights of employees management procedures in addition creating a dedicated structure Salini’s legal and economic relationship with its employees aims within the Human Resources Division for security personnel. to guarantee the respect for individuals and their rights under the provisions of national and international law, in all the sites. All Group Many of our projects are considered ‘sensitive assets’ by governments employees have contractual recourse to a form of collective and local authorities and are therefore protected by them. Operating agreement 18, which ensures equal rights and treatment on equal sites are sometimes monitored and protected by the local military and conditions. In particular, regulatory conditions for non-EU personnel police, as well as our own caretaker and internal security. are based on, and therefore, similar to those for EU personnel, with Security managers at operating sites are committed to training security the key differences being that leaving indemnity is not provided in all personnel in respect of both employees’ and local communities’ countries, and taxes and contributions are linked to the region in human rights. which employment is carried out. Communication, negotiation and consultation policies cover all employees. 100% HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT Group employees covered by a form of collective agreement, which ensures equal rights and treatment on equal conditions. Besides compliance activities at its operating sites, Salini participates to a working group within the Global Compact Network Italy aimed at developing a human rights assessment tool based on the new Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, endorsed by the United Nations Human Rights Council in June 2011 for the implementation of the ‘UN Protect, Respect and Remedy’ Framework. The working group is composed by both business and non-business organisations and it is intended to elaborate a common due diligence process to identify and manage human rights risks. The process will be tested by the participants within their own organisations in order to refine it. 18 If local legislation does not provide for national collective agreements, bargaining is undertaken at the operating site between the Company and the unions. 19 In Italy, the minimum notice period ranges from one week (for workers with seniority less than three years) to 16 weeks (for executives with families), as required by the National Collective Labour Agreement of reference. In some cases, both in Italy and abroad, the notice period is directly paid to the workers. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 4.7 Local personnel management Preventing underage or illegal employment About Salini The management and administration of local personnel varies To avoid any irregularities or violations of laws, local Human Resources according to the legislation of the host Country – although it does offices check applicant documents with the help of local lawyers, have similarities. To ensure equal treatment among all personnel, in order to detect possible falsifications, mainly related to the age of Salini formalised an operating procedure in July 2011 to standardise applicants. Salini does not hire young workers 20, even in countries local personnel management worldwide. where it is allowed by local legislation. To reduce the potential of being implicated in human rights abuses, the Recruitment of local personnel Group seeks to avoid using labour from agencies wherever possible Local personnel at the operating site level can be employed as and pays all wages directly to the employees, and does not pay them permanent or temporary workers. The latter status is only permitted by means of third parties. for a limited period, according to local legislation, and only for Managing particular needs and circumstances, such as loading and unloading sustainability Employee representation trucks, bush clearing or other site-specific jobs. Salini ensures Local workers’ representatives are in place at every site in order to information and training about Health and Safety site-specific risks ensure adequate information sharing and good relations with the to temporary workers. management team. For permanent workers, recruitment is carried out with the support of local agencies (for medium-low vacancies), advertisements in local newspapers and at local universities (for high-medium vacancies). We also refer to company records for people who have already worked for Salini in a particular region. Local development 4.8 Future commitments Care for Salini has set itself the following sustainability targets for completion by 31 December 2012. We will report on our progress against these our people targets in our 2012 Sustainability Report. WHAT WHAT Human Resources management Health and Safety 34 35 WHY WHY Creating a working environment in which knowledge, motivation Improving safety conditions in the workplace and protecting Environmental and teamwork spirit are recognised helps to attract and retain protection subcontractors and local communities is a moral and the best talent. legal obligation. HOW HOW – Extend the e-learning tools to the operating sites not covered – Reduce the IR of 10% in comparison with 2011 rate. yet, with the progressive addition of other topics. – Develop, plan and arrange specific training sessions on – Finalise the mapping of employee competencies and the management responsibilities and safety matters as per Italian law. Appendix Human Resources management system, with the adoption of an MbO system. – Increase number of audits carried out at project level. – Establish the new centralised security management system – Improve safety standards when working at height through for the entire Group. the development of a corporate guideline. – Ensure constant evaluation and monitoring of projects’ OSH resources adequacy. – Define a professional development plan for H&S personnel, both in terms of personal development and career advancement. GRI data and assurance report 20 People younger than 18 years of age. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Care for our people continued 4.9 Performance data sheet Performance indicator 1 Unit 2009 2010 2011 GRI Reference Total personnel by category LA1 Executives no. 62 85 101 Middle managers no. 66 88 106 Employees no. 1,145 1,778 2,268 Workers no. 8,920 10,922 13,033 Total no. 10,193 12,873 15,508 Total personnel by region LA1 Africa no. 9,340 9,794 12,210 America no. 2 2 3 Asia no. 487 2,036 1,812 Europe no. 364 1,041 1,483 Total no. 10,193 12,873 15,508 Total personnel by region LA1 Africa % 92% 76% 79% Asia % 5% 16% 12% Europe % 4% 8% 9% Total % 100% 100% 100% Total personnel by workplace LA1 Italian Headquarters no. 162 218 238 Italian Operating sites no. 185 684 444 Foreign Operating sites (personnel managed centrally) no. 495 665 1,348 Foreign Operating sites (personnel managed locally) no. 9,351 11,306 13,478 Total no. 10,193 12,873 15,508 Total women personnel by category LA1 Executives % n/a n/a 6% Middle managers % n/a n/a 17% Employees % n/a n/a 33% Workers % n/a n/a 4% Total % 7% 8% 8% Total women personnel by workplace LA1 Italian Headquarters % 36% 35% 33% Operating sites % n/a n/a 8% Total personnel by age group LA13 Italian Headquarters <30 years % 6% 7% 13% 30–50 years % 70% 69% 63% >50 years % 23% 24% 24% African Operating sites <30 years % n/a n/a 41% 30–50 years % n/a n/a 50% >50 years % n/a n/a 9% Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Performance indicator 1 Unit 2009 2010 2011 GRI Reference About Salini Asian Operating sites <30 years % n/a n/a 32% 30–50 years % n/a n/a 51% >50 years % n/a n/a 17% European Operating sites <30 years % n/a n/a 27% 30–50 years % n/a n/a 52% >50 years % n/a n/a 21% Managing sustainability Total personnel by educational qualification Italian Headquarters Compulsory education % 2% 2% 2% High school % 52% 48% 43% University % 46% 50% 55% Operating sites Compulsory education % n/a n/a 61% Local High school % n/a n/a 34% development University % n/a n/a 5% Employees’ hired by category 2 LA2 Executives no. 8 4 8 Middle managers no. 3 4 8 Employees no. 14 52 38 Care for Workers no. – 73 – our people Total no. 25 133 54 Employees left by reason 2 LA2 Resignations no. 10 118 9 36 Retirements no. 4 4 1 37 Contract expiries no. 6 5 2 Environmental Deaths/inabilities to work – – 2 Dismissals due to project phases no. 1 117 8 Dismissals due to disciplinary causes no. – – – protection Relocations no. – – 10 Resolutions by mutual consent no. – 5 2 Total no. 21 249 34 Hired personnel turnover 2 LA2 Appendix By gender Men % n/a n/a 15.1% Women % n/a n/a 7.6% By age group <30 years % n/a n/a 8.0% 30–50 years % n/a n/a 13.4% >50 years % n/a n/a 1.3% Total rate of hired personnel turnover % 15.4% 4.9% 22.7% GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Care for our people continued Performance indicator 1 Unit 2009 2010 2011 GRI Reference Leaving personnel Turnover2 LA2 By gender Men % 4.3% 3,8% 3 3.0% Women % 1.9% 0,5% 3 0.8% By age group <30 years % 1.2% 0.4% 0.0% 30–50 years % 4.3% 3.4% 1.7% >50 years % 0.6% 0.4% 2.1% Total rate of leaving personnel turnover % 6.2% 4,3% 3 3.8% Personnel injuries rates 4 LA7 Hours worked (WMH) hours 34,006,772 40,155,891 35,072,813 Fatalities (FTL) 5 no. 8 5 4 Injuries with permanent disability 6 no. – – 1.16 Injuries with temporary disability (LTI) no. 527 685 513 Lost working days (LWD) dd 7,164 11,492 6,006 Injury frequency rate (IR) 15.73 17.18 14.74 Severity Index (LDR) 1,975.02 1,220.05 1,274.23 Injury rates by sector 4 LA7 Dams and hydroelectric plants IR 18.74 19.60 13.05 LDR 1,932.24 1,153.99 1,375.11 Roads and motorways 7 IR 3.55 12.18 16.33 LDR 2,134.60 1,401.61 1,128.11 Railways 7 IR 66.66 43.21 64.51 LDR 2,648.68 2,831.68 2,939.08 Civil building construction IR 0.00 10.19 15.99 LDR 0.00 112.05 731.55 Employees Injury rates by region 4 LA7 Africa IR 17.91 18.27 15.49 LDR 2,045.51 1,386.78 1,477.14 Asia IR 1.18 2.23 1.35 LDR 1,546.88 68.88 23.86 Europe IR 66.66 40.66 34.75 LDR 2,648.68 1,589.47 1,130.32 Absentee Rate (AR) by work place 8 LA7 Operating sites % n/a n/a 1% Italian Headquarters % 6% 8% 5% Global absentee rate % n/a n/a 1% Total training hours by employee category 9 LA10 Executives hours 280 276 655 Middle managers hours 228 297 624 Employees hours 1,633 1,464 2,989 Workers hours 25,615 30,505 27,817 Total number of training hours hours 27,756 32,542 32,085 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Performance indicator 1 Unit 2009 2010 2011 GRI Reference About Salini Average pro-capite hours of training by employee category 9 LA10 Executives pro-capite hours 4.5 4.5 7.6 Middle managers pro-capite hours 3.5 4.7 7.0 Employees pro-capite hours 1.4 1.2 1.8 Workers pro-capite hours 2.9 3.4 2.6 Average number of hours of training per employee pro-capite hours 2.7 3.2 2.6 Total Training hours by topic9 LA10 Managing sustainability Corporate Management and Quality hours 329 196 419 Health, Safety and Environment hours 26,195 31,310 28,639 Code of Ethics, D. 231, Privacy hours 223 110 250 Languages hours 860 250 2,203 Administration hours 36 212 294 Specialised hours 113 464 280 Total hours 27,756 32,542 32,085 Local Female/Male salary ratio 10 LA14 development Average Female/Male Annual Gross Salary ratio % 69% 83% 86% n/a: not available 1 For 2009 and 2010 data please refer to the footnotes published in the Sustainability Report 2010. 2 Data concerns Headquarters personnel, except 2010, which includes Todini’s operating sites as well. 3 Comparative data has been restated due to a miscalculation occurred in the Sustainability Report 2010. 4 Data does not include Headquarters personnel because it is considered not material for the calculation of the rates. 5 Fatalities in 2011 refer totally to men and have all occurred in Africa. In addition to these ones there are three fatalities that are not included in the statistic because it is concerning a commuting accident. Care for For more detail please refer to the paragraph 4.4 ‘Health and safety’ sub-paragraph ‘Injuries rates’. 6 Data concerns the aggregate percentages of permanent disabilities recognised to the injured workforce. our people 7 In the 2010 Sustainability Report 2009 and 2010 data of the sectors ‘Roads and motorways’ and ‘Railways’ were combined as ‘Transport Infrastructures’. 8 Operating sites’ data does not include sick days of personnel managed locally in the calculation of the rates. 9 Data does not include training hours provided to Todini operating sites’ workforce, except e-learning training. Pro-capite hours are calculated on total headquarters personnel, Salini’s operating sites personnel and Todini’s operating sites personnel involved in e-learning. 10 Data does not include personnel managed locally. Nevertheless, the ratio can be considered indicative of the entire Group because these workers are almost entirely men. 38 39 Environmental protection Appendix GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Chapter 5 ENvIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Despite the many economic and societal benefits of construction, the sector is regarded as having a large environmental impact – particularly in regards to resource consumption, habitat loss and waste and pollution to land, air and water. Salini is committed to mitigating our environmental impacts by applying international best practice in the management of these issues. In this section… 5.1 Progress against commitments 42 5.2 Climate change 43 5.3 Biodiversity 44 5.4 Efficient use of natural resources 46 5.5 Environmental protection 48 5.6 Future commitments 49 5.7 Performance data sheet 50 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 GRI data and Appendix Environmental Care for Local Managing About Salini assurance 40 41 protection our people development sustainability report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Environmental protection continued 5.1 Progress against commitments COMMITMENTS MADE IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 ACTIONS IN 2011 PROGRESS Update the parent company Organisational In 2011 the Organisational Management and Control Management and Control model to include the risks associated with environmental crime. mode was updated to include environmental crimes for the parent company and in March 2012 for Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. ◊ Progressively extend the environmental management system (EMS) to all Group companies. During the year the established EMS has been extended to Salini S.p.A. and Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. – both of whom are now implementing it. , Strengthen the Environmental organisational structure, increasing the number of dedicated staff at Headquarters and at operating sites. During 2011 the environmental organisational structure has increased its manpower at Headquarters. A number of overseas projects are still to appoint additional , Environmental Engineers. Enhance the management of specific environmental These issues are addressed regularly. Salini Headquarters is issues, such as rocks and soil, hazardous materials and waste. also developing specific procedures to provide a guidance tool for project personnel. ◊ Arrange specific training courses at every operating During the year training sessions have been delivered by site on key Environmental issues. Headquarters personnel during supporting site visits. ◊ ◊ Achieved , In progress x Not met/rescheduled FOCUS ON: Ecosystem mitigation activities and energy-saving initiatives Salini aims to mitigate the environmental impacts of its projects by adopting proactive energy-saving solutions and restoring ecosystems affected by its activities. One specific example of this relates to an energy-saving initiative at the Gibe III project, in Ethiopia. An energy saving system has been installed on the conveyor of the RCC (roller-compacted concrete) plant. The system uses special electronic devices capable of saving energy when the conveyor moves concrete from the batching plant to the dam. Tests conducted in 2011 showed that energy saving amounted to 47%. This rate is expected to grow further when the system is at full capacity. Another example of ecosystem protection is in Sardinia (Italy) at a road construction site (Cagliari – Capo Boi). Through detailed analysis of the local ecosystem, Salini has carried out reforestation activities with native species and has covered physical structures (e.g. tunnel accesses, technological plants) with local materials. Our sensitive approach has also protected local fauna by establishing a faunal underpass and has minimised accident damage to fauna through the construction of protective fences. Other interventions include an irrigation system to optimise water consumption, in a region characterised by water scarcity. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 5.2 Climate change Measuring our carbon footprint About Salini Climate change is now widely recognised as a major global Salini is one of the first Italian construction companies to calculate and environmental challenge. High consumption of fossil fuels is believed report its greenhouse gas emissions in line with the globally recognised to be the primary cause of global warming, which in turn leads to GHG Protocol standard. increased unpredictable precipitation, rising sea levels, contamination CO2 emissions as per scope Tonnes CO2 of coastal freshwater reserves, increase of catastrophic floods, and spread of pests and diseases once limited to the tropics. Scope 1: Direct emissions (from direct combustion of fuel) 185,159 To limit the rise of global temperature to 2°C the Intergovernmental Scope 2: Indirect emissions Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the International Energy Agency (from purchased electricity consumption) 10,621 Managing (IEA) estimate that it will be necessary to cut at least 50% of global GHG emissions by 2050, compared with 2005. Salini is implementing Scope 3: Other indirect emissions sustainability a programme of emissions reduction, particularly from our largest (from business travel and goods shipment) 26,905 emissions source, direct fuel combustion (scope 1, according to Salini is committed to reducing its direct emissions by replacing the GHG Protocol). periodically its plant, machinery and fleet with more efficient models. However, the main opportunity to reduce Salini’s emissions comes Climate change and the construction sector from linking the Group’s plants and facilities to power grids, thereby For the construction sector climate change poses significant reducing the use of diesel generators. During 2011 many sites have challenges. The impact of more frequent natural disasters such as been connected to power grids, with the result that emissions from flooding, and new regulations for environmental protection are major diesel generators have been reduced by 5.5% compared to 2010. risks affecting our industry. These risks, however, also represent new Local business opportunities, including requirements for new buildings and During 2011 we extended our organisation-wide carbon footprint infrastructures which are resilient to a changing climate, as well as mapping to goods shipments. The Group is committed to maintain development the growth in demand for large-scale renewable energy solutions the highest rate possible of sea shipments (equal to 95% of total such as hydroelectric dams. shipments in 2011), since this is the method with the lowest associated carbon-emissions. Salini strictly monitors its climate change risks and opportunities and ensures its environmental management system is able to minimise risks and maximise opportunities where appropriate. Care for our people Main climate change-related risks and opportunities at Salini Opportunities Financial implications Greater demand of renewable energy Higher business opportunities in the field of hydropower constructions Greater revenues from Dams and hydroelectric plant activities. Environmental Need of buildings and infrastructures capable Higher R&D investments to develop new solutions for adapting protection to resist to a harsher climate the conditions of constructions to the new climate context. Higher economic value of the projects carried out adopting the new technologies and solutions. Higher business opportunities from refurbishment and improvement of existing infrastructures. 42 Improvement of processes at the operating site level Lower supply costs, due to efficiency improvements in the use of materials (decrease of scraps/increase of recycling) Lower energy costs, due 43 to replacement of overage equipment and machinery. Appendix Risks Financial implications Increase of extreme weather phenomena Material damages to structures and asset. Increase of facilities maintenance activities. Higher insurance expenses Increase of claims during the guarantee period of projects. New regulations on energy efficiency Higher costs to comply with new regulations related to energy efficiency of buildings. GRI data and Need of modifying the construction models in order to deal with building assurance energy-related aspects (e.g. more climatising, more renewable energy, report more insulation). New regulations in the raw materials Higher prices of raw materials and fossil fuels, due to effects of emission supply-chain trading systems. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Environmental protection continued 5.3 Biodiversity Reclamation of affected areas Biodiversity and ecosystems protection is becoming the new Salini is committed to reclaiming all areas affected by its plants, facilities, frontier of environmental management, due to the deep impacts quarries and landfills during or after a project, in order to leave these of biodiversity degradation on human society – including pollution, areas in a condition to facilitate natural re-vegetation, prevent pounding loss of access to clean water and food security. While restoring and erosion, improve slope stability and return affected areas to their activities is a critical component of environmental management, original landscapes. conservation programmes represent the least costly option to Reclamation activities are mandatory or agreed with clients, and are protect ecosystems effectively. planned by Salini in partnership with local authorities and communities, with the aim of understanding their needs for the area’s future use Assessing biodiversity impacts (e.g. farming, grazing). Where possible, Salini arranges the donation of At Salini operating sites project impacts on ecosystems are analysed these areas to local farmers after restoration, again in partnership with during the planning phase, according to ESIA procedures (see box), local administrations. This good practice, adopted mainly in Ethiopia, with the results taken into account in the construction process. is appreciated by local communities and authorities, given that they The Group is committed to preserving and protecting biodiversity obtain a direct benefit from Salini’s presence beyond a project delivery. in areas surrounding its operating sites. We continually monitor potential impacts and work closely with local authorities to achieve In 2011 the Group reclaimed 77,639m 2 of former quarries and legal or regulatory compliance. Local flora and fauna are protected landfill areas, and carried out over 146,178m 2 of reforestation and by careful management of water, construction areas, quarries and topsoil restoration activities. Reforestation activities were undertaken landfill sites. using native plants grown in the nurseries at operating sites. Any restoration activity has concerned protected areas or areas In recent years, the Gibe III project (Ethiopia) has been criticised of high biodiversity value. about its potential environmental and social impacts. It should be noted that the ESIA study for this project has been carried out within the framework of local, national and international environmental regulations and all the relevant documentation can be consulted and downloaded at the official project website www.gibe3.com.et. In particular, the impact from the reservoir in term of population displacement will be negligible, because the impounded water will be confined within the gorge of the Omo river that is extremely unhealthy and virtually uninhabited. To the contrary, the Gibe III project will ensure renewable, clean energy, thereby enabling sustainable economic progress in one of the world’s poorest areas. MONITORING ACTIvITIES IN SENSITIvE AREAS Protected areas At the Jenikal-Salyan Road Project (Azerbaijan), which is located In the reporting period, Salini has not carried out projects in near a protected area, Todini adopts innovative solutions to protected areas and only five infrastructure projects (motorways) control its vehicles and better protect the biodiversity. A remote were located adjacent to protected areas. These projects are traffic control system using a GPS device is installed on each situated in Albania, Azerbaijan, Italy and Tunisia and represent vehicle, allowing monitoring of truck routes, material spillages a total area of around 12km2. and accidents. Environmental impact assessments carried out on these projects have not identified significant impacts on the biodiversity of the protected areas adjacent to the operating sites. Albania Azerbaijan Italy Tunisia Tunisia Project name Levan-Dames Jenikan-Salyand Cagliari-Capo Boi La Marsa Sfax-Gabes Sector Roads and motorways Roads and motorways Roads and motorways Roads and motorways Roads and motorways Location South-West Albania, South-East Azerbaijan South Sardinia, in Quartu North-East Tunisia, East Tunisia – city of Sfax Fier prefecture Sant’Elena area between Tunis and the (adjacent to Cagliari) coastal town of La Marsa Environmental Agricultural area Agricultural area Coastal area Urban area Desertic area context Main activities Construction of a motorway, Construction of a motorway Construction of a motorway Construction of a motorway, Construction carried out with in situ excavation of and galleries, with use of without in situ excavation of of a motorway in the area quarries’ materials existing quarries as landfills quarries’ materials of rocks and soils Size of 1.2 Km2 4.18 Km2 0.7 Km2 0.04 Km2 6 Km2 operating site Position in relation Adjacent to Adjacent to Adjacent to Adjacent to Adjacent to to protected areas protected areas protected areas protected areas protected areas protected areas Name and typology Frakulla, Madhe, Ada, National Park and Mud Settefratelli-Monte Sebkhet Ariana – wetland Réserve naturelle El Gonna of protected areas varibopi, Cakrani, volcano Nature Reserve Gesis – regional park zone of national importance Gjonca and Hekali – (Durovdag Mud volcano) (under establishment) archeological areas Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 About Salini FOCUS ON: Environmental and Social Impact Assessment The Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) is an in-depth evaluation of a proposed project. It aims to assess the relationship between the proposed project and the environment to help decision makers determine whether and under what conditions the project will proceed. Managing Salini actively assists its clients to develop ESIAs, providing its sustainability engineering knowledge and expertise. ESIAs are developed taking into account the relevant local and international regulations, as well as the environmental and social requirements of international financial institutions (such as the World Bank – International Finance Corporation). ESIAs are usually made available for public consultation by proponents, to provide the necessary information to interested parties. On the basis of the impacts identified in the approved ESIA, an Local Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) is prepared development and submitted to the client for its review and approval. The ESMP describes the proposed measures that the contractor, the client and other institutions will have to implement during construction and operational phases of the project, to ensure compliance with all the socio-environmental requirements identified in the ESIA. Care for our people Environmental protection ESIA procedures 44 ESIA stage Screening Action 1 Preparation of project profile Stakeholders involved Environmental Protection Agencies 45 2 Decision on whether or not the project requires an ESIA Appendix Scoping of the ESIA 3 Developing Term of References Environmental Protection Agencies 4 Initiating initial public consultation Funding agencies (if there are any) Environmental Consultants Local communities Environmental 5 Impact assessment Environmental Protection Agencies Impact study 6 Design of mitigation and benefit enhancement measures Funding agencies (if there are any) 7 Design monitoring and audit plan Environmental Consultants 8 Public Consultation Proponent Local communities GRI data and Reviewing the 9 Review contents and provide comments for necessary revisions Environmental Protection Agencies assurance adequacy of the ESIA Funding agencies (if there are any) report Decision-making 10 Summary evaluation made available to public Environmental Protection Agencies 11 Decisions and conditions for approval made public Local communities Systematic ESIA 12 Ensuring implementation of agreed mitigation measures Private Contractors Follows ups 13 Periodic review and alteration of management plan if required Environmental Protection Agencies Funding agencies (if there are any) Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Environmental protection continued 5.4 Efficient use of natural resources Salini’s material flow 21 INPUT Major raw materials Concrete 1,743,629 t Asphalt 1,241,813 t Aggregates 6,861,690 t Cement 199,099 t Bitumen 50,576 t Metallic materials 64,550 t Reused materials Excavated rocks and soils reused within the projects 3,783,176 m3 Energy Gasoline 132,226 GJ Diesel 2,314,195 GJ Natural gas 153,536 GJ Aviation gasoline 5,392 GJ Kerosene 2,136 GJ Electricity purchased 85,632 GJ Water River 5,448,735 m3 Ground water 725,666 m3 Municipal supply 816,276 m3 Lake 4,501 m3 GROUP ACTIvITIES Dams and hydroelectric plants Roads and motorways Railways Civil building construction OUTPUT Greenhouse gas (in terms of CO2) From vehicles 132,482 t From electricity generators 44,467 t From purchased electricity 10,621 t From plants 7,819 t From corporate flights 2,440 t From goods shipping 24,856 t Waste Construction waste 203,301 t Excavation waste 1,161,025 t Demolition waste 4,802 t General waste 8,694 t Waste recycling Waste recycling and reused 185,896 t 21 Environmental data reported in this Report relates to the major Group’s operating sites active at the end of 2011. Specifically, the data relates to 36 operating sites covering the 95% of total 2011 revenues from projects. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Use of materials Numerous initiatives and projects take place at operating sites to save About Salini The use of materials is an essential component of the construction energy, including: replacing equipment with more efficient models; industry. Salini is committed to reducing the material intensity implementing energy saving lighting systems; switching technologies of projects and to increase the efficiency of the resources used. used at plants (e.g. from diesel to natural gas); installing energy recovery To achieve this goal, a Cost Control office is in place at every systems (as explained in the box at page 42). operating site. These offices constantly perform analysis of resource consumption as the work advances, in order to prevent unnecessary Water use use of materials, and to maximise the efficiency of material Salini uses a significant amount of water for its activities. Water is warehousing and operational functions. withdrawn from a variety of sources according to local availability and is used mainly in the production processes (crushing plants, concrete Rocks and soil represent the primary material handled at construction Managing batching plants, washing of plants and machinery, wetting of tracks sites and for this reason we consider as crucial to manage them and site areas to reduce dust), as well as for non production uses sustainability properly. Salini has developed a specific system to classify and store (offices, canteens, houses and irrigation). rocks and soil excavated during its activities, in order to reuse them in the construction processes. In 2011 this method enabled the reuse When setting up an operating site, the Group analyses local water of the 49% of the volume of the whole rocks and soil handled. availability in order to achieve a well-balanced mix of sources and to The possibility of reusing these materials depends on the projects’ avoid significant stress on a single source. Thanks to this approach, needs and their qualitative features. no single water source has been significantly affected by Salini’s activity in this reporting period 22. Energy use During 2011 water consumption from lakes were strongly reduced, Local The Group’s energy use consists primarily of the direct consumption due to completion of Beles Multipurpose project (Ethiopia), where of diesel and gasoline fuels used to power machinery, and diesel fuel development Tana Lakes water was used. to generate electricity at operating site level. Other residual fuels are: aviation gasoline, natural gas and coal oil. Indirect energy consumption (electricity purchased) is particularly relevant for Todini’s European operating sites, which mainly have access to a power grid, while Salini’s primary electricity consumption is linked to the Metro B1 project, in Rome (Italy). Care for our people Rocks and soil reused within the projects Energy consumption % GJ/000 86 47 49 2,607 101 2,171 34 Environmental 13 1,315 protection 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 46 Direct energy consumption Indirect energy consumption 47 Appendix ASPHALT RECYCLING ENERGY-SAvING SOLUTIONS Asphalt concrete represents the main resource used in road In most of the operating sites in Nigeria an energy-saving solution projects. In the Ukraine, Todini is rehabilitating several lots of the was put in place, creating a unique place where all the power highway which links the capital city Kiev with the western city of units are unified with a parallel-machine system. The power units, Chop. 2.3 million tonnes of asphalt are expected to be laid down before dislocated in various areas of the operating site, are now for the completion of the project. To minimise the impact on more efficient. In fact, this system allows to generate the same natural resources and reduce the amount of waste, Todini is quantity of electricity with less fuel consumption. GRI data and recycling the pre-existing asphalt through special plants. In 2011, 18% of total asphalt produced came from recycling and at the assurance end of project this rate will increase up to 26%. report 22 According to EN9 Indicator Protocol of GRI-G3.1 a ‘significant’ withdrawal accounts for an average of 5% or more of the annual average volume of a given water body. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Environmental protection continued 5.5 Environmental protection these issues by adopting appropriate measures to safeguard workers In line with the requirements of ISO 14001, practices to manage climate and the surrounding environment. To minimise the potential impacts change, biodiversity impacts and natural resource use are periodically of noise, Salini usually measures the noise caused by its activities and, reviewed by the top management, who assign targets to ensure where necessary, installs specific soundproofing devices to protect ongoing performance improvements. workers, communities and local fauna. To minimise vibration, the Group performs preliminary analyses of Water management any areas and buildings that may be affected by blasting activities Salini carefully controls and treats its wastewater in order to minimise or by the passage of tunnel boring machines (TBMs), monitoring negative impacts on the environment and local communities. Water the potential impact on any geological phenomena and performing used in the construction process is collected in settling tanks and any necessary restoration work once the excavation activity has treatment facilities, where sediments and oils are filtered out. Where been completed. applicable, water is analysed before its release to check that levels of BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand), COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) In the reporting period, Salini has successfully adopted for the first time and TSS (Total Suspended Solids) do not exceed statutory limits. in Italy an innovative technology, called compensation grouting, capable of addressing subsidence issues during excavation activities at Metro The same kind of treatments are carried out for drainage water B1 project in Rome (Italy). collected during excavation activities. Water that is intended for domestic use is filtered and purified in special treatment facilities Disposal and recycling of waste available at all operating sites. After use, this domestic wastewater is Large-scale construction works produce huge amounts of waste, collected in septic tanks, and then discharged as waste by authorised primarily rocks and soil, construction and demolition waste, containers agencies. When the site is located in an urban area, the domestic for construction materials, waste oil, filters, used tyres, lubricants and wastewater is discharged to public sewers, complying with the hydraulic fluids. qualitative and quantitative limits provided by the sewer companies. Waste management plans represent one of the most important Noise and vibration management elements of Salini’s environmental management system. They are Noise and vibration issues are important both in terms of worker health developed as part of the design phase of a construction project. The and in impact on the environment and on local communities. As part plans are set up to manage waste in a proper manner, complying with of its management systems, Salini constantly monitors and evaluates all applicable regulations. According to these plans, waste must be Total water withdrawal by source in 2011 Total weight of waste by type % Tonnes/000 8 23 1 1. River 77.9% 3 1,362 1,355 2 1,149 2. Municipal supply 2 11.7% 3. Groundwater well 10.4% 2009 2010 2011 Non-hazardous waste Hazardous waste Waste reused and recycled at operating sites % 15 9 2 2009 2010 2011 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 collected in specific areas and recycled wherever possible, while the 5.6 Future commitments About Salini remainder is sent to waste contractors with appropriate waste disposal Salini has set itself the following sustainability targets for completion facilities. In Africa, and to a lesser extent in other regions, some scrap by 31 December 2012. We will report on our progress against these materials (steel, wood) are donated to local communities. targets in our 2012 Sustainability Report. Hazardous waste mainly consists of asphalt, bituminous products, waste water, oil and used batteries. These materials are sent to external WHAT waste contractors to recycle and/or dispose them appropriately. Environmental protection Since 2008, when Salini started to monitor waste, the rate of waste reused and recycled has grown steadily. This represents WHY Managing the best indicator of the effectiveness of our actions in regards Ensuring protection of natural resources and biodiversity, enhancing to waste management. sustainability employees’ awareness about environmental issues which in turn It should be noted that in June 2011 Public Prosecutor’s Office improves our risk management. of Florence (Italy) has charged Todini, the client and the other contractors involved in the variante di valico project (only for HOW Tuscany area) with some environmental offences. The offences regard waste and water management in the period 2005–2010. – Enhancement of waste and hazardous substances management At the moment the competent authorities has not sequestered any throughout the development of corporate guidelines. operating sites’ area and, at the beginning of 2012, have required – Increase of number of audits carried out at project level. Local the remand for all the companies’ representatives involved. – Constant evaluation and monitoring of project environmental development The Group’s approach towards authorities’ control activities is resource adequacy. always of whole cooperation, aimed at determining actual course of events. – Define a professional development plan for Environmental personnel, both in terms of personal development and Environmental pollution career advancement. Salini carefully manages liquid materials to prevent environmental accidents, by implementing effective spill control measures to eliminate or contain any spill of chemicals, oils, fuels and hazardous waste. These measures aim to prevent adverse impacts on the environment Care for and the sub-soil. our people WATER RECYCLING SYSTEM Environmental protection 48 49 Appendix At Bujagali Hydro Power project (Uganda) and South West Road Projects (Kazakhstan) a special water treatment plant is active to allow the recycling and reusing of industrial water. These plants create a closed-loop system, capable of saving thousands of cubic metres of water every year. GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Environmental protection continued 5.7 Performance data sheet Performance indicator Unit 2009 2010 2011 GRI Reference Materials used by category EN1 Non-renewable raw materials Cement t 148,398 183,078 199,099 Bentonite 1 t 583 433 34 Bitumen 2 t 921 52,711 50,576 Metallic material t 40,761 69,206 64,550 Aggregates 3 t 741,992 915,391 6,861,690 Total non-renewable raw materials t 932,656 1,220,818 7,175,949 Renewable raw materials Woody material 4 t 4,803 10,575 7,317 Total renewable raw materials t 4,803 10,575 7,317 Semi-manufactured goods produced internally Concrete t n/a n/a 478,242 Asphalt t n/a n/a 1,000,071 Total semi-manifactures goods produced internally t n/a n/a 1,478,313 Semi-manufactured goods or parts from external suppliers Prefabricated elements of reinforced concrete 1 t 31,435 70,865 54,408 Ready-made concrete t 279,555 1,196,313 1,265,387 Ready-made asphalt t 2,332 106,126 241,743 Others 5 t – 5,094 550 Total semi-manufactured goods or parts from external suppliers t 313,322 1,378,399 1,562,088 Associated process materials Lubrificant – Motor oil l 436,165 569,476 523,979 Lubrificant – Hydraulic oil l 357,775 492,159 426,599 Lubrificant – Grease Kg 94,531 62,774 77,247 Tyres no. 16,212 17,217 19,171 Accumulators no. n/a n/a 5,554 Explosives t 359 1,277 1,000 Waste materials reused EN2 Rocks and soils from excavation % 34% 47% 49% Direct energy consumption by primary energy source EN3 Non-renewable energy sources Gasoline for traction GJ 22,541 99,784 132,226 Diesel for traction GJ 742,833 1,415,804 1,700,833 Diesel for electricity generation GJ 543,022 649,123 613,363 Kerosene GJ 31 731 2,136 Natural gas 6 GJ 0 77 153,536 Aviation gasoline GJ 6,092 5,172 5,392 Total non-renewable energy sources GJ 1,314,520 2,170,692 2,607,486 Renewable energy sources Total renewable energy sources GJ – – – Total direct energy consumption GJ 1,314,520 2,170,692 2,607,486 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Performance indicator Unit 2009 2010 2011 GRI Reference About Salini Indirect energy consumption from external suppliers EN4 Electricity purchased from non-renewables sources GJ 10,586 83,470 73,782 Electricity purchased from renewables sources GJ 2,005 17,491 11,850 Total purchased electricity GJ 12,591 100,961 85,632 Total water withdrawal by source EN8 Groundwater well 7 m 3 236,450 476,719 725,666 River 8 m3 10,136,290 11,030,636 5,448,735 Managing sustainability Lake 9 m3 5,549,796 2,462,424 4,501 Municipal supply m3 317,991 712,447 816,276 Total m3 16,240,527 14,682,227 6,995,178 Total water withdrawal by use EN8 Production use m 3 14,045,468 13,058,776 5,561,308 Civil use m3 2,195,059 1,623,451 1,433,870 Total m3 16,240,527 14,682,227 6,995,178 Local development Position of operating sites in relation to protected areas EN11 In the area % – – – Adjacent to the area % – 14% 14% Containing portions of the area % – – – Not involved in the area (neither adjacent to) % 100% 86% 86% Total % 100% 100% 100% Care for our people Direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) greenhouse gas emissions by primary energy source EN16 Gasoline for traction t CO2 1,565 6,926 9,178 Diesel for traction t CO2 53,853 102,641 123,304 Diesel for electricity generation t CO2 39,367 47,059 44,467 Kerosene t CO2 2 53 155 Natural gas t CO2 0 4 7,664 Aviation gasoline t CO2 441 375 391 Environmental protection Indirect purchased electricity t CO2 1,781 11,830 10,621 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions t CO2 97,009 168,887 195,780 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions by source (Scope 3) EN17 50 Business travels 10 t CO2 2,955 4,177 2,049 51 Shipping of goods at working sites t CO2 n/a n/a 24,856 Total wastewater by use EN21 Appendix Production use m3 13,822,870 12,784,158 5,375,411 Civil use m3 2,195,059 1,623,451 1,433,870 Total m3 16,017,929 14,407,610 6,809,281 Total wastewater by destination EN21 Sewers m 3 210,150 331,532 533,784 GRI data and Lands/surface waters m3 15,807,779 14,076,077 6,275,497 assurance Total m3 16,017,929 14,407,610 6,809,281 report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Environmental protection continued Performance indicator Unit 2009 2010 2011 GRI Reference Total weight of waste by type EN22 Non-hazardous waste Cement 11 t 426 9,613 26,659 Metallic materials t 923 4,057 2,876 Wood t 551 1,728 1,056 Construction mixed waste 11 t 55,786 105,627 151,121 Subtotal – Non-hazardous construction waste t 57,686 121,025 181,712 Demolition mixed waste t – – 4,802 Subtotal – Non-hazardous demolition waste t – – 4,802 Rocks, soils and cutting materials t 1,089,119 1,233,509 1,159,949 Other waste from excavation activity t – – 1,076 Subtotal – Non-hazardous excavation waste t 1,089,119 1,233,509 1,161,025 Frazzled tyres t 1,145 1,205 1,216 Urban mixed waste t 350 545 537 Others non-hazardous waste t 717 5,397 5,750 Subtotal – Non-hazardous general waste t 2,212 7,147 7,503 Subtotal – Non-hazardous waste t 1,149,017 1,361,681 1,355,042 Hazardous waste Asphalt, tar and bituminous products 12 t 12 4,045 14,586 Waste resulting from the treatment of wastewater t 616 2,252 2,944 Soil and other contaminated waste 13 t 159 51 4,051 Paint, additives and solvents t 47 493 8 Subtotal – Hazardous construction waste t 835 6,841 21,589 Oil’s scraps t 714 875 856 Batteries and accumulators t 161 322 259 Others hazardous waste t 269 309 76 Subtotal – Hazardous general waste t 1,144 1,507 1,191 Subtotal – Hazardous waste t 1,979 8,348 22,780 Total weight of waste t 1,150,995 1,370,028 1,377,822 Total weight of waste by disposal method EN22 Incineration t 98 67 16 Recycling/Reuse t 13,007 79,118 185,896 Landfill t 676,819 817,862 1,092,479 Temporary on-site storage 14 t 461,072 472,982 99,352 Unknown destination t – – 79 Total t 1,150,995 1,370,028 1,377,822 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Performance indicator Unit 2009 2010 2011 GRI Reference About Salini Significant spills of chemicals and oils EN23 Spills < 5 litres no. 21 21 57 Spills between 5 and 100 litres no. 7 21 15 Spills > 100 litres no. 1 35 9 Contaminated material removed m 3 15 41 27 Land involved in remediation activity15 CRE5 Land remediated 16 m2 – – 80,639 Managing sustainability Land in need of remediation m2 – – 10,513 Land potentially contaminated but not yet analysed m2 – – – Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations EN28 Significant fines 17 no. – 3 19 euro/000 – 387 73 Non-monetary sanctions 18 no. – – 1 Local development Total HSE protection expenditures and investments by type EN30 Health and Safety protection costs euro/000 570 1,546 1,591 Waste management, emission treatment and remediation costs euro/000 4,825 7,708 8,828 Prevention and HSE management costs euro/000 766 2,581 2,569 Total HSE expenditures and investments euro/000 6,160 11,835 12,988 Care for our people n/a: not available 1 The decrease in 2011 is related to the completion of works at Beles Multipurpose project (Ethiopia) and the completion of activities with bentonite’s consumption at La Marsa project (Tunisia). 2 2010 data has been restated due to a miscalculation in the Sustainability Report 2010. 3 2011 data comes from the site management accounting system, while 2009–2010 data are estimates based on rocks and soils. 4 The decrease in 2011 is related to the use of precast forms for concrete placing instead woody materials at Levan Dames project (Albania). 5 The decrease in 2011 is related to the completion of main activities at variante di valico project (Italy). 6 The increase in 2011 is related to the consumption at a new road project in Ucraina (M06 Road Contract 1 and 2). 7 The increase in 2011 is related to the water consumptions at Gibe III (Ethiopia), South-West Road project (Kazakhstan) and new projects in Nigeria. 8 The decrease in 2011 is related to the completion of works at Gurara dam (Nigeria) and Bumbuna dam (Sierra Leone). 9 The decrease in 2011 is related to the completion of works at Beles Multipurpose project (Ethiopia), where Tana Lake’s water was used. 10 In 2011 data has been provided by the Group’s travel services external provider, while 2009 and 2010 data has been calculated internally based on estimates. Environmental 11 The increase in 2011 is related to the works at the MetroB1 project (Rome), where have been carried out excavation of galleries and walls near the stations, with production of construction mixed waste. 12 The increase in 2011 is related to an activity of asphalt filing carried out at Bouira Motorway (Algeria), due to pavement imperfections. protection These waste have been reused in road restoration activities by the local administration. 13 The increase in 2011 is related to the excavation activities at Copenhagen Cityringen project (Denmark), where have been found contaminated soils, that have been subsequently reclaimed. 14 The main material temporary stocked on-site is represented by rocks, soils and cutting materials. The reduction in 2011 is related to a greater reuse of these materials during the year. 15 This indicator is provided by the ‘Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement’, issued by GRI in 2011. This report already includes some of these indicators, which shall be reported by 2013. 16 Data relates to soils affected by potentially contaminant activities (jet grouting), spills of chemicals and plants with spills eventuality (e.g. water purification systems, asphalt plants). 17 18 The fines levied are related to the exploitation of some quarries in Kazakhstan before receiving permissions. Local legislation provide for more than 700 days for the issue of these permissions. The fine levied is related to a missing permission for the wastewater at Metro B1 project (Italy). This permission, properly required to the authorities, was issued at the beginning of 2012. 52 53 Appendix GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Chapter 6 APPENDIx In this section… 6.1 Membership 55 6.2 Methodological Note 55 6.3 Glossary 58 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 6.1 Membership Scope of the Report About Salini – Associazione Grandi Imprese (AGI) The Sustainability Report 2011 contains an overview of the initiatives and activities carried out by the Group in 2011, as well as the – Italian Committee on Large Dams (ITCOLD) performance data from the period 2009–2011. The information – National Association of Italian Contractors (ANCE) provided in the Report refers to Salini Costruttori S.p.A. and the consolidated companies. – Comitato Leonardo – Italian Quality Committee Unless otherwise specified in the Report and/or in the GRI Content Index, – Chamber of Commerce Tunisia-Italy the scope of the report has been established as described below: – National Industrial Safety Council of Nigeria – financial and social data (except injury rates) refers to the scope Managing – Global Compact Network Italia of the 2011 Consolidated Financial Statements; sustainability – corporate governance data and information refers to the holding 6.2 Methodological Note company Salini Costruttori S.p.A.; The Sustainability Report as of 31 December 2011 (hereinafter also referred to as the ‘Sustainability Report 2011’ or the ‘Report’) aims to – environmental data refers to a scope established based on the provide reliable, complete, well-balanced, accurate and comparable materiality of the operating sites during the 2011. Specifically, the information regarding Salini’s values, strategies and performance report refers to 36 major operating sites on the basis of 2011 during the reporting period. revenues, achieving a coverage of 95% of 2011 total revenue from projects. The operating sites excluded from the scope are considered as not material, both taken individually and as a whole; Local Reporting cycle The Sustainability Report is published annually on the responsibility – injury rates refer to the scope as per environmental data plus Beles of the Board of Directors of the Company. Multipurpose Project (Ethiopia). development Adherence to best practice standards Comparative data (2009 and 2010) corresponds to the data reported The Sustainability Report 2011 of the Salini Costruttori Group has been in the Sustainability Report 2010, with the exception of the following: prepared in accordance with the updated version of the ‘Sustainability – 2010 rate of employee turnover by gender has been re-stated; Reporting Guidelines (version G3.1)’ issued by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in 2011. On the basis of the information reported in the GRI – 2010 bitumen consumption has been re-stated; Content Index, we are compliant with the A+ requirements of these Care for – 2009 and 2010 materials used by category have been re-aggregated guidelines. In addition to this, the Report contains references to the to reflect a new classification. 10 principles of the Global Compact, showing the actions and the our people systems implemented by the Group in order to integrate those In setting the scope of environmental data, starting from the principles in the corporate strategies and day-to-day activities. 22 operating sites reported in the Sustainability Report 2010, one site has been excluded (Beles Multipurpose Project) because its 2011 Third-party assurance revenue was not material. Shown in the next page is the list of To assure the reliability of the information provided in the Report and operating sites included in the scope of the environmental data to improve the reporting process, KPMG S.p.A. has been engaged for the 2011 report. to review this document. The limited assurance report is available at Environmental the end of the document. protection Appendix 54 55 GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Appendix continued Number Country Company Sector Project name 1 Albania Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways Levan-Dames* 2 Algeria Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways Bouira 3 Algeria Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Dams and Hydroelectric plants Algiers Inter-city collector* 4 Azerbaijan Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways Baku-Samachi* 5 Azerbaijan Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways Baku-Samur* 6 Azerbaijan Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways Jenikan-Salyand 7 Azerbaijan Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways Kurdamir-Ujar (lots 1–2)* 8 Denmark Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Railways CMT Copenhagen (Cityringen) 9 Ethiopia Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Dams and Hydroelectric plants Gibe III* 10 Ethiopia Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Dams and Hydroelectric plants Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD) 11 Georgia Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways Liavkhvi Bridge Luisi Road Section 12 Italy Metro B1 S.c.a.r.l./RI.MA.TI. S.c.a.r.l. Railways Metro B1* 13 Italy Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways variante di valico (Lots 9–11)* 14 Italy Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways Cagliari-Capo Boi* 15 Italy Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Dams and Hydroelectric plants Fiume Sarno 16 Italy Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Railways MetroCampania – Secondigliano Alifana* 17 Italy Zeis S.p.A. Civil building construction Terni/Corso del Popolo* 18 Kazakhstan Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Roads and motorways South-West Roads projects (lots 1–5)* 19 Kazakhstan Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways South-West Roads projects (lots 9–14)* 20 Malaysia Salini Malaysia SDN Dams and Hydroelectric plants Ulu Jelai Hydroelectric project 21 Nigeria Salini Nigeria Ltd. Roads and motorways District 1 22 Nigeria Salini Nigeria Ltd. Dams and Hydroelectric plants Gurara Dam* 23 Nigeria Salini Nigeria Ltd. Roads and motorways Idu Industrial Area* 24 Nigeria Salini Nigeria Ltd. Roads and motorways Inner Southern Expressway (ISEx) 25 Nigeria Salini Nigeria Ltd. Civil building construction Millennium Tower – Cultural Centre* 26 Nigeria Salini Nigeria Ltd. Roads and motorways Suleja 27 Sierra Leone Bumbuna Power Gen. Co. Ltd. Dams and Hydroelectric plants Bumbuna (O&M)* 28 Sierra Leone Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Roads and motorways Rehabilitation of urban roads 29 Tunisia Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways La Marsa* 30 Tunisia Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways Sfax-Gabes (lots 1–2) 31 UAE Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Roads and motorways Dubai parallel roads 881 2C 32 UAE Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Roads and motorways Dubai Ras al Khor* 33 Uganda Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Dams and Hydroelectric plants Bujagali Hydro Power* 34 Ukraine Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways Kiev-Chop* 35 Ukraine Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways M06 Road Contract 1–2 36 Zimbabwe Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Dams and Hydroelectric plants Mukorsi Dam (in Jv with Impregilo) * Projects already reported in the Sustainability Report 2010. Other exceptions to the boundary are specified directly in the Report, particularly in the Performance data sheets’ footnotes and in the GRI Content Index. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Calculation methods Indirect energy used About Salini Data and information included in the Report is taken from the Calculations on consumption of indirect energy are based on the factors information systems used for the general management and accounting provided by GRI-G3.1 to convert kWh of electricity to gigajoules. of the Group’s operations, as well as from a specific sustainability The breakdown of electricity purchased by renewable and nonreporting system established in accordance with the GRI requirements. renewable sources is calculated on the basis of specific production Some data and information comes from public sources made available mix of each country, as recorded by the International Energy Agency by recognised institutions. (2008 statistics). Data reported is calculated in an accurate manner and, where specified, Water withdrawal and discharge by means of estimations. The methodologies applied to determine the Water that is not withdrawn from municipal supply nor bought via tanks main indicators are shown below. is estimated based on the working hours of the draining pumps used and the capacity of these pumps. Managing Safety indicators Safety indicators are calculated in accordance with an internal Wastewater is estimated as a percentage of the total water withdrawn, sustainability procedure used for recording, investigating and reporting accidents, depending on the specific use of the water (production or domestic). aligned with the UNI (Italian organisation for unification) Guideline no. Rainwater, although collected and stored, is not reported because it is 7249–2007. Specifically, safety indicators take into account all the considered as not material. The Group does not use wastewater from work-related injuries (and fatalities) that may have affected employees other organisations. temporarily or permanently, such that they are unfit to carry out their Greenhouse gas emissions regular job for any day/shift following the occurrence of an injury. Calculation of the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions are based on: Minor injuries are not included. – the emission factors provided by the Italian Ministry of Local Lost days are calculated from the day after the occurrence of an development Environment (DEC/RAS/854/2005–2009 update) for the accident and include the number of calendar days until the injured consumption of direct energy; person can return to work. – the emission factors provided by the International Energy Agency For specific calculation formulas, see the glossary. (2010) for the consumption of indirect energy; Commuting injuries and subcontractor injuries are not included in – the emission factors provided by the UK Department for the calculation of the safety indicators. Any accidents occurring to Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (2011 Guidelines to Defra/ independent contractors (e.g. consultants) are included in employee DECC’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting) for Care for injury rates. goods shipment. Injuries occurring at the Company headquarters and at other offices Waste our people are considered as not material because they do not relate to Where local legislation does not provide guidance on measuring waste construction activities; for this reason these injuries are not included production and reliable data is not available, data is estimated based in the safety indicators. on the annual consumption of the original source of the waste. Ratio of salary of men to women With regards to operating sites outside of Italy, data regarding ‘used Data on the relationship between women’s and men’s salaries is tyres’ ‘batteries and accumulators’ and ‘oil scraps’ was estimated. calculated as the ratio between the average annual gross salary of For the first two categories, calculations were made by multiplying women and the men, by each employment category. In turn, the the number of tyres/batteries replaced during the year by the average annual gross salary of each employment category is calculated average weight of a used tyre/battery. A specific average weight Environmental as the ratio between the total annual gross salaries paid and the protection was assigned to each tyre/battery category (for passengers, transport number of employees placed in that category. Data does not include and work vehicles). local workers. The calculation for oil scraps was made by multiplying the tonnes of Materials used oil used in each year by a standard factor, (i.e. for 1 tonne of oil used, Where warehouse data systems cannot measure materials 900 Kg became waste), adhering to the precautionary principle. consumption by weight, estimates based on specific volume have been performed. In Italy disposal methods have been determined according to the classification provided by law of each waste category. Outside of Italy, Appendix Direct energy used methods have been determined according to the specific contracts Calculations on consumption of direct energy are based on: stipulated with the external waste contractors. – factors provided by GRI-G3.1 to convert weight of gasoline, diesel and natural gas to gigajoules; For more information To speak to us about our approach to sustainability or for suggestions – factors provided by the Italian Ministry of Environment (DEC/ RAS/854/2005–2009 update) to convert weight of kerosene on how we can improve our sustainability reporting, please email: 56 to gigajoules. sustainability@salini.it 57 Direct energy used comes totally from non-renewable sources. GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Appendix continued 6.3 Glossary INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (IR) Index to assess the frequency of occurrence of injuries that result AGGREGATE in casualties with loss of workdays or death of an employee. Category of raw granular mineral particles used in construction; It is calculated using the formula: they may be natural, artificial or recycled materials previously used in construction. Construction aggregates are used primarily as (no. LTI + no. FTL) x 1,000,000 components of composite materials such as cement, bituminous IR = Total worked manhours mix, coating, etc. where: GOvERNANCE LTI = total number of accidents with temporary incapacity Set of rules, at any level (such as laws and regulations) that govern the management of the Company. Corporate governance also includes FTL = total number of fatalities the relationships among the various actors involved (the stakeholders, who hold interests in the Company) and the objectives for which the ISO 14001 STANDARD Company is managed. The main actors are shareholders, the voluntary international standard that allows organisations to implement management and the Board of Directors. an effective Environmental Management System, providing a framework for the analysis of significant environmental risks, and for managing and GRI (GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIvE) mitigating its impacts. The system ensures compliance with applicable International initiative established in 1997 under a UNEP (United environmental legislation and continuous improvement of performance. Nations Programme for the Environment) project with the common goal of achieving greater transparency, corporate responsibility and ISO 9001 STANDARD sustainable development. voluntary international standard that sets out the principles and criteria for deployment and implementation of effective Quality Management HSE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Systems, which demonstrate the organisations ability to provide Component of the management system of an organisation, including products and services that meet the requirements of the law, of clients the organisational structure, planning of activities, responsibilities, and the organisation itself. practices, procedures, processes and resources used to develop and implement its environmental, health and safety policy and manage its LOCAL related aspects. The term is used in the Report with the following meanings: – communities living near project locations and the surrounding environment; – employees and suppliers, contractors and subcontractors based in the same country of the project; – legislation applicable to the specific context of the project (e.g. national, regional). OHSAS 18001 STANDARD International voluntary standard, which sets out the principles and criteria for implementing a system for managing health and safety at work, to demonstrate the organisation’s commitment to the analysis, evaluation, management and control of risks faced by workers, in order to improve the safety of their workplaces. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM STAKEHOLDER About Salini Component of the management system of an organisation that aims, The term of stakeholder identifies those ‘actors having an interest’ in relation to quality objectives, to achieve those results that can properly in relation to an economic initiative, be it a company or project. meet the needs, expectations and requirements of all stakeholders. Relevant stakeholders include: clients, suppliers, lenders, shareholders, employees, but also external interest groups such as residents of RISK ASSESSMENT neighbouring areas or local interest groups. Overall documented assessment of all the risks to which the Group is exposed in conducting its business. This assessment aims to identify SUSTAINABLE DEvELOPMENT the most appropriate measures of prevention and protection and to Development that meets present needs without compromising the develop the Group organisation, management and control systems. needs of future generations. The term ‘sustainable development’ Managing appeared for the first time in 1987 in a UN document, known as the ROLLER-COMPACTED CONCRETE (RCC) Brundtland Report, named by the then Norwegian Prime Minister Technology adopted for the construction of dams, combining high Gro Harlem Brundtland and President of the UN Commission on sustainability rate of concreting production with significant economic benefits. Environment and Development. This technology takes advantage of the low cement content typical of the RCC method, which provides effective optimisation in terms TUNNEL BORING MACHINE (TBM) of transportation, placing and compaction. Technology used for the excavation of tunnels, which enables the complete mechanisation of the excavation process, including finishing SEvERITY INDEx (LDR) of tunnels and installation of safety structures. The use of TBMs enables Index to assess the severity of accidents in terms of days lost, which a large increase in excavation speed, compared with the speed results in the injury or death of a worker. It is calculated as follows: achieved by using the traditional Drilling and Blasting (D&B) method Local development (excavation with the use of explosives). (gT + gP + gM) x 1,000,000 LDR = Total worked manhours where: gT = total days of temporary incapacity (LWD) gP = total conventional days of permanent invalidity (1 = 7,500 days) Care for gM = total conventional days in the event of a fatality our people (1 fatality = 7,500 days) Environmental protection Appendix 58 59 GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Chapter 7 GRI APPLICATION LEvEL CHECK STATEMENT In this section… GRI Application Level Check Statement 61 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 GRI data and Appendix Environmental Care for Local Managing About Salini 60 61 assurance protection our people development sustainability report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Chapter 8 GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT TABLES In this section… GRI G3.1 Content Index 62 Global Compact principles – GRI indicators cross reference table 71 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 GRI G3.1 Content Index About Salini Profile Disclosure* Status Cross-reference/Direct answer STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 ● p. 5 (strategic priorities), p. 11 (main challenges and targets), p. 10, 20, 28 and 42 (main achievements), p. 17, 24, 35 and 49 (future commitments). 1.2 ● p. 12-13. Salini has not formalised mid-term objectives and goals related to key sustainability risks and opportunities. 2. Organisational profile 2.1 ● p. 2 Managing 2.2 ● p. 2-3 sustainability 2.3 ● For the Group’s organisation chart see http://www.salini.it/en/gruppo/organigramma/. For the Group’s structure see p. 71-72 of the Consolidated Financial Statement 2011 http://www.salini.it/en/investor-relations/bilanci-e-relazioni/2011/ 2.4 ● Rome, Italy 2.5 ● p. 3 (countries where Salini operates), p. 56 (countries covered in the report) 2.6 ● Salini Costruttori S.p.A. is the holding company of the Group and is a non-listed stock company. For the other subsidiary companies see p. 71-72 of the Consolidated Financial Statement 2011 http://www.salini.it/en/investor-relations/bilanci-e-relazioni/2011/ Local 2.7 ● p. 2-3. Group’s clients are Public Administrations, Companies controlled or participated by the State and private development companies. The beneficiaries of the Group’s works are mainly the residents living in the areas affected by projects and in neighbouring ones. 2.8 ● Inside front cover (main KPIs), p. 3 and 5 (main economic results). See also p. 9-10 of the Consolidated Financial Statement 2011 (main capital ratios) http://www.salini.it/en/investor-relations/bilanci-e-relazioni/2011/. At 31 December 2011 the Group had a capital stock equal to € 62.4 million. 2.9 ● See p. 58 of the Consolidated Financial Statement 2011 http://www.salini.it/en/investor-relations/bilanci-e-relazioni/2011/ Care for 2.10 ● p. 16 our people 3. Report parameters 3.1 ● 2011 calendar year 3.2 ● The Sustainability Report 2010 was published in October 2011 3.3 ● Annual 3.4 ● sustainability@salini.it 3.5 ● p. 14 3.6 ● p. 55-56 Environmental 3.7 ● p. 55-56. Other exceptions to the boundary are specified directly in the Report, particularly in the Performance data protection sheets’ footnotes. 3.8 ● p. 55-56 3.9 ● p. 57 3.10 ● p. 55 3.11 ● p. 55-56 Appendix 3.12 ● p. 62-71 3.13 ● p. 55 GRI data and assurance report 62 ● Fully Reported ◗ Partially reported Not reported 63 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 GRI data and assurance report continued Profile Disclosure* Status Cross-reference/Direct answer 4. Governance, commitments, and engagement 4.1 ● p. 4. The Board of Directors of Salini Costruttori S.p.A. is composed by 7 members, of which 1 woman (14%). 43% of his members are between 30 and 50 years old, 57% are over 50 years old. Any member belongs to minority groups. 4.2 ● The Chair is the legal representative of the Company, act on behalf of the Company in engaging with Public Authorities and participates in the Executive Committee. 4.3 ● 4 members of the BoD are both independents and non-executives (3 men and 1 woman). Directors are considered as independents if they don’t have, directly or indirectly: – any economic relation with the Company, its executive directors and its main shareholders; – any share in the Company or in its controlled companies; – any strict family connection with the executive directors. Directors can be considered as independent also if they have economic relations with the Company, provided that their professional activities are useful for the Company. 4.4 ● p. 4 (Mechanisms for shareholders and the financial community). Direct communication system between employees and BoD are not in place. 4.5 ● p. 30. Currently there is no mechanism to connect the remuneration system to environmental and social performance. 4.6 ● Before each BoD’s decision, their members have to declare if they have conflicts of interest. If so, the decision is taken without their vote and with the positive advises of the Statutory Auditors and of the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee. 4.7 ● Processes in place for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the BoD do not take into consideration environmental and social topics. 4.8 ● p. 11 (Mission), p. 24 (Code of Ethics) 4.9 ● p. 12-13 (management of economic, environmental, and social performance). The Quality and HSE performance are reviewed annually. 4.10 ● Currently systems in place for evaluating performance of the members of the BoD do not take into consideration environmental and social topics. 4.11 ● p. 12 4.12 ● p. 4 (codes related to the corporate governance), p. 12 (Global Compact) 4.13 ● p. 55 4.14 ● p. 15 4.15 ● p. 14-15 4.16 ● p. 14-15 (general approach and engagement activities), p. 4 (financial community engagement), p. 22 (subcontractors’ engagement), p. 22-23 (communities’ engagement), p. 45 (engagement regarding impact assessments) 4.17 ● p. 15 (summary of general topics), p. 44 (community concerns) ● Fully Reported ◗ Partially reported Not reported Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 G3 DMA* Status Cross-reference/Direct answer About Salini STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on management approach (DMAs) DMA EC ● Economic performance ● p. 3 (main results), p. 5 (strategies and challenges), p. 43 (new opportunities) Market presence ● p. 3 Indirect economic impacts ● p. 20 (job creation and local supply), p. 23 (investiments for communities) DMA EN ● Materials ● p. 47 Energy ● p. 47 Managing sustainability Water ● p. 47 Biodiversity ● p. 44-45 Emissions, effluents and waste ● p. 43 (emissions), p. 48-49 (waste and effluents) Products and services ● p. 45 Compliance ● p. 45 Transport ● p. 43 Overall p. 13 Local ● DMA LA ● Employment ● p. 29 development Labour/management relations ● p. 32, 35 Occupational health and safety ● p. 31-32 Training and education ● p. 29-30 Diversity and equal opportunity ● p. 31 Equal remuneration for women and men ● p. 31 DMA HR ● Care for Investment and procurement practices ● p. 22 (procurement practices) p. 34 (investments) our people Non-discrimination ● p. 34 Freedom of association and collective bargaining ● p. 34 Child labour ● p. 35 Prevention of forced and compulsory labour ● p. 35 Security practices ● p. 34 Environmental Indigenous rights ● p. 34-35 Assessment ● p. 34 Remediation ● p. 34 protection DMA SO ● Local communities ● p. 22-23 Corruption ● p. 24 Public policy ● See p. 17-18 of the Code of Ethics, http://www.salini.it/en/corporate-governance/codice-etico/ Appendix Anti-competitive behaviour ● See p. 16-17 of the Code of Ethics, http://www.salini.it/en/corporate-governance/codice-etico/ Compliance ● See p. 8-9 of the Code of Ethics, http://www.salini.it/en/corporate-governance/codice-etico/ DMA PR ● Customer health and safety ● p. 45 Product and service labelling The indicator is not applicable because Salini does not produce goods and services that require labelling Marketing communications ● In the field of marketing communications, Salini ensures accuracy, clarity and GRI data and assurance integrity of the communications released to the stakeholders. Customer privacy ● Salini guarantees the confidentiality of the information in its possession managing report them in compliance with strict standards. A Programmatic Document on Security is drafted every year to regulate the matter. Compliance ● See Quality assurance policy, http://www.salini.it/en/sostenibilita/politiche-aziendali/ 64 65 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 GRI data and assurance report continued Performance Indicator* Status Cross-reference/Direct answer Other information STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance indicators Economic Economic performance EC1 ● p. 6 EC2 ● p. 43 (risks and opportunities for the business)/Because of this theme is unpredictable for the sector, quantitative estimates of the financial implications for the Group’s activities due to climate change are not provided. EC3 ● Group has not identified specific resources covering obligations deriving from leaving indemnity’s award. EC4 ● In 2011 Salini has received a tax deduction of € 573,293 related to a measure named “Economic Growth Aid” granted by the Italian Tax Authority to companies which have increased their assets. In 2009 financial assistance from governments was equal to € 387,000 while in 2010 amounted to € 4,649,000. Market presence EC6 ◗ p. 21 (total data), p. 25 (detailed data) Data reported does not include purchases of goods and services not related to operating sites, because Salini business is focused on projects. Therefore purchases not related to the projects made by the Group are considered as not material. EC7 ● p. 21 (total data), p. 25 (detailed data) Indirect economic impacts EC8 ● p. 22-23 ● Fully Reported ◗ Partially reported Not reported Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Performance About Salini Indicator* Status Cross-reference/Direct answer Other information Environmental Materials EN1 ● p. 46 (major categories data), p. 50 (detailed data) EN2 ● p. 50 Energy EN3 ● p. 47 (total data), p. 50 (detailed data) Managing EN4 ● p. 47 (total data), p. 51 (detailed data) sustainability EN7 ● p. 42, 47 Water EN8 ● p. 48 (total data), p. 51 (detailed data) EN9 ● p. 47 Biodiversity EN11 ● p. 44 (description and specific data), p. 51 (general data) EN12 ● p. 44 Local EN13 ● p. 44 development EN14 ● p. 44-45 Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 ● p. 43 (total data), p. 51 (detailed data) EN17 ● p. 43 (total data), p. 51 (detailed data) EN18 ◗ p. 42, 47 Data reported does not include the quantification of Care for achieved reductions, because they are not available. The reporting system will be improved in order to allow the collection of these data starting from 2013. our people EN19 These data are not reported because, on the basis of the monitoring activities carried out in 2010 about the cooling gases’ use, ozone-depleting gases have been considered as not material for Salini. EN20 These data are not reported because NOx, SOx, and other air emissions generated by the Group are mainly Environmental widespread emissions. During 2011 an analysis carried out on sites’ diesel generators proved the non-significance protection of these emissions, so the issue is considered as not material for Salini. EN21 ● p. 51 EN22 ● p. 48 (total data), p. 52 (detailed data), p. 57 (calculation method) EN23 ● p. 53 Products and services EN26 ◗ p. 44 (environmental restorations), Data reported does not include the quantification of Appendix p. 48 (mitigations of noise and vibrations impacts) achieved mitigations, because this aspect is considered as not applicable to Salini. In fact, the nature of products carried out by the Group (e.g. dams, roads, etc.) does not allow to estimate quantitatively the mitigation of impacts achieved. EN27 The indicator is not applicable because Salini does not sell goods that require packaging. Compliance GRI data and EN28 ● p. 53 assurance Transport report EN29 ● p. 43 Overall EN30 ● p. 13 (total data), p. 53 (detailed data) 66 67 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 GRI data and assurance report continued Performance Indicator* Status Cross-reference/Direct answer Other information Social: Labour practices and decent work Employment LA1 ◗ p. 29 (total data), p. 36 (detailed data). In 2011, total Reported data on workforce by region is not broken workforce was equal to 15,508 employees (1,296 women down by gender because at operating sites personnel and 14,212 men). For what concerns the employment are almost entirely men. For this reason this data is contracts, at headquarters 92% of the total workforce had considered as not material. permanent contracts (218 people, of which 67 women and 151 men), while the remaining 8% (20 people, of which 11 women and 9 men) had temporary ones. At operating sites 100% of workforce had temporary contracts (15,270 people, of which 1,218 women and 14,052 men). Only 2 people (2 women at headquarters) had part-time contracts and they were permanents one. Supervised workers are not present, while self-employed workers do not perform substantial portion of the Salini’s works. LA2 ◗ p. 37-38 Reported data does not include personnel working at the operating sites and rate of employee turnover by region, because this data is managed at the operating site level and was not possible to extract them directly from the central information system. This system will be improved in order to collect this data, not available at the moment, starting from 2013. LA15 ◗ All employees are entitled to parental leave (1,296 women Reported data does not include personnel managed and 14,212 men), also if the issue is relevant mainly for locally, because they are almost entirely men. For this women. In 2011 four female employees at headquarters reason this aspect is considered as not material. took parental leave and in the same year they returned to work after parental leave ended. Next year we will report about their employment status 12 months after their return to work. Labour/management relations LA4 ● p. 34 LA5 ● p. 34 Occupational health and safety LA6 ◗ p. 32 Reported data does not include the percentage of workers represented. LA7 ◗ p. 32 (general injuries rates), p. 38 (detailed data). Injuries Data on absenteeism does not include sickness days of and absenteeism rates are calculated as indicated at p. 54 personnel managed locally, because it was not possible (Methodological note). Rates by gender are not reported to extract them directly from the central information system. because sites’ personnel are almost entirely men. This system will be improved in order to collect this data, According to GRI’s Indicator Protocols, these rates in not available at the moment, starting from 2013. 2011 are: IR 3.404; LDR 349.222; AR 4,498. In 2011 occupational diseases rate is equal to zero. LA8 ● p. 33 LA9 ● p. 32 Training and education LA10 ◗ p. 30 (total data), p. 38-39 (detailed data). Training hours Reported data does not include Todini personnel working by gender are not reported because personnel are at operating sites because it is managed at the operating almost entirely men. site level and was not possible to extract it directly from the central information system. This system will be improved in order to collect this data, not available at the moment, starting from 2013. ● Fully Reported ◗ Partially reported Not reported Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Performance About Salini Indicator* Status Cross-reference/Direct answer Other information LA11 ● p. 29-30 (skills management). Concerning the management of career endings and the support of continued employability, the Group – besides the instruments provided by law – develops individual exit plans with the employees which are leaving the Company. These plans take into account the personal needs and the company ones. Diversity and equal opportunity Managing LA13 ● p. 36 (detailed data). People belonging to minority groups are not significant within the workforce. sustainability Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 ◗ p. 31 (total data), p. 39 (detailed data) Data does not include personnel managed locally, because they are almost entirely men. For this reason this data is considered as not material. Social: Human rights Investment and procurement practices HR1 p. 34-35/For 100% of construction projects launched by Local ● the Group, evaluations including human rights aspects of development personnel and local communities have been carried out. HR2 ◗ p. 22/The contractual relationships with suppliers, Reported data does not include percentage of contractors and subcontractors are based on the subcontractors that have undergone screening on human acceptance of the Code of Ethics and, consequently, rights, because this aspect is managed at the operating also of human rights clauses. Although performed, site level and was not possible to extract it directly from the data on audits are not available at the moment. central information system. This system will be improved in order to collect this data, not available at the moment, Care for starting from 2013. our people HR3 ● In 2011 were provided 250 hours of training on Ethics, by covering 0.6% of total workforce. Non-discrimination HR4 ● p. 34 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 ● p. 34 Environmental Child labour HR6 ● p. 34-35 Forced and compulsory labour protection HR7 ● p. 34-35 Security practices HR8 ◗ p. 34 Data does not include percentage of personnel trained on human rights’ subject, because this data is managed at the operating site level and was not possible to extract it directly from the central information system. This system Appendix will be improved in order to collect this data, not available at the moment, starting from 2013. Indigenous rights HR9 ● p. 34-35 Assessment HR10 ● p. 34 Remediation HR11 ● p. 34 GRI data and assurance report 68 69 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 GRI data and assurance report continued Performance Indicator* Status Cross-reference/Direct answer Other information Social: Society Local communities SO1 ● In 2011 33% of operations were covered by impact assessments, 42% by development programs and 61% had activated communication channels with local communities. 47% of operations have organised meetings with local communities. SO9 ● p. 45 SO10 ● p. 45 Corruption SO2 ● In 2011, 15 audits (42 in the period 2009–2011) were performed on business processes exposed to corruption risks, covering 80% of them. SO3 ● Percentage of workforce who received anti-corruption training in 2009 was equal to 41% (management) and 1% (non-management); in 2010 13% (management) and 0.1% (non-management); in 2011 11.6% (management) and 0.5% (non-management). Management includes executives and middle managers, non-management includes employees and workers SO4 ● In reporting period none case of corruption has been identified. Public policy SO5 ● In the reporting period the Group has not directly participated to public policy development and lobbying activities. These activities are governed by the Code of Ethics. (p. 18), http://www.salini.it/en/corporate-governance/ codice-etico/. Compliance SO8 ● In 2011 the Group was subjected to a tax assessment in Italy. For more information see the Consolidated Financial Statement 2011, pp. 114, http://www.salini.it/en/investorrelations/bilanci-e-relazioni/2011/. ● Fully Reported ◗ Partially reported Not reported Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Performance About Salini Indicator* Status Cross-reference/Direct answer Other information Social: Product responsibility Customer health and safety PR1 ● p. 45 Product and service labelling PR3 The indicator is not applicable to Salini because products and services sold by the Group (major works) do not require the release of information. PR5 ◗ p. 7 Reported data does not include results of surveys Managing measuring customer satisfaction, because synthetic sustainability indicators have not been identified at the moment. In next years the Group will carry out an analysis to identify the appropriate performance indicators able to measure the client satisfaction. Marketing communications PR6 ● The Group does not adopt code and/or standard related Local to marketing activities. PR7 ● Salini has never received claims for violation of laws or regulations related to marketing or communications. development Customer privacy PR8 ● In the reporting period there were no claims relating to breaches of privacy or loss of customers’ data. Compliance PR9 ● Besides the information reported in the EN28 indicator (environmental fines), the Group has not received any Care for administrative or judicial fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning these issues. our people * For the complete description of indicators please refer to http://www.globalreporting.org/resourcelibrary/G3-1-Index-and-Checklist.xls Global Compact principles – GRI indicators cross reference table Environmental Issue areas GC principles Relevant GRI indicators Human rights Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally EC5, LA4, LA6–9, LA13–14, proclaimed human rights. HR1–9, SO5, PR1–2, PR8 protection Principle 2 – Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HR1–9, SO5 Labour Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and effective recognition LA4–5, HR1–3, HR5, SO5 of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and HR1–3, HR7, SO5 compulsory labour. Appendix Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. HR1–3, HR6, SO5 Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect EC7, LA2, LA13–14, of employment and occupation. HR1–4, SO5 Environment Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach EC2, EN18, EN28, to environmental challenges. EN30, SO5 Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater EN1–30, SO5, PR3–4 environmental responsibility. Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion EN2, EN5–7, EN10, EN18, of environmentally friendly technologies. EN26–27, EN30, SO5 GRI data and Anti-corruption Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, SO2–6 assurance including extortion and bribery. report 70 71 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Chapter 9 THIRD-PARTY ASSURANCE REPORT In this section… Third-party Assurance Report 73 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 GRI data and Appendix Environmental Care for Local Managing About Salini 72 73 assurance protection our people development sustainability report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Information and contacts About Salini Italy Salini Costruttori 3 via del Lauro 20121 Milan Italy T: +39 02 7262601 F: +39 02 726260205 Salini S.p.A. 22, via della Dataria, Managing 00187 Rome T: +39 06 67761 sustainability F: +39 06 6776288 info@salini.it Africa South America Europe Algeria Argentina Albania algeria.info@salini.it argentina.info@salini.it albania.info@salini.it Local development Ethiopia Brazil Azerbaijan ethiopia.info@salini.it brazil.info@salini.it azerbaijan.info@salini.it Gabon gabon.info@salini.it Chile Belarus chile.info@salini.it belarus.info@salini.it Ghana ghana.info@salini.it Bulgaria bulgaria.info@salini.it Guinea Asia guinea.info@salini.it China Czech Republic Care for our people china.info@salini.it czechrep.info@salini.it Liberia liberia.info@salini.it India Denmark india.info@salini.it denmark.info@salini.it Libya libya.info@salini.it Jordan Georgia jordan.info@salini.it georgia.info@salini.it Malawi malawi.info@salini.it Kazakhstan Greece kazakhstan.info@salini.it greece.info@salini.it Environmental Morocco morocco.info@salini.it Malaysia Hungary protection malaysia.info@salini.it hungary.info@salini.it Nigeria nigeria.info@salini.it Qatar Ireland qatar.info@salini.it ireland.info@salini.it Sierra Leone sierraleone.info@salini.it Saudi Arabia Poland saudiarabia.info@salini.it poland.info@salini.it Somalia somalia.info@salini.it Turkey Romania Appendix turkey.info@salini.it romania.info@salini.it Sudan sudan.info@salini.it United Arab Emirates Russia abudhabi.info@salini.it russia.info@salini.it Tanzania dubai.info@salini.it tanzania.info@salini.it Ukraine ukraine.info@salini.it Tunisia tunisia.info@salini.it Australia Uganda Australia GRI data and uganda.info@salini.it australia.info@salini.it Zimbabwe assurance zimbabwe.info@salini.it report 74 75 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2011 Edited by: Salini Costruttori Design and production: Radley Yeldar www.ry.com Salini Costruttori 3 via del Lauro 20121 Milan Italy T: +39 02 7262601 F: +39 02 726260205 Salini S.p.A 22 via della Dataria 00187 Rome Italy T: +39 06 67761 F: +39 06 6776288 info@salini.it www.salini.it
