The Imperative of Hope Wipro Sustainability Report 2010-11 THE IMPERATIVE OF HOPE The theme of our sustainability report for 2010-11 “The imperative of hope” get involved but must lead and take charge on issues of sustainability– ranging from symbolizes the pressing need for seeking answers to the intractable social and the logic of ‘doing well by doing good’ to the fundamental notion that business enjoys environmental problems that the world faces in a spirit of optimism and courage. great power today which vests it with equally great responsibility. Further, it is an The challenges are so many and so deep rooted that many view them with a sense almost axiomatic truth that the survival and well being of business is inextricably of resignation as part of an existential dilemma that we can only hope to cope with linked to the survival of the society and planet that it is a part of. and not ever resolve. Over the last four years, we have set up the momentum for a corporation wide For the business sector meanwhile, these problems have brought center stage the sustainability program at Wipro that involves employees, customers, suppliers, crucial questions of being responsible and being sustainable, answers to which investors, the government, communities and the education system. As part of this are not very clear even to the best minds. The notion of a ‘responsible business’ charter, we have defined some very aspirational goals on dimensions like GHG has gained currency rapidly in recent years and is broadly equated to good emission reduction, Water, Waste, Biodiversity, People Diversity and the Supply corporate citizenship – ‘Comply with all regulations’, ‘Reduce one’s environmental Chain. Like everyone else, we face many of the dilemmas and conundrums that exist impact’ and ‘Engage on community initiatives’. In comparison,the idea of around sustainability and progress is not always as fast we would like. But, to our ‘sustainability in business’ is much more complex and nuanced, related as it is to minds, the apt analogy to view such situations is that of mountaineer battling every day larger ecological and social issues. Two such big challenges – Climate Change and towards the peak where during difficult conditions just staying alive is progress. Universal health – illustrate the complexity involved This is the underlying spirit that this report’s theme embodies : the imperative for l “Where will solutions for Climate Change come from Ø From big disruptive organizations to stay the course and journey forward. however slowly, with a sense technology innovations ? or from several small efficiency levers? or from a of determination, the imperative of hope. radical structural shift to a society that de-emphasizes energy intensive lifestyles? or from continuing with the status quo and shift the focus to adaptation to the possible negative effects of climate change” For this report, we invited some of the best minds to pen their thoughts on l “How do we progress on the war against disease and malnutrition Ø From some of the core sustainability issues. What we have is a bouquet of increased government spending on public health and nutrition? or from independent, informed and insightful essays. Why and What next for grassroots innovation that provide affordable healthcare solutions? or from corporate sustainability? Why report ? Universal Electrification, is it a radical financial disincentive programs that discourage consumption of foods possibility? What the natural world means to us ? What is quality education? that are known to cause lifestyle diseases “ Cities and are they places for Biodiversity? These perspectives come with the richness of experience, the feel for things and the underlying What is immediately apparent in both the above examples is that it is not any indomitable spirit of hope against odds. one single approach that will work, rather a multitude of perspectives and approaches will be necessary. What is perhaps not clear to many is the role of the business sector in combating such challenges and the raison d’etre for its involvement. At Wipro, we believe that there are multiple reasons why business must not only CONTENTS 1. LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN 3 5c. ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY AT WIPRO 90 Universal Electrification: a Possible Solution 112 2. REPORT PROFILE AND ASSURANCE APPROACH 7 Shuba V. Raghavan a. Report Profile 8 b. Materiality Determination 10 5d. CUSTOMER STEWARDSHIP 114 c Note on Data Metrics in this Report 11 5e. SUSTAINABILITY AND THE RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR 124 d. Wipro’s Approach to Report Assurance 12 Corporate Sustainability: Why did it Start? Where can it go? 132 Shankar Jaganathan 3. AN ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 14 a. Spirit of Wipro, our foundation of values 16 5f. ETHICAL SUPPLY CHAIN 136 b. Our Business Profile 19 What the Natural World Means to us 141 c. Good governance and management practices 21 Suhel Quader The Triple Bottom Line: Not a Zero Sum Game 28 5g. EDUCATION & COMMUNITY CARE 144 C B Bhattacharya Quality Education, Good Schools and Holistic School Assessment 160 4. WIPRO’S STRATEGIC PERSPECTIVE 32 Sridhar Rajagopalan a. The Sustainability Mobius 34 5h. ADVOCACY AND PUBLIC POLICY 162 b. Business and The Sustainability Megaforces 34 6a. FEEDBACK AND COMMUNICATION 168 c. Sustainability Strategy and Governance At Wipro 38 d. The Wipro Sustainability Dashboard for 2010-11 39 6b. INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 169 e. Aligning with Sustainability Charters and Networks 44 7a. GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS 172 Biodiversity and the City: Challenges for Bengaluru 46 Dr. Harini Nagendra 7b. INDEX OF GRI INDICATORS 184 5. WIPRO AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS 50 5b. EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY AT THE WORKPLACE 56 Spirit of Wipro Run is a living example of how Wipro as an organization believes in the spirit of inclusivity. It was started with the intention of bringing the run loving community at Wipro together and also to celebrate the essence of Spirit of Wipro as a community. The annual, global run has become a recent tradition at Wipro and is really about people who love to run.The run’s most recent 6th edition was held on 15th October 2011. Images from the Spirit of Wipro Run 2011 run through this report.“Miles with the Sun” as it was called, the run was held in over 56 cities across the world and relayed across countries with the dawn at Philippines and ended in Vancouver 24 hours later. The Run is a time when diverse cultures, races and 24,000 people come together to celebrate the Spirit of Wipro in all its magnificence. What made it richer, vibrant and more exciting this year was the fact that each of the 56 locations decided to add a cultural feature to the run. Each location began the celebration with a local culture piece of that region – for example India had performances like the Chenda, Dollu Kunitha and Bhangra to kick off the run, China had the dragon dance, Canada a drum circle and there were flash mobs in Romania! 15th October 2011 was truly one of the longest days in the history of Wipro as an organization, where Wiproites from around the world embarked on a unique journey to keep the sun from setting. LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN roles. 20% of our employees are from nationalities besides India, this is a three-fold increase over a two year period. 253 people with disability are now part of the Wipro team. As we focus on increasing these numbers, we are striving hard to make Dear fellow Stakeholders, sure that our facilities meet and exceed the access norms for people with disability. Welcome to our fourth sustainability report. Our programs on education and community engagement continue to get stronger We started publishing our sustainability report in 2008. However, every year, as does our environmental stewardship of the Wipro range of green our sustainability journey has been much longer. I refer here to our decade old desktops and laptops. We are starting new initiative on sustainability in the supply program in education, the even longer term engagement with our local communities chain which we will strengthen in the coming years. You will find details of these and the continuing initiatives on water & energy conservation. I also refer to our core initiatives and more inside this report. values, beliefs and principles of conduct, which have always served as our bedrock. While doing all of this is important, it is even more important to do it on a bedrock of Let me present a brief overview of our sustainability program. integrity and transparency. Resource efficiency is central to how smartly the world manages its depleting Our commitment to transparency is reflected in several actions, including a report resources. At Wipro, we have a long history of efficiency driven actions, both with like this and in other sustainability disclosures. I am happy to share that we are now respect to resources and to our business processes. For example, over the last a part of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for two years in succession, are decade, we have realized an improvement of more than 30% on our electricity ranked # 1 in India in the Asian CSR Index, ranked No. 1 in the Morgan Stanley consumption on a per employee basis. Our initiatives on energy efficiency span a wide Capital International Emerging Markets Index and are a part of the Nasdaq Global range: from strategic initiatives like our green building program (with LEED Sustainability 100 Index. certifications) to smart projects like the server virtualization program and to In the World Economic Forum at Davos, a few weeks back, I had the opportunity to employee-led actions on saving paper, transportation fuel and electricity. Our interact with several leaders from business and government.The overriding sentiment thrust on water efficiency encompasses the three dimensions of recycling, rain was that a new world order needs to be constructed on the building blocks of the water harvesting and conservation with recycling accounting for 32% of our total three Es – Economic growth, Equitable society and Ecological sustainability. water requirements. We ensure that nearly 83% of our waste gets recycled or reused appropriately. This has been our view for some time. We also believe that business must play a crucial role in making this happen. Government and civil society are equal Climate change: Our commitment to the global challenge of climate change is stakeholders in this mission, but as a crucible of innovation, problem solving and reflected in the ambitious five year green-house-gas reduction targets that we have value creation, the business sector is uniquely positioned to make a vital difference. set for ourselves. The adoption of renewable energy (RE) is a crucial plank of our reduction strategy and nearly 10% of our current electricity procurement comes What it will take is a strong willed commitment to more responsibility and to walk the from RE sources. But in order for us to be able to scale up in line with our targets, we extra mile. It will also require different mindsets, for as Albert Einstein said many think that several challenges need to be addressed to accelerate the creation of decades back The significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of renewable energy capacity and supply. We stay committed to working closely thinking we were at when we created them. with the relevant stakeholders in this regard, including the governments. Let me end by reaffirming our commitment to walking this path with determination Diversity: We continue to drive our momentum on increasing the diversity quotient and optimism. of our workforce on the three dimensions of gender, nationality and people with Azim H Premji disability. Women constitute 28% of our workforce with many in senior leadership OUR REPORT IN SUMMARY capacity that helps recharge ground water. We are considering 2010 11 as the new baseline year to set our water goals. This is Our sustainability report for 2010-11 is a reflection of how we view sustainability – as mainly due to significant improvement in metering infrastructure at something that is organization wide and is embedded in our communication to source and consumption points. We plan to implement customized employees, solutions to our customers and in our engagement with our global supply water management plans for each of our key locations. chain.The summary that follows provides highlights of some of the work that we are doing set against the larger sustainability context of these issues. Over the last two years, we have been grappling with the realization that water is not Note: We are a global company with a presence in more than 55 countries; just another natural resource but a strongly emotive issue that is at the heart of however, a lot of examples and metrics given below are India centric. This is more a people’s lives and of cultures; and therefore the issue of water use is not just about reflection of the fact that 80% of our workforce and our environmental footprint efficiency but also about its larger social and ecological impact. It is to understand is from our Indian operations. This is something that we clearly see changing in the the nuances of this dimension of water and to act accordingly that we launched the years to come with an increasingly global workforce and a commensurate ‘Responsible Water’ project. Starting with two of our large campuses in Bangalore expansion of people and community initiatives. and Chennai, this uniquely important project will help us understand our upstream trails of the water that we consume and its impact on proximate communities. ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY Waste Energy Wipro recognizes waste material as a valuable resource; this Our world faces rapidly depleting natural resources accompanied by value has been best realized by adopting stringent targets, significant collateral damage to the environment; India is already periodic monitoring, life cycle thinking, sustainable consumption, staring at a looming crisis in energy, water and other key natural in-house recycling units and vendor evaluations. With a focused resources. In such a scenario, conservation of resources, efficiency of program over the years at each of our locations, we now recycle energy conversion and minimization of waste have become critical 83% of our waste disposed.The remainder of approximately 17% is mainly disposed drivers of value creation. to landfills.We have a target to reduce this to 5% by 2013. Energy efficiency coupled with significant ramp-up in renewable energy purchase and Biodiversity generation is the core plank of our GHG mitigation strategy over the next 3 years.We have and will continue to look for opportunities in reducing energy footprint in other Nature provides us the best illustration of why diversity is critical; areas through virtual computing, travel substitution technologies, transport and it is well understood now that biodiversity or the plurality of logistics optimization.We will have focused targets for each of these levers as well as species is crucial to human well being – from providing new sources benchmark ourselves with peers and leaders. of medical cures to preserving climate integrity and providing livelihoods to millions. We think that the business sector must get Water involved much more in the issues of biodiversity. At Wipro, we have started a unique We see that the meaning of efficiency in Water use assumes multiple dimensions: that program of converting some of our facilities to biodiversity campuses, starting with of recycling, harvesting and of conservation. Recycling constitutes 32% of our water our campus at Electronic City in Bangalore. In addition, all our new campuses will be provisioning, while all our new campuses also have significant rain water harvesting designed on the principles of biodiversity. 004 SUSTAINABILITY INTHE WORKPLACE 34 villages with a combined population of 48000 and the results after a year of operations have been extremely encouraging. We will continue to focus and step up Change and transformation come from empowered efforts in this direction. people whether as individuals or as part of small groups, teams, organizations, communities etc. Spirit In a country of 1.3 billion + people, education is a prime mover of human potential and of Wipro, our values framework, highlights this capability; and yet, its advantages are not available to more than 30% of our powerfully by articulating the need to act with populace…and wherever available, it is incomplete and inadequate in various forms. sensitivity with all our stakeholders and through a Wipro Applying Thought in Schools (WATIS), our program in school education demonstrated “Intensity to Win” where the has been trying to address some of the systemic anomalies in our urban school winning implies both, our stakeholders and Wipro. system for a decade now. A detailed study that we undertook with Education Initiatives, one of our partners on the quality of education in the top schools of the For our employees, sustainability assumes multiple dimensions – the assurance country reveals a not too rosy picture of learning outcomes in subjects like science, of a fair workplace, the empowerment at all levels to express oneself and to mathematics and social sciences; even more disconcerting were the findings participate in the organization’s development, the focus on continuous learning, pertaining to attitudes and values around tolerance of diversity, sensitivity to the the emphasis on diversity and inclusivity and the close attention to health, disabled and ecological responsibility. This study reconfirms the nature of wellness and safety. We look at these as part of an interrelated whole, not as silos. challenges that face us in our educationit is something that we recognize well For example, on the dimension of employee health and safety, our emphasis is holistic through our decade long work during which period we have reached out to nearly and all round starting with sound preventive health care practices that 2000 schools and 10500 educators with an effective reach of 800,000 children, emphasize balanced lifestyles with our yoga, gym and sports facilities encouraging all in collaboration with our network of more than 25 partners. Our effort is a small fitness as a way of life and going on to a comprehensively designed package of but important nudge in the direction of making our school education system more health insurance and reimbursements that includes family and dependent parents. meaningful without which the much talked about demographic dividend of COMMUNITY INITIATIVES India’s population is likely to remain a distant dream. Health care is of course a central issue for the world and all countries, rich or poor, Mission10X, our four year old program, with a vision to create a significant face serious problems that need tackling. India faces several challenges on this front, improvement in the quality of engineering education has reached out to over 13,000 ranging from infant and maternal mortality to malnutrition and sanitation related faculty members from more than 900 engineering colleges in India, covering 24 states deaths.This clearly represents a huge loss and drain of human potential but what gives and Union Territories. reason for hope is that many of these problems are addressable with good, cost-effective primary health care practices. It is with SUPPLY CHAIN, CUSTOMERS AND INVESTORS this in mind that we initiated primary health care Our supply chain engagement program, to be launched in 2012, recognizes the pivotal projects under the aegis of Wipro Cares at our role supply chain partners play in our sustainability journey.We also collaborate with operations in Waluj (Maharashtra), Tumkur our customers to provide solutions to reduce their own ecological footprint. Our (Karnataka) and Hindupur (Andhra Pradesh). record in disclosures and transparency, as rated by widely recognized independent Working through partners, we currently cover raters, helps investors make informed choices on responsible investing. 005 DUBAI REPORT PROFILE AND ASSURANCE APPROACH 2 Report Profile Materiality Determination Note on Data Metrics in this Report Wipro’s Approach to Report Assurance In this section, we provide an overview of the profile of our sustainability report Reporting period: The reporting period for this sustainability report is the for 2010-11; the profile provides the anchoring context in terms of coverage fiscal year April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011. referred to hereafter in short as ’10-11. and scope for the report itself. A key topic discussed in this section is Date of the most recent previous report: Our most recent sustainability Wipro’s Materiality approach that helps determine the priorities of our report was for the fiscal year 2009-10, released in March 2011. sustainability program and the corresponding disclosures. Reporting cycle: Our sustainability report is published on an annual basis. In the latter part of this section, we articulate our approach to report assurance, a key determinant of the quality and transparency of any report. This report’s scope, content and boundary The process for defining the scope of this report is based broadly on the Report Profile G3.1 guidelines provided by the GRI framework. The content of the report is The profile of our sustainability report is covered under the following heads: based on the following guiding principles. Profile Parameter Brief Description Scope and boundary: Wipro Ltd. is a diversified conglomerate with a strong Provides information on Reporting Period and presence in the IT services, Consumer Products and Infrastructure Engineering Time Period markets. This report is primarily for Wipro’s IT businesses. The adjacent chart frequency of publishing the report provides a visual representation of Wipro’s business divisions with the broad scope of Provides the scope of the report in terms of business reporting for the IT business. Scope and Boundary divisions that are covered and the sustainability topics covered in each The content of this report In this sub-section, a framework is articulated for This is our fourth sustainability report and like our previous reports, we continue determining the relative materiality of different to adopt the stakeholder format of reporting. Given that stakeholder inclusion Content and engagement is such a crucial cornerstone of the AA1000 and the GRI sustainability areas for Wipro this largely determines the depth of coverage of these topics in the report frameworks, we believe that the stakeholder format is more appropriate for focusing attention on concrete sustainability issues for each of the stakeholders. Provides a contextual framework of the underlying In doing so, we are cognizant of the risk that some of the broader sustainability Data Methodologies processes, systems and empirical assumptions for the issues may not fall under the ambit of any particular stakeholder and we have tried data and metrics published in this report to ensure that these are covered as relevant to the report. REPORT PROFILE AND 008 ASSURANCE APPROACH Table showing the scope and coverage of the report IT Business Consumer Infrastructure IT Services IT Products Care & Engineering Software Services BPO Services WI Lighting Primary Consulting Business Process Outsourcing Enterprise Products Personal Care Hydraulics Offerings Package Implementation Personal Computers Products Water Application Development & (PCs) Lighting Treatment Maintenance Network Products Furniture Clean Energy Testing Services Technology Infrastructure Product Engineering Geography Americas India India India India Presence Europe Americas South East Asia Europe India Europe Japan Middle East Asia Pacific Scope of Financial performance indicators for Financial performance indicators for The IT products The sustainability The sustainability Reporting all geographies all geographies division serves only disclosures of disclosures of Environmental performance for all Environmental performance for all the India market; this division are this division are geographies geographies therefore wherever not covered not covered Employee metrics for all geographies Employee metrics for all geographies the report contains under this report under this report specific reference to Social Programs cover primarily India Social Programs cover primarily India data on IT products, it Other qualitative reporting covers all Other qualitative reporting covers all is for the Indian geographies (unless otherwise geographies (unless otherwise geography specified) specified) REPORT PROFILE AND 009 ASSURANCE APPROACH MATERIALITY DETERMINATION details out the correlation between each of the seventeen dimensions and multiple GRI indicators. Sustainability challenges – globally and in India – are many and it is critical that organizations carefully choose the most material ones from these. This is important Materiality Ecological / Economic Goals so that adequate resources and management attention are allocated to these High Product/Service initiatives. This process of Materiality Determination should logically be based on Quality the priorities of the organization’s stakeholders. Climate Change Resource Efficiency Wipro’s materiality determination framework is driven by the issues that our seven stakeholders below consider relevant and important Relative Biodiversity Pollution Public Policy i. Employees ii. Current and Future Generations Relevance Medium iii. Customers iv. Investors to Wipro Economic v. Suppliers vi. Community Disclosures vii. Government and Policy Makers Public Benefit The identification and relative prioritization of material issues is based on a combination of the following three factors: Low Medium High a. Direct feedback from the stakeholder e.g. Employee perception survey, Customer feedback, Feedback from one-on-one interaction with government Stakeholders' Interest and civil society Materiality – Social / Human Rights b. Indirect inference from public sources of information e.g. CSR survey results in High Safety & Health the public domain People Development c. Informed dialogue and discussion between Wipro leaders and employees in Voice of meetings, open houses, blogs etc Workplace Benefits Stakeholder A detailed delineation of the primary sustainability issues for each of the above Community Engagement Relative Diversity stakeholders is available in Section 5 of the report. Relevance Medium The distilled outcomes of the above processes are represented in the two matrices to Wipro Freedom of below – one for Social and Human Rights and the other for Ecological & Economic Association Human Rights factors. The materiality of a particular sustainability dimension is based on the combination of two criteria – The Stakeholders’ interest in the issue and its Anti-Corruption Relevance / Priority to Wipro’s IT Business. Low The seventeen sustainability dimensions – eight in Economic/Environmental and Medium High nine in Social – are really an aggregate of more granular parameters and factors Stakeholders' Interest that are part of the GRI framework. The Annexure at the end of this chapter REPORT PROFILE AND 010 ASSURANCE APPROACH There are no significant shifts in the materiality positions of the 16 indicators A NOTE ON THE DATA METRICS represented in last year’s report (see Page 13 of our 2009-10 report). However, we have added a new dimension ‘Community Engagement’, taking the IN THIS REPORT: total number of Materiality categories to 17: METHODOLOGIES, PROTOCOLS AND SYSTEMS The relationship between Business and its immediate community must be based on trust This report contains several data metrics and numerical indicators that are and a common understanding of issues that affect both; Continuous engagement with the interwoven into the articulated flow of the different sustainability issues. These community therefore becomes crucial in this context. The issues to engage with are many metrics and numbers are derived from one or more of the following: and vary depending on the industry and the geography e.g. Primary Health Care, Education and Sanitation are critical issues in rural India while Transportation, Tree Cover l Enterprise IT systems or Manually systems ( largely in MS-Excel ) and Pollution assume significance in an urban context. l Based on standard protocols or on organization-specific rules e.g. the GHG protocol, Rules for calculating attrition While Wipro has a decade old community program 'Wipro Cares', the only reason why this is l Based on assumptions and rules of thumb being introduced as a separate dimension in this year's report is due to its centrality to our thinking and actions. Further, it is important to take note of the following points in the above context: Hence the dimension of community engagement in materiality matrices, is rated high i. Wipro maintains a sophisticated infrastructure of internal IT applications – based in relavance to both Wipro and the Stakeholders. on SAP R/3 ERP and other Enterprise applications where most of the enterprise data and information are captured, collated and analyzed. These systems cover The ten most material issues for this year remain the same as enumerated in the financial, HR, sales, delivery and procurement processes. last report with just ‘Community Engagement’ getting added – these are those in the Top-Right quadrant of the two matrices and reflect high relevance for both Wipro ii. Our financial systems comply with Section 404 of the Sarbannes-Oxley and its stakeholders framework.This implies a high degree of rigor and a robust system of checks and balances that ensure integrity of financial data. i. Product and Service Stewardship ii. Employee Health and Safety iii. Voice of the Stakeholder iv. Climate Change iii. While our Environmental IT systems are not of the same maturity as our financial v. People Development vi. Workplace Benefits and HR systems, we have been making steady progress in the automation of these systems. The recording of all key EHS parameters in Wipro-owned campuses is vii. Resource Efficiency viii. Pollution done in a central IT system; we have taken the first few steps in using tools for ix. Diversity x. Community Engagement GHG analysis – however, this continues to be a priority action area for us as we These ten sustainability dimensions – and the balance seven as well – are covered in plan to invest in more sophisticated automation in these areas. detail in the rest of this report where we articulate Wipro’s vision, goals and Changes with respect to last report performance on these. The scope this year includes environmental performance data on Energy and GHG for operations in all countries.( Please see Section 5c). REPORT PROFILE AND 011 ASSURANCE APPROACH WIPRO’S APPROACH TO REPORT ASSURANCE Our approach to report assurance right from our first year of reporting has been to Our report assessment and GRI Application Level subject our report to the highest standards of independent, third-party scrutiny – this, We have assessed our report at application A level as per GRI Application matrix we believe, will aid our objective of continuous learning and incorporating below. This report has been Independently verified and assured by Det Norske improvements into Wipro’s sustainability program. We continue to engage the Veritas AS and the assurance engagement is for Type 2 and Moderate level as set out services of DNV AS (Det NorskeVeritas) to audit and assure our report. in the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008.The independent assurance is presented in Sec 6.0 of this report. Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria listed for Same as requirement OUTPUT 1.1 Level C plus: for Level B Profile 2.1 – 2.10 1.2 Disclosures 3.1 – 3.8, 3.10 – 3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1 – 4.4, 4.14 – 4.15 4.5 – 4.13, 4.16 – 4.17 Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Standard Disclosures OUTPUT Management Not Required Management Approach Management Approach Approach Disclosures for each disclosed for each Disclosures Indicator Category Indicator Category Report fully on a minimum of Report fully on a minimum of Respond on each core and any 10 Performance Indicators, 20 Performance Indicators, Sector Supplement indicator Performance OUTPUT including at least one from at least one from each of: with due regard to the Indicators & Economic, Environment, Human materiality Principal by either: each of: Social, Economic Sector Supplement and Environment Rights, Labor, Society, Product a) Reporting on the indicator or Performance Indicators Responsibility. b) Explaining the reason for its omission REPORT PROFILE AND 012 ASSURANCE APPROACH Annexure: Correlation between Materiality dimension and GRI indicators Profile Parameter Brief Description Human Rights LA5, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR4, HR5,HR6, HR7,HR8 Workplace Benefits LA1, LA3, LA15, EC3 Safety and Health LA6, LA7. LA8,LA9 People Development LA10,LA11,LA12,HR3 Anti-Corruption SO2,SO3,SO4 Economic Disclosures EC1, EN30, EC4,EC9, SO6 Public Benefit EC6, EC7,SO1,SO5 Public Policy EC 7, EN28,EC5, EC8,PR2,PR4,PR6,PR7,PR8, PR9,S07,SO8 Voice of the Stakeholder LA4, LA2 Product / Service Stewardship PR1,PR3,PR5,PR8 Diversity LA13. LA14, LA15, EC7 Resource Efficiency EN1-10, EN26-27 Pollution EN19-26,EN29 Climate Change EC2, EN16-18,EN29 Biodiversity EN11-15 Freedom of Association LA4,HR5 Community Engagement SO1 REPORT PROFILE AND 013 ASSURANCE APPROACH CHINA AN ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 3 Our Global Footprint Our Growth Story Our Business Profile Key Organizational Metrics Awards and Accolades Received during the Year 2010 11 Enterprise Risk Management Corporate Governance Diversity of our Governance Bodies Organization Profile Spirit of Wipro, our foundation of values In this section, we provide an overview of Wipro’s organizational profile from the Values define character, whether that be of an individual, an institution or a business primary angle of how it can inform the sustainability disclosures that follow. organization. The distilled essence of Wipro’s values is represented by Spirit of Therefore, we have consciously defined the scope of this section in alignment with the Wipro, something that drives the way every Wiproite thinks and acts. Spirit GRI guidelines. The building blocks of Wipro’s organizational profile are shown in the of Wipro is the indivisible synthesis of three values – ‘Intensity to Win’, visual below: ‘Act with Sensitivity’ and ‘Unyielding Integrity’ Foundation of Values Corporate Markets Governance Served Practices Wipro Profile Services & Brand Products Offered In the pages that follow, we provide a summary overview of each of these elements of Wipro’s corporate profile Details about each of the three values can be found on Page 24 of Wipro Sustainability Report 2009-10 Additional information on these elements in considerable detail is also available in our website www.wipro.com as well as in our Annual Financial Report 2010 11, which can be downloaded from http://www.wipro.com/corporate/investors/index.htm AN ORGANIZATIONAL 016 PROFILE OUR GLOBAL FOOTPRINT Wipro Limited, the legal entity, is a company registered under the Indian Headquartered in Bangalore, India, Wipro has operations in over 50 countries Companies Act, 1956, with its shares listed in National Stock Exchange and Bombay with a predominant presence in the Americas, Europe and India. Stock Exchange in India and in the NYSE, USA. Wipro has 87 subsidiaries of which 7 are Indian companies and the remaining 80 companies are registered outside India. Global Footprint l Presence in 54 countries l Global workforce comprising of 67 nationalities Europe l Investors from 24+ countries Revenue Share: 26% Rest of World No. of Employees: 5% Revenue Share: 9% No. of Employees: 6% l Asia Pacific India Japan America India China Revenue Share: 57% Revenue Share: 9% Australia No. of Employees: 8% No. of Employees: 81% Singapore Malaysia l Europe Taiwan l Americas UK l Middle East Hong Kong United States of America Germany United Arab Emirates New Zealand Canada France Saudi Arabia Brazil Sweden Qatar Netherlands Bahrain Finland Oman Switzerland Kuwait Romania Egypt Portugal Indicative Map Not drawn to scale Austria AN ORGANIZATIONAL 017 PROFILE OUR GROWTH STORY (IT) Sustained Growth 5200 6100 l CAGR of 28% in the last 6 years for IT Revenues 4380 Services (in $ mn) 4256 3128 l Investors from 24+ countries 2185 l Strong Service Delivery Methodologies Partner to Industry Leaders 904 850+ l Over 150 Global Fortune 500 Clients Clients 863 743 l 170* Clients among Forbes 2000 494 620 l 904 Active Clients Global Footprint l Listed on NYSE, NSE and BSE; Global 72 74 Presence in 54 Countries Development 53 50 l 18,000+ Employees Onsite Centers Across Geographies 44 46 l 74 Global Development Centers Diverse Talent Pool 108+ 122 l 67 Nationalities with high Gender & Employees 93 Cultural Diversity (in thousands) 92 73 l 2600 Domain Consultants 57 l Diversified Skill Base Across Service Lines 2005-06 2007-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 NOTE: *Wipro Technologies+Wipro Infotech AN ORGANIZATIONAL 018 PROFILE Our Business Profile KEY ORGANIZATIONAL METRICS Wipro’s IT business comprises the three primary pillars of IT services, IT Products and IT Enabled Services (or BPO).These products and services form a critical part of 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 our customers’ IT and process infrastructure. A significant part of our software and Sales (` Billion) 152.7 203.9 259.6 276.5 316.9 BPO services are executed from offshore centers in India. For the Indian market alone, we also offer in addition to IT Services a wide range of PAT (` Billion) 29.4 32.8 39.0 46.3 52.9 IT products and enterprise infrastructure. Total Assets (` Billion) 99.8 161.9 193.4 245.3 278.4 The majority of our customers are large business enterprises in the global markets Number of shareholders 197,774 232,932 228,456 179,438 220,238 that we operate in. Our customers in the Indian market also include government and non-government institutions and a small segment of retail/individual customers for Number of Employees 76,260 94,152 98,521 108,000 130,145 our desktops and laptops.The visual below illustrates how the IT services business is (Total for IT and non-IT) organized as a matrix containing Industry verticals and technology horizontals. Geographical Breakup of Revenue IT SERVICES BPO SERVICES IT PRODUCTS* India 21% 24% 21% 23% 22% Technology Vertical Domains Practices Service-Lines Americas 48% 44% 45% 44% 41% Banking, Insurance Business Human Resource Enterprise & Financial Services Advisory Services Outsourcing Servers Europe 25% 24% 22% 21% 22% Retail, Consumer Goods, Global Procurement Desktops, ROW (Rest of World) 6% 8% 12% 12% 15% Transportation & Infrastructure Outsourcing Laptops Government services Further details of Wipro’s Financial Performance for 2010-11 can be found in our Manufacturing & Product Order Network Annual Report (AR) 2010-11 at http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/ Hi Tech Engineering Services Management Technology pdf-files/Wipro_Annual_Report_2010-11_Final.pdf Outsourcing Products Energy, Natural Analytics & Knowledge Resources & Utilities Information Process Management Outsourcing Healthcare, Consulting Finance and Accounts Life Sciences & Services Outsourcing Global Media, Customer Telecom & Technology Service Outsourcing Technical Support Outsourcing *Only for the Indian and Middle-East Markets AN ORGANIZATIONAL 019 PROFILE AWARDS AND ACCOLADES RECEIVED DURING THE YEAR 2010-11 SUSTAINABILITY BUSINESS EXCELLENCE AND INNOVATION AWARD lWipro is part of the NASDAQ Global Sustainability Index, a list of Wipro l featured in FinTech Rankings on Top 25 Enterprise companies 100 global sustainability leaders Wipro l in Top 10 in the Aon Hewitt India's Best Employer Survey lWipro Ltd. is ranked 1st in India and 6th in Asia in the 2010 Asian Wipro l in the Global Top 25 companies for leaders by Aon Hewitt, Sustainability Rating (ASR) an environment, social and governance RBL Group and Fortune ESG benchmarking tool developed by Responsible Research and CSR Asia Wipro l & Diversey win 'IT Outsourcing Project of the Year' award at the lWipro is part of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) 2011-12 for National Outsourcing Association Awards the second consecutive year Wipro l implementation at LTA Singapore was Winner of Gartner BI lWipro is in the Top 2 in India in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Excellence Award for ANZ Index (CDLI), India from Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Wipro's l IDAM-in-a-Rack has won the Global Product Excellence lWipro won the NASEOH award in 2010 for our efforts in promoting Award 2010 in Security equal opportunities for People with Disability NASSCOM l Corporate Award for Excellence in Gender Inclusivity lWipro won the NASSCOM Diversity Award in 2010 and 2011 2010 lWipro ranked No.1 in the Nov 2011 upgraded edition of the Wipro l won the American Society for Training and Development, ‘Greenpeace Guide to Greener Electronics – India Version’ – and ASTD BEST award for the eighth time in a row, in 2011 since August 2007 lWipro ranked global No: 2 in the Oekom Sustainability Rating of IT companies; Based on which, Ranked No. 1 by MSCI in Emerging Markets AN ORGANIZATIONAL 020 PROFILE Good Governance and Management Practices An organization’s license to operate in the long run is dependent on the soundness of its governance and management practices. The visual below showing the Governance and Management Architecture at Wipro organizational architecture of Wipro illustrates this point – most of the boxes reflect a long-term orientation that a company needs to assiduously build and Strategic Planning Ø Operational Planning Ø Regular reviews by Board and CEC ingrain into its DNA. Continuous Empowered Leadership Diversity & Business strategic planning at Wipro takes key inputs from a variety of PEOPLE learning workplace development Inclusivity stakeholders with respect to changes, current and foreseen in the socio-economic climate and/or technology landscape. These create various risks and opportunities Environment, Information for a business entity. The purpose of enterprise risk management in an organization POLICIES People Procurement Health, Safety Security is to manage, mitigate and optimize the risk for compliance and assurance to various stakeholders. Hence the need for an integrated approach to governance Talent Global Wividus Continuous mechanisms, risk management and compliance. These assume greater importance PROCESSES Supply Chain Delivery Model Backoffice Internal Audit in a climate of changing regulatory landscape, increasing system complexity, larger scale and deeper supply chain systems. In the following sections, we Governance Practices Sustainability articulate our approach to these interconnected elements, namely – Enterprise Risk l Enterprise Risk l Innovation l Resource & Cost Management and Corporate Governance. Management Efficiency l Quality l COBC l Customer l Ecological footprint l Ombuds-process Centricity reduction l Board governance l Knowledge l Education and Management Community l Internal Audits l Transparent disclosures The visual is a summary of all key constituents of Wipro’s Sustainability Governance and Management framework; in the following sections, we describe in greater detail the dimensions of Enterprise Risk Management, Corporate Governance and the Ombuds-process. AN ORGANIZATIONAL 021 PROFILE ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT (ERM) Wipro’s ERM journey started more than five years back in 2005 and has evolved l Nurturing and building the culture of risk management & compliance across the rapidly in maturity and scope. organization Wipro’s Enterprise Risk Management office is at the center of our ERM program l Stress testing which it drives in an integrated manner with all key business stakeholders. The l Thought Leadership and Benchmarking charter of the ERM program is to enable and support business growth through The visual articulates the seven principal areas of deployment of the ERM risk-intelligent assessment and mitigation mechanisms while providing reassurance framework in Wipro. to all stakeholders including Customers, Shareholders and Employees by way of: l Assessing and mitigating risks within key business & operational processes through an inclusive approach Wipro’s Integrated Risk Management: Deployment Areas ERM Framework & Automation Alignment with Global Risk Management Standards and Automation (GRC Governance, Risk Management & Compliance tool) 1 Awareness & Advocacy Business Risk Management Enhancing risk & compliance literacy 7 2 Models enabling Risk identification Monitoring controlling and across the organization reporting in all Business processes from Deal to Delivery Project Lighthouse Intellectual Property Ensuring Transparency & Propriety in 6 3 Reducing recurrence of incidents of IP infringement & Commercial Processes & Transactions positioning Wipro as the 'Best of Breed' in the area of IP safety. Code of Sales Ethics Integrated Risk Finance Controls A training program to the sales team covering IP, FCPA, Anti trust, 5 Management 4 Strengthening and automating controls across Finance function, at Wipro Stress testing and Anomaly detection Anti competitive acts, Discrimination and Work Place behaviour AN ORGANIZATIONAL 022 PROFILE For an updated overview of our ERM initiatives, please refer page no. 45 of l We classify risks in five categories – Emerging Risk, Concern, Threat, Wipro’s Annual Financial Report 2010-11. The top 16 risks and the current/planned Enhanced Threat and Post Risk Event; Similarly, we classify our responses to status in organizational preparedness and planning are shown below. We started risks in five categories Identify, Assess, Recommend, Mitigate and including climate change and sustainability risk from 2008-09 onwards. We have Optimize. started on a Comprehensive Sustainability Risk Inventorization Exercise, l Wipro’s 16 top risks are shown laid out in the matrix below against the above which will provide us with a framework to assess and integrate core sustainability articulated framework. risks into our enterprise strategy. This exercise will be completed by June 2012. Identify Assess Recommend Mitigate Optimize Wipro's Top 16 risks (2010-11) Post Risk Sl. Risk Area Event Enhanced 1 1 1 Intellectual Property Exposure Threat 2 IT Systemic Vulnerabilities (New) 4 4 3 3 3 Large Program – Deal to Delivery 5 5 Threat 2 2 4 Regulatory Compliance 6 6 5 Business Continuity Management 8 8 6 Information Security (Infosec) Compliance 9 7 7 7 Fraud Vulnerability 8 Transport Safety (New) Concern 9 People Engagement (New) 13 13 12 12 10 Alliance Partner Risks (New) 10 10 11 Country Specific Risks (New) 11 11 14 14 12 Governance – Policy Compliance Emerging 16 16 13 Infrastructure & Operations Risks 15 14 Recruitment, People Supply Chain 15 Physical Security/Safety Enhanced Participation 16 Climate Change & Sustainability (Introduced in 2008-09) Current Proposed AN ORGANIZATIONAL 023 PROFILE GOOD ERM PRACTICES lOur Chief Risk Officer reports to the Chief Finance Officer and the Chief Executive Officer who are both executive members of the board. Our CRO Policy Process Ethically Behaviour reports to the Board committee on Risk and Compliance on a quarterly basis.The Driven Oriented Driven Oriented risk officers of all the major business units, service lines and programs report to the Chief Risk Officer. SLOW FAST lWe are planning to implement a rigorous stress testing program to assess repeatability and reproducibility of controls in Finance. Information Security and Loud Weak Procurement Processes. Cognitive Affective Signals Signals lWe are consciously moving to a regimen of responding to weak signals backed by program-managed mitigation and validation.This is also aligned to the Article 15 of the Rio Principles (also known as precautionary principle ), which we subscribe to, in our enterprise risk planning. The visual below illustrates the significant difference in outcomes that can happen as a result of such an approach. AN ORGANIZATIONAL 024 PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE While good management creates value for the business, good governance a strong system of checks and balances and by promoting transparency through preserves this value. The primary purpose of good corporate governance is to the company’s disclosures. protect the interests of all the stakeholders of the company – by institutionalizing Key Dimensions of Good Corporate Governance l Board Committees l Board Diversity l Assessment of Board Effectiveness Board l Lead Independent Director(s) Governance l Code of Business Conduct and Ethics l Code of Conduct for Principal Codes of Shareholder Finance Officers l Annual General Meeting (AGM) Conduct Governance l Spirit of Wipro Corporate l Shareholders Satisfaction Survey Governance l Quality and Frequency of Communication with Investors / Analysts Ombuds Checks and l Ombuds-process for both Employees Process Balances l Compliance Oversight and Non-Employees l Prevention of Insider Trading l Online Portal for Registering and Tracking Complaints l SOX Compliance AN ORGANIZATIONAL 025 PROFILE Details of our four layer corporate governance structure and the update for non compliance with the COBCE, especially on non-negotiable factors – e.g. child for 2010-11 can be found in the following sources labor, anti-corruption etc. l Page nos. 63-82 of Wipro’s Annual Financial Report, 2010-11 More details of the COBCE are available at l A detailed overview at http://www.wipro.com/investors/Pages/corporate-governance.aspx http://www.wipro.com/corporate/investors/corporate-governance.htm The Ombuds-process: Having a robust whistleblower policy that employees and Some of the highlights to be found here include other stakeholders can use without fear or apprehension is a sine non qua for a Our Corporate Governance guidelines transparent and ethical company.Wipro’s Ombuds-process is designed to be this and Code of Ethics for principal finance officers more. It allows and encourages any affected stakeholder to report breaches of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (COBCE) COBCE and any other matter of integrity to the concerned Ombuds-person. The NYSE Corporate Governance report for 2009. 2010 and 2011. In Wipro, our Chief Risk Officer is also the Chief Ombuds-person who works with The charters of the three board committees on ‘Audit/Risk and designated Ombuds-person in each BU. The process ensures confidential and Compliance’, ‘Compensation’ and ‘Board governance/nomination’ anonymous submissions regarding (i) questionable accounting or auditing matters, Wipro’s Ombuds-process the conduct of which results in a violation of law by Wipro or (ii) substantial mismanagement of company resources (iii) Any instance of sexual harassment or any Results of the postal ballot for 2010 other form of discrimination (iv) Any violation of human rights as articulated in the Lead Independent Director: Our CG guidelines require at least 50% of the board COBCE and as per the principles of the U.N.Global Compact. to be independent directors, of which one member is to be designated as the ‘Lead Complete details of the Ombuds-process Independent Director’.The lead independent director’s primary role is to coordinate the responsibilities and activities of the other independent directors. l For employees is available at http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/pdf-files/wipro_ombuds_process.pdf Code of Business Conduct and Ethics: Wipro‘s Code of Business Conduct & l For non-employees at Ethics (COBCE) is a formal articulation of our approach and position on multiple http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/pdf-files/wipro-ombudsmandimensions of business ethics and integrity.The COBCE along with our Environment process-non-employees.pdf. and Health & Safety policies provide policy shelter on a wide range of issues of ethics, labor and human rights. The COBCE covers human rights, prevention of fraudulent l Anyone can report a concern to the ombuds-person online at and corrupt practices, freedom of association, elimination of child and forced labor, http://www.wipro.com/investors/Pages/regaconcern.aspx advertisement and media policy, avoidance of conflict of interest, prevention of sexual harassment and unyielding integrity at all times. The COBCE is socialized at multiple points of an employee’s lifecycle it is first covered as part of the induction program of new hires and subsequently, every employee has to take an online test annually to assert his familiarity with the tenets of the COBCE.We have a zero tolerance policy AN ORGANIZATIONAL 026 PROFILE RESOLUTION OF OMBUDS-PROCESS COMPLAINTS DIVERSITY OF OUR GOVERNANCE BODIES Break Up of Complaints received through the Ombuds-process Wipro Ltd. Our topmost governance bodies comprise of Board of Directors and Corporate Types of Complaint 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 Executive Council (CEC). We value the diversity of our governance bodies as it TED / HR / People Process Violation 40% 50% 52% provides different perspectives on various issues on account of their varied COBCE / Security Policy Violation 18% 16% 13% backgrounds and experience in managing businesses across a spectrum of industries. Harassment (Sexual / Otherwise) 8% 7% 9% The table below provides the slices of the diversity of the above governing bodies. Fraud / Financial Impropriety 3% 3% 6% Experience Diversity of the Board Aggressive / Hostile / Biased Behaviour 20% 17% 9% Others 11% 7% 11% Category No. of Directors TOTAL 100% 100% 100% Former CEO's FMCG 2 Total Number of Complaints 453 451 502 Former CEO's Technology 2 Break Up of Actions taken against Complaints Wipro Ltd. Former CEO's Financial Services 1 Legal 1 Action Type 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 Academia & Consultant -Marketing Strategy 1 Separation 9% 6% 10% Government, Diplomat 1 Warning Letter 5% 6% 5% Executive Management 3 Counseling 24% 35% 24% Total 11 Process / Policy Change / Clarifications 31% 20% 26% Minor Issue / Clarifications 23% 22% 23% Experience diversity of Wipro’s Others 8% 11% 12% Corporate Executive Council (CEC) Differing Tenures TOTAL 100% 100% 100% Experience in Wipro Tenure in Wipro Board The Ombuds-process statistics for 2010-11 do not reveal any major deviation Experience No. of Members Duration No. of Directors from the trend of the previous two years; there has been, however, a visible >20 years 4 0-5 yrs 5 reduction in the number of complaints that pertain to violations of HR processes 10 20 years 2 5-10 yrs 1 which is a probable indicator of a deeper understanding of HR policies. 0 10 years 2 >10 years 5 There is no significant change in the pattern of actions taken to close these issues – Total 8 Total 11 the top three categories for the last three years have been Process Change / Clarifications, Minor Issue and Counseling. Wipro’s CEC includes one senior female executive AN ORGANIZATIONAL 027 PROFILE EXPERT PERSPECTIVES THE TRIPLE BOTTOM LINE: NOT A ZERO SUM GAME C B Bhattacharya, Professor, E.ON Chair in Corporate Responsibility, and Dean of International Relations C B Bhattacharya is Dean of International Relations and E.ON Chair and environmental footprints, CR efforts have moved into Professor in Corporate Responsibility at ESMT European School of Leveraging Corporate uncharted management territory. We see companies Management and Technology in Berlin, Germany. He is an RESPONSIBILITY reengineering supply chains to make them “greener,” international expert in business strategy innovation aimed at The Stakeholder Route to Maximizing supporting social causes through employee volunteer increasing both business and social value. His research and teaching Business and Social Value programs, or lobbying for human rights. This is valuable focuses specifically on how companies can use underleveraged evidence for the importance of the concept of corporate “intangible assets” such as corporate identity and reputation, responsibility and a great help for the social and environmental membership and brand communities, and corporate social beneficiaries. responsibility and sustainability to strengthen stakeholder relationships. Address all correspondence to cb@esmt.org At the same time, all this hoopla means that the low-hanging fruit of corporate responsibility is mostly picked. Mere Few concepts today have so totally captured the corporate engagement in corporate responsibility is no longer enough to consciousness the world over as the twin ideas of corporate differentiate a company from its competitors in the eyes of responsibility (CR) and sustainability. Simply put, CR, customers, employees and other important corporate sustainability, corporate citizenship and many other similar stakeholders. It is also not enough for managers to make a terms essentially connote that in today’s business landscape, a business case for corporate responsibility by merely company’s long term success and perhaps even survival is tied demonstrating the economic value of energy or water C B BHATTACHARYA to the stewardship of not only its own well-being but also SANKAR SEN conservation. To make a boardroom case for continued that of the natural and social environment in which it operates. DANIEL KORSCHUN investment in CR, the real challenge for companies going With stakeholders such as consumers, investors, and forward is to understand the conditions under which employees paying increasing attention to companies’ social stakeholders react favorably to corporate responsibility EXPERT PERSPECTIVES 028 initiatives and reward companies through coveted behaviors such as loyalty and Our research identifies three interdependent psychological levers that drive positive word of mouth. Absent such understanding, it will be hard or even stakeholder reactions to corporate responsibility: Understanding, Usefulness, Unity impossible for companies to drive competitive advantage through corporate (the 3U’s model). The first lever is a stakeholder’s Understanding of a company’s responsibility. In other words, if stakeholders do not ultimately value corporate CR initiatives. The first component of Understanding is awareness. Our research responsibility, rewarding companies for their efforts in this domain, then corporate shows that most customers and even many employees are not aware of what responsibility itself cannot be sustainable. companies do in the CR realm.The simple implication is that if they don’t know, there is no possibility that they can reward the companies for their CR initiatives. Once a No wonder then, that successful companies are increasingly construing stakeholder becomes aware of a corporate responsibility activity, he or she often corporate responsibility in terms of the interests of a specific but large and diverse questions the company’s motivations for engaging in CR: Are they seriously trying to set of stakeholder segments (among those stakeholders are consumers, help the community or is it just about profit? A study conducted for a Fortune 500 employees and investors, but also communities, governments and the environment consumer goods company shows that awareness of a corporate responsibility itself). These efforts are shaped by the strong belief that endeavors in the corporate program (in this case a large donation to a child development center) yielded responsibility domain can elicit company-favoring responses such as increased significantly greater intent to purchase its products when stakeholders attributed the purchases from customers and greater employee loyalty. But how is a manager to donation to “genuine concern” for children on the part of the company. Notably, know whether stakeholders will indeed respond positively to his/her CR stakeholders are remarkably supportive of profit or market motivations on part of initiative? In our book “Leveraging Corporate Responsibility: The Stakeholder Route to the company as long as the company shows genuine interest and makes a difference to Maximizing Business and Social Value” my co-authors Sankar Sen, Daniel Korschun the social cause as well. As one focus group participant put it: “It (the market motive) and I have integrated over a decade of research that spans multiple global is good because they are going to help us along with themselves.” companies and thousands of stakeholders to shed light on the conditions under which“it pays to be good.” The key premise of the book is that corporate The second lever underlying stakeholder reaction to corporate responsibility is responsibility offers opportunities to foster strong stakeholder relationships that Usefulness. Usefulness refers to the degree to which a CR initiative provides create value not only for a company but also for society and the environment. benefit to the stakeholder. Much like products and services, CR initiatives also fulfill certain fundamental needs for stakeholders. The needs that they fulfill and the To find out the stakeholders’ real needs and expectations we delved into the concomitant benefits they provide can either be functional in nature (e.g., energy psychological underpinnings that govern stakeholders’ relationships with savings from more efficient appliances) or psycho-social (e.g., better integration of companies. In particular, we focused on customers and employees, the two work and personal life from working for a socially responsible company). Consider stakeholder groups widely recognized to be the most important1.We identified this quote from an employee at a global consumer goods company: the psychological levers that drive coveted stakeholder behaviors and “One of the things that I’ve been putting a lot of thought into the last few years personally and identified the conditions under which these psychological levers produce such trying to move more and more in the direction of, is trying to overcome this complete desired behaviors. Admittedly, this research was conducted primarily in the U.S. separation of work and non-work life. and Europe, but given that our work is rooted in human psychology, we believe that the results are applicable to other contexts as well. I don’t want to leave here for them to say I have been selling soap. It is probably not quite what I am after. So, the better I can meet the personal purpose and pair it with my professional EXPERT PERSPECTIVES 029 work, the more satisfied I am because then I see I can better combine the two. It is not the solution, thereby reducing gaps that exist between their expectations and the firm’s choice do one or the other.” response. Co-creation is not a new idea.Yet, most of the co-creation discussion and action has centered on the need to engage the diverse sectors of society – particularly Understanding and Usefulness work together to create a sense of Unity NGOs, the government, the media and others. Less has been said and done (the third lever in our framework) between the stakeholder and the company. about engaging the company’s primary stakeholders, such as employees and Unity can best be described as a sense of belongingness to or connection between consumers. What we find is that when most of the decisions are made by the the stakeholder and the company. Stakeholders develop a sense of Unity with a company itself, many employees are left feeling unempowered, unmotivated, and company based partially on whether and how they Understand its corporate sometimes even disillusioned and disengaged. responsibility activity and how much they find the activity Useful. Given a choice, stakeholders tend to deepen their relationships with companies with which they Another key implication to leverage corporate responsibility is that communication feel a sense of connection based on an overlap of values and withdraw from needs to become more prominent in corporate responsibility planning. As companies with which they have a mismatch in values. mentioned above, awareness of CR initiatives is quite low for many companies. This holds not only true for the general public but even for employees. Even at Armed with the insight of the 3Us and how they work, companies can develop and companies that invest huge resources and enact major sustainability programs, implement compelling corporate responsibility programs that drive positive awareness is frequently in the low double digits for consumers and around 50% stakeholder reactions. When these levers work harmoniously, they produce the for employees. Too many companies limit their corporate responsibility greatest value for both the company and society, maximizing the triple bottom line: communication to an annual report and a few electronic repositories. Just note this people, planet and profit. It is important to note that we do not view corporate quote by an employee who participated in a focus group: “We actually do have a responsibility as yet another cynical instrument of corporate profit. Instead, my volunteer website that gives you the organizations you could go to, but it’s obviously not co-authors and I argue that for firms to gain value from their corporate responsibility well-publicized. It’s just sitting there on the ‘L’ drive.” Corporate responsibility management efforts those efforts must improve the lives of their stakeholders in significant ways. needs to be accompanied by a communication plan that clearly articulates how In other words, creating social value is a prerequisite for creating business value. effective programs are, how they fit into the company’s strategy and how corporate One key implication of this framework is that companies need to eschew the idea that responsibility can benefit different stakeholders. corporate responsibility must be enacted in a top-down way. In spite of a strong Finally, companies that want to maximize corporate responsibility value must measure stakeholder involvement rhetoric, most companies continue to develop and manage stakeholder responses with more discipline than they do at the moment. their corporate responsibility as a top-down process. In a recent survey, 71% of the It is quite common for companies to spend much money measuring customer participating companies reported to the United Nations’ Global Compact that preferences of products and services or employee job satisfaction while only few use corporate responsibility policies and practices are currently developed at the CEO the same disciplined approach when assessing the value generated by corporate level. But in today’s environment, there is a strong demand for co-creation. Our responsibility. The framework outlined in our book provides three leverage points research shows that the best way to improve Understanding of corporate (Understanding, Usefulness, and Unity) that managers need to track and subsequently responsibility activities, to make activities maximally Useful to stakeholders and to relate to stakeholder behaviors as part of assessing reactions to corporate foster Unity is to actively involve stakeholders in corporate responsibility activities responsibility among stakeholders. In short, the answer to the oft asked question, whenever this is possible. Through co-creation, stakeholders become part of the “Does it pay to be good?” is a resounding, “It depends!” Investments in the CR and EXPERT PERSPECTIVES 030 sustainability realm are rewarded by stakeholders only under certain conditions as 1 “McKinsey survey of 391 UN Global Compact participant CEOs” (2007), available at articulated above. But there is value to be extracted for those who get the www.mckinsey.it/storage/first/uploadfile/attach/139881/file/cest07.pdf, accessed strategy right. This message is particularly relevant for India and other emerging November 2, 2011. markets where CR and sustainability is still in relative infancy and if managers get it right from the get go, they will be able to do a whole lot more good for the environment and society as well as contribute to their bottom lines. It is time to realize that the triple bottom line is not a zero sum game. The article is based on the recently published book “Leveraging Corporate Responsibility: The Stakeholder Route to Maximizing Business and Social Value,” written by C B Bhattacharya, Sankar Sen and Daniel Korschun and published by Cambridge University Press. EXPERT PERSPECTIVES 031 AMSTERDAM WIPRO’S STRATEGIC PERSPECTIVE 4 Preamble: The Sustainability Mobius Business and The Sustainability Megaforces Sustainability Strategy and Governance At Wipro The Wipro Sustainability Dashboard for 2010-11 Aligning with Sustainability Charters and Networks THE SUSTAINABILITY MOBIUS The problems of sustainable development have emerged prominently onto the factors of production but as consumers and citizens in their own right. In the latter center stage only in the second half of the 20th century when the world began to decades of the century, issues of child labor and discriminatory practices gained understand and grapple with the multi-fold outcomes of rapid industrialization and attention as supply chains of companies spread out like webs into many more technology infused modernization. The environmental movement has its origins in countries, including in emerging economies. All along, the problems of poverty, Rachel Carson's landmark findings in 1962 on the negative effects of DDT, inequity, and corruption persisted and in fact, only got exacerbated. considered a wonder pesticide till then. Her seminal book 'The Silent Spring' In the last decade has come the realization that these ecological, social and economic triggered off a wave of consciousness and actions around the need to find the right problems cannot be compartmentalized; rather, they are deeply entwined with each balance between ecological preservation and economic considerations. other with no clear start and end points – much like the mobius strip shown above. Ralph Nader's consumer rights movement around the same time brought focus At Wipro, we view sustainability challenges as mobius like in many ways. What on issues of automobile safety and acted as a catalyst for manufacturers in all follows is our articulation of the eight sustainability megaforces that will shape the industries to tighten standards of safety for the end user. The history of labor rights 21st century – we have been talking about these since our 2008-09 report and goes back to the early twentieth century when the first unions were formed and when each year is an updated summary of the developments on these eight dimensions. Henry Ford I dramatically increased workers' wages as he saw them not just as BUSINESS AND THE SUSTAINABILITY MEGAFORCES Sustainability Megaforce Summary Update The business sector’s role The Climate Change The recently concluded COP 17 at Durban on climate change seemed Of the Indian government’s National Action Plan on Climate Change, Crisis to provide some hope of a solution to the impasse on the Kyoto the two missions on Solar and Energy Efficiency have gained significant Protocol. However, the deeper concern is that after more than ten traction.The business sector must involve itself and take advantage of years of the Kyoto Protocol, Annex I – developed countries – are the several opportunities that these missions will generate. At the nowhere near their GHG emission reduction targets. same time, the government must provide a clear direction path, ensure Opinions differ on what must be done – ranging from “a dramatic consistency in its policy of incentives, remove tariff barriers so that increase in R&D investment that will make renewable energy access to leading edge technology is ensured and facilitate easier technologically mainstream and commercially feasible” to financing for investment in clean energy. “geo-engineering solutions that will cool the planet” to “shifting the Business must set ambitious goals for itself on GHG reduction and focus from mitigation to adaptation, on the assumption that energy efficiency and back it up with the necessary investments. catastrophic global warming is sure to occur”. Visionary companies are making early moves in research and in developing new low-carbon products and services. WIPRO’S STRATEGIC 034 PERSPECTIVE Sustainability Megaforce Summary Update The business sector’s role The Looming Water The number of people without access to clean drinking water or Agribusinesses and biotech companies must step up research on Disaster sanitation continues to rise. Of the 1.1 billion people across the world water efficient seeds and crops. This will have a cascading impact on who do not have access to clean water, 400 million are from India. water availability as agriculture accounts for more than 80% globally. India is widely recognized as a water-stressed country with withdrawal Water intensive industries while continuing to reduce its water to availability ratios ranging from 0.5 to 0.8. Access to clean water consumption must ensure that community water resources are not is inevitably linked to positive outcomes on gender equity, higher life compromised. expectancy and improved child mortality. The business sector must further the agenda on water by going beyond internal efficiencies and look at water from a responsible, wider angle lens that includes social and ecological impacts of their consumption. Further, they must take the lead on driving advocacy on fair and equitable pricing of water – which implies a willingness to pay significantly higher prices. Sustainable Cities With more than 50% of the world’s population living in cities today The business sector is one of the prime drivers of increased and with another 1.2 billion people set to join the ranks of city dwellers urbanization and therefore has a major stake in reversing the tide of by 2025, cities are often power centers in their own right. unsustainable urbanization that is the norm today. Cities are held to be crucibles of innovation, diversity and wealth Business must work with city governments in shaping the policy agenda creation; at the same time, they are responsible for a disproportionate in the direction of sustainable urban spaces. share of resource consumption, air and water pollution and for Sustainable infrastructure – building materials, energy efficient assets, destroying natural ecosystems. mass transit systems, smart uses of technology along with the The definition of a sustainable city must necessarily include several preservation of urban water ecosystems, biodiversity and green dimensions – of buildings and living spaces that are culturally spaces must find place the business sector’s social agenda. congruent and ecologically sustainable, of infrastructure that is both efficient and equitable and a social fabric that inspires diversity and connectedness between people. Universal Education That education is the most powerful force multiplier in the vision of a Business must recognize that solving the seemingly intractable just, humane and sustainable society is almost axiomatic. It is one of problems of education cannot be the government’s job alone. the eight U.N. MDGs and high on the priorities of most governments WIPRO’S STRATEGIC 035 PERSPECTIVE Sustainability Megaforce Summary Update The business sector’s role and yet achieving universal education has proven to be an elusive goal As the biggest customer for the education system’s output – for many developing countries. employable talent business must partner with government in With nearly 35% of children in Class 5 in India not able to read or write, addressing the challenges of education. This will require a steely we clearly have a long path ahead. willingness to get involved in a sector where the processes of change are gradual and where outcomes are likely to become visible only over decades. Diversity, Inclusivity and Social historians have long held the view that diversity and pluralism The business sector must commit to strong affirmative action to Human Rights engender innovation promote diversity and inclusivity at the workplace. The dimensions Closely linked to diversity are the twin issues of Inclusivity and Human must include gender, nationality, physical disability and economic Rights – eliminating discrimination on any ground and including status at the minimum. disadvantaged minorities in mainstream social processes is a crucial Further, business must exercise oversight on its supply chain to driver of more diverse and vibrant schools, colleges, workplaces and ensure that basic human rights are protected without exception – cities. in particular, child and forced labor must be avoided without But as the latest U.N MDG reports indicate, progress has been slow. exception. On gender diversity for example: women continue to be overrepresented in vulnerable jobs and under-represented in mainstream jobs e.g. the proportion of women employees in industry has not changed from 30% between 1999 and 2008. Empowerment of women has shown to be closely correlated with variety of social outcomes e.g. the prevention of human rights abuses like child labor, better management of community resources like water and healthier offspring. Ethics and Transparency Transparency is normally equated with ethical behavior, A recent Reuters’ survey disclosed that public trust in business in the anti-corruption and high standards of voluntary disclosures. U.S. tumbled by 14%; therefore, one of the business sector’s Financial corruption, as much as it is a moral issue, diverts crucial primary tasks is to restore trust in itself. This, it must do through monies from much needed spending on social challenges and has transparent disclosures about its products, what it is doing to therefore, an indirect but tangible impact on sustainability. Disclosures protect human rights within and outside the company and about its by institutions hold them up to public scrutiny and thereby, in a zero tolerance for bribery, corruption and discriminatory practices. constant state of responsible behavior. WIPRO’S STRATEGIC 036 PERSPECTIVE Sustainability Megaforce Summary Update The business sector’s role Sustainable Food Rising food inflation in India and in many other parts of the world over Biotech companies must engage and listen to the concerns of the last few years is seen by experts as symptomatic of a deeper environmentalists, nutritional scientists and citizen groups as they try malaise with agriculture and the food supply chain. As the global to develop solutions for crop productivity. population is set to rise from 7 billion to 9 billion over the next four Food logistics companies must continuously reduce wastage in the decades, the problem of feeding the world adequately is further supply chain. compounded by considerations of equity and sustainability. Agri-business must collaborate with academia and research Agriculture is the biggest consumer of water, accounting for nearly institutes for ways of preserving and enhancing soil fertility for that 80%; Reducing the intensity of its water consumption can prove holds the key to sustainable food security. central to water security in many countries. Other sustainability challenges include improving crop productivity without the use of soil depleting pesticides and fertilizers. Eliminating Poverty An outcome of the global financial crisis of 2008 that is not widely Business – in consonance with government must address poverty known is that the number of people living in extreme poverty has elimination in two ways – first, it must place job creation as one of its actually risen since then. Fuelled by the economic crisis and rising central responsibilities and second it must address underserved and food inflation, nearly 2 billion people live on less than $1.25 a day at unserved markets with appropriate products and services e.g. 2005 prices – as extreme poverty is defined. Linked with extreme microfinance, affordable product versions for the poor, local poverty are higher infant and maternal mortality, lower life sourcing that opens up local livelihood options, extremely expectancy and poor levels of education. affordable healthcare etc. The fact that addressing these markets has a strong business case should be further reason for the business sector to embrace the poverty challenge whole-heartedly. Wipro is deeply aware of these sustainability forces and the complex inter-relation between them. We are engaged intensely with some of these, especially on the issues of climate change, water, education, diversity and inclusivity and transparency.These are detailed in the rest of the report. WIPRO’S STRATEGIC 037 PERSPECTIVE SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE AT WIPRO The unique characteristic of corporate sustainability is that it straddles both the worlds of addresses the twin drivers of strategy and execution equally.What follows is a visual representation business and the social arena outside; this can, however, result in its confused positioning within of key elements of sustainability governance and how Wipro tries to address them. the organization and therefore, it is critical to set up an effective governance structure that l ecoeye and Wipro’s Finance group have created a policy A compelling l Our view of corporate citizenship based on the belief that Create a and decision framework that provides guidelines for vision that business must get involved in social issues because it is the robust evaluating internal investment proposals on sustainability; has leadership investment the framework balances the need for accelerated right thing to do, and not because of compliance backing decision implementation of sustainability programs with the need pressures framework to stay focused on financial prudence l ecoeye carries primary responsibility for Wipro’s sustainability program at the corporate level; l All sustainability programs of Wipro follow the regular Integrate Vest formal WATIS and Wipro Cares carry distinct responsibilities planning and budgeting cycles of the corporation into mainstream accountability for education and community care programs. These are planning, budgeting l The sustainability program is reviewed quarterly at at corporate groups at the corporation level that pull together the and review multiple levels – by the board, by the corporate executive level different strands of the program and steer it forward in processes council and by the chairman the defined direction l Formal training programs on sustainability are conducted Formal l For environmental goals Wipro’s Facilities Management for EHS, HR and Finance managers at regular intervals accountability Group and Civil Infrastructure groups are key custodians and hold responsibility against defined goals; Other key l An e-learning program on Diversity that is available to all and Create stakeholders that hold defined sustainability goals are employees as part of the employee portal involvement of organizational key functions Human Resources, Legal, Finance and Risk Office capacity at l Creation of Sustainability Council consisting of C-level multiple levels and senior leaders who meet on a quarterly basis to review the progress of our sustainability goals l A strong employee chapter program that is based on l We have a structured and well defined dashboard of five voluntary but committed participation Set well year goals for Energy, GHG reduction, Water, Waste and defined and Biodiversity; these goals have year-wise milestones and measurable are part of all our public disclosures l Our programs in Education, Community Care and sustainability Invest in Sustainability Advocacy are largely predicated on the l We have similarly articulated statement of direction and goals institutional principle of nurturing partner networks that foster qualitative goals on Health and Safety, Diversity, Green capacity external Computing and Wipro Education synergies between different areas of expertise and to Wipro strengthen diversity of institutions in the country WIPRO’S STRATEGIC 038 PERSPECTIVE THE WIPRO SUSTAINABILITY DASHBOARD FOR 2010 11 For sustainability to be institutionalized within an organization, the same rigor of goal setting, setting and tracking in the sustainability arena must not be equated to a set of neat numbers. measurement and monitoring is necessary as is common in business operations. Sustainability The goals and measures presented in the sustainability dashboard below are a condensed goals hide multiple layers and dimensions many of which are not quantifiable or where a numerical summary but a complete understanding of these dimensions is possible only in the detailed metric does not disclose the complete picture. Our position therefore is that the rigor of goal analysis that follows in subsequent sections. Sustainability Dimension Key Performance Highlights (2010-11) Vision and Goals for Future Energy & GHG Intensity l Our Energy Efficiency per employee stood at 279 units (kwh) per month Vs l To reduce the scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions intensity 275 units per month for 2008-09.This marginal increase is largely explained by of Wipro's operations from 2.5 metric tons per employee a significant increase in the proportion of data centers in our business model. in 2010-11 to 1.3 metric ton per employee by 2014-15.This After factoring for this, the metric is 270 units per month on a consistent target applies to all of our campus facilities and offices comparable basis, a reduction of nearly 1.5% l For Date centers which account for nearly 20% of our l Our GHG emission intensity has reduced by 2.3% to 4.23 metric tons per energy consumption we are in the process of establishing a employee as compared to 4.33 metric tons in 08-09. It is to be noted that this metric that is representative of the nature of its operations represents the aggregate of Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions l For Scope 3 emissions we report on 5 of the scope 3 emission categories. Baseline goal for overall scope 3 will be set once we expand and report on all applicable categories Note :This is a restatement of 2009 10 goals Water Efficiency l 32% of our total water requirements in 2010-11 was met through recycling l To improve our fresh water efficiency by 5% year-on-year as of waste water. The recycled water is primarily used for sanitation and measured on an per employee basis (Base year: 2010-11); landscaping this translates into a reduction from 1730 liters per l In all Wipro owned campuses, we ensure zero discharge of any untreated employee per month to 1480 liters per employee per water into municipal drains or common public areas month by 2015. The base year has changed due to a significant improvement in water metering infrastructure, leading to better accuracy l To define empirical norms for responsible consumption of water on the basis of its socio-ecological impact.To have the definitions in place by March 2013 and to start measuring Wipro owned campuses against these criteria from 2013-14 onwards. Ground water recharging goal (2009 10) will be assessed once the project is completed in 2012 13 WIPRO’S STRATEGIC 039 PERSPECTIVE Sustainability Dimension Key Performance Highlights (2010-11) Vision and Goals for Future Waste Recycling and 83% of l the total generated waste is recycled – either within our premises or To ensure l by 2013 that not more than 5% of the total Pollution Mitigation externally through vendors; This represents a visible improvement waste reaches landfills; 95% of the waste to be processed – from the corresponding figure of 76% for 2009 10 within Wipro itself or through partners – and either The quantum of e-waste processed and recycled through certified vendors l recycled for further use or safely disposed off has increased nearly 14 times over the last two years – from 17 metric tons in 2008 09 to 241 metric tons in 2010 11 Employee Health and OHSAS 18001:2007 certification for 14 l locations Sustain l and improve wellness programs across businesses Safety Initiated l process of frequent ergonomic work place evaluations that and locations minimize occupational health risks Publish l a comprehensive Health & Safety policy, covering Employee engagement and involvement was strengthened with the launch of l all aspects of safety, occupational health, well-being and online surveys to invite employee feedback on Environment, Health & Safety, people practices by end 2012 Transportation, Hospitality and related services. Environment, Health & Safety Conduct l Health and Safety assessments for all received high scores, while the latter present identified opportunities for infrastructural modifications prior to their commissioning improvement All Occupational l Health Centers to become Emergency Advocacy and awareness among employees was significantly strengthened l Care Centers that house emergency equipment. drugs and with multiple sessions and mailers on ergonomic wellness as well as on Advanced Life Safety Ambulance lifestyle themes such as heart health, diabetes prevention, digestive Complete l OHSAS and EMS certification for the balance dysfunctions etc owned facilities by 2013 To encourage cycling, cycles were included under the ‘Furniture & Equipment’ l benefits program, through which employees are eligible to purchase cycles as a company funded asset Diversity and Inclusivity The program l is designed to actively reach/seek out and nurture four areas of To continue l to strengthen our diversity initiatives around Diversity – People with Disability, Gender, Nationality and the Economically gender, people with disability and nationality. This will underprivileged translate into both, (I) higher numbers and proportions We hired 83 people with disability(PWD) in 2010-1, taking our total strength l and (II) processes and systems of PWD to 253 To further l our supplier engagement program on diversity Women constitute 29% of the workforce, up from 27% in 08-09 l by empanelling more suppliers who meet the criteria of a ‘Diversity Supplier’ WIPRO’S STRATEGIC 040 PERSPECTIVE Sustainability Dimension Key Performance Highlights (2010-11) Vision and Goals for Future 19% of l the workforce is from non-Indian nationalities (up from 10% the year Work with industry associations, like NASSCOM in India on l before), representing 70 countries; 98% of the workforce at our overseas BPO supplier diversity advocacy business comprises local talent while this figure stands at 38% across all business units Diversity parameters are incorporated into our supplier evaluation l questionnaire and are being actively sought where appropriate Employee engagement programs like “Wipro Diversity Festival” on l Xperience Wipro, an online social media platform have received excellent response The ‘Breaking all Barriers’ contest was held across 14 global locations, where l employees participated in assessing our current facilities and infrastructure based on universal accessibility guidelines. The Wipro Women Leadership Program was launched, for high potential l women leaders People Development The Certified Talent Transformer l initiative was launched, to enable business Create l initiatives to strengthen capability and build careers leaders to share their expertise with others, through a unique ‘learn-whileacross levels, for a global workforce you-share’ approach Create l and implement an overarching Employee Value The Real Life Lab was introduced, to enhance project readiness for new l Proposition that aims to enhance continuous learning engineer graduate hires through multi-dimensional learning opportunities 2023 students joined the Wipro Academy of Software Excellence (WASE) l appropriate to every career stage program For all employees deployed in IT service delivery roles, a Role-based l framework and Unified Competency Framework was launched, to enhance competency and career development The Growth Centre and Delivery Manager Academy programs were initiated, l to build capability at middle and senior management levels, respectively Customized programs to enable the organizational change process were l hosted by the CHRD team, on themes such as Building Trust A total of nearly 12,000 Wipro leaders attended various leadership training l programs and interventions during the year WIPRO’S STRATEGIC 041 PERSPECTIVE Sustainability Dimension Key Performance Highlights (2010-11) Vision and Goals for Future Customer Stewardship All models l of Wipro laptops and desktops are 100% RoHS compliant since Launch l the supplier engagement program for our top 2009-10 – the number of vendors who are RoHS compliant has increased suppliers based on the supply chain risk assessment study from 30 to 49 Continue l to progressively phase out PVC and BFR from We launched our first PVC and BFR free desktop in early 2010 – 37% of our l new product launches product launches in 10-11 were PVC and BFR free Continue to l work on the energy efficiency plank: Develop All the l 24 laptop models and 24 desktop models introduced in 2010-11 are and Launch products based on ULV (Ultra Low Voltage) now certified for U.S. EPA’s Energy Star 5 rating. Out of these models, half of technology; Improvise the power management solution them exceed ES 5 rating requirements for system administrators with better analytics and tools Multi-fold increase l (nearly 3 times from the previous year) in collection of e-waste through our collection centers this is now available for computing e-waste from other manufacturers/ vendors Power management solution for system administrators – ‘Green Console’ is l shipped with all desktops Education and Wipro l Applying Thought in Schools (WATIS), our decade long Wipro Applying Thought in Schools: To complete the l Community initiatives program in systemic reforms in school education has reached out to 10500 Quality of Education study and build advocacy around its educators and 800000 children across 2000 schools through multiple key findings programs that we have done through our network of 30 partners To strengthen l our programs based on the defined WATIS launched two new projects in 2010-11 – (I) the Seasonwatch citizen l outcomes of organizational capability development, science program, an innovative socio-ecological scientific study that involves educational material and publications and public advocacy schools in field based learning on tree pheno-phases (flowering patterns) Mission10X: The primary goals of Phase 2 of Mission10X l and (II) the Quality of Education Study with one our partners, Education are to complete by 2013 the Initiatives Creation of 250 more Academic Leaders Aided l by new affiliations with reputed universities, Mission10X reached out to a cumulated total of 13000 faculty members from 900 engineering Deployment of 2500 Unified Learning Kits colleges across 24 states and union territories Empowerment of 25000 more Engineering Faculty A total l of 5700 innovative learning assets in more than 20 engineering Wipro l Cares: To further strengthen our programs in disciplines have been created till now by the institutions we engage with primary health care by expanding to our other factory WIPRO’S STRATEGIC 042 PERSPECTIVE Sustainability Dimension Key Performance Highlights (2010-11) Vision and Goals for Future l Wipro Cares, our decade old community care program, strengthened locations; to continue our existing programs in education our nascent initiatives on primary health care(PHC) ; following our first for the underprivileged in urban centers and community Project Sanjeevani near Waluj, Aurangabad, we initiated similar PHC environment programs programs in Tumkur (Karnataka) and Hindupur (Andhra Pradesh) l We launched our support for an innovative social forestry project. TIST (The International Small Group and Tree Planting) program in Tamil Nadu. The program combines livelihood opportunities with ecological benefits Advocacy and Public We continued to strengthen our focus on issues of advocacy and public policy To actively l participate in India’s agenda on key issues of Policy through both – direct engagement with government and through industry ecological sustainability – with specific focus on low networks carbon solutions, water, and e-waste l We were part of the steering committee of CII-GBC’s task force on evolving To consolidate l partnerships that further research on a green rating of companies, now called Greenco select areas of clean energy and biodiversity conservation l We were part of CII-ITC Center for Sustainable Development’s core To collaborate l closely with industry networks and engage working group on evolving CSR guidelines; the context was the with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs on the emerging published guidelines of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs on CSR spend and debate around CSR voluntary disclosures l We were part of the central working group of CII’s Green Procurement task force that had the objective of evolving a framework of guidelines for green procurement by different industry sectors l Wipro was part of the core working group of ‘Digital Energy Solutions Consortium (DESC)’ that researched ICT solutions for sustainability. The report was released in mid-2010 l Strengthened collaboration with Center for Science and Technology Policy (Cstep) during the year ; we participated in and supported their study “Harnessing Solar Energy: Options for India” l We played a central role in the MAIT led engagement with the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) on the drafting of the e-waste legislation that is due to come into effect in May 2012 WIPRO’S STRATEGIC 043 PERSPECTIVE ALIGNING WITH SUSTAINABILITY CHARTERS AND NETWORKS Sustainability is a multi-stakeholder game and collective action is the only engaged with the networks that we started out with – we provide below the effective way to address its challenges. Since inception, we have believed that updated summary of our associations and networks that is an updated version of subscribing to select charters and aligning with the right networks can be a the table in our previous report (Page 28). force multiplier for some of our own programs. We continue to be deeply Charter / Network / Brief Description Wipro’s Engagement Association The Digital Environment DESC works with the CII sustainability forum on the charter for ICT ( Wipro is part of DESC’s core working group that is the researching the Sustainability Consortium Information and Communication Technology) as a driver of India’s role of ICT in addressing climate change and related sustainability (DESC) India national goals on climate change as articulated in the NAPCC solutions. Our Chief Technology Officer is the co-chair of the task force that released the report in mid-2010. The report can be viewed and downloaded from http://www.digitalenergysolutions.org/india/desc-india/ CII Mission for CII, India’s premier industry network, launched the Mission for Wipro was one of the first signatories to the CII Code for Sustainable Growth Sustainable Growth (MSG) in 2008 with the core purpose of Ecologically Sustainable Business Growth; the code seeks voluntary championing the conservation of natural resources without commitments from companies towards reducing specific compromising on high and accelerated economic growth consumption of energy, water and other natural resources CII-ITC CESD’s task The CII-ITC Center for Sustainable Development (CESD) constituted Wipro has been a part of the core working group, the primary force on CSR guidelines a task force to study the proposed guidelines on CSR from the Ministry recommendations of which have been of Corporate Affairs (MCA). A smaller working group was formed in I. To have two sets of sustainability disclosures – a core set of mid-2010 to recommend to the ministry sustainability disclosure mandatory indicators and a set of optional or leadership indicators norms for Indian companies II. The ministry’s proposed 2% of Profit After Tax spend on CSR should not be mandatory as it could become counter productive WIPRO’S STRATEGIC 044 PERSPECTIVE Charter / Network / Brief Description Wipro’s Engagement Association CII-GBC Green The CII-Green Business Center, Hyderabad formed a cross-industry Wipro is a member of the task force and has played an important role Company Rating task force in mid-2010 with the goal of evolving a framework of in evolving a detailed 1000 point framework that assesses companies ‘Green Rating’ of companies on multiple parameters of ecological on multiple dimensions – Energy Efficiency, Renewable Energy, sustainability Lifecycle Product Design etc.The rating framework is being rolled out in phases from mid-2011 onwards India Green Building The IGBC was formed under the aegis of the CII in 2001 with the goal Wipro is one of the executive members of the IGBC panel that Council (IGBC) of ushering in a ‘Green Building’ movement in India evolved the Green Building standards for India India’s National Action The NAPCC comprises eight missions on different aspects of Wipro has partnered with Cstep in researching and publishing a paper Plan on Climate Change sustainable development and is India’s official charter on Climate on the roadmap for the National Solar Mission (NSM) (NAPCC) Change The Carbon The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) was launched in 2000 to collect Wipro has been an active participant in the CDP disclosure program Disclosure Project and distribute high quality information that motivates investors, since 2008.We have now participated in four editions of CDP, from the corporations and governments to take action to prevent dangerous sixth to the ninth. Our carbon disclosure is available for public viewing climate change. More than 2500 companies from 60 countries at the CDP site ( www.cdproject.net ) measure and disclose their GHG emissions through the CDP Indian Society for The ISTE is a nodal group at the national level which furthers the Wipro Mission10X is a member of the ISTE Technical Education cause of engineering education in the right direction. Please visit (ISTE) http://www.isteonline.in/ for details U.N. Global Compact The ten principles of the UNGC act as both a policy platform and a Wipro became a formal signatory to the UNGC in September 2008. practical framework for companies that are committed to Our first COP (Communication on Progress) was published in July sustainability 2010 U.N. Millennium In the year 2000, the U.N. defined eight millennium development goals Wipro endorses and supports the U.N. Millennium Development Development Goals (MDGs) to be achieved by the year 2015. These goals form the Goals; In our own way, we continue to contribute strongly to at (MDGs) blueprint for world’s countries to meet the needs of the poorest. For least three of the MDGs – Universal Education, Gender Equality more details, visit http://www.un.org/millenniumgoals/ and Environmental Sustainability WIPRO’S STRATEGIC 045 PERSPECTIVE EXPERT PERSPECTIVES In recent decades, however, rapid progress has been made towards understanding the BIODIVERSITY AND THE CITY: linkages and complex feedback loops between social preferences, human drivers of CHALLENGES FOR BENGALURU change, and ecological structure and function – although much of this is based on studies from North America and Europe. In most of the developing world, and certainly in India, there is a severe dearth of basic information on ecology and Dr. Harini Nagendra biodiversity. This has severe implications for urban conservation, and especially so in India, where urbanization has been an exceptionally dynamic force in the last two decades. Dr. Harini Nagendra is a DST Ramanujan Fellow and Urban Ecology Coordinator at the Bengaluru provides a characteristic example of tensions between humans and nature. Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE), Bangalore, and the Asia Those who know the city as a recent urban center, famous for the genesis of new Research Coordinator at Center for the Study of Institutions, Population, and Environmental words such as “Bangalored”, may not be aware that the settlements around the city Change (CIPEC), Indiana University. In addition to investigations of urban ecology and can be dated at least as far back as the 4th century, and the city itself boasts of an biodiversity, she also coordinates a program of research on land cover change and community uninterrupted history as an urban center of commerce and industry since the 16th forest institutions in South Asia. century. Bengaluru has, however, faced an unprecedented explosion of growth in Cities represent some of the most challenging environments for ecological systems, recent decades, with highly unequal growth rates, rapid land use change, and contested with natural and human-induced impacts resulting in rapid and often extreme access to natural resources including water and green spaces. Grazing land, orchards modification of environment, ecology and biodiversity. Yet, cities also provide the only and agricultural fields are rapidly being converted into apartments and commercial face of nature that many urban residents perceive today – and the number of people complexes, water bodies are shrinking through encroachment and pollution, and the who live in cities worldwide, and in India, is only increasing over time. It is becoming city has lost tens of thousands of trees in recent years to make way for ever-expanding increasingly important, therefore, to have a good understanding of the processes that traffic and infrastructure requirements. For many urban residents living in congested shape ecology and conservation in cities. Unfortunately, despite the vast numbers of built environments, these urban green spaces and lakes may provide the only people who live in cities, we know very little about what shapes urban biodiversity and reference to “nature” that they will ever experience. Yet, urban planners and policy ecosystem change. The attention of ecologists has largely been focused on “natural” makers do not appear to adequately recognize the importance and criticality of the ecosystems where the footprint of humankind is not as all encompassing, and cities numerous social and ecosystem services contributed by these open areas, green have remained in the hinterland of ecological knowledge. This is despite the obvious spaces and water bodies, which are being irreplaceably lost. fact that cities have a footprint on ecology, biodiversity and natural resources such as Five years ago, the Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment – one of food and water that far exceeds their size, drawing on resources from areas far India’s foremost research organizations working on conservation and sustainable exceeding their boundaries, and depositing waste material across the world. development issues – began a comprehensive investigation of urban biodiversity and EXPERT PERSPECTIVES 046 ecosystems in Bengaluru. Our goal was to put together a comprehensive database of Our studies of street trees in Bengaluru indicates that the city has a very high species factors that shape the distribution of and changes in biodiversity, ecology, and land use diversity compared to other urban areas worldwide, although tree density is quite in the city, which can then serve as a platform to provide informed inputs for low, and there is much space for additional planting.The trees that dominate the visual management and policy. landscape of the city, including the rain tree, copper pod, African tulip and gulmohar, are being slowly replaced by a less diverse and smaller sized set of trees, with a The urban landscape of the city, until the late 1970s, fit its image as India’s “garden city” preference now being shown for endemic species such as honge and orchid trees.Yet, and the “city of lakes”, consisting of a few residential homes and offices interspersed many naturalists from the city observe that these exotic species have been around for with fruit orchards, lakes, agricultural fields and parks, with tree lined roads connecting one or two centuries, and can be considered to be naturalized “Bengalureans”, large green patches within academic institutions, public sector campuses, and military supporting a number of bird and butterfly species.Their decimation across the city can grounds. While the city covered a much smaller area up until the late 18th century, cause lead to catastrophic alterations in the bird, butterfly and wildlife populations of Bangalore expanded substantially when it was part of the British cantonment and city, the city. Unfortunately, very little attention is paid to developing a well formulated set and again post-Independence, when a number of academic institutions and public of guidelines for urban planting that are scientifically grounded in data, and not based sector enterprises were established across the city.Yet, the most rapid period of land on changing opinions. use change appears to have occurred after the 1980s, with large scale degradation and conversion of open spaces and greenery into urban land uses.Yet, Bangalore remains Bengaluru also has the privilege of being home to two historic gardens – Lal Bagh, fortunate in having a number of parks, streets, home gardens, academic institutions, which dates back to the 18th century, and Cubbon Park, formed in the 19th century. public sector and government offices, and military areas that thankfully continue to An 1891 British book by John Cameron,“Catalogue of Plants in the Botanical Garden, preserve substantial amounts of greenery and biodiversity. Bangalore (Second Edition)” describes 3,222 species of plants found in Lal Bagh alone. These two botanical gardens thus occupy a specific place in the city because of the What kinds of biodiversity do these different types of land use support? In urban diversity and rarity of many of the plant species found here, as well as the size of these environments, human choice, behaviour and policies directly impact biodiversity. This gardens, and the age of many of these trees. In addition, the city also hosts a number of can be especially noticed with respect to plants, whose location and identity is largely small neighbourhood parks.Visually, you can see quite clearly that these look rather controlled by human choice. Old maps, photographs and documents indicate that, different in their plan and layout, and indicate changes in planting preferences that have prior to the 19thcentury, the natural landscape of Bengaluru was open and scrubby. shaped the ecology of these parks over time. Old parks are more wooded, with large Locally valued trees such as Ficus species, mango, jackfruit, tamarind and neem were canopied trees and a more “forested” look, while the recent small neighbourhood planted along roads to provide travellers with shade and fruit, while Hyder Ali and Tipu parks that sprung up all over the city in the 1990s are horticultural parks with introduced large numbers of exotic species such as Eucalyptus and cypress. An manicured hedges and greater lawn area, fewer trees and more shrubs. awareness of increasing temperatures due to urbanization begins to find expression in documents as far back as the mid19th century. In response to this, British and Indian The trees in these parks are overwhelmingly dominated by non-local species, and the horticulturalists began an extensive program of tree plantation to provide the city most common tree, accounting for 20% of all park trees, is Polyalthialongifolia (also with shade and greenery. Species selection was done with an eye to selecting exotic called the mast tree or false Ashoka). As with street trees, we find changes in planting trees, designed to provide a spectacular visual pageant with flowers that bloomed in preferences over time, with the large sized iconic trees like gulmohur and copper pod successive seasons, a visual “Ritusamhara”. now giving way to trees like honge, mast trees and royal palm, and wooded parks giving way to horticultural landscaped gardens.These are changes that will impact the city’s ecology as well as the environment. Ideally, we need a consistent, well formulated tree EXPERT PERSPECTIVES 047 policy that is not shaped by personal preferences of administrators and planners, shape outcomes. Thus, for instance, surveys repeatedly indicate that most city instead specifying a scientifically based, appropriate mix of tree species to be planted residents like birds like sparrows and enjoy looking at butterflies and dragonflies, that takes into account human needs as well as ecological and environmental but do not want to coexist with snakes, lizards, mice, bats or beetles. Butterflies are requirements. found where caterpillars thrive, and thus a butterfly friendly garden can also be expected to contain plants with evidence of leaf damage due to caterpillars and Our research also indicates that some of the largest trees in the city are located on its insects. Areas with dense greenery will often be home to snakes, toads, and frogs. wide streets, and these are larger (thus presumably older) than those in Bengaluru’s Surveys of old home garden owners indicate that they are more sensitive to these parks and home gardens.This has significant implications for the city, as it is the large issues, and the city tended to support greater levels of overall biodiversity in the past. trees on many city roads that have been decimated in recent years for a variety of In many locations, these large gardens are being converted to apartments, which infrastructure projects. Apart from the obvious impact that this has on ecology and prefer pruned, visually aesthetic landscapes that do not provide the same levels of biodiversity, we find that trees on streets canhave a substantial impact in reducing support for overall biodiversity. Many of these “new” city habitats and landscapes pollution and bringing soaring summer temperatures under control. The levels of including corporate campuses and upscale gated residential communities are also Suspended Particulate Matter are very high on many exposed roads, with 50% of the strongly dominated by manicured landscapes, with exotic turf grasses, locations we studied showing levels approaching twice the permissible limits.This can non-flowering variegated shrubs and herbs, and hybridized small sized flowering have dangerous impacts on human health.Yet, having tree lined roads reduces levels of trees and exotic palms that do not provide fruits, flowers, insect habitat and pollution to within acceptable or near-acceptable limits on many city streets. Sulphur nesting areas for butterflies, birds, and insects. The extensive use of pesticides also dioxide levels are also reduced by much as 65%. Further, tree lined roads reduce impacts bird feeding, nesting and breeding. ambient air temperature by as much as 5ºC, and reduce the surface temperature of asphalted roads by as much as 25ºC, leading to significant mitigation of urban heat Yet, in our experience much of this can be reversed simply by providing people with islands and providing a “win-win” way to partially mitigate the impact of global more information about the consequences of such preferences for certain aesthetics warming and climate change. Yet, rather than encouraging this as an approach to on biodiversity, which they are often unaware of. Thankfully, in recent years there is combat climate change, Bengaluru seems to be on a path exacerbation of these increasing attention being paid to urban ecology, and a growing population of urban impacts, by cutting down the city’s oldest and largest trees – as these presumably have residents from many Indian cities including Delhi, Pune and Bengaluru, who participate the greatest role to play in combating pollution and ameliorating urban heat islands. in efforts such as tree planting and lake protection. Thus in Bengaluru, for instance, collaborations between citizen groups and the government have led to the effective Bengaluru is also known to host to an impressive list of other plant and animal species. restoration and maintenance of lakes in the southern and western parts of the city. A checklist of fauna compiled by S. Karthikeyan in 1999 lists as many as 340 species of Corporate groups have also come forward to support some of these initiatives, birds, 160 species of butterflies, 40 species of mammals, 38 species of reptiles, 16 especially towards tree plantation and lake maintenance. Urban advocacy groups have species of amphibians, and 41 species of fish in the city.There has even been a report of played a major role in increasing public awareness of “green” issues, and have pursued a new ant species identified in Bengaluru as recently as in 2006, from the Indian several landmark Public Interest Litigations that have enabled public commons such as Institute of Science campus – indicating the richness as well as the unexplored nature lakes to be preserved for public use. Such collective action by a diverse array of city of many Indian city environments. groups has great potential to help in providing an atmosphere that supports the Changes in land use and management practices impact such biodiversity. The conservation and promotion of urban greening and biodiversity, where policy makers challenges of urban conservation are many, and human preferences for biodiversity and planners can be urged to pay attention to these critical issues. EXPERT PERSPECTIVES 048 JAPAN WIPRO AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS 5 A Summary of our Stakeholder Engagement A sustainability-centric approach to business focuses on multiple stakeholders, not Starting with our last sustainability report (2009-10), we had a slightly modified list just the investor. These stakeholders may not have a direct connect with the of eight stakeholders wherein we had split our earlier ‘Education and Society’ organization’s business operations and yet they assume significance in the broader stakeholder into two distinct groups: Education Ecosystem and Communities and sustainability context of the industry sector and the geography in which the NGOs. Both these stakeholders continue to be covered in the same section organization operates e.g. if a company runs operations in a water-stressed area, the ‘Education and Society’. local community becomes an important stakeholder for the organization to engage with on water management. At Wipro, we have always viewed our customers, employees and investors as strategic partners and stakeholders. Over the last decade, our deep outreach into education and community care has brought us in close engagement with two new stakeholders – partners in the education ecosystem and proximate communities. While the IT services industry model does not necessitate a deep supply chain, the rapid expansion of this sector in the last two decades has resulted in a variety of ancillary services e.g. bus transport, housekeeping, canteen, security. Services suppliers and contractors have become thus a critical stakeholder for our operations. As the case study on the Wipro Green PC in Section 5d shows, our suppliers have played a strategic role in the success of our Green Computing journey. In progressing towards the goal of a sustainable and inclusive society, government, academia and research play a crucial role –> the government by legislating progressive policies and the academic / research worlds by driving fundamental innovation. Over the last three years, Wipro has started engaging and collaborating closely with government and policy bodies on matters related to energy, water and ICT in governance. Simultaneously, we have also started collaborative partnerships with research and academic institutions. To these stakeholders, we have added another stakeholder, Current and Future Generations.We think that the future must inform our thinking and actions on sustainability more than anything else, otherwise our vision will stop short of being truly sustainable; therefore, while this stakeholder group may not have a tangible and real face to it, they act as an anchor for our decisions. WIPRO AND ITS 052 STAKEHOLDERS 5a. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT FRAMEWORK What follows is a summary representation of our eight stakeholders, the modes and emerged over a period of time and the primary internal custodians within Wipro for frequency of our engagement with them, the major issues of engagement that have each of these groups A SUMMARY OF OUR STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Stakeholders Modes and Frequency of Engagement Major Issues of Engagement Primary Internal Custodian Customers Modes: Strategic and operational reviews, Quality and timeliness of delivery The Chief Strategy Officer, Chief Business Customer Meets, Formal customer feedback Impact on customer’s business goals Operations Officer, the Chief Quality Officer, and surveys the Sales and Marketing functions and their Does Wipro meet the expected norms on teams Frequency: Ongoing and continuous; Surveys environment, labor and human rights and are annual and project-based corporate responsibility? Employees Modes: Open houses, Performance reviews, Empowerment, Continuous Learning, The Human Resources group, Environment 360 deg feedback, All hands meet, Focus Quality of Work, Work-Life balance Health and Safety group ( joint responsibility for groups, Leadership webcasts, Blogs and Compensation & Benefits, Workplace health and safety) discussion groups, Perception Surveys facilities Frequency: Ranges from daily (blogs) to annual Health & Safety. Counseling and Advice ( 360 deg feedback) Diversity in the workplace Career planning, Appraisal and Feedback Integrity and transparency at workplace, the company’s larger vision on sustainability and social issues WIPRO AND ITS 053 STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholders Modes and Frequency of Engagement Major Issues of Engagement Primary Internal Custodian Investors Modes: Annual General Meeting, Annual Company strategy and performance, future Investor Relations team, Chief Finance Officer, Report, Investor meets, Analyst conferences, plans Chief Strategy Officer Roadshows, Shareholder voting, Investor Returns to shareholders complaints Corporate governance standards Frequency: Ranges from Quarterly to Annual; Analyst meets and roadshows may be Top risks and company’s approach to risk periodic depending on situational requirement mitigation Suppliers Modes: Regular operational reviews, Supplier Quality and cost effectiveness of services The Central Procurement Office, Wividus meets, Vendor survey Innovativeness of delivery Shared Services, Facilities Management Group, Frequency: Will vary from monthly to annual Legal Group, Wipro Computing Division’s 100% compliance on labor and human rights; Supply Chain Group Must subscribe to Wipro COBCE Zero tolerance for lapses in integrity Alignment with Wipro expectations on ecological sustainability The Education Modes: Periodic meetings and discussions, Systemic reform in India’s school Wipro Applying Thought in Schools (WATIS) for Ecosystem Regular e-mail exchanges, Annual Education education system: Educational material and school education Forum, Faculty Workshops, Mission10X publications, Organizational capability Mission10X for engineering education collaborative portal development and Public advocacy Frequency: Varies from weekly to annual Improving the quality of engineering education through both curriculum interventions and faculty training Communities and Modes: Periodic meetings with partners, open Education for disadvantaged children e.g. Wipro Cares, Location leadership NGOs meets with community, Partner newsletters children of migrant laborers, children with Frequency: Varies from monthly to quarterly hearing disability etc Primary healthcare for rural communities WIPRO AND ITS 054 STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholders Modes and Frequency of Engagement Major Issues of Engagement Primary Internal Custodian Environment issues that affect disadvantaged communities e.g. Water Long term rehabilitation for disaster affected areas Policy, Research and Modes: Planned meetings, workshops, India’s policies on climate change, energy Eco-eye, Corporate Affairs group, Senior Advocacy taskforces and steering committees of industry efficiency, water, e-waste and ICT Leadership network bodies Policy research on energy options for India Frequency: Varies from monthly to annual Advocacy papers and reports on business responsibility Current and Future Modes: Indirect inference from our school Ecological sustainability of our planet Eco-eye,Human Resources Generations interventions mentioned above, Published Meaningful work, work life balance sociological research and analysis of emerging generation Sections 5b to 5h that follow provide extensive details of each of the stakeholder programs. For reasons of consistency, we continue to report on our Education and Community Care programs in one section. WIPRO AND ITS 055 STAKEHOLDERS PUNE EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY AT THE WORKPLACE 5b The Power to do Good Free and Fair Workplace Feedback, Engagement and Culture Building Change Management Safe and Healthy Work Environment Realizing Aspirations: Learning and Growth Diversity and Inclusivity Partner Employee Engagement at Wipro Infotech Employee Citizenship in Action “In an environment that is dynamic and constantly evolving, consistently winning is POWER TO DO GOOD possible only through organizational agility and adaptability. In 2010-11, we underwent significant changes in our organizational structure. The primary need for this change Wipro sees itself as a socio-economic citizen. Our actions have an influence and was to recover from the effects of the global economic slowdown, as well as move to a impact on organizations, people and social entities around us. The philosophy that simpler and more agile business model.The structural change was complemented by a drives our actions is the 'power to do good.' We believe that we have a responsibility renewed sense of direction and leadership approach. to create a just, humane and equitable society. Our corporate goals and actions are closely tied with principles defined by global standards defined by the U. N. Global Large scale changes often result in uncertainty, anxiety and speculation. It was very Compact, OECD¹ guidelines and International Labour Organization. important to give our employees time and space to absorb and adapt to these changes and to manage the anxiety. Our change management program was designed to enable Doing good begins at home.We believe that the global standards that we embrace as a a constructive transition to the new structure and approach. It was participative and corporation must translate into our actions as an employer. These standards are transparent and rich in communication. The combined strength of our established incorporated in meeting the strategic drivers that shape our people practices and engagement practices such as “Wipro Meets” and “Open House” events with processes. Ours is a global knowledge workforce that offers high end solutions to a customized programs like “Dialogue Now” enhanced the effectiveness of our global customer audience. In this context drivers such as engagement, learning and change management. empowerment are integral to building a world class workforce. Our core values of the Effective organizational change must not just address market demand; they must also Spirit of Wipro create a global foundation for employees across all countries and have wins for stakeholders. The year witnessed continued investment and rigor in businesses. At the same time, our practices are broad and flexible in integrating local capability building with greater variety and richer programs across levels and regulatory and cultural flavours. Our practices of hiring, workplace health & safety, specializations. Information systems and online processes were enhanced to create a remuneration, learning and career advancement are influenced by internationally simpler and easier day-to-day experience for employees. We also created recognized standards set by U.N. conventions. Our Diversity and Inclusivity initiative opportunities for employees to enhance their professional experience through incorporates elements from the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of newer and challenging assignments. Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW).All our efforts point towards creating and nurturing a workplace characterized by freedom, fairness and world-class practices, Our efforts to improve diversity and create an inclusive workplace continue to so that our global workforce may flourish and grow. receive widespread support and encouragement despite the external and internal flux. Initiatives for greater gender diversity and persons with disabilities have made We believe that employees must experience the 'goodness' of these practices in their significant progress. Wipro was awarded the second place in the 2011 Annual day to day lives at work. In order to ensure this, our communication to employees Diversity Council Honors Award and was listed 1st in the IT/ITeS Industry and 9th openly reiterates our intent and encourages employees to share their experiences so overall in the Aon Hewitt India's Best Employers Survey 2011. The fundamental that we may improve. Employees are also active partners in our efforts to be a strength of our organization combined with a robust sustainability framework has responsible citizen and this collective power of good continues to energize and renew ensured that we continue to surge forward in our efforts in these core priorities.” our commitment. Our commitment to being a responsible employer extends to all permanent employees, contract employees and our third-party workforce. Pratik Kumar Irrespective of employment category, all employees are active partners in our efforts EVP – Human Resources to be a responsible citizen EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 058 AT THE WORKPLACE FREE AND FAIR WORKPLACE empowering workplace environment for employees. Across our IT businesses, there are no registered trade unions. COBCE and Ombuds Process The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics All people policies, practices and significant changes and transitions are implemented (COBCE) continues to be the driving governing force for all workplace and based on the COBCE principles and the Spirit of Wipro. All new hires undergo business processes and conduct. Over the years, the COBCE has set guidelines for orientation on the COBCE via an online training module, Spirit of Wipro workshops all business transactions and practices. Since its launch in 2002, the COBCE is and focused sessions on COBCE. All employees are encouraged to ask questions periodically updated; the latest one was carried out in March 2011. about the COBCE and Ombuds processes during these sessions as well as during The COBCE is an overarching guideline that is based on Wipro’s core values. It applies interactions with business leaders. The COBCE is further socialized by the annual to all organizational practices and is designed to help employees recognize and deal certification process. Every employee is required to undergo an online COBCE with ethical issues in their work.The code reflects the universal principles defined by certification process, which assesses the extent to which the COBCE has been the United Nation’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International internalized in the individual. Labour Organization.Wipro is committed to compliance with all applicable laws and Prevention of discrimination, workplace harassment or sexual harassment is a key regulations in its countries of operations.We are committed to conducting business in feature of the COBCE, which reflects principles outlined in several United Nations an ethical manner and acting with integrity in dealing with our customers, suppliers, conventions. This commitment is a free and fair workplace is institutionalized by the partners, competitors, employees and its other stakeholders. The COBCE is Ombuds process, which addresses all complaints of discrimination, harassment, applicable to all employees, contractors, consultants and all other categories of hostile behavior, cheating, fraud and policy violation. In 2010-11, a total of 453 employees. Wipro also requires that its service providers, contractors, dealers, complaints were received via the Ombuds process.The data tables at the end of this distributors and others conduct their businesses in a legal and ethical manner. Service section contain a comprehensive list of the categories of complaints and remedial agreements issued to contractors and vendors clearly state organizational actions taken. expectations. Needless to say, geographical expansion and new office locations exclude conflict zones and locations with weak people governance regulations. The COBCE defines our commitment and actions as a meritocracy and equal opportunity employer. All decisions regarding hiring, learning opportunity, salary, The code explicitly covers our responsibility towards preventing and eliminating child compensation and separation are based on merit and performance. We are labor, forced labor and all forms of discrimination. Our hiring practices for all committed to non-discrimination on any grounds, such as nationality or ethnic origin, permanent and retainer employees have built-in mechanisms to ensure human rights gender, race, religion, caste, disability, political or sexual orientation.This commitment compliance as part of pre-employment screening. Contracts signed with vendors reinforces a progressive and high-performing culture at work. There were no for third-party employees also explicitly mention compliance requirements in line significant investments or acquisitions in 2010-11, apart from some minor with all COBCE principles. We are also working on implementing a distinct code of restructuring of overseas subsidiaries. Due diligence on Human Rights/Labour conduct for suppliers, which will include environmental and people related aspects. Practices is part of all investment and M & A activities. At our campus premises, security protocol provides guidelines and vigilance on this The complete COBCE is available for viewing on aspect. The COBCE also includes prevention of fraudulent and corrupt practices, avoidance of conflict of interest and the advertising and media policy. Wipro http://www.wipro.com/corporate/investors/pdffiles/ respects employees’ right to form or participate in trade unions. However, the Code_of_Business_Conduct_and_Ethics_March_2011.pdf evolved governance and engagement practices provide an open and EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 059 AT THE WORKPLACE STAYING CONNECTED EMPOWERED FEEDBACK, ENGAGEMENT WORK ENVIRONMENT: & CULTURE BUILDING. SAFE AND HEALTHY Induction programs to welcome new joinees. Customized Assimilation for Comprehensive medical benefits Client facing Leaders and healthcare program Calendar of all key events EMPLOYEE Enhanced physical security on the intranet ENGAGEMENT AT WIPRO within and beyond the campus Wipro Meets – Webcasts to stay informed and interact with leaders Health and Safety portal on the Intranet Spirit of Wipro Workshops Health and Safety Feedback Survey Open House Meetings. One to One Discussions Occupational Health Centre Direct access to Desk of CEO Our Guiding Principles Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Awareness campaigns Employee Perception Survey Our Governing Entities Ombuds Process, Comprehensive Wellness Focused Feedback gathering on People Processes Prevention of Sexual Harassment Council @ Wipro we Cycle – Structured Change Management The Freewheelers Club Communication across IT Businesses #1 IT/ITeS organization: Aon Hewitt OUR VALUES Employee Counseling – India's Best Employers Survey 2011 SPIRIT OF WIPRO available 24x7 EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 060 AT THE WORKPLACE REALIZING ASPIRATIONS: DIVERSITY AND LEARNING AND GROWTH INCLUSION Partnering with Government, Nurturing young Talent – NGOs and Academic institutions Wipro Academy of Software Excellence e-Learning for a Global Workforce – Special Recognition by Nasscom for nearly 8000 modules Gender Inclusive Practices Participation in Focused Process Training Gender Diversity advocacy events Inclusive Policies and Accessible for WBPO Solutions Infrastructure for Persons with Disability Building Service Delivery excellence – National Society For Equal Spirit of Wipro Run – 14,000 Training for all levels Opportunities. For The Handicapped employees, 15 countries (NASEOH) award for being an equal employer for Persons with Disability Project Simulations in the Real Life Lab Ranked #2 by Association of Employee as volunteer Diversity Council USA contributing to Wipro Cares Building Leaders –Leadership Lifecycle Development Customized Mentoring for Women leaders Joy of Giving Week Coaching for Leaders Wipro Diversity Festival at Xperience Wipro on Facebook and Twitter ‘BEST' Award Winner – Seven years in a row – Awarded by American Employee-led drives on Society of Training and Development Accessibility and Sensitivity Diversity Orientation and Sensitivity to Disability Training Accelerated Career Framework Our Workforce: 28% female, Fast Track career development for EMPLOYEE CITIZENSHIP 72% male. 69 Nationalities. engineering graduates IN ACTION Comprehensive Diversity Policy covering Four Pillars – Gender. Nationality. Persons with Disability. Underprivileged Sections. EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 061 AT THE WORKPLACE There are various forums available to understand human rights issues – right from FEEDBACK, ENGAGEMENT the organization wide biannual EPS to various interaction avenues with function and location human resources team and facility management coordinators. Some of AND CULTURE BUILDING these are the All Hands Meet, Skip meetings, quarterly senior management forums like ‘Wipro meets’ and also representation of Wipro employees in EHS Over the years, our people practices have evolved in scope and maturity. The core objective, committees (like transport, Health and Safety and Food). In 2012-13 we will however, remains one of building and nurturing a high-performance workforce and work analyse inputs from these various forums to arrive at top material human rights culture. In doing so, our practices of employment, engagement, diversity, compensation, and labor practice issues and detail the action areas.We have also started an external learning, promotion and many others are based on merit, non-discrimination and shaped by independent sustainability risk assessment exercise which also covers social the values of the Spirit of Wipro. aspects – this will be completed in 2012-13. Some of the specific focus stakeholder New Employee Assimilation: In 2010-11, our workforce grew in strength and we groups we have identified to be material for a detailed assessment are contract welcomed 39247 new Wiproites into the organization – a mix of lateral and campus workforce and support services staff (example; hospitality, facility maintenance). The hires. New joinees in all countries attended induction programs, which were designed Ombuds process covers grievances related to Human Rights and is available to all based on the nature of work, type of business and geography. Lateral new hires were stakeholders (see page 86). We have recently done a comprehensive assessment inducted into the organization via the weekly induction programs and campus hires of Ombuds categories, we will report those that are explicitly related to Human attended customized, extended induction programs. 215 Middle and senior level Rights from 2012. employees joining Wipro IT businesses in client facing roles, at locations outside India, attended the Global Assimilation Program (popularly known as GAP). GAP is a Strengthening the COBCE – Prevention of Sexual Harassment Council quarterly induction program of 2 weeks that equips participants with a Wipro has revamped its sexual harassment investigation process and procedure to comprehensive perspective on Wipro's business groups, functions and networks make it more comprehensive, spread awareness, make the reporting easy and faster specific to the participants' job roles. The GAP site is available to employees at resolution of complaints. With 125,000+ employees and still counting, there was a http://knetsites.wipro.com/sites/1062/GAP/default.aspx need for extended body of fact finders within the organization in compliance with legal framework. Keeping these requirements in consideration, the central review The Engagement effort also grew in strength and impact during the year 2010-11. committee worked on the revamp of the process and framework for Prevention of The focus on employee connect was maintained and renewed via the Meet Your Sexual Harassment. People Program, which enables employee connect in a cascaded manner. Employees connect with leaders in different ways: Organizational, Business Unit, Team and The revamp included a crisper and clearer policy, redraft of the committee, a revised Individual. These engagement sessions consist of a free exchange of information and fact-finding framework, and an in-house built online training module.The revamp was views between leaders and employees on key performance highlights, organizational done in consultations with an external consultant and legal team. A heterogeneous changes, leadership perspectives and people priorities. team of more than 35 fact finders from employee facing and associated functions like Engagement at the Organizational Level Wipro Meets: Human Resources, Risk, Legal and Security was trained by an external expert. These fact finders are equipped to address complaints relating to sexual harassment. One of the most visible engagement mechanisms is the quarterly Wipro Meets event, which connects all employees of the IT businesses with the organizational leadership team. The event is chaired and led by the IT Businesses CEO along with the senior EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 062 AT THE WORKPLACE leadership team and is attended by a live audience through interviews and discussions, which were documented with transparency, at the corporate office as well as a global audience, in the presence of the audience. The team applied the People CMM framework to over an easy-access internet/intranet webcast. In the project, for the assessment and recommendations. The findings and 2010-11, the Wipro Meets format was revised to recommendations were shared with the Senior Vice President – Human Resources – achieve greater reach and participation. IT businesses. Action planning and implementation are currently work in progress. Engagement at the Business Unit Level: The All Hands The People Events Calendar was launched in 2010 11, for all IT Businesses Meet is hosted by Business Unit Heads, to bring business and is hosted on the intranet. The e-calendar provides a transparent and performance updates to employees. Leaders leverage the comprehensive one-shot view of all critical and significant people impacting events forum to confer reward and recognition awards for and processes for the year, such as engagement events, compensation revision and excellence in performance and to felicitate Long Service reward dates, performance management process dates and career progression dates. Award recipients. In international geographies, employees attend 'In Sync', a quarterly communication and engagement forum, held across locations and customer accounts. The mid-term and annual performance reviews and career development plan is On an average, over 5000 employees participated in each quarterly InSync event, applicable to all employees in the organization. during 2010-11. Team and Individual Level Connect: At project and smaller team levels, CHANGE MANAGEMENT leadership and talent engagement leaders continued to host open, speak-easy Wipro’s IT businesses underwent organizational changes during 2010-11. The sessions. Structured one-to-one discussions with individual employees were also organizational changes of 2010-11 were based on the principles of simplicity, agility and planned and held. functional efficiency. The resultant organizational is comprised of four primary entities: Employee Perception Survey: After the Strategic Business Units (SBUs), Service lines, Go to Market & Global Delivery Organization. 2009 Employee Perception Survey, business Strategic Business Units have been re-defined so as to better align to industry value chain and leaders and employee volunteers came bring greater value to customers. They are the primary customer facing units and would together to form action teams and work on consist of integrated Go to Market structure (Sales), Delivery and Support Functions. improvements. The improvements brought about by these teams were communicated Saurabh Govil, Senior Vice President-Human Resources for Wipro’s IT businesses across the organization. At present, the organization is gearing up for the next explains the Change Management effort. Employee Perception Survey; our collective journey of improvement continues! Question: Why did the organizational change take place? Stakeholder FeedbackProject Delta: Over and above the various initiatives Saurabh: The primary need for this change was to move to a simpler and more agile and practices of seeking feedback, Project Delta was an initiative launched in business model, so that we can better leverage the opportunities that are coming up.The November 2010, to study and improve specific people processes and practices. structural change was complemented by a renewed sense of direction and leadership The project team consisted of 26 volunteers from across IT businesses. approach. The team interacted with over 250 leaders, managers and individual contributors, to prepare an assessment of 16 people processes. The assessment was done EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 063 AT THE WORKPLACE Question: How did the change impact employees? leaders to drive change effectively.The Change Management Group defined the transition Saurabh: The change impacted employees differently at different levels. Leaders were approach, identified change agents and leaders and streamlined processes to enable a more directly affected by the leadership change; managers and employees down the line smooth operational transition for all employees. were more impacted by the structural and operational changes in their day-to-day working. As expected, these changes impacted strategic, operational and process Question:What is the status of the change management process? dimensions.The changes posed challenges to existing ways of working and paradigms and Saurabh: The operational changes are in the implementation phase. However, the called upon leaders and process owners to drive the transition effectively, in a experience of a ‘New Wipro’ will take time to be completely realized.We are in constant collaborative, sensitive and transparent manner. touch with employees on this, through channels such as ‘Dialogue Now’, which enables employees to directly communicate their views and suggestions to the CEO, via a Question: How did the organization understand employee perceptions and confidential intranet link. We also have a newly reactions to the change? created Employee Advocacy Group, which will work Saurabh: A communication plan was designed to cascade the structural and operational on specific matters that impact all employees.These changes in a cascaded manner, so that employees across levels had sufficient time and initiatives will forge higher levels of partnership for support in comprehending and aligning to the changes. The communication sessions the journey ahead. consisted of carrying information to employees as well as gathering feedback from them. A customized communication pack was given to leaders, which consisted of talking points, FAQ kits and comprehensive presentation packs. Leaders interacted with their Aon Hewitt Best Employers teams to explain the new structure via webcasts and town hall meetings. Employees Survey: Wipro participated in the received frequent updates on the new structure and related announcements; these Aon Hewitt Best Employers Survey updates were also made available to all on the intranet. 2010-11. The survey opened in August 2010 and 200 organizations participated in it. The survey-to-results process Question: How did you respond to these reactions and anxieties / questions? was rigorous and lasted nearly 9 months. The first stage of information gathering Saurabh: To do so, an Organizational Change Management Group was created, which involved submission of detailed entries around engagement drivers, people practices worked along with the CEO’s office. The group was the central custodian of all internal as well as submission of responses to the CEO questionnaire.This was followed by an communication. The change management process adopted the Head-Heart-Hand Employee Opinion Survey to gauge employee perceptions. Post the survey, 80 approach, with the intent of securing the rational and emotional commitment of all organizations were selected for an onsite audit – Wipro was one among them. The stakeholders.The revised organizational structure and operational model was designed to day-long onsite audit consisted of interactions with employee groups, human provide strategic benefit to the organization and related stakeholders.The communication resource functional leaders and the CEO. The final selection of winners was made of this structure was planned keeping in mind after all the audits by a team of empanelled judges. The organizational change stakeholder priorities and ‘emotional’ points of management process took place in parallel with the survey and selection stages. impact. In order to achieve a strong logical and Wipro was listed 9th overall and 1st in the IT/ITeS Industry in the Aon Hewitt India’s emotional connect on the ground, communication Best Employers Survey 2011. The 25 top companies were announced on 29th April and operational tools were created to enable 2011 and are profiled in the 14th May 2011 edition of Outlook Business. EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 064 AT THE WORKPLACE SAFE AND HEALTHY WORK ENVIRONMENT Employee safety and health continues to be a core priority at Wipro and the basis for this health and safety hazards, nutrition offerings, and numerous wellness initiatives. Practices stems from the value Act with Sensitivity, from the Spirit of Wipro. We view employees as include workplace safety, comprehensive medical policies, physical and emotional wellness, complete individuals and hence health and safety practices are comprehensive. This awareness on health and safety and even participatory initiatives from employees. Each year, approach is reflected in our workplace security administration, prevention and mitigation of we strive to make improvements in our performance and raise the bar. Building a Safety Net: Our medical policies, health and safety programs and security practices create a secure and healthy workplace environment for employees, across campuses. Secure and Healthy Campus Comprehensive Medical Being Prepared for Employee Wellness l Security teams trained in vigilance, surveillance and Benefits Package Retirement and Fit for Life program to improve overall health and sensitivity l Contributory schemes covering employee, Emergencies wellbeing.The program has over 34000 registered users l Emergency Response Teams with employee volunteers, spouse and children, in India: and includes: l Survivor Benefit Program for quick response to emergencies, response to Mitr l Medical Assistance Program covers domiciliary l Health Risk Assessment in India (monthly amount and such medical expenses l Expert advice from doctors, nutritionists and fitness experts. to family if an employee l Prevention and mitigation of SOS and emergencies l Mutual Benefit Scheme covers treatment of dies while in service) l Online diet and nutrition counseling l Specialized focus on assistance for differently abled diagnosed illnesses l Online monitoring and tracking of wellness goals l Voluntary Pension Plan in employees, safety for women, and expectant mothers l Yoga and Aerobic sessions l Mediclaim coverage for hospitalization expenses. India for all levels. Two l Working with law enforcement agencies to different schemes of l Lectures and online chats with medical experts on l Company paid Accident Insurance and Life continuously improve, through drills and simulations retirement planning are common health issues Insurance l Educations and Awareness drives, such as available to provide l Wellness newsletters, health fairs l Premium reimbursement schemes for Parental Security Week choice and flexibility to mitr Wipro's Counseling Program Insurance employees l mitr program for emotional Facilities at major campus premises: l Annual Health Check up for managers l Catastrophic Medical counseling as well as specialist l Occupational Health Centers at 20 locations across Comprehensive Health care policies in legal and financial advice Assistance Program to India international geographies: completes 8 successful years provide support over and l Amenities range from basic first aid to emergency care l Coverage for medical expenses, dental above medical insurance, l Network of 20 professionally trained Wiproite counselorsunits treatment and comprehensive insurance cover. for critical medical by-choice and external counselors from a leading l Open 24x7 at major campus locations l Medical Leave categories in India: emergencies international Employee Assistance Provider firm l Physical fitness facilities such as gym, tennis court, l Accessible 24X7 in person or on phone l Sick leave for short-term recuperation basketball courts l Posters, mailers and advocacy to encourage employees to l Comprehensive Maternity Leave, Extended l Health/ low calorie food options in cafeterias reach out to mitr in times of need Maternity Leave and Adoption Leave options for l 20 facilities certified by ISO 14001: 2004 Environmental l Increased impact: 120 caller in 2008-09, 579 in 2009-10, 800 in mothers Management System. 14 facilities certified by OHSAS 2010-11 l Industrial Injury Leave extended to accidents 18001:2007 (Occupational health and safety l Future plans include reaching out especially to expectant while commuting to/from office assessment series) mothers EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 065 AT THE WORKPLACE Comprehensive Education and Feedback on Workplace Health and Employees were also encouraged to celebrate Safety: All through the year, various modes of communication are leveraged for Earth Hour in their individual capacity on March educating and reaching out to employees. Apart from mailers and poster campaigns, 26th, 8.30 PM by switching off lights at their homes online surveys, chats, expert sessions and events are an effective and fun way to and in spreading the word among their friends and improve awareness on various health and safety matters. Our safety and health groups families. remain in constant touch with employees, so as to sustain a sensitive and progressive orientation towards workplace wellness. The collective benefit a total of 15.34 tons of Carbon-oxide was saved during the golden hour. Easy access portals on the intranet for employees to report Security Incidents and Environment, Health and Safety incidents. @ wipro We Cycle – A Unique Initiative: As a commitment to a greener planet and fitter Online Internal partnership Survey for all employees. Hosted by the Wiproites, last year we launched the “@ Wipro Facilities Management Group on hospitality, Environment Health and Safety, We Cycle” initiative that aimed to keeps Transportation and related services. Environment, Health and Safety received high employees fit and help contribute towards a scores from employees healthier planet.As a part of this initiative,Wiproites can now purchase a bicycle under the two wheeler loan or Furniture and Equipment Scheme.This initiative was brought Ergonomic Education: The nature of work performed by employees may lead to under 'Wipro Advantage' a program that enables Wipro employees to avail exclusive Repetitive Stress Injury (RSI).This may be caused by poor posture, sustained repetitive discounts/deals on various products/services. On the day of launch, there was a buzz tasks, stress and exertion. Ergonomists conduct sessions at major locations to help created all around by the cycle camps put up by vendors. Around 100 employees employees identify and deal with the physical risks of their jobs. were provided free cycles to ride around the campus and spread their enthusiasm. Celebrating the 40th National Safety Day – March 4, 2011 – Flag Hoisting, pledges, awareness and role plays on emergency preparedness and rewards. As part of the World Health Day Celebrations (April 7, 2010), locations conducted free Health Check-ups and sessions on hygiene and sanitation practices. World Environment Day was observed on June 5, 2010. Events included awareness sessions by Greenpeace, sale of eco-friendly products, emission checks for vehicles, and workshops by experts. Wipro has been supporting Earth Hour for the last three years.This year, we went one step ahead by celebrating Earth Hour on a working day in order to create a meaningful impact. On Friday, March 25th 2011,Wipro facilities across the globe shut off comfort cooling between 8.30 AM and 9.30 AM local time. EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 066 AT THE WORKPLACE Spirit of Wipro Run REALIZING ASPIRATIONS: Every year, we conduct the Spirit of Wipro run to reinforce our belief and our employees participate enthusiastically to show their support. In October 2010, we LEARNING AND GROWTH had over 14,000 Wiproites along with their friends, families and in some cases even A high-performing, talented workforce thrives on learning and development. Training and Wipro customers put on their running shoes. The Spirit of Wipro Run 2010, in development is an integral part of the work culture at Wipro. Learning takes place in many its fifth edition, was spread across 35 cities from around 15 countries in the different ways. Structured learning takes place via formal, structured programs, workshops world. While each region added its special flavor to the run, the main theme and online trainings. Developmental efforts are shaped as longer-term investment, via our of the marathon was about celebrating the spirit of diversity @ Wipro. For the first lifecycle programs and leadership building platforms, to achieve maximum impact. A large time, an official Runner's list was launched as a part of the run, where running amount of learning takes place on a day-to-day basis, from everyday experiences and sharing enthusiasts were given a platform to express their love for running. It also gave with team-mates.Teamwork is an integral driver of our learning culture and our young and them an opportunity to engage with other fellow runners, and this led to the building energetic workforce rates Teamwork as a satisfactory engagement parameter. The of a Running Community @ Wipro.The runners could also dedicate their run to any combination of world-class learning programs and systems and our work culture make of the fellow runners from around the world with their original Spirit of learning a way of life for all employees at Wipro. Wipro Run T-shirts. Social Media platforms like Facebook, YouTube and Twitter played a pivotal role in engaging the employees through the event. As a finale to the In a year of change and transformation, the organization strengthened learning and entire event,Wipro has decided to engage in an afforestation project and plant a tree development coverage as well as depth. Training programs were enhanced across for each of the 14000 + participants of the run. The project also ensures that these levels, in number and in type, in order to keep pace with client expectations. trees are nurtured and well looked after. Leadership and capability building efforts were also enhanced to enable leaders to drive change management successfully. During the year 2010-11, the online Integrated Talent Management System increased its offerings by 2300 programs, taking the total size of offerings to nearly 8000 programs. The ITMS fulfills mandatory, broad-based learning requirements as well as individual training needs which are stored in the form of Individual Learning Plans. Every Wipro employee has an Individual Learning Plan that addresses individual learning needs. Employees across Wipro IT business now have a broader and deeper basket of ITMS offerings to choose from. At least 10% of the content on the ITMS is created by in-house leaders and technical experts from within the IT businesses. The reach and coverage of the Talent Transformation expertise was enhanced by the introduction of the Certified Talent Transformer initiative, in 2010-11. The Certified Talent Transformer initiative is envisioned around a ‘learn-while-you-share’ approach. In-house professionals, who are keen to share their expertise and experience by training others, are trained on classroom or online facilitation.Through this initiative, EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 067 AT THE WORKPLACE 493 in-house middle and senior level employees were trained to become trainers. of the Global Delivery Organization. Technical and Project management skills are These trainers were selected for their knowledge and skill and were trained by hence key business enablers and success factors. Roles and responsibilities across 18 Master Trainers from the Talent Transformation function. Certified Talent levels are clearly defined by our Role Based Framework which is available to all Transformers use structured training material as well as their own experiences to employees on our intranet portal.The framework carries a clear explanation of roles, maximize the value of this approach.The Certified Talent Transformer community has skills and competencies and career paths available. The Unified Competency trained nearly 15000 employees so far, on Technical, Behavioural and Business skills. Framework enables technical competency building to create a competitive edge for our business. The framework helps in identifying technical competency needs of Enabling young employees – Launch of the Real Life Lab. people and businesses, assessing gaps and enabling competency development for Every year, Wipro recruits thousands of young graduates from reputed campuses employees. By structured training and evaluation methods, the UCF enables a steady across India. In order to prepare them with the necessary skills and perspectives pool of competent engineers, which is necessary for addressing the business' growth required to succeed in a project environment, the graduates undergo a formal training needs. In 2010-11, 29158 employees underwent training and assessment vis-à-vis the program named the ‘Project Readiness Program’ (PRP) before they are assigned UCF, of which 84.5% successfully cleared the assessments 7% higher than 2009-10. to work on projects. The PRP enables a smooth transition for our young talent from the academic mould into a corporate mould. The framework and the curriculum of Project Management capability expectations have evolved over the years and we have the PRP has been designed based on inputs from business leaders and draws on the a comprehensive approach to build capability across levels, covering all aspects of collective expertise of over 180 faculty members.The PRP is upgraded every year and people, process, and cultural excellence. First-time managers handling operational in 2010-11 a significant improvement was made with the introduction of the Real Life responsibilities participate in the Future Manager Program. Successful completion of Lab. The Real Life Lab is a ‘live’ learning environment for employees who join Wipro the FMP then paves the way to prepare for the next step, which is the Project Manager Technologies from academic and engineering institutions. New employees undergo Academy which prepares front-line managers build critical operational and intensive training soon after joining, of which 2 weeks is spent at the Real Life Lab. managerial skills. In 2010-11, customized interventions were initiated to enhance While at the lab,‘real-life’ work and learning scenarios, in the form of case studies and capability at middle and senior levels. At the middle management level, the Delivery scenarios, are used to familiarize employees with working in a project environment. Manager Academy offers individualized development. Delivery Managers are The lab helps accelerate learning and hone their technical and project skills. entrusted with driving growth, operational efficiencies, customer relationships and people engagement. Hence, the academy has been designed based on extensive The WASE program (Wipro Academy of Software Excellence) continued to make inputs from senior management and current industry requirements. The program is progress during the year. Introduced in 1995, this pioneering initiative has enabled delivered by experienced faculty drawn from within the organization as well as Wipro in preparing best-in-class young talent. The WASE program consists of an premier academic institutes such as the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore 8-semester (four years) off campus collaborative MS Program with the Birla Institute (IIMB).The learning methodology is a blend of live and online learning modules, videoof Technology & Science (BITS), Pilani (Rajasthan, India). Students receive technical and based-learning and case-based workshops.The course has been structured to ensure academic inputs as well as the opportunity to apply their learning in live projects. In that participating managers apply the learning in their own work environment 2010-11, 2023 students joined the WASE program. through on-the-job assignments to be completed under the guidance of mentors Global Delivery Capability Building: The Global Delivery Organization is the drawn from the senior management of the organization. In 2010-11, 870 Delivery largest employee group, consists of all IT technology and service delivery offerings. Managers were training under this program. All customer facing projects within Wipro Technologies function within the overview EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 068 AT THE WORKPLACE Growth Centers were introduced to build Program Manager capability across all experts, business leaders and psychologists from external agencies specializing in the business units. A Growth Center is a development center aimed at assessing and field of behavioral assessments. 52 program managers attended Growth Center developing our current pool of program managers. The approach consists of interventions during FY 10-11. psychometric assessment, expert panel interviews and development via training, Encouraging High Potential: In 2010-11, 40 graduates joined a newly instituted coaching and mentoring. The initiative was designed in-house with inputs from job STAR Program. The program focuses on selection of engineering graduates from experts, business leaders and psychologists from external agencies specializing in the premier colleges and putting them through a 2 year program which focuses on a fast field of behavioral assessments. 52 program managers attended Growth Center track career plan aligned to business goals. A core team of trainers and business interventions during FY 10-11. leaders mentor the program and are involved in recruitment, training, assessment and Encouraging High Potential: In 2010-11, 40 graduates joined a newly instituted on-the-job deployment of participants. 34 out of 40 participants have completed their STAR Program. The program focuses on selection of engineering graduates from first assignments in project delivery operations.The second batch of 43 graduates has premier colleges and putting them through a 2 year program which focuses on a fast joined us in July 2011. track career plan aligned to business goals. A core team of trainers and business leaders mentor the program and are involved in recruitment, training, assessment and Leadership Capability Building: Our leadership lifecycle programs continue to on-the-job deployment of participants. 34 out of 40 participants have completed prepare employees at different levels for current and future leadership their first assignments in project delivery operations. The second batch of responsibilities. The leadership lifecycle addresses leadership at various levels, from 43 graduates has joined us in July 2011. personal leadership for young professionals, to global leadership for future CEOs. Growth Centers were introduced to build Program Manager capability across all Ø For Top leadership: Strategic Leaders’ Program business units. A Growth Center is a development center aimed at assessing and enhances strategic perspective among global leaders developing our current pool of program managers. The approach consists of psychometric assessment, expert panel interviews and development via training, Ø For Senior leaders: Business Leaders’ Program aimed at developing critical-to-success business leadership coaching and mentoring. The initiative was designed in-house with inputs from job Ø For Mid level leaders: Wipro Leaders’ Program assimilating PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND TECHNICAL CAPABILITY BUILDING WLQs into leaders with people and business responsibilities FUTURE Ø For Junior leaders: New Leaders’ Program builds talent ROLE BASED UCF MANAGER FRAMEWORK management skills in potential people managers PROGRAM PROJECT DELIVERY GROWTH CENTRE Ø At Entry level: Emerging Leaders’ Program creating managerial / MANAGER MANAGER AND PROGRAM leadership qualities in the youngest of Wiproites ACADEMY ACADEMY MANAGER ACADEMY STAR PROGRAM EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 069 AT THE WORKPLACE In 2010-11, CHRD experts conducted a learning progress. The training design includes modules on organizational culture, learning needs identification exercise for Spirit of Wipro and corporate etiquette. top, senior and middle level executives across IT businesses, via questionnaire, Top Honours! In 2010,Wipro was awarded the American Society for group discussion and one-to-one Training and Development Award for its learning and development interviews. Based on this exercise and the practices for the seventh year in succession. Wipro is the only organization's strategic priorities, the organization globally, to win this award seven times in a row. CHRD team enhanced existing programs Organizations nominated for this award are evaluated by an external independent panel. 2004-2011 Accelerated Career Framework: At Wipro, the entire spectrum of roles is divided into different career groups, based on the associated responsibilities and competencies. Based on feedback from employees as well as a benchmarking exercise with companies, a significant change was made to and introduced new ones. New programs focused on specific aspects of leadership the career grouping structure in July 2010, in the form of an 'Accelerated Career such as Building a Leadership Brand. Some offerings were focused on sensitivity and Framework' (ACF). Before the ACF was launched, employees who joined Wipro from people development, such as Building Trust, Cross Cultural orientation, Emotional campus experienced career band promotion after spending 4-5 years in the Intelligence and Talent Building.The team covered nearly 12000 middle, senior and top organization. This practice was out of sync with the organizational merit-based level executives through their programs during the year. differentiator approach and promotion criteria.Thus, a decision was made to bifurcate one of the core career groups into two. Engineering campus hires are now eligible for Process Training at Wipro BPO Solutions: Given the dynamic business progression to the next career group, after completion of 3 years (1 year as a conditions and the highly demanding and intense work environment of the BPO probationer and 2 years as a confirmed employee).The change also enables them to industry, there is a need to continuously refresh and update skill levels and expertise. enjoy higher compensation. It ensures that employees with more experience and Each Wipro BPO business process caters to a specific customer segment.The nature skills are differentiated from those who join fresh from campus.The change exercise of work varies across processes, based on the technical complexity, nature of product was a major one, and involved changes in the career group and compensation of over or service offering. Each process within Wipro BPO has a robust training mechanism 30, 000 employees. All employees who were moved to the higher career group in place in order to provide comprehensive work related training to employees. Every were also given the hike in compensation associated with career group progressions. new hire at a Wipro BPO process undergoes 2 weeks of pre process training, followed All people related policies were also updated according to the new career by process training. Pre-Process training focuses onVoice and Accent and helps orient grouping structure. employees with functional cross-cultural skills. Process Training trains employees on specific work processes and tools and equips them with concepts, operations skills. Process training consists of classroom instruction as well as on-the-job training and lasts 2-16 weeks.At the end of every week/stage an assessment is conducted to gauge EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 070 AT THE WORKPLACE OVREVIEW OF PEOPLE POLICIES Policies for Retainer Employees: The 'retainer' employee model is a well Assisting in money management established one in the corporate sector today, especially in the IT industry. Retainerships are assignments that are mutually beneficial to the individual and l Basket of allowances to choose in Wipro Benefits Program, ranging from meal organization and are formalized by legally valid contracts. Traditionally, retainerships vouchers to retirement investment plan were created to fulfill low-skilled positions of a temporary nature. However, today the l Revision in Car running and maintenance limits and Telephone allowance to keep retainership is a flexible employment offering, opted for by specialists, consultants and up with the market trends. Since July 2011 freelance experts. Across Wipro's IT businesses, retainers fulfill important and basic positions in technical and functional roles. Retainer terms and conditions include l Furniture and equipment scheme mandatory benefits such as Provident Fund and paid leave. Retainers in specialized l Interest free loans roles who are required to travel or relocate for official requirements are eligible for l Wipro Advantage special price tie ups for appropriate travel and relocation expense reimbursements. Retainers are also products under lifestyle, health and fitness, covered by a medical insurance package that covers hospitalization, life insurance and finance, electronics accident insurance. l Arthashastra in-house financial planning portal l Company lease car portal now provides a comparative view of savings from company car leasing vs. a car finance loan Rewarding performance l Restricted Stock Unit grants Retirement benefits and benefits for contingencies l PF, Gratuity, Survivor Benefit Program, 401 (K) plan and retirement plans for each geography in accordance with laws and best industry practices Flexible work arrangements l Added flexibility to Optional Holiday scheme with the option to change OPH chosen in case of a compelling reason l Special Compensatory off given to employees who get engaged in recruitment/ training activities on a weekend l Sabbatical Leave program-unpaid study leave for maximum 2 years EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 071 AT THE WORKPLACE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Diversity OrientationTraining Workshops Diversity Classroom Workshops were held across locations, to build awareness and Wipro's business success is a reflection of the quality and skill of its talented and diverse capability for gender and disability sensitization.These workshops covered over 1000 workforce. We believe in treating all people with respect and dignity. We strive to create employees. Based on this one-day workshop, an online training module was created, and foster a supportive and understanding environment. We are diverse among many for all employees.This module is now mandatory for all employees. dimensions: race, ethnicity, gender, language, age, sexual orientation, religion, Celebrating Diversity – the Wipro Diversity Festival In 2010-11 we celebrated socio-economic status, physical and mental ability, thinking styles, education and experience. The Wipro Diversity Festival online, it was an organization wide largest virtual event The wide array of perspectives that results from such diversity promotes innovation and in the history of Wipro. This event took place on the Xperience Wipro Platform on business success. Managing diversity makes us more creative, flexible, productive and Facebook and Twitter. competitive. Our focus on diversity and inclusion has gathered significant momentum over the last three years and today it is seen as a key aspect of our work culture and ethos. This diversity charter focuses on four primary pillars: Gender, Nationalities, Persons with Diversity and Inclusivity online Training Module Disability and Underprivileged sections. l Increasing employees and colleagues confidence in their ability to work with employees with diverse background. Our Global Workforce l Showing that reasonable accommodation is not necessarily complex or l Globally, the workforce consists of employees from across 69 nationalities expensive. l In 2010-11, 19% of the IT Businesses workforce is non-Indian as against 7% in 2009-10 and 5% in 2008-09 l Exploring frequently held attitudes toward diverse work force and how those attitudes impact on the employer's ability to evaluate, hire, work with and l In 2010-11, 7.6% of our hires were non Indians – we have hired across supervise everyone equally. 43 nationalities l Educating employees and colleagues on language and etiquette. l Of the total workforce outside India, 38% are local nationals l Use of exercises, case studies, videos and plays. l 28% of our workforce in the IT business consists of women employees, up from 26.8% in 2008-09 l Now available as a mandatory e-learning module for all employees. l At the close of 2010-11, 253 persons with disability were employed at Wipro, in different roles and employment categories across geographies Gender Diversity – the Women of Wipro program The Women of Wipro program is a strategic business enabler for Wipro. For a global Building a culture of Diversity organization such as ours, talent and workforce diversity is a key success factor. Diversity and Inclusion orientation is reinforced at every level of the organization. The objectives of Women of Wipro are to reduce the attrition of women employees, This orientation begins with the hiring process and extends to Wipro's interactions facilitate increased numbers of women managers at a senior level, and develop with the external world. Wipro as an equal opportunity employer with world-class practices to nurture EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 072 AT THE WORKPLACE women employees.The program brings together women employees across business Persons with Disability – In 2009, Wipro introduced a comprehensive units and locations in Wipro who have the passion for extraordinary personal and framework designed to aid the inclusion and a high degree of contribution by social transformation, working together for better causes and common goals. employees with disabilities who worked with Wipro. This laid the foundation to welcome more people with disability into Wipro. We believe that an environment Training & Induction of students from economically under privileged backgrounds that is automatically inclusive is basic to facilitating not just employment but career in the WASE Program building for persons with disability. A special training was initiated for 86 students from economically underprivileged Across Wipro, 82 persons with disability joined the organization in 2010-11 across backgrounds who, despite satisfactory academic scores, could not clear the Wipro various roles. We currently employ 253 persons with disability working with us today in different roles and employment categories across geographies. They have Academy of Software Excellence entrance interview. Students attended a special voluntarily declared their disability in the year 10-11, via a Self Identification Form. course of 4 weeks conducted by NIIT. At the end of the course, 53 students were We have also introduced a Reasonable Accommodation policy, to enable managers selected for the WASE program.The course made a significant positive impact on and HR teams in providing an inclusive environment. their communication skills and employability. Women of Wipro Themes – The WOW approach is based on 3 major themes according to the life-stages of a woman employee. The themes are built into in our people processes and practices, to achieve Women of Wipro goals. WOMEN OF WIPRO LIFE STAGE APPROACH Empowerment-Making a difference Flexibility-Opportunity Life to Grow Stage 3 Life Stage Exposure-Fuelling 2 Ambition Life Stage 1 EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 073 AT THE WORKPLACE ACCESSIBILITY AND POLICIES REASONABLE l 54 people policies across IT Businesses ACCOMMODATION audited and modified for inclusivity l Campus infrastucture enhanced at l Disability policy and framework formed Wipro Campus Facilities l Campus accessibility guidelines aligned to l Single point of contact at each location WIPRO’S DIVERSITY FRAMEWORK universal guidelines* l Access audits of all Wipro buildings held FOR PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES l Introduction of the reasonable “When we set out on a journey to make Wipro more inclusive for accommodations policy and self declaration of l Structures process created to check and People With Disabilities, we had resolved that we would not limit our disability and assistance needs maintain accessibility, as part of OHAS** efforts to just increasing the number of employees with disabilities. Compliance Our approach covers our employees, partners, associates and guests, TRAINING l Customized travel and vehicles provided for and focuses on enabling serious careers for employees with disabilities. easier commute In the last year, employees worked closely with our Facilities l Training needs identification process modified Management Team across locations to make our premises accessible, to fulfill inclusivity needs l Relocation and job rotation options based on personal needs the first phase of IS applications were made accessible and we now l Assistive Technologies such as reading have over 300 employees who contribute to our success through software, magnifiers, narrators made available l Ramps, Railing, Wheelchairs, Voice mainstream roles and functions. We also won an award from the Announcements in Elevators National Society For Equal Opportunities For The Handicapped, India l Sensitization training held for security and for our efforts. We hope to be known as a truly inclusive place for hositality teams l Reserved Parking, Accessible Washrooms, Braille Signage, Improved General Signage persons with disabilities.” l Diversity appreciation training created for Isaac George leaders RECRUITMENT Vice President, Human Resources. l Job fairs, walk-in interviews l Partnerships with NGOs and Academic Institutions for hiring people with disability l Job descriptions made inclusive in description Wipro was awarded the 2010 award by the National Society For l No restriction on role availability for people Equal Opportunities For The Handicapped (NASEOH) for with disability. Fitment based on skill promoting equal opportunity for People With Disability. l Detailed sensitization for interviewers Wipro was awarded the Mphasis Universal Award 2010 for its l Customized induction process to welcome work towards the cause of Accessibility by the National Centre for people with disability Promotion of Employment for Disabled People (NCPEDP) * Accessibility for the disabled based on United Nations Economic and ** Occupational Health & Safety Assessment Series Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA) EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 074 AT THE WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY SUPPORT GOVERNANCE l Robust policy package systems: Maternity l Corporate diversity council of 15 top Leave, Extended Maternity Leave, Adoption management leaders Leave l Women of wipro council at each business l Over 85% of women returning from parental unit and location to maximise reach choose to stay with Wipro WIPRO’S GENDER DIVERSITY FRAMEWORK l Tie-ups with Crèches in Major Cities “It has been a great learning experience so far. We have had 6 sessions CUSTOMIZED LEARNING AND l Campus security personnel training for and have discussed on various topics like customer interactions, DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES special focus on safety for women employees strategy and delivery focus. The sessions were very focused and have l Wipro Women Leadership Program 43 high helped me understand the leaders thought process in a situation.The potential women leaders trained in 2010-11 l High monitoring of transportation, pick-up trainer compliments it with practical examples. I am looking forward and drop facilities with escort guards and to learn a lot from these sessions and from the program” l Mentoring for women leaders 100 24x7 toll free helpline availability – Workshop participant. successfull mentoring relationships l Special effectiveness and parenting workshops ‘EQUAL OPPORTUNITY’ “The philosophy behind this charter on gender inclusivity is quite to enhance awareness and skills IN ALL PEOPLE PRACTICES simple We aspire to create a sensitive organization where men and women alike can flourish and grow in their careers with a holistic l Merit-based compensation approach towards performance and work. This commitment is also ATTRACTING AND RECRUITING l Male:Female gender ratio steady at 1 about creating a workplace where women employees can continue DIVERSE TALENT their careers through different life-stages and as an organization we l Learning and growth equally availed based on would provide the right opportunities and support.” l Recruiters trained to be sensitive to gender merit and learning needs Sunita Cherian and inclusivity Vice-President, Human Resources. l Recruitment drives to boost gender ratio of new hires In 2010,Wipro was awarded a Special Recognition Award towards Building Best Practices in the area of Gender Diversity at the Nasscom Diversity & Inclusivity Summit. In 2010, Wipro Technologies was ranked #6 by the Association of Diversity Council (USA) In 2011, Wipro Technologies was ranked #2 by the Association of Diversity Council (USA) EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 075 AT THE WORKPLACE Breaking all Barriers Contest roles. This business model provides strategic advantage to Wipro's IT service We ran a month long contest called 'Breaking All Barriers', which consisted of offerings. At the close of 2010-11, the number of partner employees was 10495, with employees reviewing Wipro workplace premises on accessibility, to create the majority aligned to the Professional Services Division service line.With an aim to awareness around enabling Persona With Disabilities via providing best groom and build this talent pool, Wipro Infotech has developed a focused infrastructural support. Over 14 Wipro locations, including Romania and Atlanta framework to engage and develop partner employees during 2010-11. were covered by the teams based on universal guidelines on accessibility for persons The first step was to set up a dedicated team consisting of senior employees from with disability and Wipro's checklist of building awareness. business and talent management, to drive the initiative. The initial objective was to Wipro Infotech's service lines operate on a talent intensive business model, consisting create a strong foundation of engagement, in terms of talent assimilation and of skilled employees who design and implement IT services for clients that include development. The partner employee engagement team ensured a streamlined day-to-day IT support and administration. A significant portion of the workforce engagement process, through regular client site visits, one-to-one discussions, team deployed for this skill comprises of partner employees, who are employed by multiple celebrations and other events. As a next step, specific processes to better assimilate authorized vendors and deployed at Wipro operational client sites, in IT and develop partner employees were initiated.These include: management roles. This business model provides strategic advantage to Wipro's l Weekly Induction sessions; these include modules of the Spirit of Wipro IT service offerings. At the close of 2010-11, the number of partner employees was values, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (COBCE) and Security policies. 10495, with the majority aligned to the Professional Services Division service line. During 2010-11, 70% of partner employees participated in COBCE workshops With an aim to groom and build this talent pool, Wipro Infotech has developed a l Formal inclusion in the site-o-meter survey, by which employees convey specific focused framework to engage and develop partner employees during 2010 11. workplace related feedback on aspects such as workplace conditions, hygiene, development, processes etc. Based on survey feedback, action plans are drawn up PARTNER EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT with specific timelines for closure. The site-o-meter currently extends to all employees at the Professional Services Division and in future may be extended to AT WIPRO INFOTECH other talent intensive service lines of Wipro Infotech At Wipro, we believe that the extended people supply chain is a valuable organizational l Performance Management and Career Management processes for partner contributor. Partner employees must therefore feel the benefit of working in an open and fair employees were initiated. These enable performance reviews and structured work environment. Our efforts towards this extend beyond policies and benefits; rather, we feedback sharing. Opportunities to acquire new skills, build capability and explore strive to create an experience of learning and self-led development for all. Engagement and careers with Wipro were also made available to partner employees development practices for partner employees have been designed in line with our values and l Partner employees now have access to the Synergy intranet portal, which includes our Code of Business Conduct.These practices are based on the same principles of merit and information on available project opportunities. It also enables easy processing of non-discrimination that drive our core people practices. claim reimbursements and attendance record management Wipro Infotech's service lines operate on a talent intensive business model, consisting l A Reward and Recognition framework was established formally for partner of skilled employees who design and implement IT services for clients that include employees day-to-day IT support and administration. A significant portion of the workforce As a parallel initiative to ensure compliance to legal and human rights aspects, the deployed for this skill comprises of partner employees, who are employed by multiple Partner Employee Engagement team also invited partners to disclose their hiring and authorized vendors and deployed at Wipro operational client sites, in IT management people management processes through an audit. 96% of partners participated in the EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 076 AT THE WORKPLACE audit, which was followed by remedial action and follow-up. This is an on-going EMPLOYEE CITIZENSHIP IN ACTION process, to collectively make continuous improvements with respect compliance. We will progressively extend this to other business units of the organization. Employees are partners in our organizational efforts to create meaningful impact on people, communities and future generations. Since inception of Wipro's Good Citizenship programs, employees have volunteered in different ways to initiatives such as Wipro Cares, eco-eye, EMPLOYEE CONSULTATION & REPRESENTATION Mission10X and many others. Irrespective of the length of the engagement, the participation A cross functional team with representation of employees from project teams, benefits the end recipient, the organization as well as the employee. contract staff and operations/facility management team exists across locations. These committees are anchored by the location operations team and take part in Every year, Wipro employees across India volunteer their services towards multiple risk assessments, safety inspections, water audits & balance studies, hygiene & food initiatives run by Wipro Cares. Established in 2004, Wipro Cares is a not-for-profit quality assessments and in green initiatives. Over 500 employees are part of these initiative of Wipro that engages with the community outside Wipro in the areas of groups with representation across gender and physical abilities. Over the next few Education, Environment, Health Care and Disaster Rehabilitation. Wipro Cares' years, we look to institute this at more centers. educational initiatives are founded on the belief that education is the key which can open doors to self-help and change. The initiatives are focused on meeting the Formation of Employee Committees and Forums educational needs of the urban poor, children in particular. Wipro Cares offers opportunities for holistic development such as running bridge schools, non formal Safety Committee schools, providing vocational training and training teachers to engage with empathy. A committee of cross functional members that participate in risk assessments and During 2010-11, nearly 200 Wipro employees across urban India volunteered their safety inspections which are reviewed Quarterly 7 locations services for various Wipro Cares activities at schools, orphanages and other institutions. Food Committee Joy of Giving A committee of cross functional members that participate in Hygiene assessments & The Joy of Giving Week is India's festival of giving . In 2010, Wipro Cares led the Provide feedback on food quality 4 locations events of the week in collaboration with GOONJ. GOONJ runs a 'Vastradaan' initiative that provides clothes and other amenities to far-flung villages, collecting on Other Committee an average 20,000 kg (about 1.2 lakh units) of clothing every month, processing it and Green Initiatives Committee: Consisting of cross functional members that discuss and distributing it through a unique clothes-for-work program. implement green initiatives – 1 location WOW –Women representatives that provide health & hygiene During the Joy of Giving week, employees across Wipro IT businesses, Wipro suggestions – 1 location Infrastructure and Wipro EcoEnergy donated old clothes and school kits to GOONJ. Water Committee Many new volunteers signed up with Wipro Cares during the week and many more A committee of cross functional members that participate in water audit & sent in monetary contributions towards the Wipro Cares Trust. balance studies 2 locations EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 077 AT THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEE COUNT BY SENIORITY, GEOGRAPHY AND AGE GROUP WIPRO TECHNOLOGIES 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 BAND Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates 40699 19804 60503 35208 17318 52526 33088 15601 48689 Middle 9900 1222 11122 8628 1057 9685 8790 1056 9846 Senior 1775 180 1955 1542 178 1720 1464 151 1615 Top 104 4 108 117 4 121 95 4 99 TOTAL 52478 21210 73688 45495 18557 64052 43437 16812 60249 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 GEOGRAPHY Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 40241 17004 57245 33394 16326 49720 32234 14991 47225 Americas 6944 2271 9215 7071 1291 8362 6770 1202 7972 Europe 3622 1320 4942 3664 584 4248 3518 478 3996 Others 1472 568 2040 1075 308 1383 634 113 747 Japan 199 47 246 291 48 339 281 28 309 TOTAL 52478 21210 73688 45495 18557 64052 43437 16812 60249 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 AGE GROUP Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total <30 years 31718 17847 49565 23295 14687 37982 24181 13894 38075 30 50 years 19858 3117 22975 697 239 936 18852 2787 21639 >50 years 902 246 1148 21503 3631 25134 404 131 535 TOTAL 52478 21210 73688 45495 18557 64052 43437 16812 60249 EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 078 AT THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEE COUNT BY SENIORITY, GEOGRAPHY AND AGE GROUP WIPRO INFOTECH 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 BAND Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates 9701 1854 11555 8728 1519 10247 7719 1189 8908 Middle 1628 95 1723 1430 97 1527 1183 76 1259 Senior 304 9 313 277 9 286 248 8 256 Top 16 16 17 17 13 0 13 TOTAL 11649 1958 13607 10452 1625 12077 9163 1273 10436 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 GEOGRAPHY Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 10639 1888 12527 9580 1571 11151 8480 1239 9719 Americas 12 12 17 17 Europe 25 1 26 27 27 Others 973 69 1042 828 54 882 683 34 717 Japan 0 0 TOTAL 11649 1958 13607 10452 1625 12077 9163 1273 10436 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 AGE GROUP Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total <30 years 6847 1609 8456 5833 1299 7132 5651 1037 6688 30 50 years 4758 347 5105 4572 323 4895 3477 235 3712 >50 years 44 2 46 47 3 50 35 1 36 TOTAL 11649 1958 13607 10452 1625 12077 9163 1273 10436 EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 079 AT THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEE COUNT BY SENIORITY, GEOGRAPHY AND AGE GROUP WIPRO BPO 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 BAND Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates 15917 8013 23930 16505 8228 24733 15272 6822 22094 Middle 436 110 546 370 95 465 318 87 405 Senior 129 22 151 133 22 155 112 21 133 Top 9 1 10 9 1 10 9 1 10 TOTAL 16491 8146 24637 17017 8346 25363 15711 6931 22642 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 GEOGRAPHY Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 15225 5692 20917 16117 6421 22538 15290 6105 21395 Americas 158 369 527 146 317 463 50 72 122 Europe 286 926 1212 208 698 906 95 243 338 Others 745 1116 1861 546 910 1456 276 511 787 Japan 77 43 120 0 0 0 TOTAL 16491 8146 24637 17017 8346 25363 15711 6931 22642 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 AGE GROUP Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total <30 years 11816 6112 17928 12919 6596 19515 12132 5668 17800 30 50 years 4588 1932 6520 3758 1214 4972 3525 1250 4775 >50 years 87 102 189 340 536 876 54 13 67 TOTAL 16491 8146 24637 17017 8346 25363 15711 6931 22642 EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 080 AT THE WORKPLACE NEW HIRES GENDER WISE, LEVEL WISE SPLIT Wipro Technologies Wipro Infotech Wipro BPO* Wipro IT Business 2010-11 2010-11 2010-11 2010-11 Level Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associate 14160 6317 20477 3642 720 4362 8257 3204 11461 26059 10241 36300 Middle 1981 221 2202 380 18 398 24 3 27 2385 242 2627 Senior 259 20 279 29 0 29 4 3 7 292 23 315 Top 5 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 0 5 Total 16405 6558 22963 4051 738 4789 8285 3210 11495 28741 10506 39247 NEW HIRES REGION WISE, LEVEL WISE SPLIT Wipro Technologies Wipro Infotech 2010-11 2010-11 GEOGRAPHY Male Female Total Male Female Total India 14656 6224 20880 3920 734 4654 Americas 898 174 1072 Europe 422 64 486 Others 396 94 490 131 4 135 Japan 33 2 35 TOTAL 16405 6558 22963 4051 738 4789 EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 081 AT THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEE ATTRITION BY GEOGRAPHY AND AGE GROUP WIPRO TECHNOLOGIES 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 GEOGRAPHY (In Absolute Numbers) Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 9257 4196 13453 6931 2953 9884 7043 2755 9798 Americas 1257 232 1489 749 176 925 983 247 1230 Europe 345 62 407 326 52 378 316 58 374 Others 164 56 220 97 27 124 74 11 85 Japan 33 5 38 28 5 33 32 2 34 TOTAL 11056 4551 15607 8131 3213 11344 8448 3073 11521 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 GEOGRAPHY (In Percentage) Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 25.14% 25.18% 25.15% 20.76% 18.90% 19.88% 21.50% 18.50% 20.60% Americas 17.94% 13.03% 16.94% 10.59% 13.63% 11.06% 15.00% 23.60% 16.20% Europe 9.47% 6.51% 8.86% 8.90% 8.90% 8.90% 9.10% 12% 9.50% Others 12.88% 12.79% 12.85% 9.02% 8.77% 8.97% 13.80% 12% 13.50% Japan 13.47% 10.53% 12.99% 9.62% 10.42% 9.73% 10.70% 6.80% 10.30% TOTAL 22.57% 22.89% 22.66% 17.87% 17.31% 17.71% 19.40% 18.60% 19.20% 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 AGE GROUP Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total <30 6174 3572 9746 4590 2585 7175 4830 2422 7252 30 50 4727 931 5658 3449 604 4053 3534 627 4161 >50 155 48 203 92 24 116 84 24 108 TOTAL 11056 4551 15607 8131 3213 11344 8448 3073 11521 INVOLUNTARY ATTRITION TOTAL: 1.89% EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 082 AT THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEE ATTRITION BY GEOGRAPHY AND AGE GROUP WIPRO INFOTECH 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 GEOGRAPHY Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 2234 309 2543 1421 178 1599 1541 194 1735 Americas 0 1 1 Europe 2 2 1 1 Others 58 12 70 36 3 39 69 9 78 Japan 0 0 TOTAL 2294 321 2615 1459 181 1640 1610 203 1813 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 GEOGRAPHY Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 16.4% 2.3% 24.3% 11.8% 1.5% 13.2% 19.20% 18.00% 19.10% Americas 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Europe 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Others 0.4% 0.1% 0.7% 0.3% 0.0% 0.3% 16.30% 32.10% 16.30% Japan 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% TOTAL 16.9% 2.4% 25.0% 12.1% 1.5% 13.6% 18.80% 18.30% 18.80% 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 AGE GROUP Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total <30 1201 236 1437 865 138 1003 949 148 1097 30 50 1089 84 1173 592 43 635 658 54 712 >50 4 1 5 2 2 3 1 4 TOTAL 2294 321 2615 1459 181 1640 1610 203 1813 INVOLUNTARY ATTRITION TOTAL: 2.96% EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 083 AT THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEE ATTRITION BY GEOGRAPHY AND AGE GROUP WIPRO BPO 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 GEOGRAPHY Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 9353 4179 13532 9349 4621 13970 9969 4204 14173 Americas 80 204 284 82 143 225 1 5 6 Europe 84 175 259 24 67 91 26 51 77 Others 229 341 570 199 323 522 73 99 172 Japan 93 58 151 0 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 9839 4957 14796 9654 5154 14808 10069 4359 14428 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 GEOGRAPHY Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 59.7% 69.0% 62.3% 59.5% 73.8% 63.6% 67.10% 71.80% 68.40% Americas 52.6% 59.5% 57.4% 83.7% 73.5% 76.9% 4.00% 13.90% 9.80% Europe 34.0% 21.6% 24.5% 15.8% 14.2% 14.6% 47.30% 36.00% 39.20% Others 35.5% 33.7% 34.4% 48.5% 45.5% 46.6% 46.80% 34.60% 38.90% Japan 120.8% 134.9% 251.7% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0% 0% 0% TOTAL 58.6% 60.0% 59.2% 59.0% 67.5% 61.7% 66.70% 69.00% 67.40% 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 AGE GROUP Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total <30 8185 4166 12351 8071 4526 12597 8362 3710 12072 30 50 1596 723 2319 1566 623 2189 1650 628 2278 >50 58 68 126 17 5 22 57 21 78 TOTAL 9839 4957 14796 9654 5154 14808 10069 4359 14428 INVOLUNTARY ATTRITION TOTAL: 19.3% EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 084 AT THE WORKPLACE RETURN TO WORK AND ATTRITION FOR FEMALE EMPLOYEE POST PARENTAL LEAVE 2010-11 Female employees who returned to Attrition work post parental leave numbers Wipro Technologies 2850 371 Wipro Infotech 163 30 Wipro BPO 177 73 RETAINERS – SUMMARY OF DATA Wipro Technologies Wipro Infotech Wipro BPO Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total As on 31st March 2011 4295 1150 5445 2430 347 2777 9 3 12 As on 31st March 2010 2767 684 3451 1745 216 1961 0 0 0 As on 31st March 2009 962 206 1168 1517 192 1709 21 3 24 RETAINERS GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION Wipro Technologies Wipro Infotech Wipro BPO Geography Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 2603 791 3394 2201 319 2520 9 3 12 Americas 1053 200 1253 Europe 379 39 418 Others 156 47 203 229 28 257 Japan 104 73 177 TOTAL 4295 1150 5445 2430 347 2777 12 EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 085 AT THE WORKPLACE RESOLUTION OF OMBUDS PROCESS COMPLAINTS Break-Up of Complaints received through the Ombuds Process Types of Complaint 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 TED / HR / People Process Violation 40% 50% 52% COBCE / Security Policy Violation 18% 16% 13% Harassment (Sexual / Otherwise) 8% 7% 9% Fraud / Financial Impropriety 3% 3% 6% Aggressive / Hostile / Biased Behaviour 20% 17% 9% Others 11% 7% 11% TOTAL 100% 100% 100% Total Number of Complaints 453 451 502 Break-Up of Actions taken against Complaints Action Type 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 Separation 9% 6% 10% Warning Letter 5% 6% 5% Counseling 24% 35% 24% Process / Policy Change / Clarifications 31% 20% 26% Minor Issue / Clarifications 23% 22% 23% Others 8% 11% 12% TOTAL 100% 100% 100% No. of ombuds concerns received 10-11 453 No. of ombuds concerns received 09-10 451 No. of ombuds concerns received 08-09 502 EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 086 AT THE WORKPLACE SAFETY INCIDENTS HEALTH AND SAFETY INCIDENT REPORT* Wipro Technologies Wipro Infotech Wipro BPO Particulars 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Total Number of 165 62 256 410 445 20 6 26 183 47 188 90 278 263 187 Incidents Total Number of 136 51 187 167 445 20 6 26 22 47 161 78 239 261 187 IIL Incidents* Total Number of 29 58 * See Note below Transportation Not tracked separately related incidents No. of Employees 32 10 42 67 33 100 affected in ** See Note below Transportation Not tracked separately Incidents Number of 9 4 13 68 Not 1 Not 21 10 31 2 Not Health & Safety tracked tracked tracked Incidents Number of 3903 1353 5256 5479 9107 592 147 739 687 733 4753 2918 7671 6399 4414 Days Lost l *The IIL (Industrial Injury Leave) incident count includes the number of Transportation incidents reported under Wipro Technologies also include Wipro accidents that happen outside the premises while commuting to and from office Infotech incidents. These have been recorded collectively across our major in public / private transport. At present we do not track these incidents operations. Several WI offices have moved to co-located premises during the year, separately. and the separate reporting process would be established in 2011-12. l Health and Safety incidents include Ergonomic injuries, Minor and Major injuries. l There was no incidence of fatal accidents within official premises, during official l **Transportation incidents are defined as those that affected employees while travel or while commuting to or from work.Wipro Infotech lost one employee in availing company-provided transport or while travelling to / from the workplace. a fatal mishap at a client’s premises. EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 087 AT THE WORKPLACE TRAINING Average number of days of training Gender wise and Level wise Wipro Technologies Wipro Infotech 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 Male Female Overall Overall Overall Male Female Overall Overall Overall Associates 10.6 13.4 11.5 7.9 9.4 4.8 8.3 5.4 5.0 6.7 Middle 3.8 4.4 3.9 2.7 4.3 2.5 1.8 2.4 3.4 2.5 Senior 3.4 3.9 3.5 1.7 2.7 2.0 2.2 2.0 1.8 1.1 Top 0.8 4.8 1.0 0.4 0.4 1.6 0.0 1.6 0.2 0.1 TOTAL 9.1 12.8 10.1 6.9 8.4 4.4 7.9 4.9 4.7 6.6 WBPO TT, CHRD & Quality Trainings Overall incl. 2009-10 2008-09 Process Training Male Female Overall Overall Overall Overall Associates 5.7 4.6 5.3 18.1 8.1 Middle 1.3 2.2 1.5 1.4 0.8 Senior 2.1 1.6 2.0 2.1 0.2 Top 2.8 3.0 2.8 2.9 0 TOTAL* 5.5 4.5 5.2 17.6 7.9 * Total Average Days of Training is not the sum of levelwise average days of training. It is calculated based on the formula Total No. of Training Days/Average Manpower for the year. EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY 088 AT THE WORKPLACE POLAND ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY AT WIPRO 5c Energy & GHG reduction Water Efficiency Pollution and Waste Management Biodiversity Environmental Expenditures Assumptions and Rules of Thumb Scope of Reporting The table below provides the reporting scope for Scope 3 emissions as laid down by India GHG Protocol’s new standard, GHG Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard 2011. 60 locations comprising of 26 owned and 34 leased facilities of Wipro Technologies, Wipro InfoTech and Wipro BPO. The number of locations has been consistently Scope 3 Emissions Category Applicability, Reporting increasing every year.The data for 2007-08 pertains to 54 locations while the 2010-11 Coverage Status pertains to 60 locations. All India locations are part of the environmental reporting Upstream scope 3 emissions scope – energy, emissions, water and waste. Purchased goods and services Yes Rest of World Capital goods Yes 19% of our IT employees work from locations outside India. Of this, a significant Fueland energy-related activities Yes majority (72%) is based out of customer premises, for which we are not reporting (not included in scope 1 or scope 2) environmental data. The Wipro overseas offices operate out of leased facilities – we have energy consumption data available for 80%, of the facilities while for the balance Upstream transportation and distribution Yes 20% we have used rules of thumb to arrive at best estimates. Waste generated in operations Yes, 81% (India) Yes Business travel Yes, 100% Yes Employee commuting Yes, 81% (India) Yes Upstream leased assets (Leased office space) Yes, 100% Yes (currently included under Scope 1 & 2 ) Downstream scope 3 emissions Downstream transportation and distribution Yes Processing of sold products No Use of sold products Yes End-of-life treatment of sold products Yes, 100% Yes (Customer Stewardship section) Downstream leased assets No Franchises No Investments Yes ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY 092 AT WIPRO Environmental Management Systems ENERGY & GHG REDUCTION We have been following the guidelines of the ISO 14001 framework for more than a decade now as one of the cornerstones of our Environmental Management System Goal(s) (EMS). 20 of our campus sites in India are certified to the standards of ISO 14001:2004. l Reduce the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG intensity of Wipro’s operations from 2.6 MT These facilities house 72% of the employee workforce, while approximately 10% of per employee in 2010-11 to 1.3 MT per employee by 2014-15, translating into a net our employees work from smaller leased offices. The balance 18% of our employees reduction of nearly 60,600 tons at the Wipro Ltd level. This target applies to all of our work from our overseas client sites at any given point of time.While it is in our own campus facilities and offices facilities that we have the flexibility and control to implement best practices, our attempt is replicate some of these to the extent possible in our leased offices. l For Data Centers which account for nearly 20% of our energy consumption we are in the process of establishing a metric that is representative of the nature of its operations Below is an extract from our Environment Policy that articulates the driving principles of the EMS framework. l For Scope 3 emissions which comprise emission sources that are not in our direct sphere of control while we have a strong baseline measurement in place, we are in Ecological Sustainable Commitment: The triple bottom line of economic, the process of expanding the sources to be included under this Scope as per the new environmental and social good forms an essential part of its approach to GHG Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. We will responsible Corporate Citizenship.With the environmental Management System complete this exercise by end-2012 and simultaneously establish goals for reduction as its backbone, Wipro reaffirms its commitment, as part of its environmental that are appropriate for this category policy through a set of driving principles, namely – Regulatory Compliance, Note: Energy efficiency our energy profile is changing rapidly; we plan to do a detailed analysis of Minimization of our Ecological Footprint, Integration of Ecological Programs with energy optimization opportunities before, trying arrive at targets. Business Strategy, Customer Stewardship, Stakeholder Inclusiveness,Transparency in our reporting and Leadership Commitment. The goals as articulated above must be interpreted against the larger context of the IT Services industry's hitherto employee-centric business model where a 'Per Employee' metric seems the most logical choice. However, in recent years there has been an increasing proportion of Data Centers that we run for our customers where the 'Per Employee' metric is not the right one; therefore, we are adopting a more nuanced stance of layering our GHG emission reduction goals – while at the overarching level, our original published goals on a Per Employee basis will continue to provide an anchoring reference, for practical purposes we will monitor our goals on the three layers explained in the Box above.The former is depicted in the first chart below while the second chart shows the reduction targets for Scope 1 and 2 emissions alone for our office facilities and does not include data centers. What is clearly comes out though is our commitment to halve our GHG intensity on a Per Employee basis. ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY 093 AT WIPRO GHG Emissions (tons per employee) Energy Intensity Metrics 5.0 Energy consumption per employee showed a 4% increase over the previous year, from 4,45 4.5 4,07 269 units in 09-10 to 279 units per employee per month in 10-11. It needs to be noted 4.0 that this is without normalizing for the significant addition of data centers and labs; a 3.45 3.5 3.15 relatively lower level of seat utilization also contributed to this increase. 3.0 The IT Services industry’s energy consumption pattern is largely driven by electricity 2.5 2.5 consumption in campuses and buildings and by fuel consumption in employee travel 2.0 1.75 and commuting. However, the latter falls under Scope 3 emissions and our analysis is 1.5 primarily centered around the former. The three primary sources of electricity 1.0 consumption in buildings are – Cooling, Computing and Lighting. Empirical analysis of 1.0 past data shows the split between these three sources to be approximately 50:35:10 0.5 in percentage terms with the balance 5% consumed by other infrastructure like Water 0 07-08 09-10 11-12 12-13 14-15 2020 2025 Treatment Plants, Pumps etc. Energy Efficiency is a function of four major factors – Technology, Processes for measuring, auditing and monitoring, Asset Utilization and Behavior. The changing GHG Intensity for Office Facilities (Tons/Employee per annum) Low 3.0 Low degree 2.6 of Control Business/Internal Factors Influence Regulatory/Incentive 2.5 2.2 1.9 Business Climate 2.0 1.6 Infrastructure Siting 1.3 1.5 Energy Efficiency Plateau 1.0 Infrastructure Utilisation 0.5 Business Profile 0 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Higher degree of control High External Factors Influence What follows is a close, nuanced analysis of our energy consumption patterns and its Low High underlying contributing factors. The size of the dot depicts the relative impact of the factors on energy efficiency ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY 094 AT WIPRO dynamics of these four factors at any given point of time will determine the relative Our GHG Mitigation Program energy efficiency that can be realized. For example,Wipro’s early investment in LEED rated buildings helped us realize a cumulated energy efficiency of more than 20% over Wipro has set for itself an a five year period. Internal factors like these determine the Degree of Control that an ambitious goal of halving its 15% organization can have on its energy consumption while external factors – e.g. Business 5% GHG intensity per employee by Climate, Regulations and Incentives etc – determine the Degree of Influence on its 2015. Meeting these goals will consumption patterns.This is depicted in the visual below – when internal factors are require much more than a dominant, the Degree of Control is high and vice-versa. business-as-usual approach. The 80% mitigation strategy consists of Given the wide range of factors contributing to energy efficiency, we think that a more three key elements – Energy complete picture can be derived only by adding other efficiency metrics. Therefore Efficiency, Renewable Energy we propose the addition of one new intensity metrics with 2010-11 as the baseline (RE) Generation and Purchase year; For Datacenters, we will arrive at a different set of metrics. A consolidated GHG Mitigation Approach of RE. The proposed split interpretation of these metrics will help understand and analyze energy efficiency for between the three key elements our office facilities much more effectively. is shown in the adjoining chart. Energy Efficiency RE Generation RE Purchase Per Square feet of office space:This metric excludes any data centers built exclusively for customer operations/servicing.This metric is relatively more independent of the Renewable Energy Renewable Energy volume of business activity and can help normalize for inter-period comparisons Energy Efficiency (Gen) (Purch) where the external business context may be different. 15% 5% 80% The table below shows the baseline measurements for 2010-11 for all office facilities, Higher Cooling MW Scale generation MW Scale purchase of India and Global. Efficiency (Earth Air of Solar PV, Wind, Clean Energy from third Tunnel, Geo-Thermal) BioGasifier party providers GHG Emissions Intensity Metric India Global Higher Lighting Area of office space 16.8 17.7 Efficiency (LED) (Kg per square feet per annum) Changes in bldg design Employee 2.6 2.7 Behavioral and process (Tons per employee per annum) changes ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY 095 AT WIPRO Our GHG Profile: 3 year comparison 500000 459549 450000 400000 350000 300000 258206 Tons 250000 200000 90159 150000 78928 100000 26122 50000 2224 32 3515 354 0 Scope 1 & 2 Scope 3 Purchased Generated Fuel Stationery Fugitive Waste Employee Business Total Electricity Electricity (LPG) Combustion Emissions Commute Travel (HFC, PFC) 2008-09 Global 202269 24490 1045 389 60085 94399 363193 2009-10 Global 211688 19049 1352 1407 374 51214 74231 333317 2010-11 Global 258206 26122 2224 32 3515 364 78928 90159 459549 2010-11 India 212097 26122 1990 32 3515 364 78928 90159 413259 Across the last three years, the contribution of electricity related emissions has need to step up the reductions that may be possible in travel and commute – e.g. remained consistent at around 60% of our total GHG emissions, with the balance through technology driven interventions and the increased use of more fuel efficient coming mainly from business travel and employee commuting. Our GHG reduction means of transport. plan is primarily focused on electricity reduced emissions but we are conscious of the ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY 096 AT WIPRO GHG Emissions Direct & Indirect Energy 2010-11 600 1400000 000 Metric Tons 500 1200000 Giga Joule 400 1000000 300 800000 600000 200 400000 100 200000 0 0 IT Business (Total) IT Business (India) Electricity Diesel LPG Charcoal Total 2008-09 383 363 2009-10 360 333 2008-09 807058 267572 17342 1988 1093960 2010-11 560 413 2009-10 853993 213234 22420 0 1089646 2010-11 942653 292411 33119 416 1268599 Energy Efficiency: An analytical picture 74% of our power consumption for 2010-11 was acquired from the electricity grid with the remainder 26% being powered from captive sources, namely Diesel, The first graphs below shows the four year trend of Energy Efficiency on a Per Coal & LPG. Employee basis (kWh of Electricity Per Month Per Employee) while the second graph depicts the split between different sources of energy. As already explained above, the Restatement of figures: There is a restatement in data published in the Sustainability Report for 2009-10.The data presented earlier was the data submitted to CDP 2010.These increase in energy consumption per employee for 2010-11 can be partially explained figures have been subjected to verification audits towards the later part of 2010 as part of by the relatively larger proportion of data centers in our business portfolio recently. GRI external assessment.The observations and corrections were not incorporated in time for publication in the 2009-10 GRI report, and hence have the earlier unverified 2010 CDP Energy Consumption 2010-11 figures.We are taking some steps to close the gaps between these two disclosures and the 350 verification process. 300 250 Energy efficiency measures 200 Our five year GHG reduction targets are based on an estimated improvement of 2 to kWh 150 3% in energy efficiency per annum compounded. Our focus has been on the gradual 100 improvement of energy efficiency through a variety of measures. Given that we have 50 already realized significant energy savings from our early investments in green 0 buildings, additional efficiencies can be realized only through a combination of real 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 time matching of demand and usage and constant optimization of equipment Per Employee 336 309 275 269 279 efficiencies through proactive maintenance; the deployment of a smart information analytics platform that can enable the remote management of energy infrastructure is Per FTE 270 a central plan to this approach.We are aiming to include all these measures through a ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY 097 000 AT WIPRO formal engagement with Wipro Energy Solutions and Services (WESS) – this will also be a pioneering test bed for the deployment of the IT based energy management LEED BUILDINGS IN WIPRO platform that has a potentially significant market as well. Since we last wrote a case study in our 2008-09 report on LEED buildings, we have expanded significantly our footprint of Green Buildings. LEED and equivalent green building certification like GRIHA in India are a Energy Efficient Computing set of design tools and benchmarking systems for green infrastructure. While energy efficiency of computing infrastructure seems to have followed a Green buildings that use these principles cost about 2 to 4 percent more to ‘doubling’ Moore’s law of its own, the cumulated energy consumption of IT build, but can save as much as 8 to 9 per cent in operating cost annually as infrastructure has increased rapidly. Computing accounts for 32-35% of the total compared to a conventional building. electricity consumption in Wipro and is prime area of focus in terms of energy Wipro has about 3.4 million sq.ft LEED certified space in India, efficiency improvement; In this context, ‘Virtualization’ of server infrastructure is approximately 25% of the total office space in India perhaps the largest in one of our major initiatives that along with greater computing efficiency also results the country. All our campuses are designed in conformance with the LEED in a smaller resource and energy footprint. Gold standards. Procurement norms of the LEED standard require that we ServerVirtualization Program procure construction materials and equipment that meet the required environmental norms and standards in Energy and Water Efficiency,Waste We provisioned 247 virtual servers in the year 2010-11. The total number of virtual Management and Impact on Biodiversity. servers now is 495 and these are hosted on 70 physical servers.Virtualization of our server environment significantly brings down the energy costs due to on-demand We are addressing energy efficiency measures holistically, by both active load sharing between server spaces, easier configurability and centralized power and passive means, right from design, material selection and technology management of the servers. In 2010-11 alone, we saved 265 Mwh units of electricity selection. Further, we are scaling up the energy performance by smart due to this. This translates to a GHG emission reduction of 220 Metric Tons of solutions and adaptive measures. Bringing down the demand by regulating CO2-equivalent. usage, which could be done either by behavior efficacy or by using enablers. For example: sensors. Number of Virtual Servers Provisioned 300 PASSIVE ACTIVE 247 250 DESIGN SOLUTION 200 MATERIAL ADAPTATION 160 150 TECHNOLOGY USAGE 100 BEHAVIOUR 50 40 33 15 ENABLERS 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011* ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY 098 AT WIPRO Our renewable energy strategy Use of captive renewable energy in our operations As shown in an earlier chart, our GHG mitigation plan has a significant dependence on Our approach has been to start with pilot projects in Solar Photovoltaic (PV), Micro the deployment of renewable energy in our operations – purchase of RE and captive Wind Turbines and Solar heating applications. The highest footprint of usage has RE together account for 85% of our targeted GHG emission reductions till 2015. been in solar heating applications as solar thermal heaters are used for water heating Our five year plan (2009-10 to 2014-15) is scale-up the sourcing of RE to more than in our guest houses, dormitories and cafeterias. 150 million units from clean power technologies. This represents nearly 32% of our The approximate electricity savings from these applications are shown in the adjacent total power requirement – a significant increase from the current 9%. table. The broad plan is to achieve the above goals through a mix of procurement through Category of use Approx. Savings (Mwh/Year) PPA (power purchase agreements), purchase of renewable energy certificates (RECs) through the medium of power exchanges, captive Megawatt scale projects through Solar Thermal Heating 1274.14 independent producers and a few micro-installations within our campuses. Solar PV installations 3.391 In 2010-11, we purchased 24.5 Mn Units of RE power, mainly from small hydro producers.We are targeting a 70% increase in the current financial year (2011-12) to a figure of 40 to 45 Mn units of power, again primarily from micro hydro sources. Currently, we are well positioned to reach this target, having purchased more than 25 Mn units already. At the targeted level of RE usage, the total estimated reduction in GHG emissions will be of the order of 32000 Metric Tons of CO2-eq for 2011-12. ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY 099 AT WIPRO THE CHALLENGES OF RENEWABLE POWER PURCHASE IN INDIA The Prime Minister’s National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC) here is that for business entities that wish to increase their RE footprint, supply launched in mid-2008 first suggested a renewable power purchase capacity is likely to pose a constraining factor in the near future. obligation (RPO) for state electricity distribution entities as a means of The two major levers for organizations to increase their RE footprint are to (I) improving the RE mix in the grid and of accelerating RE development. Since Enter into long term Private Purchase Agreements (PPAs) with independent RE power cannot be differentiated from ‘hydrocarbon’ power in the grid, producers and (II) to purchase RECs from the energy exchanges; each of these has the concept of the Renewable Energy Certificate ( or REC) as a tradable its pros and cons Long term PPAs provide revenue security to the developer who instrument in energy exchanges was introduced in September 2010. in turn can offer dynamically flexible pricing mechanisms that reflect falling prices of However for institutions other than distribution entities that wish to emerging technologies like solar energy. For the customer, it is a long term purchase RE from the open access market, the challenges are many – e.g. agreement that provides the best option of a commercial justification since there is price parity with the grid, availability of sufficient supply capacity, reasonable assurance of declining prices. transparency and efficiency of the governance process, inadequate market On the other hand, the REC pricing mechanism as currently designed acts as an mechanisms for trading in RE etc. On the last named dimension, India incentive for developers but mainly seems to cater to short obligations of green currently has two energy trading exchanges – ‘The India Energy Exchange’ power purchase by distribution utilities and does not provide answers to questions and ‘Power Exchange India’ – where REC’s are traded on a monthly basis; of long term energy security for institutional purchases. but the supply of RECs is mainly against non-solar sources e.g. Microhydro, Wind, Biomass and it is not difficult to see that this is because Solar Energy is PPAs with private RE developers still battling several teething problems and it will be a while before solar The cost of this power can be priced competitively (at par or below grid price) if capacity becomes visibly significant. one enters in to a medium or long term agreement. In the current regime, the generator and purchaser have an additional option to trade the REC in the market. India’s National Solar Mission (NSM) seeks to change this and provide an Although the entity that finally holds the REC has the ‘legal’ claim to renewable accelerated impetus to the development of solar energy in India through a power, the PPA partners contribute by way of long term financial arrangement and combination of commercial incentives and technology R&D. While we commitment to generation and purchase of power. appreciate the vision of the NSM, we think that a lot more foundational work needs to be done before the build up of solar capacity becomes visible; in this In summary, while the RE mission in India has had a fair start in terms of policies and regard, we had communicated our concerns and recommendations to the incentives that aid investments in this space, there is significant ground that needs to Indian Prime Minister in early 2011, the gist of which is reproduced in be covered if RE has to become a force by itself in India’s quest for energy security Section 5H on ‘Government and Policy’. The point that we are emphasizing ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY 100 AT WIPRO BusinessTravel WATER EFFICIENCY Our Per Capita GHG emissions on account of business travel for 2010-11 is 19% lower than the corresponding metric for 2008-09. Our consistent focus on the usage Water is an issue that entwines social and ecological concerns at once in a manner of video conferencing, live meetings and tele-conferencing infrastructure – backed by that is much more emotive and direct that other ecological dimensions. In India, improved user experience – has been a significant contributory factor towards this. Water and its availability for drinking, cooking, sanitation, farming and industrial purposes is a challenge that is much more immediate than climate change and one that requires a engagement with a different vision and approach from government, LIVE MEETINGS business and civil society from the myopic outlook that been hitherto the norm. At Wipro, we view water from the three inter-related lens of Conservation, Responsibility and Security; our articulated goals are therefore predicated on these Internet enabled video and voice conferencing technologies are used three dimensions. extensively, delivering cost savings through reduction in travel. A total of 87,600 meetings with an average attendance of 4 people per meeting have Goal(s):To improve water efficiency (Freshwater use per employee) been conducted using this service. by 5% year on year We have assumed that 75% of meetings happen across locations in India, the l Responsible Sourcing To ensure responsible water management in Water balance being within the same city/facility. Even if one considers that all proximate communities, especially in Efficiency these meetings happened within India (which is a very conservative estimate considering most of the time the meetings are between teams at locations that are prone to water scarcity overseas customer locations and those based in our India centers) and l Recognizing water availability as a takes an average distance of 1000 KMs between our offices in India, we have business risk, to proactively assess and saved 25,097 tons of CO2 equivalent by avoiding travel for 50% of the plan for the water security of the Water Water people attending each meeting. organization in a manner that is congruent Security Responsibility with the above two goals 3 We recycle 872880 m3 of water in 21 of our major locations, (647111 m for 19 locations in 2009-10) using Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs), which represents 32% of the total water consumed. Water is withdrawn from four sources ground water, municipal water supplies, private purchase and rain water utilization – with the first two sources accounting for nearly 65% of the sourced water. The per employee water consumption for the 3 reporting year is 1.81m per month and 1.75 m3 when inclusive of contract staff. ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY 101 AT WIPRO 3 Approximately 72562 m of the rainwater harvested in 13 locations is used to charge The water supplied by the municipal bodies and the industrial association are sourced 3 the ground by means of recharge pits, as against 21353 m for 6 locations reported in by them in turn from river or lake systems. Our water that is purchased from private 2009-10 sources can be traced to have been extracted from ground water. The figure below is a snapshot of our water withdrawal by source; the 36% increase in 36 of our 60 locations in India are leased and located in prime city areas. For these total water consumption over the previous year is on account of a commensurate locations, waste water is discharged to CETPs (Common Effluent Treatment plants) increase with the workforce and extended water requirements for our new data and to the municipal sewerage systems. We take care not to discharge waste water center cooling infrastructure. Our future steps on this would be to explore and pilot into any subsurface waters, surface waters or sewers that lead directly to rivers, recycled water for other uses apart from flushing and landscaping. oceans, lakes, wetlands, and ground water. The treated water from our sewage treatment plants are tested for control parameters as specified by the local pollution control board.These parameters are in conformance to permissible central pollution Water Withdrawal by Source control board requirements. Discharges into CETP’s and municipal sewers is treated 2000000 and discharged as per the municipal requirements. 1800000 Our facilities do not generate any process effluents that would have needed 1600000 specialized treatment plants. Our two factories are equipped with Effluent 1400000 treatment plants to cater to process effluents. 1200000 m3 1000000 800000 600000 400000 200000 0 Ground Municipal Private Industrial Rain Water Total Water Water Supply Purchase Association Utilized 2008-09 305231 655369 474198 53620 0 1488418 2009-10 265459 635722 478632 13204 5052 1398070 2010-11 416143 749988 626031 110242 3423 1905827 We take care not to withdraw water from water bodies that are recognized to be particularly sensitive due to their relative size, function, or status as a support source for endangered species. None of our operations impact any nationally or internationally designated water conservation areas. ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY 102 AT WIPRO UNDERSTANDING THE SOCIO ECONOMIC CONTEXT OF WATER India is one of the most water stressed countries in the world with an sewage infrastructure is another prime urban water issue that needs considerable estimated 30% of the population still without access to potable, clean water. improvement. However, unlike the problems of energy and GHG emissions, the solutions Sourcing of water is a complex interplay of various socio-economic factors at to the water crisis cannot come from grand breakthroughs in technology or various levels – organization, community, catchment area and the city. Hence a through policy interventions. Water has been and will continue to be multi-stakeholder approach to water management is crucial. While government predominantly a local issue that needs to be managed by local stakeholders. agencies and the public sector have been important players in water till now, there Changing consumer profiles, insensitivity towards usage, urban centric are enough case studies from across the world that illustrates the critical growth and lack of transparency have aggravated the water availability importance of community management of water. With the objective of improving scenario in our communities. our own understanding of the socio-economic context of our sourcing of water The infrastructure of water distribution in urban centers of India suffers and acting upon it, we have commissioned a comprehensive study to explore these from poor accountability – thus leading to lack of awareness and misuse. It is areas at two of our large locations in Bangalore and Chennai. The study, to be not surprising that the “cost” of water does not take into account the completed in 2012, will serve as a reference template for Wipro to form an current and future impacts to the economic, social and environmental informed understanding of the water scenario in the other locations that it balance of the extended ecosystem. Added to this is the issue of equitable operates in. More importantly, the study should provide us with the basis for distribution of water – access is assured to those who can pay and very often engaging with different stakeholders and to devise appropriate strategies and action denied to those who cannot but this is accompanied by the irony of the plans that consider both the short and the long term aspects of water ecology and latter paying much more than the former. Proper maintenance of water and water security in our campuses and areas proximate to it. ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY 103 AT WIPRO POLLUTION AND WASTE MANAGEMENT Considering that final fate of a majority of our waste lies in recycling vendor hands, we began to evaluate category-specific vendors. Vendors are identified based on a Goal(s): To ensure by 2013 that not more than 5% of all generated waste detailed vendor evaluation process by the Central Procurement office and the ends up in landfills Environmental Health & Safety Department. Prior to entering into a contract, the waste vendors are audited to determine the handling, storage and disposal Pollution of air and water poses one of the most serious threats to community health and practices & protocols. welfare. Wipro fosters robust processes to segregate waste into organic, inorganic, E-waste, hazardous, packaging, Biomedical and other waste. Our waste management With the above practices in place, in 10-11, Wipro has evolved to a stage where strategies are centered around either (i) recycling the waste for further use or we recycle 83% of the waste disposed across our campuses through both, (ii) arranging for safe disposal. authorized vendor tie ups and in-house recycling units.The remainder is incinerated or disposed to municipal landfills. We continue to remain dependent on external Waste Management at Wipro began its journey in 2007-08. With the split of vendors for the disposal of certain waste categories such as Mixed solid waste, waste approximately being 20% reaching land fills, 35% recycled and the remainder Metals, Plastics, Packaging Waste, Tissue waste and Garden waste. We ensure that disposed to vendors of which the final fate of the waste was unknown, nascent steps in all vendors are evaluated for their practices and a detailed account of all waste the development and Implementation of efficient waste management strategies were handling is maintained and tracked on a monthly basis. taken. Wipro recognizes waste material as a valuable resource; this value has been best An established target provided the platform to drive a segment based approach to realized by adopting stringent targets, periodic monitoring, life cycle thinking, waste management – the objective being to develop a definite waste hierarchy so as to sustainable consumption, in-house recycling units and vendor evaluations.These tools extract maximum practical benefits and generate minimum amount of waste through and approaches are potentially transforming and have an exciting leading edge in responsible sourcing of waste vendors, investments in in-house eco-friendly waste Wipro’s waste management journey in achieving its target. management units and the minimization of waste generation at the source. The figures in the following page provide detailed statistics on the multiple categories A monitoring plan for the evaluation of all types of waste generated at our campuses of waste generation, recycling and disposal that happens as part of our operations. was initiated. Based on the type of waste generated, they were classified into E-waste, Hazardous Waste, Inorganic Waste, Organic Waste, Packaging Waste and other waste. High waste generation sources such as the cafeteria and office paper were targeted and appropriate investments towards in-house recycling units were made. Our facilities are now equipped with Bio-Methanation plants, Organic Waste Converters, Vermi-Compost Pits and Paper Recycling Plants. In addition, source based segregation is put into practice with each category owning its space in the waste storage area. Colour coded and labeled bins are made available at common points around the facility. ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY 104 AT WIPRO Details of air emissions Waste: Quantum of and type of disposal (All figures in metric tons) We ensure adequate maintenance of our DG sets present in 26 of our locations, this Waste by Category helps in minimizing the emissions of air pollutants like oxides of Nitrogen (NOx), 2500 oxides of Sulphur (SOx) and particulate matter. 2000 1500 Air Emissions in Tons Tons 1000 100 89 500 80 74 0 59 Inorganic Organic Hazardous Packaging E-waste Bio Other Total Tons 60 44 Medical Waste 40 38 27 2008-09 267 1371 76 98 17 1 269 2098 20 8 5 7 8 6 9 2009-10 197 962 29 178 28 1 202 1598 0 Nox Sox SPM Total 2010-11 318 800 48 89 241 1 342 1838 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Disposal Methodology 2500 Controlled emissions of ozone depleting substances (ODS): The quantity of Ozone 2000 depleting substances in 2010-11 was 2.54 metric tonnes for 34 locations. R22 gas is 1500 used in existing HVAC system as refrigerants. This in total amounts to 0.140 Tons of CFC-11 equivalent.A plan is currently underway to phase out R22.All new campuses Tons 1000 have been designed to have zero CFC usage. 500 0 Ozone Depleting Substance (in CFC equivalent) Incineration Recycling & Landfilling Total Composing 1.500 2008-09 1 1661 435 2165 1.257 2009-10 9 1343 247 1604 1.000 2010-11 4 1511 299 1814 0.500 0.133 0.140 83% of the waste is recycled. 0.000 Mixed Solid waste accounts for the majority of the balance 16%. which is currently land 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 filled (accounting for 9 tons of CO2 equiv. emissions).We are currently sourcing vendors across locations to recycle this waste category. ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY 105 AT WIPRO Details of different categories of solid waste disposal (All figs in metric tons) BIODIVERSITY Waste Disposed in Tons GHG Emissions Intensity Metric 2008-09 India 2009-10 2010-11 While Energy and Water are resources to be conserved and Waste is a resource to be Garden Waste 0 158 179 recycled or reused, biodiversity is a natural capital that needs to be preserved. But like Food Scraps 657 697 526 all other ecological capital, biodiversity loss is a trade off that considerations of Dimensional Wood/Lumber 0 14 22 economic growth have constantly to grapple with. The business sector faces this STP Sludge 714 94 73 dilemma directly when it has to take decisions on setting up operations in the Organic Waste (Total) 1371 962 800 Magazines 4 15 1 proximity of biodiversity sensitive zones; even if not on such a serious note, the Newspaper 18 19 12 creation of most new infrastructure invariably involves the destroying of tree cover. Office Stationary 0 3 65 As an organization with large campuses in urban settings, we are acutely conscious of Paper 132 92 76 our responsibility on this front and have set for ourselves the following goals. Tissue Paper 113 69 164 Inorganic Waste (Total) 267 197 318 l To convert five of our existing campuses to biodiversity zones by 2015 Cardboard 87 173 78 l All new campuses will incorporate biodiversity principles into their design Styrofoam 7 0 5 Thermacol 5 4 6 Our first biodiversity project was initiated at our Electronic City campus in Packaging Waste (Total) 98 178 89 partnership with ATREE, a globally renowned biodiversity institution (www.atree.org) Bio Medical Waste 1 1 1 in 2010-11. The project will get completed in its first phase by 2012.We think that Electronic Items 17 28 15.5 Tubelights & CFLs 10 0 2 this is a unique experiment in a corporate context; Biodiversity projects are, by Used Oil 24 17 26 nature and design, long term and visible results take many years to show. But we Batteries 39 4 18 see manifold benefits from a program like this. Oil soaked cotton waste 1 2 0.5 DG Filters 1 6 2 l A significant improvement in the air quality in and around the campus Hazadous, Biomedical E-waste (Total) 94 59 289 l An eventual reduction of 1.5 to 2 deg C in the ambient temperature with a Mixed Metals 1 52 104 corresponding reduction in cooling load, electricity consumption and GHG Mixed Mis. Solid Waste 258 143 125 emissions Mixed Plastics 3 8 41 Other Scrap 71 l A higher level of ground water conservation Other Waste (Total) 269 202 342 l Visibly superior campus aesthetics on account of more trees, less grass, natural Electronic-items waste reported above does not include end of life (EOL) water bodies and more species of fauna computing equipment. The computing waste is handled centrally and includes l A unique platform to engage employees as biodiversity evangelists and champions customer collected EOL (as presently there is no mechanism to distnguish these). The consolidated figures are reported in the Customer Stewardship section. There were no incidents of significant spills of oil or chemicals during inbound transportation in the reporting period. ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY 106 AT WIPRO ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURES WORLD SPARROW DAY The majority of the environmental expenditures incurred fall under the operation and AT WIPRO maintenance of pollution control equipment –These expenses are inclusive of both capital as well as Operating & Maintenance costs. The chart below summarizes our annual expenditure on environmental protection and management during 2010-11 Another notable reflection of our commitment to Environmental Expenditures biodiversity was the hosting 45.00 40.97 of the World Sparrow Day 40.00 on March 20th 2011 at our 35.00 Bangalore campus. The Million Rupees 30.00 house sparrow was once 25.00 common in Indian cities but today it is equally 20.00 conspicuous by its absence. 15.00 Empirical research suggests 10.00 several reasons for its disappearance, many of which are symptomatic of 5.00 1.77 2.53 2.78 0.04 0.95 0.16 the direction in which rapid urbanization has happened e.g. the 0 Treatment Treatment Operation & Training External Research Other predominance of tall vertical glass fronted buildings that do not allow and of Maintenance and certification and environmental disposal emissions of Pollution Education of development management nesting spaces for sparrows. of waste control management costs equipment systems Championing the cause of the sparrow and other common bird species has been Mohammad Dilawar, one of Time magazine’s 2008 ‘Heroes of the Environment’. Through Nature Forever Society (www.natureforever.org), a conservation institution set up by him, Mohammad has been ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY passionately advocating the cause of the house sparrow across the IMPACTS ON COMMUNITY country. World Sparrow Day, a brainchild of Mohammad, has the vision of making sparrow awareness and conservation a global movement. An interested party complaint register is maintained at the gates of all our campus locations. Persons or groups concerned with or affected by the environmental, health and safety performance of Wipro can choose to voice their concerns using this medium. Immediate remedial actions are taken in-line with the concerns raised, these are tracked till closure.There were no reported instances in 2010-11. ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY 107 AT WIPRO ANNEXURE TO SECTION 5C: ASSUMPTIONS FOR THE CALCULATIONS OF THE REPORTED METRICS Computation Process Data Cluster Protocols Followed Assumptions & Rules of Thumb (IT Systems or Manual) Energy Energy consumption data a) Purchased electricity is recorded on the basis a) All kWh readings have been considered as per monthly bill reports Consumption (purchased electricity, diesel and of monthly electricity bills b) Some of the smaller sales offices in Wipro InfoTech's India operations do (Electricity & Fuel) LPG) are recorded on a monthly b) Diesel consumption is recorded in terms of not record electricity consumption separately; this is because the lease basis by all locations in manual MSliters consumed per month rentals paid to the landlord include electricity and hence no data are excel sheets, which are uploaded c) Liquefied petroleum Gas (LPG) is recorded in available. In all such cases, we have used the average per capita electricity onto a central system for audit terms of the number of cylinders consumed consumption to extrapolate the consumption based on the number of traceability per month. The number is converted into employees who work in those offices weight by using the standard weight of one c) For locations where data for all 12 months is incomplete, the average cylinder figure of the months provided has been considered d) Captive energy units are recorded based on d) A figure of 0.4 kg/m3 is considered to convert cubic meters of biogas daily meter logs into kilograms e) Weight of one full LPG gas cylinder is considered as 19.5kg. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of LPG gas cylinders being used as opposed to the Kg Water Data on water consumption, The monthly recordings are based on readings of a) For computing the quantum of rainwater harvested, we use the volume recycled water usage and water meters that are installed in all our major of the rainwater tank as the basis and multiply that by the number of rainwater harvesting is recorded in campuses times the tank is estimated to get filled manual systems and aggregated in b) For smaller multistoried locations where the builder maintains the total a central database water consumed, figures are obtained by assuming one employee consumes 40 liters of water per day c) For smaller locations, where recycled water meters are unavailable, an average of the previous two years’ figures have been considered Refrigerants Refrigerants are recorded in a) Refrigerant details are obtained from service For HFC's and PFC's the Global Warming Potential of the refrigerant along manual systems and aggregated in reports with a conversion factor of 0.001 is converted into CO2e using standard a central database c) For conversion of refrigerants, the Global conversion formulas warming potential and the standard conversion factor is used ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY 108 AT WIPRO Computation Process Data Cluster Protocols Followed Assumptions & Rules of Thumb (IT Systems or Manual) Waste Data on air pollution and Waste figures are obtained based on the a) Sludge disposed in certain locations are in the form of slurry loads refrigerants is recorded in manual generated vs. disposed figures which are Records are maintained in the form of number of loads. Post discussions systems and aggregated in a maintained in waste reporting sheets with vendors the following calculations have been considered > 1 load = central database 3kl of slurry; 1kl = 15 kg of sludge; therefore, 1 load = 45 kg of sludge b) Weight of one UPS battery is considered as 11.70Kgs. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of batteries being used as opposed to the Kg c) Weight of 1 liter of used oil is considered as 0.88kgs. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of liters of used oil being disposed as opposed to the Kg d) Weight of one CFL bulb is considered as 126g. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of CFL's being disposed as opposed to the Kg e) Weight of one tubelight is considered as 250g. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of tubelights being disposed as opposed to the Kg f) Weight of one DG filter is considered as 1.5Kg. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of DG filters being disposed as opposed to the Kg g) Emissions associated with waste disposed have been considered as opposed to disposed + generated + stored Employee a) Data on employee car a) Costs are determined based on a) For 4 wheelers & 2 wheelers, the emissions on account of employee Commute reimbursements are obtained reimbursement of claims that are submitted commuting have been computed based on the assumption that 80% of fuel from SAP Based IT Systems by employees on a monthly basis costs assumed are be associated with petrol, 20% of fuel costs assumed to b) Data on Bus and Cab travel is b) Bus & Cab details are obtained from daily trip be associated with diesel. Emissions are overstated by at least 20% as the recorded in manual systems sheets fuel claim also includes personal travel on the part of employees and aggregated in a central b An average of the Monthly petrol and diesel prices of all major Indian database cities have been considered to compute the total liters consumed c) We have used parking lot figures to determine a factor of the employees using 4 & 2 wheelers d) Company Provided car data has provided us the split of Petrol and Diesel cars. The same split is assumed for non company provided cars ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY 109 AT WIPRO Computation Process Data Cluster Protocols Followed Assumptions & Rules of Thumb (IT Systems or Manual) e) We have assumed an average of 37 KM per passenger per day for public transport. We have arrived at the average distance commuted by means of a travel survey. Thus, by multiplying the average passenger KM per day by the assumed number of working days in a year(250) and the number of employees who use the service f) Public Transport: We have arrived at the number of employees who use public transport by inference i.e. by subtracting the total of the number of employees who use cars, two wheelers and Wipro operated buses from the total number of employees in our India operations Business Travel a) Data on business travel is Details are determined based on Domestic and a) Calculations for business travel by surface mode (Road and Rail) is based obtained from SAP Based IT International Travel Requests on 19 key domestic sectors, which together account for 81% of the Systems travel. For the other 19% of surface business travel, a weighted average of 465 Km has been assumed This weighted average calculation has a deviation of 6.24% if we use the mean of different sectors – or a total of 70 tons of CO2e. However, the weighted average is a much better basis for calculation. Expected Deviation 6.24 % 70 tons b) Business travel (Air – International), Some 109 travel routes out of a total of 103826 have not been considered for calculations, due to incorrect and/or unresolved airport codes. The deviation due to this is in the order of 0.1% roughly of the order of 68 tons c) Business travel (Air – Domestic), We have used the Economy class emission factor. Approximately, 97 out of 112650 domestic routes were by business class. We have used the only available emission factor for Domestic travel d) We have division wise break-ups for International Air travel and client cab transport. For the others (Domestic Air travel, Rail & Road), where division wise splits are unavailable, we have used the employee numbers ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY 110 AT WIPRO Computation Process Data Cluster Protocols Followed Assumptions & Rules of Thumb (IT Systems or Manual) GHG Emissions The computation of our GHG a) For GHG conversion, we primarily follow the Details of assumptions on GHG emissions are mentioned above inline with emissions protocol developed by WRI (World Resource the data cluster data is done manually from MSInstitute) available at excel worksheets http://www.ghgprotocol.org/ b) The WARM (Waste Reduction Model) tool created by the US nodal environmental agency, Environment Protection Agency (EPA) was used for emissions from waste in landfills. This tool available at http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/wycd/waste/ calculators/Warm_Form.html In addition, we have used GHG coefficients that are specific to India for which we have used the guidance tables available from the office of CII (Confederation of Indian Industry's) Mission for Sustainable Development at http://www.cea.nic.in/planning/c%20and%20e/u ser_guide_ver5.pdf http://www.greenbusinesscentre.com/ documents/GHGGuide.pdf ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY 111 AT WIPRO EXPERT PERSPECTIVES The additional capacity required to meet the RGGVY mandate works out to be less UNIVERSAL ELECTRIFICATION: than 10,000 MW of installed capacity.To put these numbers in perspective, as of June A POSSIBLE SOLUTION 2011 the total installed capacity in India was around 177,000 MW 4. However, for the annual 8-9% GDP growth rate that India is targeting, the generation capacity has to more than double by 20205. Hence, the additional capacity requirement to meet the Shuba V. Raghavan mandate of RGGVY is small in comparison. Large power plants based on conventional Formally with Center for Study of Science,Technology and Policy (CSTEP), Bangalore fossil fuels and renewable sources are in the books. However, it has to be noted that this is going to take time. Moreover, unless carefully planned, this is unlikely to result in Providing universal access to clean, affordable and reasonable quality of energy for significant improvement in rural electricity supply in the immediate future. Given this, basic needs, lighting and cooking, has been an enduring challenge for India.While it is what is the best way to expedite energy reach to all and make the GDP growth an estimated that there are at least 60 million households that use kerosene for lighting, inclusive story? several times that many depend on biomass for cooking1. It is either due to lack of grid In fact, a range of solutions should be considered to successfully electrify unaccess or due to poor and unreliable supply that these households, mostly of rural electrified villages, hamlets and individual houses that are in electrified villages, yet not poor, depend on kerosene for lighting. This essay restricts itself to discussing the grid connected. Depending on the geography, terrain, distance from the grid, this challenges of electrification and briefly discusses the role of solar photovoltaic could be accomplished by grid extension, micro-grids based on decentralized technology towards meeting the challenges of rural electrification. distributed generation at the regional or village level and decentralized generation at Universal electrification should be considered an important mandate of any the household level. Furthermore, depending on the availability of local resources, the government, given that the access and consumption of even small amounts of decentralized generation can be based on a portfolio of resources – mini-hydel, electricity is known to significantly improve the socio-economic welfare of biomass, solar or fossil fuel such as diesel or natural gas. households and communities. Towards achieving this goal, India has initiated several Grid extension is the least cost option for urban areas and densely populated rural programs in the past.The most recent, and certainly the prominent one, has been the areas. However, for remote settlements mini-grid and off-grid solutions are likely to be Rajiv Gandhi Grameen Vidyuthikaran Yojana (RGGVY) of Ministry of Power with a attractive, since the deployment will have lower lead time, negligible transmission and mandate of providing one unit (1 kWh) of electricity per day per household by 2012. distribution losses, local employment generation and boost to local economic activity. This was primarily meant to be achieved by grid extension. This program has been Furthermore, if based on local renewable source, this could be accomplished with a rolled out and large sums of money have been allocated and several villages have been lower carbon footprint. However, measures should be taken to ensure that the plant grid connected. Similarly, ‘intense electrification’ has been carried out in several will continue to operate and can be integrated with the grid when it does arrive.The villages that were originally only ‘name-plate electrified’ 2. There have been a few key challenges related to decentralized generation is often the steep up-front sticker studies on the RGGVY program and the jury is still out on the progress made by the price, local capability to install and then maintain the system in the years to come, program3 thus far. financing so that the end-users can afford and the cost of generation. EXPERT PERSPECTIVES 112 There are several examples of success stories in India of decentralized generation. recovery mechanism has to be structured keeping in mind the end-users’ willingness Husk Power is one such story – it constructs and operates biomass based power and ability to pay. micro-grids (capacity of 35 kW to 52kW to power over 250 households), using locally Among the distributed generation technologies, solar has played an important role available rice husk as their fuel source. They are based on a pay-and-use model in rural electrification and is likely to continue to do so in the years to come. where the households pay periodically an upfront fee for a fixed quantum of electricity. While the technology is already mature and ready to be harnessed, innovation in An example of generation at household level is that of ‘Solar Home Lighting Systems product designs and business models are needed for increased dissemination. (SHLS).Though solar is perceived as expensive by many, three major solar players, all With the adoption of LED based lighting the landscape is already changing; the wattage Karnataka based, have been successfully servicing the rural solar markets for more requirement has dropped translating into lower PV panel size and hence cost. than a decade with varied business models. For example, SELCO Solar operates more At this juncture, it is important for the government to plan its role very carefully. as an ‘energy service’ company than as a ‘solar product’ company, by providing While financial impetus is required and welcome, it has to be structured carefully customized systems and financial packages. The interesting part is that these three not to stifle the market. The strength of the large banking network in India can be solar players have leveraged the country’s rural regional banking network and utilized to reach lighting solution to the poor in remote areas. have operated thus far at market conditions – consumers have availed of loans at market rates. Even at today’s costs, solar for decentralized generation is economically viable and can play a major role in rural electrification in the coming years. Enabling policy Solar photovoltaic (PV) technology provides the flexibility in scaling from a few watts mechanisms, tariff and cost recovery mechanisms that can vary with the ability to pay to light a single bulb in a home to electrify individual homes to entire communities. have to be carefully planned. Furthermore, if reliable service does not follow sales, From a conventional techno-economics standpoint, solar PV might appear expensive these installations might end up as solar trash. If adequate efforts are taken solar with an estimated levelized cost of electricity of about Rs. 16/ kWh (assuming Rs. 120/ lighting systems can prove to be a quick, clean and sustainable solution. W for the PV modules), taking into account the other infrastructure costs for a micro grid6. However, the range of applications, and institutional mechanisms that have 1 evolved to disseminate them, have made solar based applications flexible to meet the National Sample Survey Organization, 2007. 2 rural household’s needs as well as be affordable to them. Furthermore, as aspirations A village is deemed electrified if the distribution network has been set up and if and affordability rise, modules can be added, allowing greater loads and consumption. minimum community facilities and 10% of the households are grid connected Moreover as the resource is not a constraint, solar lighting systems, once paid for, can http://www.powermin.nic.in/rural_electrification/definition_village_electrification.htm continue to operate for years to come. It can abate the grid when it is on or provide 3 ‘Rajiv Gandhi Rural Electrification Program: Urgent Need for mid-course correction’, backup power in the case of outage. Of course the only catch here is that these July 2011, Prayas Energy Report. systems need battery storage as the hours of supply (day time) and the demand 4 (evenings) do not match. However, if adequate efforts are taken in planning this hurdle Ministry of power website, http://www.powermin.nic.in/JSP_SERVLETS/internal.jsp, can be crossed. accessed on August 29,2011. 5 ‘Low Carbon Studies for Inclusive Growth’, an Interim Report, May 2011, The only reason why decentralized distributions have not seen a wider up-take is the Planning Commission, Government of India. institutional mechanisms that govern the operations of the plant. While, no single 6 institutional mechanism has reliably worked in all situations, the common thread has Detailed techno-economics of solar lighting systems are presented in ‘Harnessing Solar been that the operations and maintenance has to be guaranteed and the tariff and cost Energy: Options for India’, December 2010, CSTEP report. EXPERT PERSPECTIVES 113 BANGALORE CUSTOMER STEWARDSHIP 5d Our Portfolio of Sustainability Solutions Wipro’s Green Computing Journey: An Update Extended Producer Responsibility and Beyond Arise: An Innovation Model in Advanced and Affordable Health Care OUR PORTFOLIO OF An overview of our portfolio of sustainability solutions is shown in the graphical representation below: SUSTAINABILITY SOLUTIONS Enterprise-wide Energy Green for IT Management Green Computing (Energy Star Information Technology has the potential to be a core enabler of sustainability improvements for energy intensive and material sensitive sectors – Oil and Gas, Energy Efficiency Services 5 Desktops and Laptops) Utilities, Consumer Goods, Supply Chain and Distribution – similar to the role that it Regulatory & Monetization Remote data center/destop has played in improvements in business and operational productivity. Stakeholder's Services Management for Energy Procurement and Billing Optimization interest in ecological and social issues is high in these sectors and therefore, if IT Optimization can help move the needle, the multiplier effect will be significant. This therefore opens up exciting opportunities for IT services companies to serve their customers Energy with a new range of innovative solutions. Management Green for IT Services Over the last three years, Wipro has built a portfolio of powerful IT enabled sustainability solutions for customers – this broadly covers Clean l Green IT Infrastructure: Data Centers, Cloud Computing Energy and IT for Green l IT for Green: IT led solutions for improvements in enterprise sustainability Green Buildings l Clean Energy Clean Energy IT for Green l Managed Energy Services: IT platform based remote management of energy Utility Scale MW Solar Plants Carbon, EH&S and Sustainability infrastructure. The technology platform helps in integrating data, analytics, Rooftop Solar Plants Performance Management Services predictive diagnostics and automation. Biogas Smart Grids The strengths of our positioning come from decades of working with partners and Green Buildings Performance Management customers to understand stakeholder needs – and placing it in the context of a larger LEED Certification Services Process Optimization purpose of providing ‘sustainability’ driven solutions. Supply Chain and Logistics Turnkey Project Management Dematerialisation and Inventory Efficiency Our sustainability solutions portfolio is anchored by various business units in the respective domains – Verticals like Energy and Utilities, Retail and Logistics, the Green Computing division and Wipro EcoEnergy. Wipro EcoEnergy is the Clean Technology and Infrastructure business division of Wipro providing intelligent, sustainable alternatives for energy generation, distribution and consumption. CUSTOMER 116 STEWARDSHIP Enterprise Energy Management Solutions EcoEnergy has the capability to provide turnkey Wipro has a suite of energy management solutions in the area of energy solution to develop solar power plants infrastructure management and maintenance to drive efficiencies. We leverage World class Design, Implementation and Operational capability analytical insights obtained from energy data into energy efficiency solutions that help our customers reduce their energy consumption and related costs. Our unique Design Build Operate Managed Energy Services offering holistically addresses the entire spectrum of energy l Design for loss reduction l Work flow methodology lGeneration Assurance service as shown below: and maximizing for high speed build for bankable returns generation l Tie up with leading lIT enabled monitoring Energy Billing Carbon Predictive Procurement l Technology agnostic module manufacturers for quick resolve and Efficiency Reconciliation Management Maintenance Efficiencies engineering like NexPower, Dupont high uptime l 3rd party design l Integrated energy l25 years plant Life Cycle Carbon management and energy procurement services are also integrated into the validation from reputed management Management solution. Wipro delivers the set of services by uniquely integrating the customer Solar Energy Research infrastructure using lOption of web enabled facilities with our Energy Management Platform. The platform integrates with a Institute of Singapore Wipro Energy Manager remote monitoring (SERIS) service desk which aids in dynamic real-time interventions to deliver energy and emissions reduction with associated cost takeouts to the customer. Green Buildings These solutions are illustrations of demand management i.e. addressing energy We provide Green Infrastructure Services(GIS), through which we provide green demand – while the next section talks about our solutions in supply of clean energy. building design consulting and project management services. GRIHA is the Indian Clean Energy equivalent of LEED and BEE (Bureau of Energy Efficiency, part of the Ministry of Power) has energy rating systems similar to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) We provide turnkey solutions for utility scale MW solar power plants. We offer a in the U.S. The offerings in GIS cover certification consulting, design services for unique technology solution WEM (Wipro Energy Manager) that can be integrated mechanical, electrical, plumbing infrastructure and integration with Building into solar plants to enhance system performance. WEM provides an analytics based Management Systems (BMS). remote management solution to improve the performance of solar plants (either MW scale or distributed) through real time data collection/monitoring and predictive diagnostics. CUSTOMER 117 STEWARDSHIP Service Offerings in GIS Smart Grid area. The Product Engineering Services (PES) group is developing smart gadgets and algorithms for efficient management of the Smart Grid networks. Our Green Consulting Design Services PMC Services Smart Grid practice provides expertise ranging from strategic consulting to vendor l Green certification l Architecture Designing l Contract Management selection to solution integration and implementation. (LEED, GRIHA, BEE) & Planning l Time Management l Water Management l MEP Designing & Our expertise in smart grid and metering solutions covers major energy and power l Design Management Consulting reform programs over the past few years: the Energy Policy Act (2005) in the USA-, l Waste management l Construction l PHE Design Energy End Use and Energy Services Directive (2006) in the EU, Distributor lead l Energy management Management smart metering initiative in Australia and the Restructured – Accelerated Power l Landscape Planning l Security Design (FAS / l Quality Assurance PAS /CCTV) Development Reforms Program (RAPDRP) in India. We are the only system l Carbon Advisory l Environment, Health & integrator company in India working across the range of areas that RAPDRP targets. Services l BMS Design Safety Management We have implemented smart grid solutions for over 15 customers in the past l Close out Management few years. Carbon & Sustainability Performance Management The following is a synopsis of illustrative case studies in this space Sustainability and Carbon Management solutions are designed to measure and Large Electric Utility in Arizona, Our first end-to-end Smart Metering manage sustainability performance and the carbon footprint of an enterprise. These USA Implementation, where we manage the solutions streamline the collection, verification, and analysis of company-wide AMI (Advanced Metering Infrastructure) sustainability performance indicators for environmental, social, safety, energy, and integration with Distribution Outage and carbon. Management System EHS solutions are designed to help organizations to streamline Environmental, Health, and Safety related processes and manage associated risks. These solutions establish Large Electric Utility in End to end AMR (Advanced Meter company-wide consistency and visibility to improve the overall EH&S performance. Northwest, USA Reading) implementation for a large Electric Utility to replace 600,000 meters Solutions for Energy and Utility Companies Wipro has been one of the pioneers, among global IT services companies, in Large Retailer in Australia Implementation of Oracle MDMS providing dedicated focus on the Energy and Utilities (E&U) domains. We have (Meter Data Management System) successfully deployed solutions to over 75 top E&U companies across North America, and integration of various Retail Asia-Pacific and Europe in regulated and de-regulated market in the areas of applications Working with the retailer Generation,Transmission & Distribution, Retailing, Energy Trading & Risk Management on Smart City strategy and Smart Grid. R Accelerated Power Implemented AMR Wipro has a dedicated Utilities practice for over 12 years, backed by industry Development and (Advanced Meter Reading) solution for partnerships with best-of-breed players for solutions in the Smart Metering and Reform Program (APDRP), India Gas & Non-Gas Customers CUSTOMER 118 STEWARDSHIP We continued to make significant progress on our green computing program. What WIPRO'S GREEN COMPUTING follows is a summary of the new milestones reached during 2010-11 on the three pillars of Energy Efficiency, Toxics Elimination and End-of-Life JOURNEY: AN UPDATE Responsibility for e-waste. (For a detailed overview, refer pages 140-141 of our Sustainability Report for 2009-10). Driven by Moore’s Law, the economics of computing has been a three Energy Management decade long story of ‘More for Less’more output for less resources – in other words, a sustainability dream; But the Jevons Paradox – named after l All the 24 laptop models and 24 desktop models introduced in 2010-11 are English economist Stanley Jevons and that articulates the puzzle of now certified for U.S. EPA's Energy Star 5 rating. Out of these models, half of increased consumption of a scarce resource even as its efficiency increased them exceed ES 5 rating requirements. On an average ES 5 models have – is visibly evident in the case of computing resources. Even as chips have operational power savings of 15% become smaller, demand for materials used in electronics has only increased. A recent IEEE paper stated clear evidence for the Moore’s Law equivalent l Wipro Green Console a power management solution for system for energy efficiency of computing i.e. where energy consumption per administrators shipped with desktops MFLOP of computing power has halved nearly every two years. Chemicals Management We already see the above in evidence: the run-in on the rare earths used in electronics and its geopolitics, the vast quantities of electronic waste that is l While all our desktop and laptop models are already 100% RoHS compliant, the generated every year, a lot of which either lands up at landfills or is number of vendors who are RoHS compliant has increased from 30 to 49 processed unsafely in the informal sector and the fact that data centers l PVC and BFR free models being progressively launched since 2010. alone account will soon account for 10% of the total electricity 37% of our product launches now are PVC/BFR free and balance planned to be consumption in the U.S.A. rolled out by 2012 Given these facts, the electronics and Hi-Tech industry have a critical responsibility on product stewardship. Till now, they have responded Waste Management reasonably well, driven by both, a sense of responsibility and transparency l Multi-fold increase in collection of e-wast through our collection centers-this is that comes more readily to the industry and by pressure from civil society. now available for computing e-waste from other manufacturer / vendors For nearly five years now,Wipro has been a pioneer in applying sustainability principles to its range of desktops and laptops. On the three drivers of l 600 components/parts recycled on an average per month Toxics Elimination, Energy Efficiency and End-of-Life responsibility, we have tried to raise the bar constantly. Our Green Computing story has been articulated in fair detail in our previous sustainability reports which the reader can refer to.What we present here is an update. CUSTOMER 119 STEWARDSHIP Extended Producer Responsibility in Green Computing WIPRO'S Wipro was one of the early pioneers in recognizing the e-waste problem as one of GREEN CONSOLE POWER Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) and was the first in India to start an extensive MANAGEMENT SOLUTION take back program in 2007. Over the last three years, we have constantly improved and matured the process for take back and safe processing. In FY 2010-11, a total FOR SYSTEM ADMINISTRATORS of 260.43 tons of E-waste (2.6 ton of CO2 equivalent) was collected from our 17 collection centers across India and disposed through our network of certified partners. The whole process chain is depicted below: All desktop models are now shipped with a unique power management EOL Asset Validation solution for customers – called Wipro Green Console. Many of our desktop customers are large government departments and corporates. The ‘Green Console’ module HOD, Storage Ewaste Re-Usable will be useful for system and network administrators in such organizations Devices to remotely monitor power management and manage patch deployments. The solution also provides a comprehensive aggregate dashboard of Functional Degause / SCRAP Testing Datawiping energy usage profiles and helps one identify scenarios for potential energy savings. The tool can also provide the cost of electricity based on energy tariffs for the reporting period.Wipro Green Console has been designed Dispose to Test Result to empower organizations to significantly reduce their energy costs Recycler without impacting their users. The tool is estimated to save around Pack & Label Pass Fail 20-30% of energy for a networked deployment of desktops. SCRAP (RE-USE/GREEN) Key Features: l Client ready power saving tool Dispose to l Discover network/client system, apply power policies/schedules Recycler l Browser Based application l Power Audit – Defined templates All EOL material that arrives at the collection centers is either segregated for reuse or l Client power polling at scheduled intervals recycle. Storage devices first go through a process of ‘datawiping’ before it is sent for recycling. l Dashboards Around 600 parts or components per month, ranging from monitors, motherboards and other accessories are segregated, checked thoroughly and reused in our sustenance services.The balance EOL material is sent to an authorised e-waste recycling vendor. CUSTOMER 120 STEWARDSHIP Our efforts have focused around multiple levers : Precautionary approach for development of new product lines l Socializing the idea to our customers and convincing them on why returning their We are starting a life cycle assessment program, including verification, for some of our EOL equipment constitutes responsible behaviour key personal computing product lines. The first step in this journey we have l Our own investment in terms of bearing the logistics costs of collecting, undertaken is to look at core environmental and social performance indicators across warehousing and transporting the EOL equipment our supply chain to understand focus areas. The study, currently underway, will be completed in 2012. l Identifying and working with certified partners who can be trusted to safely process the e-waste As the table shows, our efforts have shown impressive results with a five EPR (EXTENDED PRODUCER fold increase in the quantum of e-waste collected over a two year period RESPONSIBILITY) AND BEYOND Year 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Total E-waste Recycled (Tons) 49.0 92.0 260.43 Popular images of mountain heaps of discarded mobile phones typify the problem of electronic waste(e-waste) – that of the potential risk of Average per month (Tons) 4.1 7.6 21.70 toxic metals – Cadmium, Mercury, Antimony etc leaching to the ground and polluting land and water. However, the problem of electronic Beyond the norm: In 2010 11, we extended our take back services beyond waste globally is not one of unmanageable volume alone; many electronic the norm to products that originate from other vendors.Through our Infrastructure products contain upto 60 elements of the periodic table and extracting Availability Services (IAS) division that provides multivendor implementation, them safely for further reuse requires stringent standards of the relevant support and maintenance services to domestic customers in India – we offer our technology, something which is not available in most countries. This has customers the choice of returning these other electronic products.This provides an led to the emergence of an unorganized, informal sector in developing enhanced convenience value to customers and is especially valuable in the instances of countries like India which uses dubious methods to extract the metals e.g. imported products where the primary manufacturer’s presence in India is limited to incineration, acid-bath etc. The pollution and health risks from such sales and first level technical support. methods are extremely serious. It therefore becomes the responsibility Going forward, we welcome the impending coming into effect of ‘The e-waste of the primary producer of the electronic product to ensure that at legislation’ from May 2012; we played a central role as part of the MAIT committee the end of its life, the product is collected back from the customer and (Manufacturers’ Association of Information Technology) that worked with the central safely processed by the recycling ecosystem, which typically will consist of government in the drafting of this regulation. The legislation’s strong emphasis on multiple points of expertise that are geographically dispersed. Producer Responsibility is something that we have always believed in and advocated. CUSTOMER 121 STEWARDSHIP Our strong leadership in Green Computing is reflected in the continued ARISE: AN INNOVATION MODEL top position (India) that we hold in the latest Greenpeace ranking of Green Electronics. IN ADVANCED AND AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE In early 2011, we created a joint initiative with IMEC a leading research organization in nano-electronics and nano-technology – to co-innovate and build next generation intelligent systems, called Applied Research in Intelligent Systems Engineering (ARISE).The joint initiative will initially focus on developing intelligent systems based on next generation sensors, wireless and energy harvesting technologies for key industry verticals. Emerging markets, consisting of 80% of the global population, offer great opportunities for intelligent products to be designed ground up to address its unique needs. Nanoelectronics is one of the cornerstones of the thrust to designing product that address societal challenges like efficient and sustainable healthcare system, sustainable urbanization, and sustainable use of energy. Arise is designed to be a bridge between industry and academia. Focused teams will work on applied research, technology scanning & evaluation, humanistic science and systems design. In the initial phases, arise will explore and develop solutions based on bio-sensor based interventions for affordable patient health monitoring and advanced imaging technologies. OEM Academia & Research labs NGO Industry ARISE Government Startup CUSTOMER 122 STEWARDSHIP CHENNAI SUSTAINABILITY AND THE RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR 5e Responsible Investing and Wipro Investor Engagement Our Economic Performance and Value Add to Investor RESPONSIBLE INVESTING AND WIPRO Wipro Limited is also ranked first among Indian companies in the 2010 Asian Sustainability Rating (ASR). ASR 2010 analysed the publicly available Wipro has been closely observing the discernibly growing trend of Investors information of the 542 largest listed companies in 10 Asian countries. The rating adopting the Principles of Responsible Investing into their decisions. While there is provides companies, investors and other stakeholders a view of the strategic a long way to go, we are heartened by the visible increase in the support for this sustainability of these companies. Wipro’s sustainability disclosure has been movement from the business sector. The measurement of social and environmental awarded an overall score of 83% and ranked as 6th in Asia and 1st in India. externalities in financial terms is a central driver of this movement but this is an The following table shows the total number of signatories to the Principles of area which is still at a nascent stage and one that will require both, more rigorous responsible investing and those invested in Wipro. academic consistency and vigorous advocacy to make it a mainstream practice. Signatories 915 One of the data sources on environment, governance and social factors used by institutional investors is the indices that track the performance of socially responsible Investors in Wipro >10% companies to facilitate Responsible Investment.Wipro’s commitment to sustainability Investor Engagement is reflected in us being part of two leading global sustainability ratings/indices, the DJSI and NASDAQ Sustainability 100. Investors in Wipro are our significant stakeholder. Over the years we have strived to build a symbiotic relationship to realize our conjoint goals and aspirations. We Wipro is a constituent of the global DJSI 2011 (Dow Jones Sustainability Index) for the have developed multiple channels of communication with the investors to best suit second consecutive year, widely considered as the gold standard for companies in their growing needs. Our primary focus is on fair and transparent communication sustainability.The Global DJSI comprises 318 companies, 2 of which are incorporated to keep them abreast with the business and organizational developments. in India.We were rated in the top 2 in India in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) for 2011 and No.1 in 2010 by Carbon Disclosure Project. Our CDP response for 10-11 can be viewed at www.cdproject.net. Newsweek International rated Wipro as one of the top 50 Greenest companies in the world for 2011.We have also been included in the NASQAQ 100 Global Sustainability Index of the 100 global sustainability leaders from across industry sectors. CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND THE 126 RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR Shareholding Pattern in Wipro The Following table reflects the breadth of our engagement with Investors. The table below shows the total number of shareholders consolidated during the year in both domestic (India) and ADR holdings: BREADTH OF ENGAGEMENT 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 l Website l Annual General l Investor Road Shows No. of shareholders 197,774 232,932 228,456 179,438 220,237 Meeting l Press Release l Meeting with ADR holders 20,229 18,428 14,945 15,383 12,544 l EGM Individual l Quality Earnings Total shareholders 218,003 251,360 243,401 194,821 232,781 investors/analysts Release l Board Independent Our senior management leaders along with our dedicated Investor Relations team Directors l Investor conference l Investor participate in various forums like investor conferences and investor road shows, in Presentation l Press Reports l Analyst Meet addition to hosting investors who visit us. Our quarterly results, regulatory filings, India and US l Annual Reports l Feedback on transcripts of our earnings call and media presentations are available at Annual Report http://www.wipro.com/investors/. l Financial Information INFORM LISTEN DIALOGUE SUSTAINABILITY AND THE 127 RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR INVESTOR ENGAGEMENT CALENDAR FOR 2010-11 2010 2011 APRIL MAY JUNE JANUARY l 2010-11 Results Announced l Road shows in Germany, l Investor Conference in India, l Q3 Results Announced l Road show at India Switzerland and France Hong Kong and US l 13 Press Releases l Met over 40 investors l Met over 90 investors l Met over 70 investors l Investor Conference in US l Investor Conference in UK, US, l 8 Press Releases l 7 Press Releases Singapore and India l 9 Press Releases JULY AUGUST SEPTEMBER FEBRUARY l AGM held l Met Over 100 investors l 6 Press Releases l Road Show in India l Q1 Results declared l Investor Conference in India l Investor Conference in US, l Met Over 40 investors l 6 Press Releases India, UK l Road show at India l Met over 90 investors l 9 Press releases l 5 Press Releases OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER MARCH l Q2 Results Announced l Investor Conference in Japan, l Met over 60 Investors l Investor Conference in India l 8 Press Releases Singapore, India and US l 14 Press Releases and UK l Met over 100 Investors l Met over 80 investors l 4 Press Releases l 4 Press Releases In addition to the information provided in the investors section of our website we Wipro Blogs at http://blog.wipro.com/. The above supplemented our quarterly have been providing them updates through multiple channels like Twitter (follow us on results announcement to the stakeholders through a Press release and presentation. www.twitter.com/wipro) Facebook (www.facebook.com/WiproTechnologies) and SUSTAINABILITY AND THE 128 RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR OUR ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND VALUE ADD TO INVESTORS Wipro believes that economic success is a by-product of the goal of meeting the our practices with the highest standards of governance, continuing investor expectations of all its stakeholders, of which Investors form a critical segment. We interactions and being responsive to feedback and critique. believe that our investors look for good governance, fair and unbiased reporting and Our financial performance can be better understood against the larger backdrop of consistent and predictable business performance. For the investors, these the Indian IT industry and the macro forces that are important underlying factors. The performance criteria will translate to a more liquid, fairly valued and profitable box item below is a critical summary of the Indian IT industry. investment. We seek to build investor confidence in our company by benchmarking The Indian IT sector The global business environment continued to remain unpredictable and uneven in Indian software sector export was estimated to gross USD 59 billion in FY FY 11.While the developed economies reflected softness, the emerging economies 2011. Its share of total Indian exports (merchandise plus services) increased compensated by continuing to growth, though at a subdued rate. This made global from less than 4% in FY 1998 to 26% in FY 2011 businesses reassess their strategies and identify areas for both near term and long l In the domestic market the IT BPO revenues excluding hardware was expected term improvements. In this new environment, the IT Sector has identified new to grow at almost 16% to reach INR 787 billion in FY 11.The growth is primarily customer needs and defined new opportunities to continue its growth trajectory: driven by the strong economic growth, rapid advancement in technology l Global GDP is estimated to have contracted by 0.6% in 2009 and subsequently infrastructure, increasingly competitive environment for Indian businesses, expanded by 5% in 2010.The expectation for the year 2011 is 4.4% growth.With increase in government focus on governance and emergence of business models. Global IT spends being directly linked to GDP growth, the expectation is a This has helped IT reach new customer segments even as the penetration into growth of 4% in FY 11 the existing customer segments continued l In India, IT-BPO sector revenues have grown from 1.2% of the national GDP in Viewed from the customer segments, BFSI continued to dominate demand, even as 1998 to an estimated 6.4% in FY 2011 reaching USD 88.1 billion emerging verticals such as retail, health care, media and utilities witnessed growth. IT software sector and services sector (excluding hardware) is estimated to The direct employment provided by the IT Sector in FY 11 was expected to reach account for USD 76.1 billion 2.5 million, an increase of 240,000 employees, while indirect job creation is IT services segment was the fastest growing segment, recording 22.7% estimated at 8.3 million. growth SUSTAINABILITY AND THE 129 RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR Financial Performance payout increased from 2% of revenue in FY 10 to 4% in FY 11. This entire increase Wipro’s Economic Value Add and distribution among its constituents is broadly came from lower EconomicValue retained in business. consistent in FY 11 when compared with FY 10. To the equity owners, the dividend Economic Value Add: A four year Snapshot 2010-11 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 Revenue 310,542 100% 271,957 100% 256,891 100% 203,970 100% Operating Cost 125,997 41% 111,988 41% 104,241 41% 82,028 40% Employee Wages and Benefits 126,867 41% 107,230 39% 107,266 42% 83,182 41% Payments to Government India 7,448 2% 6,457 2% 4,649 2% 4,025 2% Others 3,895 1% 3,403 1% 2,538 1% 1,954 1% Payments to providers of Capital Interest 776 0.2% 1,232 0.5% 2,333 1% 1,690 1% Dividend 13,643 4% 5,792 3% 5,849 2% 8,765 4% Economic Value Retained 31,916 10% 35,855 13% 30,015 12% 22,326 11% Under IFRS dividends are not recognized as liabilities until they are approved by the shareholders.Therefore the dividend paid during the year and tax thereon is considered for the computation of payments to government and providers of capital.The data for the previous years of 2008-09 and 2009-10 has been presented on the basis of IFRS financials. Financial Assistance from the Government Tax benefit to Wipro 2009 2010 2011 Considering the value created by the IT sector through the generation of direct Employees in Global IT services 97,810 108,071 122,385 and indirect employment and the earning of foreign exchange, the Government of India has been providing fiscal incentives to IT companies. Benefit from Income tax exemption 10,787 12,040 11,085 (See Box Item “The Indian IT Sector”). (in INR. Mn) Our IT business contributes significantly to both these goals, thereby qualifying a Percentage of tax benefit to (PBT) 24% 22% 18% significant part of the profits from our global IT services for exemption from Income Profit Before Tax Tax in India. We have not received any other direct or indirect financial assistance beyond the scope of the state policy. SUSTAINABILITY AND THE 130 RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR Response to Investors’ and Shareholders’ Concerns Data Calculation Methodology and Assumptions One of the measures of our success is having satisfied stakeholders. Quick Data Cluster Computation Protocols Assumptions responsiveness to complaints and queries from our investors is part of this whole Process followed and process. Our goal is to have Zero pending complaints or queries. The table below (IT systems Rules of Thumb presents the status of complaints/ queries received and our response. or Manual) Description Nature Received Replied Pending Economic 1. All raw financial Our financial performance data data are recorded reporting is on the Non receipt of Securities Complaint 140 140 0 for last three years in our SAP based basis of IFRS Non receipt of annual reports Complaint 85 85 0 systems with a frameworks maker and Correction / Revalidation of checker concept Request 260 260 0 Dividend Warrants 2. The consolidation SEBI/ Stock Exchange and analysis of Complaint 10 10 0 complaints the financial data is done in our Non Receipt of Hyperion Complaint 552 548 3 Dividend Warrant Business Request intelligence Demat request received 2 – 2* System Others Request – – 0 Impact of financial The impact benefit We have used the TOTAL 1,048 1,043 5 assistance from the was calculated in government government on our MS-excel sheet; the exemption figures as * The pending demat requests has been cleared subsequently by 4th April 2011. profit after tax financial is from SAP the basis of and Hyperion calculation Systems Metrics on analyst These data points meets and diversity are maintained in of governance MS-excel sheets in bodies IR Central Database by the investor relations group SUSTAINABILITY AND THE 131 RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR EXPERT PERSPECTIVES revised measurement system to place the shareholders’ demand in a proper CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY: perspective. Enforcing this measure needs the evangelist’s idea to be revived, where he WHY DID IT START? WHERE CAN IT GO? highlighted the social issues integrated in economic decisions that required a comprehensive view. Jevons Paradox Shankar Jaganathan This story begins with the industrial revolution, a period that heralded material affluence on a scale never seen or imagined before. Mass production enhanced the Shankar is passionate about corporate governance, sustainability practices and economic quality, quantity and variety of goods and services available to humanity. William history.With two decades of varied experience with corporate, social and academic sectors he Stanley Jevons, one of the deep thinkers of that era called it the Age of Coal.To him coal divides his time between consulting engagements, teaching and research. He is the author of made all the difference.‘With coal almost any feat is possible or easy; without it we are the book Corporate Disclosures 1553-2007,The Origin of Financial and Business Reports, thrown back into the laborious poverty of earlier times’ he noted. Coal, a fossil fuel published by Rutledge in 2008. His second book, Wisdom of Ants, A Short History of was leveraged for the first time on a large scale to produce energy for manufacturing Economics, is scheduled for publication in the first half of 2012. He can be contacted at that dwarfed all previous human endeavors. As the quantum of coal consumption shankar.jaganathan@gmail.com. accelerated, its finite availability triggered a basic question in Jevons mind. He The term ‘Corporate Sustainability’ sounds technical, abstract and remote to many. addressed it in his book The Coal Question published in 1865. The byline to this book But given the growing influence of corporate sector in the modern world, it needs to explains the issue that troubled Jevons, ‘An Inquiry Concerning the Progress of be better understood and appreciated by all stakeholders. For only then we can shape Nation, and the Probable Exhaustion of Our Coal-Mines.’ a better world, for us today and for the future generations tomorrow. Coal was the first of non-renewable resources that mankind used in large quantities Given the poetic liberty, the origin and evolution of corporate sustainability which triggered concerns over its exhaustion. Following coal, as petroleum was mined movement can be anchored on a select few individuals without missing out on and used for transport needs, the same question came up; would the world run out of anything substantial. This article attempts to do just that by anchoring on four oil? Gradually this concern for exhausting the non-renewable resources came up in all individuals a 19th century economist William Stanley Jevons, Henry Ford the cases where non-renewable resources are used. Today this concern extends to the 20thcentury entrepreneur-industrialist, John Elkington, the sustainability crusader and two basic resources that nourish human life, i.e. water and air too, which earlier was the 17th century evangelist, John Weseley. While the economist highlighted the finite seen as renewable. This concern however is not shared by all. Some believed that nature of resources in the face of accelerating consumption, the industrialist fought a science and technology will provide the answers for meeting the human needs. Either losing battle in his attempt to leverage the corporate entity for public good. It took new substitutes would be found like petroleum to supplement coal, or the resource eight decades for this issue to resurface in the public domain as the crusader defined a itself would be used more efficiently, if not both. EXPERT PERSPECTIVES 132 In the days of Jevons itself, the efficiency argument was put forward. Not only was it intention to limit future dividend payments to 5% of the original capital invested articulated loudly, but tangible evidence inspired it, with events like James Watt per month. After capping the dividends at 60% per annum, Ford declared he would improving Thomas Newcomen’s steam engine by increasing energy utilization from use rest of the money to reinvest in business to employ more men and share the coal. Jevons the economist noticed a strange phenomena occur when efficiencies benefits of the new industrial system with the greatest number possible. increased. Consumption of coal instead of declining rose sharply. Analyzing this phenomenon, he concluded,‘It is a confusion of ideas to suppose that the economical Other shareholders, namely the Dodge Brothers who held 10% interest in the use of fuel is equivalent to a diminished consumption.The very contrary is the truth.’ company filed a suit in the court seeking to restrain Ford from implementing his plan. This observation today goes under the name of Jevons paradox. In short, this paradox They contended that the interest of the shareholders was impinged. Instead of states utilization increases with an increase in efficiency, thereby consuming larger maximizing profit for shareholders, Ford had deviated from this ‘11th Commandment’ resources. and was seeking to limit profits. During the court hearing, Henry Ford was asked to state the objective of organizing the Ford Company. Violating the ‘11th Computer users over the last two decades can attest to this phenomenon as dataCommandment’, he replied, ‘Organized to do as much good as we can, everywhere, storage space evolved from KB to MB to GB to finally arrive at TB or Terra-bytes. for everybody. And incidentally to make profits.’ In response, the Court in 1919 Jevons paradox, over the years has been repeatedly validated across a range of gave a landmark judgment which shaped the future of the corporate world. resources thereby eliminating increased efficiency as a solution to overcoming Upholding the ‘11th Commandment’ it held. resource scarcity. Search for alternatives is the only avenue that remains. Petroleum became the next source of energy to supplement coal. Its liquid state, enhancing its A business corporation is organized and carried on primarily for the profit of portability, made it very attractive for individual consumption as distinct from coal shareholders. The powers of the directors are to be employed for that end. The which is primarily used for industrial purposes. discretion of the directors is to be exercised in the choice of means to attain that end, and does not extend to a change in the end itself, to the reduction of profits, or to the Not Just Fords’ Defeat non distribution of profits among stockholders in order to devote them to other Petroleum opened up new options for personal transport. Henry Ford the American purposes. industrialist leveraged it by building low cost automobiles providing personalized This judicial decision legitimized the view that the objective of a business is to make transport solution to masses. The successful entrepreneur within a short time money. Though this decision was applicable only in the United States of America its realized another dimension in Jevons Paradox. Increased efficiency meant reduced economic success made most other nations emulate it. They adopted not just the cost. Reduced costs enables lower prices translating to an expanding market. In his regulatory environment, but also the American business philosophy. In the new attempt to increase efficiency and reduce costs, he made a radical departure. In line scheme of thinking, all other stakeholders became costs to be minimized, as with other costs like rent, wages and interest, which are traditionally capped, he added maximizing the shareholders’ interests became the sole concern. A defeat for Henry profit to this list unleashing pandemonium. Ford in the year 1919, turned out to be a defeat for all other stakeholders for the rest Starting on a clean slate in 1903, Henry Ford built a very successful company. In 1915, of the 20th century. A cynical view is to herald this decision as the entry of the the company recorded revenue of $120 million with $25 million profits. From this corporate world into the barbarian age. For the corporate world to return to profit he distributed a dividend of $16 million translating to 800% return on the $2 civilization, it would take many decades before a Swede opened up the gate for its million capital investment. In line with his desire to limit costs and increase efficiency, homecoming. Ford issued a newspaper advertisement on July 31, 1916, where he shared his EXPERT PERSPECTIVES 133 Elkington’s Civilization on profits has seen many corporate entities being identified with sweat shops where The single minded focus on serving the shareholders interest helped the corporate employees were placed in inhumane work conditions, spurious products that harmed sector grow in numbers and size. By the end of the 20th century of the 100 largest rather than benefited the consumers, exploitation of natural resources to the economic entities in the world, 51 were corporate entities. In large countries like the detriment of the society and unethical means used that erupted from time to time in USA and India, their largest corporate,Wal-Mart and Reliance Industries had an annual corporate scandals which cheated investors out of their share of profits. turnover accounting for about 3% of the country’s GDP. This size provided the Many conceded the mixed impact of corporate sector, but believed the positives far corporate entities with power to influence their environment. Further with exceeded the negatives. Even among those who saw the negative impact grow, they globalization opening up national borders, large multi-national entities present in could not size it nor balance it against its positives.A sector trained to pursue targets scores of countries wielded enormous influence over the foreign governments needed something tangible to chase. John Elkington, the environmentally sensitive shaping economic legislations and defining fiscal policies. This in turn further Swede provided the corporate sector with not one but three bottom-lines to chase. accelerated their turnover and profits, making the global corporate citizens first In addition to the traditional financial profits, the Triple Bottom-Line added two more among equals in a predominantly democratic world. dimensions, people or the social impact and planet or the environmental impact. In the 20th century, new influences emerged working at multiple levels. While the Building on the triple bottom-line concept, we have the Global Reporting Initiative a corporate influence is visible in the physical sphere, hidden from the public eye, a more voluntary reporting framework for corporate entities with performance indicators to subtle influence was at work in shaping human aspirations. Human life and social track all the three bottom-lines. concerns which for centuries were shaped by a blend of religious, ethical, social, Is triple bottom-line the gate that will permit the corporate sector to return to the political and economic thoughts gradually came under the sole influence of economic civilized world from the barbarian age? However triple bottom-line and Global considerations. Increasingly ethical, social and political issues came to be viewed Reporting Initiative are only voluntary initiatives. If the corporate entities do not through an economic lens. An illustration of this feature is when economic theory voluntarily enter who or what can induce them to come in? invaded social and personal life. Garry Becker, the Nobel laureate in Economics among his other contributions evaluated the institution of family using economic concepts. Weseley’s Ethics Viewing family as a small factory producing services for its members, he equated the Hyman Minsky, an American economist identified five phases in the evolution of decision to have a child with buying consumer durables to be evaluated on a costcapitalist economies. He painted a vivid picture of this evolution by identifying the benefit scale. He added up the cost of food, shelter, clothing, toys, and the child’s triggers for change and the power wielders in different eras. He traced the origin of education to be balanced with the joy of having and raising children and the desire for capitalism to sea trade in 1600 AD and identified the merchants as its primary driver. care in old age. He even attributed the falling fertility rate in the western societies to The advent of industrial revolution shifted the power from the merchants to the government retirement schemes that guaranteed income to the aged, which reduced industrialists marking the second phase. The third phase saw the bankers usurping the benefits from having children. power by financing mergers and acquisitions to construct big businesses. The Great Perhaps it is in anticipation of these trends and their implications that Stanislaw Lec Depression in 1930s brought to the forefront the importance of management in the 20th century European poet remarked ‘Is it progress if a cannibal uses a fork?’ This running big business, placing the power in the professional managers’ hands. This quote captures the context for a debate on the corporate impact on growth and marked the fourth phase. The fifth and the final phase identified by Minsky was the progress. While corporate contribution to growth is not contested, its positive advent of institutional investors who shaped the economy with equity markets influence on progress is hotly debated.The negative influence of a single minded focus dominating the mindshare. EXPERT PERSPECTIVES 134 Large corporates are publicly listed entities. With their shares listed in stock like Dow Jones Islamic Market Index, FTSE Global Islamic Index Series and Malaysian exchanges, the corporate top management looks to their share price and market Kula Lumpur Sharia Index. In India, the BSE TASIS Shariah 50 index is the first. capitalization for vindicating their performance. Moreover in the last three decades, many companies have linked their top management compensation to their share price Like in Islam, the Bible too has strong strictures on regulating economic dealing with appreciation. This provides the investors with a lever to induce corporate brethren. Over time as these strictures began to lose their stringency, John Wesley, the management to toe their line. For a variety of reasons, the investors in the last three founder of the Quakers sect delivered his sermon on The Use of Money in the 18th decades have used multiple other factors in making their investment decision, giving century. In this sermon he gave three guiding principles. He said gain all you can, save all rise to the concept of Socially Responsible Investments or SRI. you can and give all you can. But this advice was with certain reservations. In short he advocated a livelihood that did not harm the individuals’ life, mind or soul. A life that SRI has both a long and a short history. The triggers were multi-fold and can be was styled on prudence and austerity in spending with the excess income shared with grouped under three broad heads: religious, environmental and humanitarian. Each of other fellow humans. A visible evidence of these ideas was in their shunning the slave them played a distinctive role in different geographies to bring SRI to the forefront. trade and armament business, both profitable businesses of that era. Religious edicts have had a major influence, especially in Islam and Christianity. Likewise environmental disasters and inhuman practices triggered environmental and In the recent times, triggered by these ideals, Friends Provident Stewardship Fund was humanitarian filters. launched in 1984, which is among the first funds that used ethical filters in their investment decision making process. Soon thereafter a wave of ethical funds was The apartheid regime in South Africa that differentiated between human beings and launched to meet the growing needs of the church, the discerning individual and the sanctioned discrimination based on the color of their skin, was opposed by the long term oriented pension funds. Ethical funds either have a negative list of industries investment community, though belatedly, by avoiding companies operating or investing in which they avoid investing, or a positive list of industries to which they confine their in South Africa. Likewise, the Pax World fund launched in 1971 by a Methodist investing. However, these funds remained on the fringes in the 20th century. preacher focused on pacifist activities by eliminating companies engaged in manufacturing war weapons, triggered by the popular opposition toVietnam War. The SRI successfully moved from being a niche segment in the 20th century into the environmental triggers too came into effect after the Bhopal plant disaster in India in mainstream in April 2006, when the United Nations launched the Principles of 1984, which was followed in quick succession by the Chernobyl nuclear leakage in Responsible Investing initiative. Investors who are signatory to this initiative are 1986. required to align their interests to the broader objective of society by nudging their investee companies to comply with the requirements of triple bottom-line. Though The long history of religious triggers to economic activities goes back to the Sharia this is also a voluntary initiative for the investors it has assumed greater importance law applicable to Muslims.This law separates all activities into halal or what is approved due to the endorsement from the United Nations combined with the global financial and haram or what is prohibited. The prohibited economic activities include riba or crisis of 2008 that has made financial sector players search for respectability. collecting interest, maysir or gambling and gharar or what is ill-defined. Gharar has a more descriptive definition. It prohibits the sale of the birds in the sky, the fishes in the Looking ahead, a basic issue that needs to be addressed is whether sustainability sea, the unborn calf and the milk in the udder. In short, it prohibits contracts where the reporting should be mandated? Supporters of this move see it as the only way to goods are not defined, certain or the time of delivery or their quantity is not fixed. mainstream it in the corporate world. On the other hand, advocates who want it to Though Sharia law goes back to the seventh century, its presence in the investment remain voluntary believe this movement will be stronger only when corporates with world is quite recent. It was only in early 1990s that the first Sharia compliant mutual conviction adopt it. For the non-compliant, a hostile environment created by the funds started to appear. Today there are many Sharia based indices across the world stakeholders will do. EXPERT PERSPECTIVES 135 ROMANIA ETHICAL SUPPLY CHAIN 5f Supply Chain Engagement SUPPLY CHAIN ENGAGEMENT to including its supply chain in its sustainability program. As a predominantly IT Services organization, our supply ecosystem comprises a high proportion of Business models of most industry sectors today are based on multi-tier, contract workforce – both, software and facility services. The social and ethical geographically dispersed supply chains. Efficient access to resources and skills and dimensions of sustainability Child Labor, Forced Labor, Discrimination, Health and the increasingly globalized nature of markets have aided and accelerated this Safety – assume greater significance for us; In our first phase of the program process. The environmental footprint of the end product is thus distributed across therefore, our primary focus will be on the Ethical Supply Chain. the value chain, typically in an uneven manner; issues of governance, labor and We present below the broad areas of supply chain engagement and some examples of human rights also fall in the domain of each firm in the chain and may present a our engagement areas with a high level assessment of the ‘materiality’ of each widely varying picture. However, it is an axiomatic norm that the primary producer of category. Since we are at a nascent stage of our supply chain program, we are not the product or service carries overall responsibility and is expected to exercise presenting the ‘maturity’ level of each category of engagement. varying degrees of influence and control on its supply chain in its sustainability charter. Wipro recognizes this compelling state of affairs and is committed Supplier Broad Materiality Examples of current eEngagement Category Sub-Categories We have extended our diversity and equal opportunity program to our contract workforce Software Contract High ecosystem in India; in particular, we encourage our partners to increase the focus on women Workforce People-based and people with disability. Onsite Services In line with the Wipro Code of Business Conduct, we have a zero tolerance policy for breaches of Skilled and Medium basic human rights – Child and Forced Labor and Discriminatory Practices. In addition, we encourage Unskilled Labor our services partners to continually improve the provisioning of health and safety benefits and Periodic review of performance and Integrating employee feedback. Refer to our engagement with a Utility Transport local transport authority in our previous report (2009-10, Pages 170-174). Medium Services Electricity Water The responsible water use framework study, which we are doing with a reputed NGO, works closely with local water authority.The study will be a good basis in furthering our engagement. LEED building standards prescribe procurement from local suppliers within a 800 KM range. Civil and High Our COBCE applies uniformly. Material Infrastructure Providers Most of our software and hardware providers are large multinational organizations and hence are at Software/Hardware Medium a reasonably advanced stage of their own sustainability journey. ETHICAL 138 SUPPLY CHAIN The visual below presents our broad approach to supplier sustainability – based on the four pillars of ethical, ecological, responsible and local: Ethical Ecological Responsible Local Wipro expects its suppliers to On ecological sustainability, our We recognize that it is our extended Recognizing the socio-economic adhere to similar standards of ethics expectations from suppliers are responsibility to maintain oversight benefits of local procurement, we and integrity as for itself. Specific twofold – first, we expect suppliers to for the fact that our suppliers and encourage sourcing from the local clauses in the COBCE require our supply products and services that contractors adhere to the minimum economy. suppliers to adhere to ethical exceed environmental standards. In principles of human rights and Aligned to the LEED standards, nearly behavior in every respect with zero particular, for our LEED buildings and employee welfare. 50% of the construction materials are tolerance for any breaches. for our Energy Star green computers, l Adhere to all regulations on sourced locally. our suppler selection criterion is minimum wages, maximum Our Ombuds process is available entirely based on this set of working hours etc At an aggregate level, nearly 80% of 24X7 (online and through specified capabilities. our supplier base is based in India; By c on t ac t s) for su p p l i e r s an d l Protect health and safety of employees value, 68% -up from 44% last year of contractors to report any breach of Second, we expect our suppliers to the procurement for the year was code of conduct by Wipro establish a program of ecological l Demonstrate – in policy and from these India based suppliers. employees. In 2011-12, we are rolling sustainability in their own operations. action – zero tolerance for child out other channels e.g. multilingual and forced labor We have also started an exercise in 24X7 call center. consolidating our supply chain base We influence suppliers who are in the to make our engagement more During 2010-11, there were 13 breach to take corrective actions. focused and meaningful. instances of suppliers who were Our plan is to set up a system of found in breach of the COBCE, supplier-training and independent subsequent to which we terminated verification of our suppliers by 2012. and blacklisted 10. For the balance 3 – where the breaches were not seriouslimited actions were taken along with counseling and warnings. ETHICAL 139 SUPPLY CHAIN Case Study: Collaborating to Provide a Secure Work Environment. The other areas of focus in the GSG are For an organization of our operational scale – number of locations and employees l Joint patrolling of employee commute areas in collaboration with CISF and working out of large campus facilities – protection of assets and employees’ safety is a Police through Joint Task Forces to provide a safe commuting experience for critical responsibility. Wipro’s Global Security Group (GSG) is vested with this employees at all hours, especially during night responsibility; the staffing model of GSG is predicated on a very high level of l Augmented security preparedness by conducting anti-terror mock drills in outsourcing to an external agency but with important leadership roles retained within coordination with NSG, Special Forces, NDRF, CISF, Local Police, Fire Wipro. What we present here therefore is a case study of supply chain engagement services and Hospitals that combines elements of sensitivity to human rights, employee safety and working conditions, all built on a bedrock of collaborative partnership. l Encouraging internal ERT members for role plays during Evacuation and Fire Drills at all locations. Interactive briefing and debriefing session after the event with the The Global Security Group (GSG) collaborates with employees, industry associations, Government agencies and their representatives leading to role-clarity for state and central governments to ensure enterprise wide management of physical all the agencies backed by greater self-assurance and confidence in the process risks and vulnerability. We have converged physical security requirements with Information Technology (IT) in the areas of access control, fire safety system, l Intensive awareness drives – through the hosting of Security Week are transport security and surveillance. GSG restores lost and found items worth periodically organized; these are characterized by interactions for the security more than Rs.10 Mn to the employees every year. GSG is a central stakeholder in staff with Senior Police officers, quizzes, live chats, conduct of mock drills and business continuity planning and in facilitating client audits across business units. role plays l Assistance to employees in critical SOS situations increasing security awareness, Outsourced manpower is an integral to the staffing of GSG. Minimum wages with rehearsals and augmentation of ERT volunteers and assistance to Mitr (in house additional allowances for retention coupled with statutory obligations and rewards counseling program) and the all pervasive concern for the differently abled and recognitions are some of the measures encouraged for retention and motivation employees are the cornerstones of inclusive security of the outsourced security personnel.The focus on people development is maintained through training programs that leverage Wipro’s internal expertise. Accurate, timely l Security beyond the campus concept is accepted as part of duty and enhanced payouts to the security staff are ensured through diligent oversight backed by prompt focus on women safety through self defense lessons, provisioning of escort redressal mechanisms. Incentives for exemplary performance of duties, fair play and services, toll free helpline numbers are part of the drive to ensure a safe and acts of bravery are encouraged. Considerable emphasis is laid on enhancing soft skills secure work place and beyond for the security staff. Confidence and capacity building of the Security and Emergency Response Training team is done through a diversified training curriculum. ETHICAL 140 SUPPLY CHAIN Sadly, pterosaurs aren't with us today, and all we know about them comes from fossils wrested out of their graves. But how splendid it would be to be able to marvel at one EXPERT of these creatures in the flesh! How wonderful to gaze upon a living dinosaur! The PERSPECTIVES absence of live pterodactyls is, of course, not due to human agency, but their absence still impoverishes us – the mystery of these wondrous flying reptiles reaches out to us WHAT THE NATURAL WORLD across a chasm of a hundred million years. MEANS TO US Now imagine a world with moas. The biggest of these great birds of New Zealand were twice the height of a man and weighed as much as a tiger.Their only predator was a huge eagle, largest of all known birds of prey, and as close to a tiger-hunting raptor as Suhel Quader the world will ever see. Both moa and eagle were driven extinct 700 years ago, the moas hunted by settling Maori tribes and the eagle by consequent starvation. Humans drove moa and eagle extinct; how much worse that it happened like this, than Suhel Quader is an ecologist at the National Centre for Biological Sciences in Bangalore. with the pterosaurs, for whom our fateful intervention was not to blame. But why is it His research group asks questions about why animals behave as they do, how worse? populations change as their environment changes, and how the interactions between species is influenced by their surroundings. Suhel has a particular interest in participatory The unmeasurable preciousness of culture science; that is, in encouraging volunteers from all walks of life to contribute to a better Let me draw a parallel with human culture and artefacts. How much is the Taj Mahal understanding of the natural world. He runs two such Citizen Science efforts: worth? What would a developer need to pay to compensate us and future generations MigrantWatch (www.migrantwatch.in) and SeasonWatch (www.seasonwatch.in), the latter for razing it to build a new highway? What is the dollar value of the Great Sphinx of in collaboration with Wirpo Applying Thought in Schools. Suhel's MSc in Wildlife Science Giza, or one of the world's fast disappearing languages, or of the Mona Lisa? I don't (from the Wildlife Institute of India) was followed by a PhD from the University of Florida mean the dollar value of possession, but rather the value of their very existence. and post-doctoral research at the University of Cambridge. These human creations are priceless; which does not mean that we should spend the In the end, it's about joy and about sorrow. About wonder at what is, and regret at Earth to preserve them, but rather that humanity would be diminished if they were to what could have been, and hope for what could be. disappear or be destroyed. Literature, custom, art, artefact – these speak to us about Let me explain our human-ness, as cultural animals divided by language, religion and tribe, yet still Imagine a world with pterosaurs.They soar majestically in the open skies, some with bound by our common roots as bipedal apes; and by our common future as stewards leather wings spanning the length of a bus, others compact enough to fit into a small of our shared planet. The destruction of these human creations shrinks that space backpack.They wheel and circle in our cities, fighting the kites for roadkill.They skim which we occupy in the universe. Not the physical space, but in that of our imagination the ocean's surface, banking sharply at the sight of a shoal of fish.They hiss at us when – of who we are, and what we could be. Consider a world without our rich cultural we come too close, and flash their patterned head-crests in annoyance.They perch on inheritance. Delete, one by one,Ajanta, the Acropolis, the Coliseum, the Dancing Girl top of our apartments and trees, hunched and brooding and glaring at all who pass of Mohenjo-daro; and closer in time, Konark, the Red Fort, the Eiffel Tower, the Statue below. EXPERT PERSPECTIVES 141 of Liberty. Life would not change materially – we would still be pursuing our human time, with most of the river's length consisting of single-celled animals and plants. dreams and our human desires through our human material means. But our world Until finally, 3.8 billion years away, the river ends at the beginning of life; a beginning would be less rich, our perspective less broad, our understanding of ourselves and our that we barely understand, but where we know something unique and precious has history less nuanced. How too could we explain to future generations why a road taken place.And every drop of water in every little creek and rivulet bears an imprint replaced the Coliseum, a power plant the Acropolis, a factory the Red Fort? Our of what has gone before – of what is downstream in our imaginary backwards sadness at their loss prompts us to ponder our joy in their existence. river of evolution. Every creature is related to every other, through a deep and wonderful ancestry. The natural world So also do we derive joy from the natural world. Plants, animals, creatures of all types In the same way, each ecosystem has a past and history, of how environments changed are meaningful to us in many ways.The outward beauty of their form delights us.We and species colonised and disappeared, to leave the plants and animals we see today. frame their meaning in metaphor. Their life and their death inspires poetry and When the Indian plate collided with Asia, the bottom of the Tethys Sea was pushed literature. Deeper still, we know they are shaped by natural selection; a force upwards, rock shearing and buckling in unhurried convulsions. Muddy ocean-bottom exquisitely simple yet incomparably powerful in generating new forms. Every creature was replaced by seagrass beds, then by grasslands, then tropical forests. And as the we see is the product of millions of generations of evolutionary tinkering; changing millennia ground on, and the land rose high and higher into the rarefied sky, now this way, and as the environment alters, now that.And, of course, these creatures broadleaved trees were replaced by conifers, which in turn yielded to stunted bushes have not arisen, and do not exist, in isolation. Instead, every organism is linked to and finally to the hardy herbs and grasses of the high Himalayas, that live and die in uncountable others through invisible chains of material need into a great machine of temperatures that would kill an unclothed man in minutes. Here, now, snow leopards interlinked flows of matter and energy. In this network of life, even the meanest, stalk mountain sheep; and vultures shatter bones to eat their marrow, heirs of the long most unremarkable creature has a place – by which I do not mean that it is necessarily and dramatic history that has shaped their habitat and themselves. important, but rather that it fits. So the beauty of nature lies not only in individual So the rock and soil and plants and animals of any acre on the Earth are precious and creatures, but also in its connections: in the processes that sustain the intricacies of unique.Again, this does not mean that every individual beetle, every species of lichen, ecosystems, with their uncountable interactions. every network of beings must be protected in some kind of Platonic museum of Ideals You could say, well, this is not so special: we can create new species and we can make forevermore. No, the world is, and has ever been, a changing place, and enforced stasis artificial ecosystems. And, of course, we can. But we cannot create history. is not our Ideal. Rather, I mean that if we choose to kill an individual or destroy a Each species has a history stretching back to the beginning of life on Earth. Imagine species or bulldoze an ecosystem, we must do it with our eyes open to the magnitude the evolutionary tree as a river system moving back through time, human trickle of our loss rather than in ignorance and indifference. meeting the rivulet of the other apes, then merging with the monkeys to form the Changing attitudes, changing values primate creek, which eventually joins that of all the other mammals. And the swift If nature is a commodity, then our relationship with nature is subject to the stream of mammals reaches that of the reptiles, and then the amphibians, then the coldblooded rules of pure economics. Instead, I argue that totalling the material fishes. And at each confluence the diversity, the number of species, increases greatly, benefits that nature provides us with an incomplete valuation. Nature is part of our far outnumbering the creatures that are alive today.And the vertebrate river lumbers human being.We are all the poorer for not recognising and celebrating this. backward in time to meet the massive tributary of arthropods, swelled by countless millions of insects; and so on, branches joining as we go further and further back in EXPERT PERSPECTIVES 142 As sapient masters of our home planet, how can we promote this view? How can we their stomachs.When the tadpoles emerged, the mother would regurgitate her babies convey the sense of beauty and preciousness in each living thing, surrounded as we are out into water, where they would swim and develop into adults themselves. How by the concrete and electronica of modernity? How can we be better curators of our bizarre, how wonderful, and yes, how beautiful! But these species were alone among rich past and better stewards of our shared future? I think the place to start is to be frogs in the habit, and so this unique behaviour is now lost forever to us, one of the open and honest about what we hold good and true about nature. To express our uncounted victims of our accelerated world. sense of awe and wonder at our ancient planet and its creations, and our gratitude to It's about joy, and about sorrow. About what is, what could have been and what can be alive to see and smell and touch the world around us. still be. This sense is not, I think, difficult to convey to young children. But as they get older, and more and more caught up in the technological and social minutiae of life, I suspect that the battle becomes harder and harder, until finally we are so occupied by the here and now that we rarely step back to marvel at the larger world around us. But step back we should and marvel we must. In doing so, though, there is a trap to avoid – which is to be fixated on what is cute or cuddly or ferocious or clever. In the 1980s, two Australian species frogs went extinct. These were unremarkable except for one thing: the eggs developed in their mother's stomach. Female frogs swallowed their fertilised eggs, switching off acid production in EXPERT PERSPECTIVES 143 PUNE EDUCATION & COMMUNITY CARE 5g Education and Community Care Wipro Applying Thought in Schools Mission10X Transforming Engineering Education in India Wipro Cares Community Care Where it Matters EDUCATION AND COMMUNITY CARE VISUAL SUMMARY OF WIPRO'S PROGRAMS IN Readers who have been following our previous sustainability reports would know EDUCATION AND COMMUNITY CARE that it is in Education and Community Care that we started our Corporate Sustainability program a decade back in 2001. The reasons for this deliberate set of Addresses Addresses choices then have the same compelling validity today. Issues of deep Long-term l Education is the only catalyst of social development that can bring about change systemic reform in disaster which is truly sustainable and durable over the long term; and India's education rehabilitation l It is a fundamental responsibility of every business to engage deeply with its ecosystem & issues proximate communities and try to address some of their biggest challenges of health, The following visual is a condensed summary of the primary areas that these three education and programs address and the current profile of each of these initiatives. While the environment Community Care sections that follow provide the salient highlights of our programs in Education (Wipro Applying Thought In Schools and Mission10X) and Community Care Education (Wipro Cares) for the year 2010-11, they really represent outcome of a decade long journey of iterations and changes that these programs have undergone. Further, we are acutely cognizant of the reality that we are still in a fairly early stage in these Comprises Comprises Comprises initiatives and that there will be many more changes in the years to come. Mission10X, Wipro Applying Wipro Cares, a not-for-profit Thought in Schools a not-for-profit Most of our operations are located in urban centers in India and overseas in trust (WATIS) trust commercial or industrial clusters. We work with the civic authorities, resident associations and NGOs in understanding and addressing core issues arising from our operations. These could be specific resource issues – e.g. the Responsible water use Through a study at two of our campuses, Page 103, local public transport facilitation, pages Works with 700+ network of 30 170 – 174 of our earlier 2009-10 report or lake restoration or sanitation projects engineering partners, reaches Works with near our campuses. However, from our experience in urban community programs, the colleges across 2000+ schools proximate primacy challenge is not one of resources and capabilities and therefore our primary 20 states, reaching across the communities focus is around advocacy and addressing deeper, more systematic issues e.g. in our 10,000 faculty country through partners school education system or in our engineering education – which are addressed by WATIS and Mission10X respectively. Wipro Cares, our community care program, is focused on health and education programs for local communities around our factories in the consumer care and infrastructure engineering businesses – these are predominantly located in non-urban centers. In cities, Wipro Cares focuses on the education needs of children who are disadvantaged in some sense e.g. children with hearing disability, children of migrant laborers etc. EDUCATION & 146 COMMUNITY CARE WIPRO APPLYING THOUGHT IN SCHOOLS This was the thought that led to the initiation of the Wipro Applying Thought in Schools program in 2002. School Education: Where it all starts The primary stakeholders and the most material issues that arise on The primary driver behind our decision to work on improvement of school education this theme was that it was one of the most important social issues in India and also because it has Wipro Applying Thought in Schools is driven by a vision of an equitable and just the largest multiplier effect on social change. society and we see our work in education as a way to contribute to the building of We realized that while our schools reflect notions of good education that are held such a society.Therefore, in a way, the primary stakeholder is the larger society.Within widely in society, quite a few issues plague the education system the perceived the education space, however, our stakeholders have been the teachers, students, objectives of education, the methodology employed in classrooms, the organization leadership and management team, parents and most importantly for us, the network and culture in schools and the social and individual outcomes it produces.This makes of social organizations that directly work with schools. the need for a critical engagement with this idea important and this has to be at So far, we have worked with around 2000 schools and 10,500 educators, reaching out multiple levels: with schools, educators, parents and larger society. to approximately 8,00,000 children. To impact/influence education at a systemic or societal level, it is imperative that we More importantly we have worked on projects with 30 organizations so far and the engage with it in a sustained manner and timeframe and continuously learn and revisit projects helped them develop specific capabilities and hence capacity to work in our strategy based on work on the ground.We believe this is a more effective way of education reform. We are currently actively working with around 21 organizations contributing to Indian education than working directly with a few schools. while we are part of a network of 26 social organizations. THE JOURNEY SO FAR Teacher Empowerment Holistic School Engagements Organizational Capability Development In the coming years... Programs What we did HSE projects were long-term What we did Work with more organizations on Focus on Themes & Outcomes: We What we did 2 year long projects that engaged with all stakeholders in projects that help them develop specific capabilities. believe we are on the right track in having the intense Teacher training program one or a few schools and included curricular, We also helped build new organizations and support primary objective as building capabilities in for schools in partnership with assessment and administrative issues in a them in developing capacity and stature in education social organizations across the country. qualified partner organizations. school. The approach towards these projects reform space. While this objective will remain, additionally What we learnt While was consultative and dialogic and the specific What we learnt Issues related to subject matter significant part of our work will focus on teachers benefited immensely we issues dealt with were determined by the and curricular pressures limit a school and a project's specific thematic areas and have tangible realized that a teacher functions context of the school. ability and inclination to make fundamental changes in outcomes from each project outcomes that as part of the school system which What we learnt Schools respond the way the school functions. There is a need to keep can be disseminated to a large audience. in turn enables or restricts her positively to cultural or procedural changes specific subject areas central to a project and develop Themes: Ecology & Education, Social from working in a certain manner. when a third party intervention happens. a deeper understanding and share this with schools. Sciences, Maths. Science,Values, attitudes and So looking at the education Need for specific inputs and usable material is So that, it is in sync with the school's objectives. School environment. problem only as a teacher and the critical. Given the largeness of our country, Some educational issues demand a larger visibility and Outcomes: Organizational teaching-learning problem is there is a need for more organizations to engagement at societal level this beings the need Development, Material and Literature for limited and not enough. engage deeply in educational issues. for a few large scale, high visibility projects. children and Educators, Public Advocacy EDUCATION & 147 COMMUNITY CARE Goals For 2010-11: As an organization, we have been continuously learning Summary of Progress Highlights for 2010-11 from our experience and evolving. After a decade of evolution through Teacher Refining our strategy Empowerment Program (TEP), Organization capacity building and Holistic School In 2010-11 we reflected on the past experience and articulated our concerns in Engagement (HSE), in 2010-11 it was time to look back at our learning and refine what school education and also the refined strategy. we do. An exercise to articulate a refined strategy was to be conducted this year. Also in the current strategic phase as described above, work in themes like ecology & Over the years of our work in this space, we have become exposed to many issues education and public advocacy needed to be brought into focus in a big way. within school education reform and have documented them in detail as “Our With this in mind last year we decided to work on two large projects – concerns on school education” (available at www.wiproeducation.com. Click SeasonWatch and Quality Education Study. While doing this we also wanted to “Our concerns in School Education” under “Position papers” on the right panel.) continue to remain committed to our core ideas of organizational capability Out of the many concerns within school education, we have chosen to engage with a development based on direct work in schools. This formed the three-fold few which we feel are important and where we can make the maximum difference. goals of 2010-11. These are listed below: l Most issues with schools require an external organization to intervene and help. For a country of India's size there are not that many organizations that are committed and have the capacity to work on the cause of improvement of quality Continue other existing projects of education and partnerships l We feel that there is a paucity of good material on education and in children's literature Refine our strategy based on 10 years of experience l We perceive a need to broaden public discourse on schools and quality education based on ideas stemming from deep educational thinking. We work towards raising matters like the following from our direct work in schools and also through studies and public advocacy: New Projects School education is still focused on rote memorization and textbook based 'Season Watch', a citizen science program taken to schools across the country learning focussed on examinations and marks to deepen children's engagement with ecology, in partnership with National Different areas of knowledge are not dealt with sufficient depth of Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) understanding. Knowledge is compartmentalised into subjects and the process Quality Education Study (QES), to study popular schools in India's metros of connecting with the experiences of the student is not aided well on student learning outcomes, but also student attitudes and values, co-scholastic Student is not conceived of as an active participant in the process of learning and organizational aspects and learning environment. Conducted in knowledge creation partnership with Educational Initiatives (EI) Schools are not inclusive places that help different kinds of children including those from all socio-economic backgrounds learn well EDUCATION & 148 COMMUNITY CARE Modus Operandi: How did we do it lDeveloping Educational Material & Literature We have been engaged with these issues for a decade now. While the specific to address the scarcity of good material for children and educators program objectives have continuously evolved, we have stayed constant with a lPublic Advocacy certain mode of working.This can be articulated as specific characteristics we firmly believe in: to create greater awareness on important educational issues l Working on experimental projects in one or a few schools to understand l educational issues better from a school's perspective The projects are always in partnership with social organizations committed to { Radical stimulus to influence public thinking Create good educational literature Large advocacy initiatives { education reform.They have the capabilities to engage with schools and have the staying power advocate l Each project should have an objective of learning something – for the school, the partner organization and larger society experiment Strategy build l We learn from the project and advocate some causes towards shaping public and learn eco-system thinking about schools and education In the process we build and nurture a community of partner organizations working across India in diverse contexts and in different areas within education. { Deep engagement with schools Support thematic experiments Create shareable learning { { Build civil society eco-system Strengthen network Build capabilities in network { Our Strategy Our Social Vision: A democratic society which values equality, diversity, justice and social sensitivity, where each citizen is capable of realizing his/her best individually and collectively. Our Mission: Work with social organizations to increase their capacity in engaging with school education to realize the vision. Our focus areas: l Org capability building in the education space to address the scarcity of organizations and people in this space for sustainable impact EDUCATION & 149 COMMUNITY CARE Updates on our new Project: Quality of Education Study Updates Study various aspects of popular, good schools in India, nation wide l Study was held in 89 mainstream schools and 16 schools with alternate learning campaign to expand the popular notion of a Good School environments. 23,000 students, 800 teachers and 16 principals have participated in this study l Study of student performance, values and attitudes of students and teachers in 120 popular schools across India l 7 different tools administered for rich data including questionnaires, focus group discussions, interviews and subject assessment papers l More in depth study of 20 popular and alternative schools including organizational parameters, perspectives to good education and other important indicators l Data Analysis completed l Findings shared with Steering Committee, final report to be ready by early 2012 l Discussing with a leading print media house to take the findings to a large audience QUALITY EDUCATION, GOOD SCHOOLS AND HOLISTIC SCHOOL ASSESSMENT – SRIDHAR RAJAGOPALAN, EDUCATIONAL INITIATIVES (A WIPRO PARTNER) The only way to achieve quality education is to do it in a sustainable way since it diversity in student population, demographic, cultural, ability-based, is critical to depends so fundamentally on human capacity.The analogy of this idea is learning with represent real life and build sensitivity understanding, which is sustainable versus cramming for an exam, which is Clearly defined processes unsustainable. What is needed for achieving quality education is a stated vision of quality education, clearly defined processes and low-stakes assessment and Certain things must be defined and monitored so they are done regularly e.g. process for monitoring system. visits by teachers to other schools, parent interaction etc. Teacher capacity building should arguably be the most important process in the school. In many cases, internal ratings can be Vision of Quality Education made for a process – for instance, teachers could observe each others’ lessons and rate them. Multiple visions of quality education are possible – e.g., one vision could be emphasis Best ideas from areas like ICT and HR should be consciously included. on holistic education involving sports, character building, understanding, sensitivity, Low-stakes assessment and monitoring nation-building, etc. Low-stakes assessments ensure that the feedback from the exercise is accurate (essential Some of the key ingredients of the vision setting exercise are: for taking corrective actions) and does not create stress in the system. Attempts should what is chosen or emphasized in the vision should be clearly stated and actions of be made that these test not only help the student with cognitive learning but also other a week / month must be relatable to it aspects like values and creativity. attempt must be to paint a picture of what quality education will look like in efforts should be undertaken to make this a shared vision it is not about what we want society, in the class room, in the staff room, in relations with parents, in relations but as much about discovering what we are and truly believe in with teachers, etc EDUCATION & 150 COMMUNITY CARE Updates on other Projects Holistic School Interventions have the charter of working closely with a few schools, understanding school level issues and developing prototypal solutions. The table below is a summary of all the projects that we are working on under the aegis of this charter Project focus Partner organization The past year l CBSE’s Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation Center for Education and Voluntary Action Working now with a new school l Effective classroom management skills (CEVA), Chandigarh Engagement with Rayat & Barha teacher l Activity clubs for subject areas college continues l Helping a govt academic support system function Digantar, Jaipur 5th and last year of project. Winding down l School and community interaction in rural spaces process in progress l Research and Documentation of government school intervention Planned research and documentation l Implementing a multi grade multi level (MGML) curriculum and Samavesh, Bhopal 22 balmelas were organised in the 50 villages teaching methods in 50 govt schools Work in 50 schools in Dewas and Harda with support from the local community and districts, Madhya Pradesh youth groups l Emotional Safety and sensitivity in schools The Teacher Foundation (TTF), Bangalore 2nd year in progress. Notable acceptance of Safe and Sensitive Schools (SASS) project Quality Circle Time in many schools Phase II of research in progress l Implementation of an interactive, activity based curriculum, iDiscoveri, Gurgaon Project initiated in one school in Bangalore XSeed in one school School – Elite Public School, Bangalore EDUCATION & 151 COMMUNITY CARE Content development, Writing and Publications Some specific assignments through the Wipro Education Fellowship and in partnership with organizations to develop educational material and books/videos were taken up. Description Status Water curriculum for teachers Tested in 3 schools Teacher Manual on Inter-disciplinary approach to teaching about water Bengali Language learning material for first generation learners Completed collection and testing of good material in English language learning Monograph on intervention in Bhopal schools Draft completed Book on mid-level functionaries in government school system Draft completed Why the sky is blue – Photo book on Prof. CV Raman’s talk Published in 8 languages www.goodbooks.in – compilation of a catalog of good books and Compilation and categorization of data reviews online completed Book for teachers on Philosophy of Education Literature Survey commenced Organization support and Network Some projects have the objective of helping an organization develop certain capabilities and help in their larger work in education. Project focus Partner organization The past year Navchetna – Continuous Teacher EZVidya, Chennai Concluded project. Helped EZVidya develop 11th Partners’ Forum – December, 2010 development framework based on 9 schools in Tamil Nadu, new services for schools “History and Influence of Historical Chrysalis methodology developed Bangalore and Delhi understanding on social thinking and Foundation Course in Education Digantar, Jaipur 6 course scholarships in 2010 education”. 70 participants from over 20 Kabir in Schools – worked closely with a Shabnam Virmani, Kabir Worked closely with around 10 schools across organizations across the country participated. few schools to demonstrate how Kabir’s Project, Bangalore India and developed material Proceedings of 10th Partners’ Forum on poetry could be integrated in education “Ecology and Education” published with the Courage to Lead – program for school Disha-India, Gurgaon 26 participants in 2010 course. 75 school help of Vidya Bhawan Society, Udaipur. leaders leaders participated so far EDUCATION & 152 COMMUNITY CARE SEASONWATCH Partnerships National SeasonWatch: An innovative project that brings Centre for together schools, scientists and media A rare occasion when the Biological academia and social Sciences SeasonWatch is a citizen science project to monitor and study tree phenoWipro initiatives of a business Scientific Applying phases (leaving, flowering & fruiting) with active school and student participation. In many ways SeasonWatch is a very innovative socioentity are collaborating Community Thought in ecological project with multiple stakeholders. with civil society Schools educational organizations Program Objectives and media to encourage The Science school participation Public Awareness Lateral way to infuse consciousness on We learn about Seasonality Media sustainability issues l valuable plant resources – leaves, School Organizations fruits and flowers are seasonal and Ecosystem like School Mathrubhumi Platform for meaningful available in pulses Wipro's environmental education l changes in seasonal pulses, impact Educational on animals that consume plant partner parts Internet as an enabler Organizations Sciectific Collection & l due to climate change in temperate analysis of phenology data countries, seasonal pulses are changing The data collection is channeled via The data gathered can be used to face-to-face interactions, physical paper l understand phenological pattern in forms and mobile to populate an an area Website internet database that makes the data l compare phenological patterns openly available. across regions l compare phenological patterns across the years l correlate patterns with meteorological data EDUCATION & 153 COMMUNITY CARE Going Forward Future Plans THE VOICE OF ONE OF OUR With the refined strategy in place, the broad framework of our work now has a much more clear anchorage. New projects and partnerships are firming up. From this year KEY PARTNERS onwards we are going after these outcomes – organizational capability development, educational material & publications and public advocacy. Diversity and space for social organizations in education Rohit Dhankar, Digantar In the next year, we intend to make more progress in the various themes we have identified in the refined strategy. In ecology and education, we are already working In India, the discourse around what is good education has gained significant through the SeasonWatch project.The plan is to widen the reach and participation in popular attention in the past decade. And this is triggering many different this project and also to forge new partnerships and projects in this theme. ideas, ideologies and visions, often leading people, systems and policy in different directions. In education, sharing and critiquing ideas and Recognizing the critical role of Social Sciences in building a better society, we intend to practices in a spirit of understanding is very important. The Wipro start working in Social Sciences. The partners' forum of 2010 on “History and Applying Thought In Schools initiative has been facilitating that from the Education” has given us more impetus to work in this area. In the next year, we plan to beginning through its Partners' Forum and encouraging partners to work explore ideas and experiments with our existing partners as well as forge new with each other in various ways. I can see an all round churning of ideas and partnerships in this theme. learning happening in this way. In the area of Mathematics education, we have researchers and educators in our Another important contribution of Wipro in current scenario of partner network who have been working in this area for years.We intend to deepen supporting educational ideas and action is even more important. In partnering with Wipro, there is still space for the actors on the ground to our understanding of Mathematics education through study and discussions with our develop their own agendas and convince Wipro of the worthwhileness of partners.We are aiming at identifying focus areas and opportunities for work in Math these to get financial support. education. This is especially important for two reasons. One – education needs The QES study phase has been completed and findings and report will become continuous seeding and nurturing of ideas to remain robust in theory and available next year.These will be shared with our partner network in the next year's practice. Shutting down the generation and nurturing of ideas is a sure way partner forum. With data on wide range of aspects of schools and student learning to emaciate education.The second is that in the present climate the space available, there is an opportunity to build a large advocacy effort. We plan to do a for developing their own agendas by actors in education (NGOs) is closing. nationwide campaign to expand the notion of quality in education. This significantly decreases the space for the blooming of new ideas and diverse thought processes. Apart from these, there are many projects which are in various stages. For those beginning and winding up, we intend to engage closely to give it shape or to study the Wipro seems to still retain faith in the 'other' by allowing their partners to impact and garner the learning. For those continuing, we intend to continue engaging pursue their own agendas and allowing diversity in ideologies and methods. through visits and periodic reviews and other engagements. EDUCATION & 154 COMMUNITY CARE MISSION10X TRANSFORMING ENGINEERING EDUCATION IN INDIA The journey so far Recently NASSCOM [National Association of Software and Service On Teachers Day, 5th September 2007, Mission10X embarked on a journey to Companies (India)], IT industry association has partnered with Mission10X to transform engineering education in India.The key challenge to be addressed was the adapt Mission10X methodology as the backbone of pedagogy across IT industry dismally low employability skills of engineering graduates in the country. Mission10X members. This understanding intends to enhance employability skills through multisought to create a quantum improvement in the situation by bringing about systemic pronged approach. change in the existing teaching-learning paradigms in engineering education. As of March 2011, Mission10X has reached out to over 13,000 faculty members from more than 900 engineering colleges in India, covering 24 states and Union Territories. Based on the inspiration from Mission10X, many noteworthy innovations are now practiced by the faculty members in their classrooms. Community of Mission10Xians has created over 5,700 innovative assets across various Engineering disciplines, which are hosted in our community portal www.mission10x.com. Many Universities have concurred with this innovative methodology and are actively supporting this initiative. These University bodies along with Mission10X collaborate in conducting faculty enablement workshops and engagements, undertaking joint research in creation of Behind the impressive numbers that Mission10X has achieved are the many stories of educational assets and disseminating new learning.The partnerships have opened new individual teachers, heads of institutions and students opening their minds to new doors for Mission10X in various States across India by providing a platform to ways of learning. Change is never easy and it is only because all these individuals have cultivate a culture of innovative thinking in the faculty members within the States. wholeheartedly embraced and championed change that we are seeing the Premier educational bodies like Indian Society of Technical Education (ISTE), transformation in engineering education. an Apex body of All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has partnered with Mission10X and now jointly certifies the efforts of faculty members attending the Mission10X workshop and learning Mission10X Learning Approach. Mission10X is also recognized as Gold member of the International Federation of Engineering Education Societies (IFEES), Washington DC. EDUCATION & 155 COMMUNITY CARE The launch of Phase 2 One of the gaps that Mission10X observed in engineering education is the students’ lack of exposure to the latest technology, particularly in their laboratory practices and Change needs to be tangible. The impact of an the industry expectations. UNIFIED LEARNING KIT as it is aptly coined helps the initiative that seeks to bring about change is best learner to possess higher forms of learning using a practice based approach. With evaluated in terms of its progress on appropriate ULKs, students are exposed to the latest technologies, encouraged to do research in metrics. Having already empowered 10,000 faculty emerging areas and motivated to adopt a multidisciplinary learning approach. members across the country in its first three years, Mission10X has now embarked its Phase 2 Phase II of Mission10X will ensure that the students are kept abreast with the rapid on a more rigorous journey to strengthen the advances in technology by facilitating deployment of over 2500 Unified Learning Kits. quality of engagement in engineering education by setting for itself a larger goal to empower 25,000 more Faculty, deploy 2,500 Learning Kits and develop 250 Academic Leaders by 2013. The launch of Phase 2 has seen more faculty members across India benefit from the movement and this is only going to grow from strength to strength to change the landscape of Engineering education in India. EDUCATION & 156 COMMUNITY CARE ULK helps the learner to possess higher forms of learning using a practice based international partners like Harvard Business School Publishing(HBSP), Development approach. These learning kits provide state of the art technologies integrated into Dimensions International (DDI) and many others. The first Level 1 workshop was small form factor kits that are handy and could be carried by each learner from early launched in the month of March 2011 in Hyderabad. By the end of phase 2 by 2013 years to final year. Currently learning kits have been deployed in the 4 partner more than 250 senior academic leaders from engineering are expected to be part of institutes and will be moving into open source shortly. this process. Leadership in the education space influences the quality of learning through 4 years ago Mission10X embarked on a journey of transformation. While much has institution building. Successful institution building requires academic leaders to been achieved there is much that still needs to be done. Creating institutional change innovate, inspire and transform institutions by working through constraints, adapting is never an easy task.Yet, getting significantly better returns from higher education is to the changing global environment and rising to the expectations of all stakeholders. In the last one year, the launch of Phase 2 of Mission10X ACADEMIC absolutely essential if India wishes to reap the fruits of the demographic dividend. LEADERSHIP PROGRAM has helped Academic Leaders to equip them with Along with the thousands of Mission10Xians, heads of institutions, partners and skills to better manage organizational challenges, build high performing teams of students who are the key focus of this initiative, the mission rededicates itself to faculty members and develop the next class of high-potential faculty members within changing the face of engineering education in India. their institutes. There is no formal training process to prepare academic leaders. In the light of increasing stakeholder's expectations, global challenges and possible opportunities available to India, academic leaders need to be prepared.This workshop was designed after a detailed need analysis and identifying a list of required competencies. Mission10X conceptualized multilevel academic leadership program along with EDUCATION & 157 COMMUNITY CARE WIPRO CARES: COMMUNITY CARE WHERE IT MATTERS The overarching context l Access to decent education Responsibility towards proximate communities, especially those who happen to be l Access to affordable primary healthcare more disadvantaged, must constitute a fundamental commitment of every l Restoration of degraded environments responsible corporate entity. It is with this belief and philosophy that Wipro Cares l Long term rehabilitation in disaster struck areas was formed in 2003. The charter of Wipro Cares – stemming from the values Wipro Cares is organized as a Trust with funds donated by Wipro employees that are of Spirit of Wipro is thus centered around the following needs of marginalized matched by Wipro. In each location, the Wipro Cares work is driven by a Location communities in the proximity of our operations. Committee constituted of volunteering Wiproites. The Wipro Cares approach to meaningful engagement with communities Identify Drive project Assess social communities & Develop objectives implementation Define areas of impact of the partners at various and outcomes with appropriate Engagement project and locations across for the project governance address any gaps the country mechanism The primary stakeholders and the most material issues that Summary of progress highlights: arise from them During 2010-11 Wipro Cares added support for four new projects, taking the total The principal stakeholders for Wipro Cares are number of active community projects to 15. l Disadvantaged proximate communities The summary highlights are represented below: l Our NGO partners who engage directly with the community and Access to Reached out to more than 10500 children in l Wipro's employee volunteers Education Pune, Mumbai, Bangalore, Kolkata and Hyderabad As stated earlier, the material community issues that we have chosen to address are: Primary Provided to more than 25000 people in 25 villages Primary health care, Access to school education, Restoring local Healthcare Services around our plants in Waluj, Tumkur & Hindupur environments and Long-term rehabilitation after a disaster. Restoration of Social foresty initiative in rural Tamil Nadu that Environment addresses ecological preservation and rural livelihoods Disaster Continued support for the victims of Rehabilitation Tamil Nadu Tsunami, Karnataka & Bihar Floods EDUCATION & 158 COMMUNITY CARE The new projects: In 2010-11, we built on our nascent initiative started in 2009-10 project is to create sustainable green cover on degraded lands along with providing on Primary Health Care and added two more programs at Tumkur and Hindupur livelihood options to farmers from the tree produce. The project is managed by where we have a Consumer Care factory and a Hydraulics Cylinder factory TIST ( The International Small Group & Tree Planting Program) but the governance respectively. Our first program at Waluj, Project Sanjeevani continues to be a model is really one of collaborative community management of the commons – this flagship project and a role model on delivering primary health care to rural villages in ensures stability, consistency and eventual durability of the trees. With 25,000 India. A brief descriptive summary is provided below: saplings on 100 acres of land, this project is a stand-out example of an initiative that l Tumkur Health Care Project (around WCCLG plant at Tumkur) meets both, ecological and social goals in a balanced manner The health care project in Tumkur covers 11 villages with a population of Rural e-Governance: Wipro is part of the consortium-anchored by the Center over 11000 to ensure comprehensive primary health services delivery and for Public Policy, IIM Bangalore – that is working on the design of an effective and regular health camps on various diseases. The program also includes sustainable Common Service Center (CSC) in rural India. The consortium has a community mobilization and the capacity building of anganwadi workers and number of public and private sector organizations who have volunteered to join in traditional birth attendants true public-private partnership spirit. The introduction of the CSC at the Gram Panchayat level is in line with the objectives of the National E-Governance Plan. The l Hindupur Health Care Project (around WIN Hindupur Plant) CSC is intended to be an effective service delivery mechanism to the citizens of rural The health care project in Hindupur covers 9 villages with a population of around India. Specifically,the purposes of the CSC are: 12000 to provide comprehensive primary health services and specialized services through regular health camps.The project also generates awareness around issues l Envisioned as the front-end delivery points for Government, Private and Social related to health sector services to rural citizens of India l Sanjeevani Health Care Project ( around WCCLG Plant at Waluj) l Provide high quality and cost-effective video, voice and data content and services, in In its second year now, Project Sanjeevani continued to cater to the primary health the areas of e-governance, agriculture and allied sectors, artisans, education, health, care needs of nine villages around Waluj. In 2010-11 the mobile clinic provided telemedicine, insurance as well as other private services.A highlight of the CSCs is health care services to more than 12,000 patients and the Reproductive Child that it will offer web-enabled e-governance services in rural areas, including Health (RCH) clinic aided more than 1500 expectant mothers on key health issues application forms, certificates, and utility payments such as electricity, telephone pertaining to them and water bills etc The idea is to develop a platform that can enable Government, private and social l Schooling for Children with Hearing Disability: Ashrya Akruti. Hyderabad sector organizations to integrate their social and commercial goals for the benefit of is a centre that caters to the needs of hearing impaired children and provides rural populations in the remotest corners of the country through a combination of IT them with special education. The project provides for the school staff that is as well as non-IT services. Some key applications that are integrated into the CSC are trained to meet the needs of the hearing disabled children. The center provided Mathru Suraksha (Health information for expectant mothers and government health to the needs of 197 hearing impaired children in 2010-11 workers) and NREGA mobile feature. l Social Forestry in RuralTamil Nadu: TIST, Thiruvallur The consortium was formally launched in October 2009 and as of March 2011 there The project involves sustainable tree plantation and its scientific management were 15 centers functional in Karnataka. Wipro is program managing the planning, along with generation of livelihoods for farmers. Targeted at 25 subsistence design and implementation work and also providing technical evaluation and farmers in Thiruvallur district around 150 kms from Chennai the aim of the consultancy services. EDUCATION & 159 COMMUNITY CARE EXPERT PERSPECTIVES continuous efforts should be made to make the vision a shared one and clarify it if QUALITY EDUCATION, GOOD SCHOOLS necessary AND HOLISTIC SCHOOL ASSESSMENT very often visions reflect a generic desire and such visions can be quite hackneyed (‘to be among the top 10 schools in the country’). Rather the vision should follow from a reflection exercise to understand what the leaders truly stand for and Sridhar Rajagopalan believe in Managing Director, Educational Initiatives the vision must try and describe a picture of what the class room, the staff room, relations between teachers and parents and indeed society would look like were Quality education, by definition, has to be delivered in a sustainable way since it this vision to be perfectly achieved depends so fundamentally on human capacity. For example, ‘learning with and finally, I firmly believe that diversity in student population demographic, understanding’, is sustainable while ‘cramming for an exam’ is unsustainable. It is cultural, ability-based is critical to represent real life and build sensitivity and widely accepted that while the latter may get marks and possibly a degree, it is the must be a key part of the vision former that truly helps students to discover and achieve their full potential. Clearly Defined Norms and Processes I believe there are three main ingredients for achieving sustainable, quality education. Clearly defined norms and processes are a must both for transparency and They are collective necessary and sufficient.These three are: sustainability. It is interesting that in schools many key processes are unmonitored 1. a clear and stated vision of quality education |and performed by individuals singly. Also many of these processes are performed 2. clearly defined norms and processes and regularly – for example, what exactly is done when a teacher is suddenly absent, or 3. low-stake assessment and monitoring systems. what should be done if a child falls sick, or what is the response if a parent seeks leave on the first day after vacations. Many processes would relate to teachers' professional A Clear and StatedVision of Quality Education development – for example, the process for visits by teachers to other schools, Multiple visions of quality education are possible – for example, emphasis on holistic teachers observing each others’ classes etc. education versus emphasis on character building, versus a strong focus on academic excellence versus an orientation towards nation-building and patriotism, etc. Ideally along with the norms and processes, the rationale or logic behind each of them should also be documented. Such documentation may contain reasons for and against So more important than the specific vision are the way the vision is shared and a particular decision followed by a final decision.This helps in the process of the vision implemented. Specifically: and values being understood and shared more widely in the school. the vision must be clearly articulated and known widely in the school For example, Eklavya School, Ahmedabad, the school co-founded by the author in the actions of a week / month in the school must clearly draw from the larger goals 1997 publishes processes for various important tasks: and vision.The linkage should be clear to the stake-holders EXPERT PERSPECTIVES 160 The Students’ Continuous Overall Performance Evaluation (SCOPE) process These discussions are invaluable. Individual teachers realise how students in other involves details of a student’s overall progress being are recorded in a file from the parts of the country are learning, and this causes them to reflect and question their year student joins the school until she leaves. It is seen as a gateway through which own assumptions. a class teacher knows a student better as it contains details about home visits The reverse also happens, with school heads understanding individual teacher’s family details including photos, report cards and anecdotes written right from the strengths and weaknesses and cases where teaching aids or resources or training child’s first year in the school.The process clearly describes how a teacher has to workshops may need to be provided. observe and record brief details of one or two students every day, making it easy even for a new teacher to follow the process. If the assessment studies are conducted by an independent agency that specialises in educational assessment, the quality of the assessment process and the standardisation Norms specifying what is allowed for lunch and tiffin are clearly defined.The list of achieved is likely to be higher. Being an external agency, it has no stake in the items of foods allowed is also displayed in each classroom. Some items like fried performance of particular schools or systems – and hence, external testing is always snacks and fast foods are restricted to a particular day of the week. All these are considered more credible. also discussed in the first mother’s workshop for the year and during home visits – for which too the process is defined. To make the student assessments in cognitive areas meaningful, the tests should include not only procedural or straightforward questions on basic skills but should Low-stakes Assessment and Monitoring Systems also test the student ability in understanding and applying the knowledge. Any institution needs to have in place mechanisms to help it continuously improve. At the same time, attempts should be made that these test not only the student's Periodic, low-stake, student assessments conducted by an independent body can play cognitive learning but also other aspects like sports, music, values and creativity a critical part of any continuous quality improvement strategy in education. that constitute a holistic school education. Low-stakes assessments ensure that the feedback from the exercise is accurate Findings from a Quality Education Study (essential for taking corrective actions) and does not create stress in the system. It is Our organisation, Educational Initiatives, has, jointly with Wipro, recently completed important that the test should be low-stakes for students and teachers so that it does the first part of a study to look at factors that may be promoting or hindering quality not create pressures and fears among parents, teachers, etc. If that happens, the education with holistic skills including student attitudes and values and school climate original purpose of determining the actual state of learning is likely to get distorted by being studied through multiple instruments. While the detailed findings will be special preparation, coaching, cheating, etc. separately discussed and released, two of the findings were that there was a negative It may appear that the power of a student assessment exercise comes from testing correlation between student performance and Principal and Teacher belief that strict every school and child and knowing where it stands. However, the real power comes discipline is important in the school and classroom. A second finding is related to from bringing into the open the issue of student learning.The exercise of conducting academic pressure. When students express that they are under a lot of pressure to an assessment and sharing the findings gives a clear message that what students learn perform academically, they also seem to display a higher degree of confidence in their eventually is very important in education.A scientifically designed student assessment scholastic abilities, but actually perform lower in the scholastic assessment. can achieve that. Both these findings lend important lessons if our goal is sustainability. Short term This triggers debates about issues like whether every child can learn well wit measures and short term goal focus or a narrow academic focus alone does not make understanding, teacher capacity, facilities in the school or classroom, etc. The actual a great education. Only when schools, parents and society as a whole recognise this, levels of learning become visible to the physical and educational community. can we hope to provide holistic, quality education to our children. EXPERT PERSPECTIVES 161 SINGAPORE ADVOCACY AND PUBLIC POLICY 5h Wipro and Regulatory Compliance Good policies and regulations are like a lighthouse – they direct and guide without standing in the way. Unfortunately, the short history of social and Engagement with environmental regulation over the last few decades has been characterized by a Prime Minister's ‘Business Vs Government’ position that is ruled by a paradigm of compliance, rather Office on NSM than collaboration between the two. This paradigm must change to one of Direct Policy constructive dialog and interaction especially in the arena of sustainability where Inputs enlightened regulation can be a clear differentiator for driving change. We are beginning to see this happen globally as well as in India.The Indian business sector has been an active participant in both, policy formulation and in a more general process of debate and dialog on various challenges of development and sustainability. Clean Wipro's Energy, Climate Change, Energy Efficiency, Water, e-waste, Green Procurement and Climate Corporate Social Responsibility norms are some of the areas where business and Change Public Advocacy Influencing government have been engaged with each other quite deeply. Disclisures through Industry At Wipro, we have always strongly believed that meeting the challenges of Networks development cannot be the government’s job alone and that the business sector must participate along with other stakeholders. Our sustainability advocacy is constructed on the three pillars of Wipro Sustainability Key Member of CII l Direct policy inputs to government Reports 2009-10 Climate Change l Engagement and dialog as part of industry networks CDP disclosures Council l Publications and Disclosures that advance and further knowledge and action 08,09, 10 & 11 Our areas of focus have been Climate Change, CSR norms, Green Rating of companies, Green Procurement and e-Waste.The visual below illustrates our actions Our engagement in sustainability advocacy is summarized in the following pages, in the area of climate change on the praxis of the three pillars mentioned above. where we articulate the highlights of five of our engagements on multiple areas: Sustainability rating of companies, CSR norms, Green procurement, Solar Energy roadmap for India and e-waste regulation. ADVOCACY AND 164 PUBLIC POLICY Program Key Highlights Program Key Highlights CII-GBC The CII Green Business Center, Hyderabad constituted a task or Optional.This is designed to encourage many more companies Greenco Rating force to evolve a framework of sustainability ratings. The to start the practice of publishing their position and progress on framework is designed to assess companies on a 1000 point scale sustainability, even if it is at a basic level. on multiple dimensions of energy efficiency, renewable energy, Wipro’s position on mandatory CSR spend is that such a move waste, water, lifecycle footprint and product responsibility. would eventually prove counter-productive as companies, in the Wipro was a key member of the task force that designed this pressure to comply, will find contrived ways of meeting the norm. framework. The task force, comprising leading companies from We think that CSR must flow naturally from a company’s values across industry sectors, completed the exercise over a nine and convictions and will work best when aligned with the month period from June 2010 to February 2011. The rating company’s overarching mission and goals. framework has since been introduced on a pilot basis for select companies during the latter half of 2011. CII Green CII instituted a Green Procurement council in mid-2010 with the We think that rating frameworks such as these will introduce rigor Procurement objectives of framing guidelines for procurement of goods and into the way ecological goals and outcomes are measured and Council services that would be aligned with sustainability parameters – e.g. further, they will bring in a virtuous cycle of continuous Energy Efficiency, Material Intensity, End of Life handling, improvement on key sustainability dimensions. Compliance with human rights norms etc. Wipro was a key member of the steering committee of the council CII-ITC CESD In mid-2010, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) instituted a which published detailed draft recommendations in late 2011.The work group on study cum engagement with industry around the idea(s) of draft report addressed industry specific parameters as well as a CSR norms evolving a set of guidance norms for Corporate Social more universal set of issues e.g. e-waste handling is an issue that is Responsibility (CSR) for Indian industry. Among other points, the specific to the electronics industry. notions of a mandated spend on CSR and off mandatory We think that a green procurement framework will help establish sustainability disclosures were placed on the table for discussion. a minimum standard for suppliers to meet and will set in motion, a This was followed by the publishing of the National Voluntary cycle of healthy competition and continuous improvement of Guidelines (NVGs) by the MCA in collaboration with the Indian green products and services. Institute of Corporate Affairs (IICA) in mid-2011. CSTEP Report The National Solar Mission (NSM) has set an ambitious goal of 20 The CII-ITC Center for Sustainable Development (CESD) on Solar Energy GW (Gigawatts) of solar energy for India by 2022. Given that the constituted a working group that was tasked with the goals of options for aggregate installed capacity of Solar PV (Photovoltaic) is not even coming out with a set of recommendations that would represent India 200 MW, the NSM goal looks daunting. A multitude of factors and industry’s position on the above points. Wipro played an active forces have a bearing on solar power: relatively high footprint of part in the working group. Based on the inputs of the working land, the requirement of high solar insolation on the land and the group, CII has come out with a detailed report that lists two relatively high price per unit of solar energy compared to current categories of disclosures – Essential or Mandatory and Leadership grid prices. While the last few years has seen a sharp increase ADVOCACY AND 165 PUBLIC POLICY Program Key Highlights WIPRO AND in investment in R&D, solar technology is still nascent and peak REGULATORY COMPLIANCE energy efficiency conversion is in the low range of 17-20%. Given the above context, a comprehensive analysis and study of As a responsible corporate citizen and driven by our core values of integrity and solar energy options for India would be of great value. Our ethics, Wipro has an exemplary record of compliance with government partner, Center for Study of Science,Technology and Policy regulations in all the countries that it operates in.The visual below illustrates the (CSTEP) commissioned such a study in early 2010. The study common regulations and directives that Wipro complies with in the financial, assesses technology options in the two major categories of Solar labor and environmental domains across the geographies we operate in. Photovoltaic and Solar Thermal, the cost structures and options for designing incentives and subsidies, the options of grid connected and off-grid models and the governance challenges and choices that India must consider. Wipro EcoEnergy was an active Taxation l (Payment of Excise duties, Sales tax, Customs duties, participant and contributor to the study which was released in Corporate Income Tax) Financial January 2011 titled “Harnessing Solar Energy: Options for Mandatory publishing of quarterly and annual results (both U.S. l India”. A summary of the report, authored by Dr. Shuba GAAP and Indian GAAP) Raghavan of Cstep, is available elsewhere in this report. Compliance with SEBI guidelines for companies listed on Indian stock l Regulations exchanges and with SEC rules for companies listed on U.S. stock MAIT e-waste The acute problem of e-waste has been discussed in brief in our exchanges task force section 5D on ‘Customer Stewardship’.The unorganized sector in Compliance with requirements of the Sarbannes Oxley Act l India is ridden with unsafe practices of toxics handling and the unethical practice of child labor. We hold the position that Maximum number of working hours per week l producers and manufacturers must bear the major responsibility Minimum number of days for casual and sick leave l for end of life e-waste handling; what this means is that while the Labor Minimum Wages Act l actual processing and disposal can be done by an ecosystem of Shops and Establishments Act l Regulations certified vendors, the producer has the onus of collecting the endFreedom to form trade unions and employee associations l of-life products and ensuring its safe processing in subsequent Laws l in EU and American countries that govern data privacy on stages. employee information The Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) proposed a draft e-waste legislation to address the above issues.The Manufacturers Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) prior to the start of a new Environmental l Association of Information Technology (MAIT) formed a task facility force to engage with the MoEF in evolving the legislation. By virtue Clearance from state Pollution Control Board (PCB) on measures for l of our early pioneering work in e-waste, we played a central role – water treatment, diesel storage, handling and disposal of hazardous Regulations as part of the MAIT committee – in helping draft the e-waste substances etc;This is required prior to the commencement of a new legislation that is now due to come into effect from May 1st 2012 facility and subsequently on an annual basis ADVOCACY AND 166 PUBLIC POLICY Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (COBCE) is an important reference anchor that determines our compliance with key regulations pertaining to labor and human rights, anti bribery and anti corruption, supplier responsibility and transparency on government engagements. In our previous sustainability reports, we have been making a mention of the peculiar circumstances surrounding the industrial estate of Okhla in Delhi, India which houses one of our older BPO operations. This entire industrial estate has been in breach of the local building regulations, including the office buildings where operate as tenants. Our status as tenants prevented us from rectifying the situation and as a result, we have been obliged to pay a fine every year. We moved out of the premises during 2010-11 to our own facilities in Greater Noida and therefore, there was no fine that we had to pay on this account. There were no other instances of fines paid by us during the reporting year. Code of business conduct with the government As with other business partners, our code of business conduct and ethics governs our engagement with governments and regulatory authorities. The Code covers Wipro’s policy on lobbying and dealing with Government contracts. We do not as a matter of policy, contribute to political parties in cash or kind in any geography that we operate in. ADVOCACY AND 167 PUBLIC POLICY 6a. FEEDBACK AND COMMUNICATION We welcome our readers’ feedback, points of view and suggestions on Wipro’s Sustainability Report 2010-11 in particular and on our sustainability program in general and look forward to hearing from you. it is your honest feedback that will enable us to strengthen and improve our sustainability program.You may write to us at any of the following contact points: Name Contact Details Wipro sustainability team sustain.report@wipro.com Mr. P.S. Narayan Wipro Limited Vice President & Head Sustainability Doddakanelli, Sarjapur Road, Bangalore 560 035. India Tel. +91-080-25056766 Email: narayan.pan@wipro.com Mr. R. Sridhar Wipro Limited CFO & Investors’ Relations East Brunswick, Tower 2, Americas & Europe New Jersey, US Ph: +1 732-509-1516 Email: sridhar.ramasubbu@wipro.com Mr. Santosh Karagada Wipro Limited Vice President & Head HR 2, Tower Center Boulevard, Americas & Europe Suite 2200, East Brunswick, New Jersey Tel: +1-818-620-6506 Email: sontosh.karagada@wipro.com Mr. Manoj Jaiswal Wipro Limited Vice President & Corporate Treasurer Doddakanelli, Sarjapur Road, Bangalore 560 035. India (Can be contacted for queries Tel. 91 80 28440011 (Extn. 226186) and clarification on financial matters) Email: manoj.jaiswal@wipro.com FEEDBACK AND 168 COMMUNICATION 6b. INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT l The content of the 2010-11 Sustainability Report, i.e. reporting of economic, environmental, and social indicators, related to its Wipro Technologies (WT), Introduction Wipro Infotech (WI) and Wipro Business Process Outsourcing (WBPO); Det Norske Veritas AS (‘DNV’) has been commissioned by the Management of l Evaluation of the AccountAbility principles and specified performance Wipro Limited (‘the Company’) to carry out an independent / assurance engagement information, described below, for a Type 2, moderate level of assurance, in on the Wipro Limited Sustainability Report 2010-11 (‘the Report’).This assurance accordance with the requirements of AA1000AS (2008) detailed below: engagement has been conducted against the Global Reporting Initiative, 2011 Information relating to company’s sustainability issues, responses, Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1(GRI G3.1) and AccountAbility’s performance data, case studies and underlying systems for the management of AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 (AA1000AS (2008)). The verification was such information and data; conducted during August 2011 and March 2012 for the year of activities covered in Information relating to company’s materiality assessment and stakeholder the Report, 1st April 2010 to 31st March 2011. engagement processes; DNV is a global provider of sustainability services, with qualified environmental and l Confirm that the Report meets the requirements of the GRI G3.1 for an social assurance specialists working in over 100 countries. DNV states its Application Level A, as declared by Wipro Limited independence and impartiality with regard to this assurance engagement. In 2010-11, DNV did not work with Wipro Limited on any engagement that could compromise The reporting boundary is as set out in the Report, i.e. covers the company’s the independence or impartiality of our findings, conclusions and recommendations. IT business (which includes Software services, BPO services and IT products) DNV was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the only, the Consumer Care and lightning and Infrastructure Engineering business units, Report, with the exception of this Assurance Statement. DNV maintains complete other joint ventures and subsidiaries under Wipro Limited are not included and is impartiality toward any people interviewed. DNV expressly disclaims any liability or separately reported. co-responsibility for any decision a person or entity would make based on this Also during the assurance process we did not come across limitations to the scope of Assurance Statement. the assurance engagement. The intended users of this assurance statement are the management of Verification Methodology Wipro Limited and readers of this Report. The Management of the company is This assurance engagement was planned and carried out in accordance with the responsible for all data and information provided in the Report as well as the AA1000AS (2008) and the DNV Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting. processes for collecting, analysing and reporting the information. DNV’s responsibility The Report has been evaluated against the following criteria: regarding this verification is to company only and in accordance with the agreed l Company’s approach to stakeholder engagement and its materiality scope of work. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data determination process; and information provided to us is complete and true. l Adherence to the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness as set Scope, boundary and limitations of Assurance out in the AA1000AS (2008); the reliability of the specified sustainability The scope of work agreed upon with Wipro Limited includes verification of the performance information, as required for a Type 2, moderate level assurance following: engagement as per AA1000 (2008), INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE 169 STATEMENT l Adherence to the additional principles of Completeness and Neutrality as set out l extend the materiality determination system and continuously monitor and in DNV’s Protocol, and the principles and requirements of the GRI G3.1 for an evaluate the material issues at site level, including human rights and site application level A+ compliances as a result of changes in internal and external environments; As part of the engagement, DNV has verified the statements and claims made in the l strengthen the existing data management system to ensure consistency in Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, measurement methodology for internal benchmarking, monitoring and reporting information flow and controls. In doing so, we have: of sustainability performance; l Reviewed the Company’s approach to stakeholder engagement and its materiality l implement a systematic data verification mechanisms to cover all performance determination process; indicators across the IT sites, which will assist in further improving the quality of quantitative and qualitative data for sustainability reporting; l Verified the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the data management system, information flow and l fully report on key material performance indicators that are partially reported, in controls; the subsequent reports l Examined and reviewed documents, data and other information made available by Conclusions Wipro Limited; We have evaluated the Report’s adherence to the following principles on a scale of l Visited the Corporate Office at Bangalore, computer factory at Kotdwar, four ‘Good’,‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs Improvement’: Development centers and Business process outsourcing centers located in India Inclusivity: As a part of its stakeholder engagement process, the company engages i.e. at Bangalore, Hyderabad, Noida and Kolkata; with its identified stakeholders through different modes and at frequent intervals and l Conducted interviews with key representatives including data owners and the inputs from the stakeholder engagement has been reported with due regard to decision-makers from different divisions and functions of the company; materiality. l Performed sample-based reviews of the mechanisms for implementing the In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Company’s sustainability related policies, as described in the Report; Materiality: The Company has fairly attempted to bring out the issues of significance l Performed limited stakeholder engagement to verify the qualitative statements to its IT businesses in this report. In our opinion the material issues have been made in the report; appropriately prioritised and responded to in the Report. The Report provides a l Performed sample-based checks of the processes for generating, gathering and balanced representation of material issues related to the company’s sustainability managing the quantitative data and qualitative information included in the Report performance. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Opportunities for Improvement Responsiveness: We consider that the Company has responded adequately to key The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities for stakeholder concerns, through its policies and management systems and the same are improvement reported to the Management of Wipro Limited and are considered adequately reflected in the Report. for drawing our conclusion on the Report; however they are generally consistent with the Management’s objectives: In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE 170 STATEMENT Reliability: The majority of data and information verified at corporate office and site GREEN HOUSE GAS VERIFICATION were found to be accurate. Some of the data inaccuracies identified during the verification process were found to be attributable to transcription, interpretation and The verification of Green House Gas Inventory (‘the GHG Inventory’) for Wipro’s (IT aggregation errors and the errors have been corrected. Hence in accordance business) covering the period 1st April 2010 to 31st March 2011 was carried out as with the AA1000AS (2008) requirements for a Type 2, moderate level assurance part of the verification and assurance of Wipro Limited Sustainability Report 2010-11. engagement, we conclude that the specified sustainability data and information For details related to scope of work, verification methodology, Independence and presented in the Report is generally reliable and acceptable. other relevant conclusions and opportunities for improvement, please refer to the Additional Parameters as per DNV’s Protocol Independent Assurance Statement in the “Wipro Limited Sustainability Report Completeness: Some of the GRI G3.1 core indicators have been reported partially 2010-11”. and the rationale behind partial reporting and exclusions are explained within the On the basis of our verification methodology and scope of work agreed upon nothing Report along with the time frame for complete reporting. has come to our attention that would cause us not to believe that the GHG assertion In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Acceptable’. (of Wipro’s IT business) as below is not materially correct and is not a fair Neutrality: The Company has reported its sustainability performance and related representation of the GHG data and information: issues in a transparent and balanced manner, in terms of content and tone. Source GHG Emission In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Scope 1 Process emissions and other direct emissions 31,861 Wipro Sustainability Report 2010-11 provides a fair representation of the Company’s (Fuel & Fugitive emission) sustainability policies, objectives, management approach and performance during the reporting year. DNV also confirms that the Report meets the requirements for GRI Scope 2 Purchased Electricity 258,206 application level A. Total GHG Emission (tons) 290,067 for Det NorskeVeritas AS for Det NorskeVeritas AS Nandkumar Vadakepatth Antonio Astone Nandkumar Vadakepatth Lead Verifier Global Sustainability Manager Lead Verifier Head-Sustainability & DNV Business Assurance, Italy. Head-Sustainability & Business Excellence Services(South) Business Excellence Services(South) Det Norske Veritas AS, India Det Norske Veritas AS, India Bangalore, India, 21th March 2012 Bangalore, India, 21th March 2012 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE 171 STATEMENT 7a. GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS The table below is a glossary of all the acronyms used in the Wipro Sustainability Report. (Note: Acronyms suffixed with the [w] symbol indicate that they are specific to Wipro) Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference AA1000 AccountAbility Standard AA1000 is a series of standards from AccountAbility to help organizations www.accountability.org become more accountable, responsible and sustainable. AC Air Conditioning Air cooling system that provides thermal comfort in buildings, cars etc ADR, ADS American Depository Represents ownership in shares of non-US company that trades in Receipt / Shares US financial markets AGM Annual General Meeting An annual meeting of public companies with shareholders as required by law AHM[w] All Hands Meet A business unit forum where leaders present strategy, assess progress and discuss plans with employees AICTE All India Council for National level Apex Advisory related to technical education. www.aicte-india.org/ Technical Education AMI Advanced Metering Electricity metering infrastructure systems which measure, analyse Infrastructure and communicate with utility consumption devices. AMR Advanced Meter Reading Electricity metering infrastructure which is a part of the smart grid solution APAC Asia Pacific Abbreviation for the region: Asia-Pacific and Japan ARISE Applied Research in Intelligent Lab created in partnership between Imec-a leading research organization in Systems Engineering nano-electronics and nano-technology and Wipro ASTD American Society for A non-profit association for workplace learning and performance professionals www.astd.org Training and Development ASR Asian Sustainability Rating An environment, social and governance ESG benchmarking tool developed by www.asiansr.com/ Responsible Research and CSR Asia. ATREE Ashoka Trust for research in NGO, based in India, working to promote environmental conservation and www.atree.org Ecology and Environment sustainable development BEE Bureau of Energy Efficiency Statutory body under Ministry of Power, Government of India www.bee-india.nic.in B.Ed Bachelor of Education A basic graduate program in India for entry into the teaching profession. BFR Brominated Flame Retardants A group of chemical flame retardants used in electronics and textiles BFSI Banking, Financial Services Commonly used abbreviation for companies representing the financial sector and Insurance BMS Building Management Systems Technology enabled remote building infrastructure management system Bn Billion Unit of measure GLOSSARY OF 172 ACRONYMS Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference BPO Business Process Outsourcing A form of outsourcing that involves contracting of operations of specific business functions or processes to a third-party service provider BSE Bombay Stock Exchange Stock exchange based in Mumbai www.bseindia.com BU Business Unit Cost center aligned to a customer service line, technology or competency practice CAGR Compounded Annual A term for geometric mean growth rate on an annualized basis, Growth Rate used to describe the growth rate of business results like revenues CBSE Central Board of Board of Education for public and private schools, under the http://cbse.nic.in/ Secondary Education Union Government of India. CDP, CDLI Carbon Disclosure An independent not-for-profit, investor backed organization working to drive https://www.cdproject.net/en-US/ Leadership Index greenhouse gas emissions reduction and sustainable water use by business Pages/HomePage.aspx and cities. CDLI is a disclosure leadership index designed by CDP. CEC [w] Corporate Executive Council Top executive governance body of Wipro, comprising the Chairman CEDAW Convention on the Elimination Adopted in 1979 by the UN General Assembly, CEDAW is often described as www.un.org/ of all forms of an international bill of rights for women. womenwatch/daw/cedaw/ Discrimination Against Women CEO Chief Executive Officer One of the highest-ranking corporate officers in charge of total management CETP Common Effluent A unit that treats effluent waste from places like factories to reduce the Treatment Plant harmful effects on environment CEVA Center for Education and An NGO operating in the education space. http://cevachandigarh.org/ Voluntary Action CFC ChloroFluoroCarbons An organic compound containing carbon, fluorine and chlorine being phased out under the Montreal protocol because of its contribution to depletion of ozone layer CFL Compact Fluroscent Lamp A type of fluorescent lamp, used for lighting purposes, requiring less power compared to traditional incandescent lamps CFO Chief Finance Officer A corporate officer primarily responsible for managing the financial matters including planning, reporting and managing financial risks CHRD [w] Corporate Human A dedicated function of the human resources team in Wipro responsible for Resource Development management and leadership skills enhancement CII Confederation of A non-government, not-for-profit business association that works towards creating and www.cii.in Indian Industry sustaining an environment conducive to the growth of industry in India CIO Chief Information Officer An executive responsible for development, implementation and operation of a firm’s information technology policy to facilitate management control over all corporate resources GLOSSARY OF 173 ACRONYMS Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference CISF Central Industrial Security Force A multi skilled security agency set up by the government of India http://cisf.nic.in/ CMM Capability Maturity Model A model of process maturity for software development including a collection www.sei.cmu.edu/cmm/ of prescribed activities and a way of assessing the way these processes are being performed by an organization CO2 Carbon Dioxide One of the main greenhouse cases as per the Kyoto and Montreal protocols COP Communication on Progress Annual disclosure to be provided by companies who are participants to the UN Global compact COBCE [w] Code of Business Corporation wide code of business conduct and ethics that sets the Conduct and Ethics broad direction and defines specific guidelines for all business transactions CPU Central processing Unit One of the primary elements of a computer system which carries out instructions of a computer/software program C-SAT [w] Customer Satisfaction Commonly denotes a customer satisfaction initiative, like feedback or survey CRO Chief Risk Officer Person responsible for enterprise risk management CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Common term used to denote, primarily, voluntary initiatives by the organisation in environmental and social areas-which may be (or even otherwise) to mitigate impacts due to the its product, service or operations CTO Chief Technology Officer Executive level position in a company who looks after Research and development, scientific and technological initiatives for the organisation DC Data Center A dedicated facility used to house computer systems and associated components Disha-india DISHA is a voluntary organization working for socio-economic development of www.dishaindia.org/ urban and rural communities. DESC Digital Energy A consortium of organsiations in technology, energy and environment www.digitalenergysolutions.org/ Solutions Consortium to promote the role of ICT for energy and related issues india/desc-india DG Diesel Generator An equipment to generate electric energy fueled by diesel DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index An index created by Dow Jones and SAM to provide asset managers with www.sustainability-index.com/ reliable and objective benchmarks to manage sustainability portfolios. DNA Genetic entity DNA is used, figuratively, to denote the essence of an organizations values, philosophy and belief systems DNV Det Norske Veritas An audit organization, established in Norway in 1860’s, with worldwide operations www.dnv.com EGM Extraordinary General Meeting A meeting of shareholders of a company at an irregular time where inputs are required before the next AGM is to be held EH & S Environment, Health and Safety A group within organizations that takes care of workplace environment, health and safety issues like preventing accidents and reducing environmental impact GLOSSARY OF 174 ACRONYMS Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference EI Educational Initiatives Educational Initiatives(EI) is works in order to ensure every child learns with www.ei-india.com/ understanding ei-www/index.htm EOL End Of Life End-of-life (EOL) is a term used with respect to a Product supplied to customers, indicating that the product is in the end of its useful lifetime and a vendor will no longer be Marketing, Selling, or Sustaining a particular product and may also be limiting or ending support for the product. EPA Environment Protection Agency US regulatory authority for environment related matters and issues. www.epa.gov EPS [w] Employee Perception Survey An annual survey conducted for all employees EPR Extended Producer Various ways to promote the integration of environmental variables into Responsibility marketing of products. Among others, it could be through pricing or endof-life services for products provided to customers. (Source: Adapted from Wikipedia) ERM Enterprise Risk Management A framework for risk management, involving identification of risks and opportunities relevant to the organization's objectives, assessing likelihood and magnitude of impact, determining a response strategy, and monitoring progress ES Energy Star US EPA’s (Environmental Protection Agency) energy efficiency rating for www.energystar.gov (followed by a number) electrical appliances ESI Employees State Insurance A State instituted insurance scheme to provide to provide social benefits to www.esic.nic.in employees in certain adverse circumstances ESG Environment, Social Common acronym to include themes relevant to sustainability and Governance ESOP Employee Stock Option Program that offers employees option to purchase stock at certain price Purchase (normally less than the market average) EVP Executive Vice President Designation in the organisation function. There are multiple such positions across various business units e-waste Electronic Waste Waste material that comprises of electronic devices or their electronic parts FMG [w] Facilities Management Group Team responsible for overall management of facilities and campuses for Indian locations FTE Full Time Equivalent A way to measure employees involvement in a project, typically for “Time and Material” financial model projects. FTE of 1.0 is equivalent to a full time worker. FICCI Federation of Indian Chamber A non-government, not-for-profit association of business organizations playing a www.ficci.com of Commerce and Industry leading role in policy debates in the social, economic and political spheres FMCG Fast Moving Consumer Goods A term used for the category of products that are sold relatively quickly and are generally replaced or fully used up over shorter periods like soaps, detergents and food products FY Financial year Accounting year. In India this is from 1st April to 31st March of the subsequent year. GLOSSARY OF 175 ACRONYMS Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference GAAP Generally Accepted The standard framework of guidelines for financial accounting used in any given Accounting Principles jurisdiction, which includes the standards, conventions, and rules accountants follow GDP Gross Domestic Product A basic measure of a country’s economic output i.e. the market value of all final goods and services made within the borders of a country in a year GHG Greenhouse gases Gases in the atmosphere like CO2, methane and nitrous oxide that cause www.ghgprotocol.org the greenhouse effect of trapping heat within the surface-troposphere system GIS Green Infrastructure Services Services provided for building green infrastructure – which could range from project management, consultancy and auditing. GJ GigaJoules One billion joules, joule being a derived unit of energy in the International System of Units GRI Global Reporting Initiative A network-based organization that developed the world’s most widely used www.globalreporting.org sustainability reporting framework that sets out the principles and indicators that organizations can use to measure and report their economic, environmental, and social performance GRIHA Green Rating for Integrated A green building 'design evaluation system', designed by the Ministry of New http://grihaindia.org/ Habitat Assessment and Renewable Energy, Government of India along with partner institutions. GSG [w] Global Security Group Name of the function in Wipro, responsible for Physical security. HFC Hydrofluorocarbon family of gases Part of a family of Kyoto 6 Greenhouse Gases HRD Human Resources Development Department responsible for learning and development requirements of employees HR Human Resources A term used to refer to how people are managed by organizations HSE[w] Holistic School Engagement A program engagement methodology for learning in schools, adopted by Wipro’s education program (WATIS). HVAC Heating, Ventilating and A system that uses ventilation air ducts installed in a building that supply conditioned air Air Conditioning to a room through outlet vents and ducts that remove air through return-air grilles ICT Information and A term that includes technologies, both hardware and software, that provide access to Communication Technologies information or means to communicate, used in specific contexts like education IDAMIdentity and Access A Wipro soluition to implement IDAM systems for customers in-a-Rack [w] Management (IDAM) in a Rack IFEES International Federation of IFEES works to establish effective engineering education processes of high quality www.ifees.net/ Engineering Education Societies around the world to assure a global supply of well-prepared engineering graduates. IFRS International Financial Standards, Interpretations and the Framework adopted by the International www.ifrs.com Reporting Standards Accounting Standards Board IGBC Indian Green Building Council Council to facilitate green buildings in India www.igbc.in GLOSSARY OF 176 ACRONYMS Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference IIL Industrial Injury Leave Leave taken due to injury at workplace or during commute ILP [w] Individual Learning Plan Customized “Learning” plan based on discussions of annual performance review for each employee INR Indian Rupee The currency of India IP Intellectual Property A term that refers to creations of the mind: inventions, literary and artistic works, and symbols, names, images, and designs used in commerce IPCC International Panel on A scientific intergovernmental body tasked with evaluating the risk of www.ipcc.ch Climate Change climate change caused by human activity IR Investor Relations Department of a company that primarly engages in comnmunicating financial and economic matters to shareholders, investors and other interested parties ISTE Indian Society for Program unit under the Minstry of Human Resources Development www.isteonline.in Technical Education responsible for coordinating quality improvement programs for engineering colleges and polytechnic institute faculty ISO International The world's largest developer and publisher of International Standards to Specify the www.iso.org Standards Organization requirements for state-of-the-art products, services, processes, materials and systems, and for good conformity assessment, managerial and organizational practice IT Information Technology The study, design, development, implementation, support or management of computer-based information systems, particularly software applications and computer hardware ITES Information Technology Another term used for Business Process Outsourcing services i.e. outsourcing Enabled Services of specific business functions or processes to third-party vendors ITMS [w] Integrated Talent Comprehensive online portal for employees on learning, training Management System and competency management JAWS® Window screen reading software KL KiloLiter A unit of length in the metric system equal to one thousand liters KM KiloMeter A unit of length in the metric system equal to one thousand meters KPI Key Performance Indicator Industry terminology for a measure of performance KWH KiloWatt Hour A common unit for measuring electricity, which is equal to the amount of energy expended (or dissipated) if work is done at a constant rate of one thousand watts for one hour LED Light Emitting Diode A semiconductor based light source used as indicator lamps in many devices increasingly being used for lighting GLOSSARY OF 177 ACRONYMS Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference LEED Leadership in Energy and A Green Building Rating System, developed by the U.S. Green Building Council, www.usgbc.org/leed/ Environmental Design providing a suite of standards for environmentally sustainable construction LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gases A mixture of hydrocarbon gases used as a fuel in heating appliances and vehicles M&A Mergers and Acquisitions Buying, selling and incorporation of different companies into the organization. MAKE Most Admired A study that is part of Teleo’s research program to recognize organizations for their www.knowledgebusiness.com Knowledge Enterprise ability to leverage enterprise knowledge to deliver superior performance in the areas of innovation and product development, operational effectiveness and excellence in products and services CAP (Market Market Capitalization Market CAP: a measurement of the size of a business enterprise equal to the and Total) Total Capitalization share price times the number of shares outstanding of a public company Total CAP: Market CAP including debt MCM Mahila Chetana Manch A women awareness forum NGO working on women empowerment www.mcmngo.org and child development MDMS Meter Data Management System A key component of the smart grid solution related to metering data analytics. M.Ed. Masters in Education A post graduate degree in Education MIS Management Information Group of information management methods tied to the automation or support Systems of human decision making like Decision Support Systems or Expert systems Mn Million A number equivalent of a thousand thousands (1, 000, 000) MS® Microsoft® NYSE listed software products company www.microsoft.com MoEF Ministry of Environment Mininstry under the Governement of India – a regulatory and http://moef.nic.in and Forests policy making authority MoU Memorandum of Understanding A document describing a bilateral or multilateral agreement between parties, expressing a convergence of will and indicating an intended common line of action MQIP Madrasah Quality Project with a partner to improve teaching in madrasah’s Improvement Program MT Metric Tonnes A unit of measure in the metric system denoting 1000 Kilograms MW Mega Watt Watt is a measures the rate of energy conversion. The megawatt is equal to one million (106) watts NASEOH National Society For Equal NASEOH working towards developing comprehensive rehabilitation www.naseoh.org/organizations/ Opportunities For the opportunities for the persons with disabilities so as to facilitate integration Handicapped, India into the mainstream of the society. NASSCOM National Association of The premier trade body and the chamber of commerce of the www.nasscom.org Software and Service Companies Information Technology – Business Process Outsourcing industries in India GLOSSARY OF 178 ACRONYMS Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference NASDAQ National Association of A US based stock exchange www.nasdaq.com/ Securities Dealers Automated Quotations NCBS National Centre for The National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), . located in Bangalore is part www.ncbs.res.in/ Biological Sciences of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research. The mandate of NCBS is fundamental research in the frontier areas of biology NCPEDP National Centre for Promotion A non-profit voluntary organization working towards employment www.ncpedp.org of Employment for Disabled People of disabled people NDRF National Disaster A unit constituted by the government of India for the purpose of specialized Response Force response to natural and man-made disasters (Adapted from Wikipedia) NEMS Nano Electro Devices integrating electrical and mechanical functionality at the nanoscale level. Mechanical Systems (Source: Wikipedia) NGO Non Government Organization A legally constituted, non-governmental organization created by natural or legal persons with no participation or representation of any government NIC National Informatics Centre National Informatics Centre (NIC) is a premiere S & T institution of the Government www.nic.in/ of India, established in 1976, for providing e-Government / eGovernance Solutions adopting best practices, integrated services and global solutions in Government Sector. NOx Oxides of Nitrogen Any binary compound of oxygen and nitrogen like nitrous oxide or a mixture of such compounds NREGA National Rural Employment National Rural Employment Guarantee Act aims at enhancing the livelihood security of http://nrega.nic.in/netnrega/ Guarantee Act people in rural areas by guaranteeing hundred days of wage-employment in a financial home.aspx year to a rural household whose adult members volunteer to do unskilled manual work. NSE National Stock Exchange National Stock Exchange, based in India www.nseindia.com NSG National Security Guard The National Security Guard (NSG) was set up in 1984 as a Federal www.nsg.gov.in/ Contingency Deployment Force to tackle all facets of terrorism in the country NYSE New York Stock Exchange A stock exchange located at Wall Street, New York www.nyse.com OCED Organization for Economic The mission of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and www.oecd.org/ Cooperation and Development is to promote policies that will improve the economic and social well-being of people around the world. ODC Offshore Development Center Operation unit set up in an offshore location (like India) specific to each customer. ODS Ozone Depleting Substances Substances like chlorofluorocarbons that cause depletion of the earth’s ozone layer OHSAS Occupational Health and An international occupational health and safety management system specification www.ohsas-18001-occupationalSafety Assessment Series intended to help organizations control occupational health and safety risks health-and-safety.com/ GLOSSARY OF 179 ACRONYMS Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference OPD Out patient department Department in a hospital which treats patients who come for diagnosis or treatment without being admitted for overnight stay at hospital PAT Profit After Tax Is equal to the profit or bottomline of a company after all expenses like cost of sales, overheads, interest payable, one-off items and tax for a given accounting period PC Personal Computer Any general-purpose computer whose size, capabilities, and original sales price make it useful for individuals, and which is intended to be operated directly by an end user PF Provident Fund Contributions based state provision with an aim to provide a fund due to www.epfindia.com retirement, unemployment, sickness etc. PFC Perrfluorocarbon family of gases Part of a family of Kyoto 6 Greenhouse Gases PM Particulate Matter Tiny particles of solid or liquid suspended in a gas or liquid PPM Parts Per Million A number used to denote relative proportions in measured quantities like for the proportion of CO2 in atmosphere PRI Principles for Responsible An investor initiative in partnership with UNEP Finance Initiative and the www.unpri.org Investment UN Global Compact PUE Power Usage Effectiveness A metric used to determine the energy efficiency of a data center PVC PolyVinyl Chloride A thermoplastic polymer which is a form of plastic generally used in plumbing, electric wires etc QES Quality Education Study Study popular schools in India's metros on student learning outcomes, but also student attitudes and values, co-scholastic learning and organizational aspects and learning environment. In partnership with Educational Initiatives (EI) RAPDRP Restructured – Accelerated Power A program under the aegis of the Ministry of Power, Government of India, www.apdrp.gov.in/ Development Reforms Progra looking at reduction in power losses R&D Research and Development A function within an organization through which new products and new forms of old products are created through technological innovation by doing basic and/or applied research REC Renewable Energy Certificates Are tradable, non-tangible energy commodities in the United States that http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ represent proof that 1 Megawatt (MWh) of Electricity was generated Renewable_Energy_ from an eligible Renewable energy resource (Renewable Electricity). Certificates_%28United_States%29 RoHS Restriction on A directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances like Hazardous Substances lead and mercury in electrical and electronic equipment ROI Return on Investment Ratio of money gained (+) or lost (-) in relation to the amount of money invested ROW Rest of World Used in a specific to context to include regions other than India, Americas and Europe Rs Rupees ( Indian currency) A symbol for the currency of India GLOSSARY OF 180 ACRONYMS Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference RSU [w] Restricted Stock Unit Stock option purchase program offered to employees with lock in period SaaS Software as a service Refers to software/IT services offered on an on-demand and pay-as-you-go basis SAAS Safe and Sensitive Schools A project by TTF supported by WATIS http://teacherfoundation.org/index.php/ (SASS) project index.php/safe-and-sensitiveschools.html SAP R/3® Leading ERP package from The main enterprise resource planning software produced by SAP AG®, www.sap.com software major SAP AG® which is an enterprise-wide information system designed to coordinate all the resources, information, and activities needed to complete business processes such as order fulfillment or billing SEBI Securities and Exchange Regulatory body in India with a mandate to protect investors and regulate www.sebi.gov.in board of India securities markets. SEZ Special Economic Zones A geographical region that has economic laws that are more liberal than a country's http://sezindia.nic.in typical economic laws intended to increase investment by foreign investors SIF [w] Self Indentification Form Form for employees to share any special need (esp. for any disability) Solar PV Solar PhotoVoltaic Arrays of cells that convert solar radiation into direct current electricity SOA Service Oriented Architecture A software/ IT implementation architecture model which incorporates a flexible set of design principles SOX Sarbanes Oxley A United States federal law that set new or enhanced standards for all www.sarbanes-oxley.com U.S. public company boards, management and public accounting firms SOx Oxides of Sulphur Any binary compound of oxygen and sulphur like sulphur dioxide STP Sewage Treatment Plant A unit that uses physical, chemical, and biological processes to remove contaminants from wastewater and household sewage, both runoff (effluents) and domestic SUV Sports utility vehicle General term for a mid-sized vehicle capable with a seating capacity of 8 to 9 people T (used in Tonnes Unit of measure in the metric system, equivalent to 1000 kilograms. Used in conjunction conjunction with materials like TCO2 is for Tonnes of Carbon dioxide with material) TASIS Taqwaa Advisory and Shariah A Shariah Advisory institution associated with the vast majority of Investment Solutions (TASIS). Shariah compliant products available in India. TED [w] Talent Engagement Team which has the mandate of training, capacity building and and Development career development of employees TEP Teacher Empowerment Program A set of programs for teacher classroom intervention, designed by Wipro Education (WATIS) in collaboration with partners TIS [w] Technology Infrastructure Unit which provides technology infrastructure solutions Services and services to customers TTF The Teacher Foundation An NGO operating in Bangalore working on teaching skills training. www.teacherfoundation.org/index.php GLOSSARY OF 181 ACRONYMS Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference U.N. United Nations an international organization whose stated aims are facilitating cooperation in www.un.org international law, international security, economic development, social progress, human rights, and the achieving of world peace U.N. MDG United Nations Millennium Eight international development goals that 192 UN member states have agreed www.un.goals/millenniumgoals Development Goals to achieve by the year 2015 including reducing extreme poverty, reducing child mortality rates etc UNCRPD UN Convention on the Rights UN convention on the rights of person with disabilities, which has country/state www.un.org/disabilities/ of Persons with Disabilities ratifications and signatories UNEP United Nations Environment A programme within UN that coordinates UN environmental activities, assists www.unep.org Program developing countries in implementing environmentally sound policies and encourages sustainable development through sound environmental practices UNGC United Nations Global Compact A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their www.unglobalcompact.org operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption US, USA United States of America UK CRC, UK Carbon Reduction Commitment UK’s carbon reduction commitment program – an energy efficiency initiative USD United States Dollar The currency of United States of America VOW Voice of Wipro Employee perception survey conducted at Wipro WASE [w] Wipro Academy of WASE is a pioneering initiative in the field of higher education in collaboration Software Excellence with BITS Pilani that selects the finest students from the B.Sc streams for a four year work integrated program leading to an integrated degree in engineering WARM Waste Reduction Model A model created by EPA (Environment Protection Agency, US) to track and www.epa.gov/ report GHG emissions from different waste management practices. WATIS [w] Wipro Applying Thought A long-term, deliberate and focused initiative by www.wiproapplyingthought In Schools Wipro Technologies to bring about systemic reform in school education inschools.com WBPO [w] Wipro Business Process Wipro BPO Solutions is a leading provider of Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) Outsourcing focusing on the complex, voice and non-voice based segment of customer-care services. e BPO offerings are around – customer service, technical help desk, finance and accounts outsourcing, HR and procurement outsourcing WCCLG [w] Wipro Consumer Care Wipro Consumer Care and Lighting, (WCCLG) a Business Unit of Wipro and Lighting Limited, has a profitable presence in the branded retail market of toilet soaps, hair care soaps, baby care products and lighting products. It is also a leader in institutional lighting in specified segments like software, pharma and retail GLOSSARY OF 182 ACRONYMS Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website Reference WEF World Economic Forum An independent international organization committed to improving the www.weforum.org state of the world through multi stakeholder engagements. WEM Wipro Energy Manager An energy management IT solution from Wipro. WEM provides an analytics based remote management solution to improve the performance of solar plants (either MW scale or distributed) through real time data collection/monitoring and predictive diagnostics. WESS Wipro Energy and A division of Wipro’s Eco Energy team focused on IT for Sustainability Services Green solutions to customers WI [w] Wipro Infotech Wipro Infotech is the leading strategic IT partner for companies across India and www.wipro.com Middle East-offering integrated IT solutions. Wipro Infotech plans, deploys, sustains and maintains the entire IT lifecycle through, total outsourcing, consulting services, business solutions and professional services. Wipro Infotech is also leading provider of branded IT hardware like PC's and Servers in the Indian market WIN [w] Wipro Infrastructure Wipro Infrastructure Engineering delivers precision-engineered hydraulic www.wiproinfra.com Engineering cylinders, components and solutions and truck hydraulics components to OEMs globally in the infrastructure and related industries. It also has entered the industrial water business division in 2008 WOW Women Of Wipro An umbrella program in Wipro – with the primary aim in making the workplace more engaging, suitable and friendly for women. WRI World Resources Institute A global environmental think tank working with different stakeholders to build www.wri.org solutions for environmental challenges WT [w] Wipro Technologies Wipro Technologies, a division of Wipro Limited (NYSE:WIT) provides comprehensive www.wipro.com research and development services, IT solutions and services, including systems integration, information systems outsourcing, package implementation, software application management, and datacenter managed services to corporations globally GLOSSARY OF 183 ACRONYMS 7b. INDEX OF GRI INDICATORS Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Description Reported to this report / 2010-11 Disclosure Direct Answer Page(s) STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 3-5 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 19-24, 39-43 45 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organization. 16 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 19 13 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures. 16-19 49 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 17 Outside Back Cover 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that 17 89-91 are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 68-71 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 17-19 13, 35, 36 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 17-19 12, 13 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 49, 51 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 20, 126 11, 64 REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 8 49 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 8 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 8 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 171 3.5 Process for defining report content. 12-13 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 9 See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 9 (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). Covered fully in the report Partially Covered in the report Non Covered in the report INDEX OF 184 GRI INDICATORS Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Description Reported to this report / 2010-11 Disclosure Direct Answer Page(s) 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities 8-9 49, 163-164 that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying 13, 108-111, 131 estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such 39, 97 re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, 8 or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 10-14, 18-22, 34-38, 39-43, 108, 116, 146, 164 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 12-13 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for 21, 25-27 63-66, 92 specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 72 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the 27 72 highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 25, 127-131 79 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives 26, 69 75, 78 (including departure arrangements and the organization's performance (including social & environmental performance).1 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 26-27 82 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance 26, 27 body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 25, 26, 38, 59, 139 63-82 environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of 26, 22-24, 38, economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or 44-45 compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 1 Social and environmental aspects are the joint responsibility of multiple functions – it is part of the performance appraisal for core functions (like HR, Operations) and hence is indirectly related to compensation. INDEX OF 185 GRI INDICATORS Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Description Reported to this report / 2010-11 Disclosure Direct Answer Page(s) 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 26, 27 78-82 environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 24, 121 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 44, 45 organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in 164-166 which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 10 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 10, 11 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 53-55 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 39-43 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. ECONOMIC DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC 126-127 32-48 Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, 1126, 129-130 12-13 donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. 22-23, 34-35, 39, 116-119 EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. 150-151 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 130 Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at 59 significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. 139-140 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at 72, 78-79 significant locations of operation. Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through 129, 146-159 commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. INDEX OF 186 GRI INDICATORS Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Description Reported to this report / 2010-11 Disclosure Direct Answer Page(s) EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 129 ENVIRONMENTAL DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN 34-35, 39-40 Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 2 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 2 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 97 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 97 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 97-98 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy 148-159 requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 99 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 102 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 102 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 102 Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of 106 high biodiversity value outside protected areas.3 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas 106 of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 3 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 3 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. 106 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. 3 2 This is not material to the service and product profile of the organisation-since 85-90% of our revenues are from IT services. 3 None of our operations are adjacent to protected areas or areas with high biodiversity value INDEX OF 187 GRI INDICATORS Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Description Reported to this report / 2010-11 Disclosure Direct Answer Page(s) Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 96 4 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 96 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 97-99 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 105 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 105 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 102 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 105 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 106 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Not applicable Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected 102 by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 116-122 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Not applicable Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 167 environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's 96, 101 operations, and transporting members of the workforce. 4 Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 107 SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA 58 Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. 78-80, 85 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 82-84 4 5 of the 15 scope 3 categories as per new Scope 3 GHG protocol are reported.The inventorisation of other applicable scope 3 categories will be completed by 2013. INDEX OF 188 GRI INDICATORS Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Description Reported to this report / 2010-11 Disclosure Direct Answer Page(s) LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. 71, 76-77 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 85 Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 59 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether 59 it is specified in collective agreements. Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that 62-63, 77 help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 87 by region and by gender. 5 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, 65-66 their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 59 Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 88 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and 67-70 assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. 63 Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, 77 age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Equal Remuneration for Women and Men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. 59 SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR 24, 140 Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating 62 human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. 5 Injury, absenteeism etc. rates/metrics at regional level to be reported,Target for 2012 INDEX OF 189 GRI INDICATORS Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Description Reported to this report / 2010-11 Disclosure Direct Answer Page(s) HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone 62 human rights screening, and actions taken. 6 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are 59 relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 86 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective 139 bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. (No instances) Child Labor HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures 59, 139 taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. 6 Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, 59, 139 and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. 6 Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of 139, 140 human rights that are relevant to operations. 6 Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Not Applicable Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments.6 62 Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formalgrievance mechanisms. 65, 86 SOCIAL: SOCIETY DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO 39-43, 146-147, 158 Local Communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, 107, 146 and development programs. 6 Target Reporting year: 2012-13 INDEX OF 190 GRI INDICATORS Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Description Reported to this report / 2010-11 Disclosure Direct Answer Page(s) SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. 146 SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or 146, 158-159 actual negative impacts on local communities. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 25-26, 107 81-82 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. 25-26, 107 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 27, 139 Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 43, 164-166 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. 167 Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. No instances Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions 167 for non-compliance with laws and regulations. SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR 42, 116 Customer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, 119 and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. 7 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and No instances of safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. non compliance Product and Service Labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and 119-120 services subject to such information requirements. 7 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product No instances of and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. non compliance 7 Not material to our business. However the green computing division meets and exceeds product information requirements on Energy,Waste and Chemicals management. INDEX OF 191 GRI INDICATORS Cross Reference Annual Report Profile Description Reported to this report / 2010-11 Disclosure Direct Answer Page(s) PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 53 Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, 167 (We comply including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. with local and national laws) PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing No instances of communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. non compliance Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. 8 Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision 167 and use of products and services. 8 Systems and processes exist for customer data – in all cases jointly agreed with customer. We are strengthening them to ensure better controls and reporting. INDEX OF 192 GRI INDICATORS Wipro Limited Sarjapur Road, Bangalore 560 035. India. Phone: +91 (80) 2844 0011, Fax: (080) 2844 0256 To know more about Wipro sustainability practice, log on to http://www.wipro.com/about-wipro/sustainability/ http://wipro.org/sustainability/sustainability_disclosures.htm We welcome feedback, suggestions and points of view from our readers. Readers can write to sustain.report@wipro.com or to P. S. Narayan,Vice President and Head Sustainability at narayan.pan@wipro.com
