SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2011 TABLE OF CONTENTS Introductory Note 2 About the National Bank of Serbia 4 Social Responsibility of the National Bank of Serbia 6 Socially Responsible Activities as a Channel for Internal Communication 7 National Bank of Serbia as a Local and Regional Research Hub 7 Compliance 8 Membership in the United Nations Global Compact 9 Application of the Ten Principles 10 Employee Care 13 Occupational Safety and Health 13 Prevention and Prohibition of Mobbing at Work 14 Education, Training and Professional Development 15 Benefits 16 Status of Persons with Disabilities 16 Local Community 17 Protection and Education of Financial Service Consumers 17 Exhibition Activities 20 Educational Activities 22 Cultural Heritage “Georg Weifert – a Visionary and Enthusiast” 25 Donations 26 Humanitarian Activities 28 Environmental Protection 29 Adaptation and Rehabilitation of the Electric Power Block, Gas Emission Control and New Waste Waters Technology at the Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins 29 Technological Waste Management 30 1 INTRODUCTORY NOTE During the past year, we were faced with numerous challenges and serious business tasks. The second wave of the global financial crisis put our obligations and activities into the context of a considerably more complex and more sensitive financial environment. Still, we can be relatively satisfied with the results achieved in the given framework, with an obligation to continue with an even more successful work, as well as to persevere with our institutional policies. Accordingly, it was the strengthening of institutional capacities, social responsibility and transparency of work that represented strategic priorities for the National Bank of Serbia in the past year. In order to project the real picture about our activities, we continually work on improving the communication within the institution, as well as with the general public. By improving the communication with the general public and by truly understanding the problems and needs of the society, we contribute to an open dialogue among all interested stakeholders. In that way, we wish to strengthen confidence that represents one of the key resources for an institution such as the National Bank of Serbia, which carries out its activity in the interest of the society as a whole. Decades of duration and tradition of this institution oblige us to measure our social responsibility not only by our professionalism, preservation of independence and credibility of the institution and our relationship with employees, but also by the National Bank of Serbia's impact in spreading and promotion of social values. In the area of social responsibility, the Financial Services Consumer Protection Law was adopted at the proposal of the National Bank of Serbia. The aim of this Law is to protect citizens in financial transactions, reach the standards of the European Union in this area and further strengthen the confidence in the country's financial system. The establishment of the Financial Stability Department and the work of the Centre for Financial System Development provided a further contribution to the development of the financial market. In order to ensure efficient, stable and healthy financial markets that provide quality financial services, it is necessary that we support financial education for all financial market participants. We will continue with financial education of the wider public (school age children and the general citizenry) and participants in the financial system (citizens as loan users, entrepreneurs, farmers and businesspeople). We are currently in the process of implementing the National Bank of Serbia's Financial Education Strategy, which aims to improve activities in the area, as well as to ensure adequate ways of informing pupils, students, 2 citizens, entrepreneurs and businesspeople so that they get the In addition, in 2011 we implemented numerous humanitarian information that is important for them not only at this moment, but in the activities and are very proud of high employee participation. For years back future as well. We intend to initiate the development of a national financial we have been active in the field of environmental protection. education strategy as a necessary supplement to a healthy financial As a founding and active member of the United Nations' Global regulatory and supervisory framework. Compact in Serbia, the National Bank of Serbia fully supports the “Ten In order to establish a more active two-way communication with the Principles of the Global Compact” which deal with labour rights, business community, the Corporate Liaisons Office was formed. Its environmental protection and the fight against corruption. The existence objective is to provide timely and credible information about the state of of such an initiative allows the promotion and development of the concept the Serbian economy and familiarise businesspeople with the measures of social responsibility and gives corporate entities an opportunity to learn and policies of the National Bank of Serbia. from the experiences of others and share good practices. It is within this As part of the development of the National Bank of Serbia as a local initiative that the National Bank of Serbia entered into many partnerships and regional research hub, the Chief Economist's Office was established. and implemented joint projects. In the previous year, the Office was engaged more actively in the In 2012 the National Bank of Serbia will continue to puruse its publishing of research papers and the organisation of regular research statutory objectives of price and financial stability, bearing in mind the seminars in the National Bank of Serbia. extremely important long-term positive impact on economic activity and In 2011, the National Bank organised for the first time the Annual employment in our country, which is vital for citizens, the financial system Conference of Young Economists to give an opportunity to advanced PhD and the overall economy. students and scientists who recently got their PhD degrees to present their research achievements in all fields of economics and finance and to get in touch with renowned experts in these fields. Also, to encourage scientific research, the National Bank of Serbia awards money prizes to authors of doctoral dissertations and master's papers, as well as authors engaged in scientific research in Serbia in the Governor fields of macroeconomics, monetary economy, supervision of financial Dejan Šoškić institutions and financial stability. 3 ABOUT THE NATIONAL BANK OF SERBIA The position, organisation, mandate and functions of the National Bank of Serbia, as well as the relationship between the National Bank of Serbia and other bodies of the Republic of Serbia and international organisations and institutions are regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. The National Bank of Serbia is independent and autonomous in executing its functions as regulated by the Law on the National Bank of Serbia and other legislation, and is accountable for its work to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The primary objective of the National Bank of Serbia is to achieve and maintain price stability. Aside from that, without prejudice to the fulfilment of its primary objective, the National Bank of Serbia also contributes to the safeguarding and strengthening of the stability of the financial system. The National Bank of Serbia has the following functions: − determining and implementing monetary and foreign exchange policies; − managing foreign exchange reserves; − establishing and implementing activities and measures coming under its remit, relating to the preservation and strengthening of financial stability; − granting and revoking operating licences, supervising bank solvency and legality of operations and performing other activities in line with the law governing banks; − granting and revoking operating licenses and/or authorisations to insurance companies, supervising these companies and performing other activities in line with the law governing insurance; − granting and revoking operating licences to voluntary pension fund management companies, supervising these companies and performing other activities in line with the law governing voluntary pension funds; − granting and revoking operating licenses to financial leasing companies, supervising these companies and performing other activities in line with law governing leasing operations; − issuing banknotes and coins and managing cash flows; − regulating, controlling and promoting uninterrupted functioning of the payment system; − performing statutory tasks for the Republic of Serbia or tasks established by treaties, without affecting thereby its autonomy and independence. The governing bodies of the National Bank of Serbia comprise: the Executive Board; the Governor; and the Council of the Governor. The activities from the National Bank of Serbia's scope of work are carried out by the following departments, directorates, centres, branches and the Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins – Topčider (ZIN): 4 Governor Dejan Šoškić Vice-Governor Vice-Governor Vice-Governor Vice-Governor Secretary General Bojan Marković Ana Gligorijević Mira Erić-Jović Diana Dragutinović Gordana Petković Monetary Financial Accounting and Foreign Exchange Bank Supervision Operations Stability Finance Department Department Chief Department Department Department Economist's Office Corporate Cash Department Insurance Centre for Liaisons Financial National Supervision IT Office System Payment Department Development Card International Centre Monetary Relations Human Resources Analysis and Department Governor's Statistics Department Pension Funds Office General Affairs Supervision Department Internal Payment System Audit Department Office Administration Centre for Financial Compliance Consumer and Enforced Collection Branches Operational Protection and Education Risk Control Legal Department The National Bank of Serbia has a total of 2,136 employees. (Source: Human Resources, 31 December 2011) Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins – Topčider The Executive Board is in charge of determining monetary and system, assesses adequacy of the accounting policies and foreign exchange policies, and in particular the terms and procedures, supervises and adopts the annual internal audit plan. conditions of issuing securities, terms and conditions under which In addition, the Council submits to the National Assembly the the National Bank of Serbia carries out open market operations report on its operations, at least once a year, as well as the annual and discount operations, short-term lending policy, dinar statement of accounts along with the certified auditor's report not exchange rate policy, strategy of foreign currency reserves later than by 30 June of the following year. The Council makes management, the key policy rate and other interest rates of the decisions in the meetings by a majority vote of the total number of National Bank of Serbia, the base for calculating required reserves Council members. and the reserve requirement ratio. The Executive Board The Governor of the National Bank of Serbia is appointed by establishes measures and activities, within the National Bank of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a term of six Serbia's remit, aimed at maintaining and strengthening financial years, with the right to re-election. stability, as well as measures for maintaining bank liquidity. The Executive Board also decides on granting and revocation of The Governor is in charge of and responsible for the operating licences to banks, insurance companies, financial achievement of the objectives of the National Bank of Serbia, and leasing companies and voluntary pension fund management in particular for the implementation of decisions of the Executive companies. Board and the Council, for the organisation and operations of the National Bank of Serbia, for the drafting of legislation falling under Meetings of the Executive Board are held on as needed basis the competence of the National Bank of Serbia, for the enacting and minimum once a month, provided that at least three of its legislation falling under the competence of the National Bank of members are present. The Executive Board makes decisions by Serbia but not under the scope of activities of the Executive Board the majority vote and in case of a tie, the Governor's vote is and the Council, and for other activities as regulated by the Law on decisive. Meetings of the Executive Board are chaired by the the National Bank of Serbia and other legislation, but without Governor. prejudice to the key objective referred to in Article 3 of the Law on Upon the Executive Board's proposal and with the the National Bank of Serbia. Government's consent, the Council of the Governor establishes The National Bank of Serbia is a legal entity with its head office the dinar exchange rate regime, passes the By-Law of the National in Belgrade. The National Bank of Serbia may establish branches Bank of Serbia as well as the National Bank of Serbia's that do not have the status of legal entities and their internal development strategy, and monitors its implementation. The organisation and the scope of authority and operations are Council adopts the financial plan and annual financial statements regulated by the By-Law of the National Bank of Serbia. of the National Bank of Serbia, appoints the external auditor and discusses the auditor's report. Furthermore, the Council supervises the National Bank of Serbia's financial reporting 5 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF SERBIA The 2011 Report on Social Responsibility of the National Bank of Serbia is the fifth such report published by our institution. The report includes activities carried out in the field of social responsibility and explains the approach that our institution has in terms of social responsibility. At the same time, it follows the tendencies of modern corporate governance according to which social responsibility becomes an integral part of every institution, company or organisation. Also, the publication of this report testifies to the continuous efforts on improving National Bank of Serbia's communication with the general public. In accordance with its strategy for 2011, the National Bank of Serbia sought to contribute to the strengthening of social responsibility. By implementing activities that have positive effects on the protection of financial service consumers, the National Bank of Serbia gave its contribution to the improvement of the financial system and the development of the financial market. This contribution is reflected in the adoption of the Financial Services Consumer Protection Law whose main aim is to protect citizens in financial transactions. Additional institutional support to the development of financial education was provided by forming a new department for educating users of financial services within the Centre for Financial Consumer Protection and Education. The strengthening of social responsibility and work on the development of institutional capacities continued by forming new independent organisational units: the Financial Stability Department, the Corporate Liaisons Office, the Chief Economist’s Office, and the Compliance and Operational Risk Control. As one of the most prominent institutions in the country, the National Bank of Serbia wants to serve as a role model and to encourage similar behaviour by other institutions, companies and organisations in Serbia, especially those in the financial sector. Strategic and operational priorities for the National Bank of Serbia in 2012 will be focused on the following: development of the financial stability sector, improving the management of foreign exchange reserves, strengthening the capacity of supervision, improving the organisational structure, improving control of operational risk (IT resources, protection of data secrecy, disaster recovery), establishing the system of budgeting in the National Bank of Serbia. 6 Socially Responsible Activities as a Channel for Internal Communication One Hundred and Twenty-seven Years of the National Bank of Serbia In accordance with the objective and functions set forth by the law, and relying on the principles of the Global Compact, the In order to promote and develop organisational culture, one activities of the Communications Division/Internal hundred and twenty-seven years since the opening of a counter of Communication and Social Responsibility Section are focused on the Privileged National Bank of the Kingdom of Serbia was marked promoting the concept of social responsibility and implementation by the organisation of an appropriate event for bank employees of activities with which the National Bank of Serbia makes a called “The Bank's Day”. This activity, which has become positive impact on the working and social environment. traditional, is aimed at promoting communication among employees by pleasant socialising. The programme included a In the course of 2011, the Internal Communication and Social play by which, returning back in time with Georg Weifert, we Responsibility Section: reminded our employees of the history of the National Bank of continually conducted socially responsible activities, Serbia and pointed out to the values and importance of this striving to achieve large-scale involvement of employees; institution. established and developed public partnerships with The fact that employee turnout was 60% higher than the last relevant institutions in the fields in which our employees showed year speaks about employees' positive reaction to this way of most interest; marking “The Bank's Day”. conducted activities in branch offices, with constant The National Bank of Serbia as a Local and growth of the number of employees involved in activities and minimum costs for the Bank, indirectly making a positive influence Regional Research Hub on the reputation of the National Bank of Serbia as a socially By developing its research function, the National Bank of responsible institution. Serbia creates an important precondition for the fulfilment of basic In 2012, the Internal Communication and Social Responsibility goals and tasks from its jurisdiction. As part of profiling the Section will encourage employees to take part in socially National Bank of Serbia as a research hub, the Chief Economist's responsible activities. In accordance with that, special attention Office was established with the main role to: will be paid to the following: define priority courses of research within the National encouraging the concept of social responsibility through Bank of Serbia and coordinate research efforts across the NBS internal channels of communication; departments; organisation and innovation of socially responsible strengthen the reputation of the National Bank of Serbia activities for employees and their children; as a prestigious hub in the field of applied economic research on the national, regional and global scale; realisation of a number of humanitarian and voluntary activities with participation of employees to help vulnerable promote research capacities within the National Bank of children and poor citizens; Serbia; realisation of activities aimed at protecting the develop partnership research efforts. environment, cherishing tradition and promoting intergenerational solidarity and active aging. 7 In addition to intensifying research activities by means of order to preserve and improve trust in the National Bank of Serbia working papers and other publications, activities on profiling the and its reputation. Provisions of this Code apply to the Governor National Bank of Serbia as a local and regional hub for research and Vice-Governors if not otherwise set forth by regulations seminars and international conferences will continue. The regulating the prevention of the conflict of interest in executing National Bank of Serbia will continue to support the economic public functions. thought in Serbia by awarding special prizes and donations. Special attention was dedicated to the establishment of In order to enable communication between its employees and mechanisms for application of those rules. Therefore, a procedure other economic experts in Serbia and world's leading economists, of registering the gifts received in connection with performance of the National Bank of Serbia organises research seminars every jobs in the National Bank of Serbia was introduced. Also, the forms Friday. The guests of research seminars were distinguished for registration of gifts and notification of the gift-giver were experts such as Bojan Jovanović, Lucrezia Reichlin, Bernard established. The Compliance estimates whether a gift may be Dumas, Charles Engel, Jordi Galí, Fabrizio Zilibotti and many considered adequate and protocolary, unless when it is obvious. others. A total of 27 seminars were organised in 2011. The procedure of acquiring consent for performance of an Conferences and Research Courses additional job and activity has been established as well as the form for acquiring such consent. For the Governor to be provided with As part of its research development strategy, the National the necessary information on the basis of which he/she can Bank of Serbia organises international conferences in the fields estimate whether the performance of a particular job may give rise that are of special interest research-wise. The aim of those to the conflict of interest or interfere with the impartial conferences is to include some of the leading world experts in performance of the employee's duties, before submitting the those fields, active researchers, as well as young people from request for the Governor's consent, the managers need to obtain Serbia who represent a significant potential for the development the consent of the competent Vice-Governor, i.e., the Secretary of the Serbian science. General, while other employees, before submitting that request, The First Annual Conference of Young Serbian acquire the consent from the manager of the organisational unit in Economists which they work. During 2011, the Chief Economist's Office organised the First In addition, the Compliance gives its opinion on whether the Annual Conference of Young Serbian Economists whose aim was performance of a particular job or activity may give rise to conflict to gather at one place active Serbian researchers in the area of of interest and submits that opinion to the Governor. In the period economics and finance based in the country and abroad. The from 1 June until 30 November, the Compliance gave 20 opinions conference attracted participation of best young Serbian on whether particular jobs that the employees performed outside economists – PhD students, as well as academics who recently their working hours resulted in the occurrence of the conflict of earned their doctoral degrees from domestic or foreign interest. universities. Conference participants presented their scientific Special attention was dedicated to raising employees' papers and exchanged views with a group of top Serbian awareness on the importance and necessity of adherence to economists, including Professor Bojan Jovanović from the ethical rules. Therefore, a special section “Business Conduct” was Department of Economics, New York University. In addition to created on the webhouse, containing information and instructions authors and the discussion panellists, other economists interested regarding the application of ethical rules. Since the Compliance in this unique gathering also took part. The papers were written supervises the implementation of the provisions of the Code of and presented in the English language. The paper by Teodora Conduct, gives interpretation of those provisions and the Borota “World Trade Patterns and Prices: The Role of Productivity necessary explanations regarding their application, the employees and Quality Heterogeneity” was selected as the best paper. address this office regularly with concrete questions. Also, Master Course in Macroeconomics for Employees in the presentations of ethical and professional standards of behaviour National Bank of Serbia are organised for all interns. Professor Peter Sinclair, a highly esteemed lecturer from the Since the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency and the University of Oxford and the University of Birmingham and a regulations that this Agency passed pursuant to this law apply on special adviser to the governor of the Bank of England, held a free the National Bank of Serbia and its officials, the organisational unit Master Course in Macroeconomics at the National Bank of Serbia in charge of compliance undertakes activities aimed at the from 15 to 19 July. fulfilment of obligations arising from that law and those regulations. Therefore, the Agency receives from the National Compliance Bank of Serbia quarterly reports on activities undertaken in order to implement the National Strategy for Combating Corruption and The organisational unit in charge of compliance and the Action Plan for Implementation of the National Strategy for operational risk control continually undertakes activities aimed at Combating Corruption, notifications on assuming one's office or promoting the highest ethical and professional standards of termination of one's office, a copy of the records on gifts for behaviour in the National Bank of Serbia and implementing the officials and other members of the Council. The Governor and regulations on preventing the conflict of interest. A new Code of Vice-Governors are provided with the information on obligations Conduct of Employees in the National Bank of Serbia came into arising from the regulations on the prevention of the conflict of effect in the course of 2011. The Code of Conduct stipulates the interest that apply on them. principles of business behaviour that the employees are obliged to apply when carrying out the entrusted tasks. Also, the criteria for assessing such behaviour were outlined in order to preserve and improve business and moral responsibility of the employees, their mutual cooperation and relations with third persons, and also in 8 MEMBERSHIP IN UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT After the establishment of the Global Compact, on 6 December 2007, the National Bank of Serbia, as one of the founders and an active member of this initiative, continued with its commitment to promote and affirm this largest voluntary association in the world (with over 10,000 members from more than 130 countries), dedicated to promoting corporate social responsibility. Global Compact requires from its members to adopt, support and promote the ten universal principles in the protection of human and labour rights, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. During the four years of work in Serbia, the number of members increased to 80. Apart from large companies, members are also representatives of small and medium-sized companies, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), business associations, academic institutions, cities and trade unions. In 2011, together with other working group members, the National Bank of Serbia actively participated in the working group for corporate social responsibility in banking and finance, social inclusion, education and development of the corporate social responsibility, environment and support in emergency situations. As chair of the working group for corporate social responsibility in banking and finance, the National Bank of Serbia, together with other members of the working group worked on the implementation of two projects in the field of financial education, which is a primary objective of this group. Within the project of cooperation with secondary schools with an educational profile “banking”, the students from those schools were provided with: one-week/two-week practice for third/fourth grade students in branches of banks members; visit to the National Bank of Serbia’s Visitor Centre, thematic lectures for students and teachers; participation of representatives of banks members in the final high-school exam, participation in professional seminars of the Academy for Banking and Finance for teachers of this educational profile. The cooperation was formalised by signing a cooperation protocol between the Association of Economic Schools, Law and Administration Schools, Schools of Commerce and Catering and Tourism Schools in the Republic of Serbia and the Global Compact in Serbia and will be continued in 2012. Free-of-charge workshops for citizens under the title “Managing Personal Finances” are the result of cooperation of the Global Compact in Serbia and the Croatian Banking Association. Following the positive experiences of Croatia, members of the working group decided to organise and launch free-of-charge interactive workshops for citizens on planning and managing 9 personal finances in Serbia. Apart from financial education, great organisations, as well as on developing the network of partners in importance should be given to mutual cooperation among banks the implementation of those workshops. members as well as corporate entities in the organisation and Together with other members of the working group for support implementation of this project. The project puts the client and the in emergency situations, the National Bank of Serbia participated client's education in focus, and it is launched with the aim to help in the action of collecting the books for the public library “Stefan citizens, through training and counselling, to learn about financial Prvovenčani” from Kraljevo, which was directly stricken by a services, strengthen their confidence in the banking sector as well destructive earthquake. Over 3,000 books were collected in the as to help them efficiently manage their household budgets. action, and banks members donated computers for the library. A total of 25 workshops have been organised so far (20 in More information about the activities of the Global Compact in Belgrade, one each in Niš, Novi Sad and Kraljevo, and two on Serbia is available on the website www.unglobalcompact.rs. Kopaonik Mountain). The workshops gathered more than 350 citizens. The participants graded the organisation (location, time, space), comprehension and the manner of presentation as well as Application of the Ten Principles usefulness of the workshops with the highest grades. The Global Compact's Ten Principles in the areas of human and In participants’ view, the greatest benefit from the workshops labour rights, environment protection and anti-corruption are was a better overview of expenses and income in based on: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the personal/household budgets, a new look at the planning and International Labour Organization's Declaration on Fundamental attaining goals, new insights into the possibilities of savings, a Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment realistic understanding of financial possibilities and future and Development; and the United Nations Convention against improvements in managing personal/household budgets. Corruption. In 2011, members of the working group worked on designing and developing an e-learning application, which has been uploaded on the project’s website. A new cycle of workshops is planned for 2012, and the focus will be placed on organising workshops in smaller towns in cooperation with local The Ten Principles: Application: Planned Activities: The National Bank of Serbia Support to projects of social HUMAN RIGHTS with its participation and inclusion and education of persons membership in the Global Compact with disabilities. acknowledges and affirms the values and human rights protection P r i n c i p l e 1 : policy of the United Nations; Businesses should support An Act on risk assessment at and respect the protection place of work and in the working of internationally environment in the National Bank of Serbia was enacted; proclaimed human rights; A Plan for staff training for safe and and healthy work in the National Bank of Serbia was passed; A Decision on determining salary increases for higher-risk jobs P r i n c i p l e 2 : was passed; make sure that they are not A ctiv i tie s o n p a s s in g a complicit in human rights Programme of phased removal of abuse. deficiencies in the field of occupational safety and health were launched; A system was established within the organisational unit Human Resources for prevention of mobbing at work. 10 The Ten Principles: Application: Planned Activities: The Trade Union functions Raising awareness of all LABOUR within the National Bank of Serbia as employees on the importance of STANDARDS an independent, democratic and including the persons with autonomous organisation of disabilities into the local community P r i n c i p l e 3 : employees; by organising inclusion events for Businesses should uphold A total of 63% of employees employees and their children; are members of the National Bank of the freedom of association Serbia’s Trade Union; Making a decision to grant and the effective Of the total number of scholarships for children of employees, 54% are women and deceased workers of the National recognition of the right to Bank of Serbia and children of 46% are men; collective bargaining; Of the total number of persons with special needs who are managers, 48% are women and employed in the National Bank of P r i n c i p l e 4 : Serbia. 52% are men; the elimination of all forms Under the Law on Professional of forced and compulsory Rehabilitation and Employment of labour; Persons with Disabilities, the National Bank of Serbia covers the P r i n c i p l e 5 : costs for the assessment of employees’ working capacity; the effective abolition of Eight employees got the status child labour; of a person with disability in 2011; The building on 12 Kralja Petra P r i n c i p l e 6 : Street was made available to the elimination of persons with disabilities in discrimination in respect of accordance with measures of technical protection issued by the employment and Serbian Institute for the Protection occupation. of Cultural Monuments in Belgrade. Reducing the use, sorting and We c o n t i n u e t o a p p l y ENVIRONMENTAL recycling of paper, PET packaging measures for efficient consumption PROTECTION and office materials; of resources; The Slavija building of the P r i n c i p l e 7 : We continue to support and National Bank of Serbia is among promote all activities related to Businesses should support highly automated buildings, thanks environmental protection; to which considerable energy a precautionary approach savings are made; Organisation of voluntary to environmental -Application of new actions for employees. challenges; technologies in the area of waste waters processing in the Institute for P r i n c i p l e 8 : Manufacturing Banknotes and undertake initiatives to Coins; promote greater Adaptation and revitalization of an energy block. Measurements of e n v i r o n m e n t a l gas emissions from the boiler room responsibility; and of the Institute for Manufacturing P r i n c i p l e 9 : Banknotes and Coins were done, followed by appropriate e n c o u r a g e t h e measurement reports; development and diffusion The programme of the sorting of environmentally friendly of waste was expanded to other branches of the National Bank of technologies. Serbia. 11 The Ten Principles: Application: Planned Activities: A new Code of Conduct of The National Bank of Serbia ANTIEmployees in the National Bank of will continue to undertake activities CORRUPTION Serbia came into effect; directed toward fulfilment of obligations arising from the Law on -The Compliance and the Anti-Corruption Agency and the Operational Risk Control was Action Plan for Implementation of established as a separate Principle 10: organisational unit; the National Strategy for Combating Businesses should work Corruption, about which the -The Compliance and National Bank will submit quarterly against corruption in all its Operational Risk Control gives its reports to the Anti-Corruption forms, including extortion opinion on the possibility of Agency; and bribery. emerging of the conflict of interest Development of an integrity and submits that opinion to the plan in the National Bank of Serbia is Governor and undertakes activities planned, in accordance with the Law aimed at fulfilling the obligations on the Anti-Corruption Agency. arising from the Law on the AntiCorruption Agency; The National Bank of Serbia sends to the Anti-Corruption Agency quarterly activity reports; The National Bank of Serbia publishes the Annual Report on Activities and Results, approved by accredited audit companies; The National Bank of Serbia supports the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism through the participation of representatives of the National Bank in the delegation of the Republic of Serbia that prepared a Progress report on the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism for the Republic of Serbia, that is submitted to the Committee of the Council of Europe – Moneyval. The report is submitted with the aim of assessing compliance, through the process of mutual assessment, of the system for the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism in countries members with international standards. 12 EMPLOYEE CARE Occupational Health and Safety The National Bank of Serbia passed an Act on risk assessment at place of work and in the working environment as well as a Decision on determining salary increases for higher risk jobs. Also, a procedure has been initiated at the Republican Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for determining the workplaces, i.e. jobs (the driver of a special vehicle in the General Affairs Department whose capacity is seven and more tons) whose years of insurance are calculated with an extended duration. The equipment for personal safety of employees (clothes, shoes, gloves, goggles, masks) was procured and the conditions of the working environment in the buildings during the summer period were examined. Most of the working equipment was examined and tested, and the employees at the workplaces with an increased risk are regularly sent for periodic medical examinations. A number of employees who work with equipment with a screen (on computers) for at least four hours a day were sent to an ophthalmic examination. In addition to adopting the Plan for training of employees for safe and healthy work in the National Bank of Serbia, training of employees for safe and healthy work began in some of the branch offices of the National Bank of Serbia, and in others it was fully implemented. When it comes to activities in the field of occupational health and safety of employees at the Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins, by recording the organisation of work, technological and business processes and resources of work in the organisational units of the Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins and their comparison with the actual situation, 113 elementary, relatively independent, corporate and technological processes were identified. The circumstances that may endanger occupational safety and health (an increased risk) are grouped in 28 working positions where technology and work processes are performed by 122 employees. In accordance with the regulations in the field of occupational safety and health, in cooperation with direct supervisors, (theoretical and practical) training of 110 employees in the Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins was conducted. The training was carried out during the working hours and was recorded in the prescribed form. The examination of the working environment in the Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins buildings was carried out in the summer period to measure chemical and physical hazards (other than ionizing radiation), microclimate and brightness. The examination was performed by the Institute for Occupational Safety and Health from Novi Sad and MD Project Institute from Niš. Based on technical findings of the performed examinations of the working environment, measures to eliminate or reduce the risks and hazards to the health of employees were proposed and then implemented. Under the current acts, working tools and personal protection equipment (overalls, coats, shoes, gloves, masks) were distributed to organisational units. 13 To address the identified deficiencies in the area of occupational common working space, in line with Article 19 of the Law on safety and health, the removal of which requires larger investments, Occupational Safety and Health and the signed agreement. and in the case of which life and health of employees are not at Based on the analysis of injuries, their total number and serious danger, a Proposal of the programme for gradual elimination structure in the period from 2006 to 2011, it may be concluded of deficiencies in the area of occupational safety and health was that due to the activities undertaken in the field of occupational developed with deadlines for its implementation. A procedure of safety and health in the Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and partial amendments to the Act on risk assessment was launched. Coins, a significant positive effect was achieved. This is indicated A total of 150 employees were sent to a periodic medical by the reduction of injuries and the number of injuries at the place examination, while 22 employees went to a control medical check-up. of work in 2011 (65%, or 83.30% less than in 2006). Further activities are focused on training of employees on occupational Under the Rulebook on the records in the field of occupational safety and health and are aimed to reduce the number of injuries safety and health, the prescribed forms were kept and signed. at the place of work and in the working environment. Most injuries There is a fair cooperation in implementing occupational safety were caused by carelessness or falls while moving from place to and health measures with companies and institutions with which place. the Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins shares a Number and structure of injuries in the Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Severity of injury Light 15 9 8 4 8 6 Heavy 5 0 2 1 0 1 Total 20 9 10 5 8 7 Seriousness of injuries and the place where the injury happened 7l 5l 5l 8l 3l 2l 4l 5l 3h 2h 3l 1h 1h 2l 2l 1l 1h 1l 1l 1l 1h 20 injuries 9 injuries 10 injuries 5 injuries 8 injuries 70 injuries 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 On the regular way from home to work and vice versa At one's place of work (performing one's duties) Other – fall while moving from place to place (on stairs, due to an uneven floor, and the like) L light H heavy Prevention and Prohibition of Mobbing at Work not reach a mutually acceptable, peaceful solution of the disputed relation. After that, the employees pressed charges to the In the course of 2011, eight employees addressed the person competent court against the National Bank of Serbia and the for support to report mobbing at work. Of that, two employees manager-mobber. filed a request for protection from mobbing. The procedure ended by a decision to halt the procedure, as the parties concerned could 14 Education, Professional Development and Vocational Training of Employees No. Form of education, professional development Number of and vocational training employees Education 1 BA/BSc degree 2 2 PhD degree 4 3 Professional training, licences, certificates 5 Professional development Seminars, workshops, counselling and conferences in 4 the country 202 Seminars, workshops, counselling, study visits and 5 conferences abroad 393 Seminars in the National Bank of Serbia 6 organised within bilateral cooperation with 38 foreign central banks One-month study trips to 7 a foreign central bank 1 8 Foreign language classes 378 9 Internal courses 343 Seminars in the National Bank of Serbia organised by 10 engaging external lecturers 89 Vocational training 11 Internship training 27 Summer practice The practice of university students from the country and 12 abroad in the period July-August 31 The employees in the National Bank of Serbia have the common interests in the field of vocational development of opportunity for continuous professional development and employees through the exchange of experiences and educational therefore are able to achieve appropriate titles and certificates, as work that is of relevance for promoting the functioning of partner well as to participate in seminars, courses, study visits and relations of institutions and creating a stable and developed workshops at home and abroad. A total of 393 employees went to banking and financial sector. The cooperation included the seminars, conferences, courses and workshops abroad, while 202 organisation of 33 mutual study visits, involving 93 employees employees attended such events in the country. from partner institutions. The National Bank of Serbia organises foreign language Major donors providing expert and technical assistance to the courses ​ ​ (English, German, Russian and French) for its National Bank of Serbia in 2011 were the Deutsche Bundesbank employees. This programme segment is intended to provide and the Bank of Slovenia. As part of realised bilateral cooperation, easier communication with colleagues and experts from abroad, there were 17 study visits, involving 90 employees, two as well as the use of literature in foreign languages. There were a international seminars in Belgrade, one specialised seminar for total of 378 employees who in 2011 attended foreign language employees in the IT sector, as well as one study visit that lasted courses. one month for one employee from the Legal Department. Realising the importance of developing the young talent, the For the needs of its employees, the National Bank of Serbia National Bank of Serbia organises a summer internship practice organises seminars and other types of courses, in which once a year thus enabling students to gain valuable experience competent lecturers from the country and abroad take part. and recommendations for further career development. A total of In order to develop and improve personal characteristics and 26 senior students from the faculties of universities in Serbia as competencies of its employees, the National Bank organises well as five students studying abroad attended the summer internal courses on teamwork, presentation skills and public internship programme in July and August. appearances, communication skills and conflicts, stress In 2011, the National Bank of Serbia continued to actively management and time management. implement the protocol on regional cooperation with the central banks of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Albania and Macedonia. The goal of the cooperation is the achievement of 15 Benefits Status of Persons with Disabilities In 2011 the National Bank of Serbia continued to expand Under the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment cooperation with the central banks of the European countries of Persons with Disabilities, eight employees got the status of a enabling bank employees to use the sporting and leisure resorts of person with disability. The costs for the assessment of working those central banks. In 2011, the National Bank of Serbia capacity were covered by the National Bank of Serbia. established cooperation with the Deutsche Bundesbank, the The Department for Maintenance of Buildings, Technical Cyprus Union of Bank Employees (ETYK) as well as with the Bank Systems and Equipment in 2011 participated in the project of of Finland. In that way, this form of cooperation was extended to adapting the building at 12 Kralja Petra Street for the needs of nine countries (the Czech Republic, the Netherlands, Switzerland, persons with disabilities. To this end the following services and Poland, Portugal, Russia, Cyprus, Finland, Germany) and, thanks works were agreed on and performed: to that, the employees of the National Bank of Serbia can use the benefit of staying under favourable conditions in the countries Developing a design project for works on investment with which such cooperation was established. The plan for 2012 is maintenance making the building more accessible for persons to establish cooperation, i.e., exchange of the use of resorts, with with disabilities according to the measures of technical protection the central banks of Latvia and Romania. prescribed by the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments in Belgrade; During 2011, five employees of the Central Bank of the Russian Federation and two employees of the National Bank of Persons with disabilities are to move from the parking lot Poland visited our resorts. Our employees in the course of 2011 on Gračanička Street, through a part of the building in whose visited the Swiss National Bank (three), the Czech National Bank antechamber there is an elevator which they can use to get to the (five), the Deutsche Bundesbank (two) and the Bank of Finland ground floor. As the elevator doors are narrower than it is (one). prescribed, and wider models of wheelchairs cannot go through (technical protection measures do not allow any intervention that Furthermore, continuing the existing practice, the National could undermine the stability of the building or violate its Bank will pay a contribution in the amount of 3% of the employee's monumental value), a smaller-size wheelchair was provided. The basic salary for those employees who opted for membership in a change of wheelchairs is to take place in the antechamber in front voluntary pension fund. This contribution may not be below RSD of the elevator, and the smaller-size wheelchair could then be used 2,000 or above RSD 10,000. That amount is increased by the for undisturbed movement through the building; amount that the employee pays into the voluntary pension fund, up to the maximum amount determined by the law regulating The ground floor hallway has a delevelling of two steps, citizens' income tax established as the non-taxable amount. because of which two metal ramps connected by a platform were designed, which rely on the weight of the existing floor, without The National Bank of Serbia expanded its cooperation with city anchoring, that is, without causing damage to the floor of the theatres from 13 to 15 theatres, including four children's theatres. existing hallway. The designed ramps allow the undisturbed use of As part of that cooperation, discounts for theatre tickets, which the whole ground floor, as well as accessibility to other elevators varies depending on the theatre and the play, was ensured. The connecting the ground floor with other floors; discounts range from 20% to 50%. The existing toilet on the ground floor is adapted to the The employees are able to go for recreation in the Business new purpose and is designed in accordance with appropriate Recreation Centre – Topčider. They have courts for tennis, regulations for people with disabilities. volleyball, football, and basketball at disposal there. The list of benefits for the employees in the National Bank of Serbia includes continued cooperation with seven tourist agencies. The National Bank of Serbia staff is entitled to discounts and payments for travel arrangements via wage garnishment. 16 LOCAL COMMUNITY Protection and Education of Financial Service Consumers During 2011, the Centre for Financial Consumer Protection and Education actively provided assistance to citizens in the exercise of their rights by acting upon complaints and through mediation in resolving disputes with financial institutions. Also, by setting up a special organisational unit for financial education, activities aimed at informing and educating financial service consumers intensified. In order to improve the existing mechanisms of financial service consumer protection, the National Bank of Serbia proposed the Financial Services Consumer Protection Law, which came into force on 4 June 2011, to be applied as of 5 December of the same year. The law primarily aims to ensure good business practices of financial institutions and their fair attitude towards the consumers, which includes in particular: precisely and clearly defined terms of the agreement concerning the rights and obligations of citizens, the obligation of the financial institution to provide the citizens prior to the establishment of contractual relationship or prior to the agreement signing with full, clear, unambiguous and understandable information about the financial service that they wish to use and the conditions under which such service is offered. A survey was conducted for the needs of the National Bank of Serbia on the conditions under which the financial services are offered on the market – current accounts and loans. The aim of that survey was to objectively analyse transparency, completeness and availability of information in relation to the financial products offered, with a special overview of the level of consumers’ awareness and adherence to the National Bank of Serbia’s regulations. The survey was conducted by the company for market, public opinion and media research TNS Medium Gallup. Complaint Procedures Throughout 2011, the Consumer Protection Centre received a total of 1,885 complaints and early complaints against operations of financial institutions, i.e. 30% more than in the previous year. Financial service consumers submitted 1,122 complaints against financial institutions' operations, which indicates a 5.25% increase compared to 2010. Of that number, majority of complaints, 76%, referred to banks, which was expected given that banks make up the largest part of the financial market. Of 855 complaints related to banks' operations, the majority concerned loans (53.1%), current accounts (20.4%) and payment cards (17.1%). A total of 237 complaints relating to the work of insurance companies were sent, which is 30% more when compared to the previous year. The complaints were mainly related to the amount of the offered damage compensations, untimely payment of damages and the refusal of payment of the undisputed amount. Thirty complaints concerned other financial institutions, mostly lessors (27 complaints, or 2.4% of all complaints). 17 Number of complaints by financial service providers in the period 1 January-31 December 2011 First Second Third Fourth Providers of financial services Total In % quarter quarter quarter quarter Banks 213 210 199 233 855 76.2% Insurance companies 52 56 65 64 237 21.1% Lessors 8 9 5 5 27 2.4% Voluntary pension fund management companies 0 0 2 0 2 0.2% Other 0 0 1 0 1 0.1% TOTAL 273 275 272 302 1,122 100% Mediation In 2011, a total of 181 mediations of the National Bank of Serbia were scheduled, which is 1.24 times more than in 2010. Mediation procedures were brought to completion in 167 cases, and in 46% of cases a settlement was reached between financial institutions and their clients. The largest number of mediation cases referred to disputed loan relations (51%), payment cards (9%) and current accounts. Number of mediations by financial service providers in the period 1 January-31 December 2011 Providers of financial services In progress Settlements Suspension Abandonment Total In % Banks 5 49 72 1 127 70% Insurance companies 9 28 15 1 53 29% Lessors 0 0 1 0 1 1% Voluntary pension fund management companies 0 0 0 0 0 0% TOTAL 14 77 88 2 181 100% Source: the National Bank of Serbia. Informing Financial Service Consumers Throughout 2011, the Information Centre received 21,098 citizens' calls. The bulk of citizens' questions were related to banking services, currency exchange and insurance. A total of 1,126 requests were received electronically, with questions about the procedure of sending objections to the financial organisations' operations, the dinar currency exchange rates, enforced collection, payment operations, etc. The Centre responded to all requests within the prescribed deadline. Financial Education of Citizens As part of its regular educational activities, the National Bank of Serbia continued to provide information to citizens through its regional offices for financial education. In 2011, the regional offices recorded 1,303 visits. The questions asked related mostly to banking services (51.1%), in particular to loan refinancing, housing loans subsidised by the state, the manner of calculating annuities, 18 savings, the procedure related to the closing of account, the Planned Activities procedure of filing a complaint against bank operations, activities The Centre for Financial Consumer Protection and Education from the scope of the National Bank of Serbia's jurisdictions, etc. will continue to work on further improvement of the regulatory From the beginning of the year, educational forums on different framework and undertake activities to provide better and more current financial topics tailored for citizens and businesses were efficient consumer protection. held. In addition, the goal is to improve the level of consumers' The content of 17 printed brochures on different financial awareness and their understanding of financial services in the products was harmonised with changes to regulations during the upcoming year by creating conditions for them to have complete, year, and the brochures were distributed to financial service relevant and reliable information at disposal. consumers through the branches of National Bank of Serbia in Užice, Kragujevac, Niš, Novi Sad and Belgrade. The brochures Providing adequate protection as well as timely and complete were distributed also across organisational units of the Tax information about the concept and the risks of financial products Administration, the Treasury, utility services, regional chambers of and services will contribute to strengthening of citizens' trust in commerce, etc. A website designed for consumers of financial the financial sector. services, www.tvojnovac.nbs.rs, was updated with current information and materials on a daily basis. 19 Exhibition Activities Exhibitions, educational programmes and other cultural and educational events, organised for the general public by the National Bank of Serbia in the course 2011, were attended by 31,064 visitors. Of that number, 17,902 visitors attended the events organised in the building located in Kralja Petra Street and 13,162 visited the National Bank of Serbia building at Slavija Square. Exhibition Space in Kralja Petra Street Apart from individual visitors, the National Bank of Serbia's Visitor Centre received group visits by: three kindergartens, fifty-seven primary schools, thirty-four secondary schools, fifteen university institutions from Belgrade and other parts of Serbia, trainees and participants in the summer internship of the National Bank of Serbia. Like in the previous years, this year too, the visitors included the wards from homes for children deprived of parental care “Drinka Pavlović”, “Moše Pijade” and “Jovan Jovanović Zmaj”, the wards from the Home for Children and Youth with Developmental Disabilities “Sremčica” and the patients of the special hospital “Dr Laza Lazarević” from Belgrade. The children saw thematic exhibitions and selections from the permanent exhibition “Banknotes and Coins in the Territory of Serbia”. The programme “Pensioners' Evenings in the National Bank of Serbia” was organised twice during the year. As part of it, pensioners from the “Bežanijska Kosa” home visited the Visitor Centre and toured the building of the National Bank of Serbia. Also, cooperation with the Association of Self-Supporting Mothers from Niš was established and mothers with their children visited the National Bank of Serbia in June. The Visitor Centre hosted a number of official delegations during the year: from the European Central Bank, Deutsche Bundesbank, the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Bank of Albania, the Central Bank of Montenegro, the National Bank of Macedonia, the Central Bank of Armenia, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Archives of Serbia, the National and the Military Museum, the Central Bank of Romania, the Banque de France, the Italian Embassy, the Embassy of Brazil, as well as representatives of the Italian financial police. Exhibition Space at Slavija Building The following exhibitions and cultural events were organised at the lobby of the office building in Slavija: the exhibition “Crown on Earth”, organised by the Photo Association of Serbia and Photo Association of Japan; the exhibition “Eco-diamond”, the project of the Savski Venac municipality, the exhibition “Historical Ties and Cooperation between Central Banks of Belgium and Serbia (1883-2011)”; the exhibition “Visas for Freedom”, in cooperation with the Embassy of Spain; the exhibition of the Davis Cup trophy “Salad Bowl” that our tennis national team won in 2010; 20 the exhibition “Parallel Nippon” of modern Japanese the Banco Central do Brasil and its Museum of Money. The architecture from 1996 to 2006, in cooperation with the Embassy exhibition presented the authenticity of the culture, history, the of Japan; people, money, economy and natural characteristics of the largest South American country. the exhibition of assemblage-sculptures, “Metaphysicopolis” by Aleksandar Gligorijević; International Day of Francophonie the international review of composers ’’Splendour of the On the occasion of the International Day of Francophonie and Voice’’ as part of which domestic and foreign choirs and the signing of the Protocol on Cooperation by the National Bank of performers took part; Serbia, the European Central Bank and the Delegation of the European Union in Serbia, the exhibition “Historical Ties and “On the Trail of Light”, an exhibition of 50 award-winning Cooperation between Central Banks of Serbia and Belgium 1883photographs of the Photo Association of Serbia; 2011” was opened in March. The exhibition, on the occasion of the Multimedia exhibition “S.U.T.R.A. – Mixture of Art, Belgian presidency of the Council Ministers of the European Union, Technology, Diversity and Authenticity”, within the Fifth Festival of was prepared by the National Bank of Serbia in cooperation with Science; the National Bank of Belgium, the Embassy of Belgium and the Belgian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The exhibition presented the exhibition of photographs of people with disabilities historical ties between the two banks, their importance for the “The Windows of Intimacy”, members of the Per.Art organisation; development of Serbian institutions and state, the achievements the exhibition of handicrafts of the Ethno-network, a of the Serbian central bank in reforms so far, and economic ties project of the National Alliance for Local Economic Development. between the two countries. Cooperation With Other Institutions, Participation in “The Night of the Museums” Cultural Events For the fifth consecutive year, the National Bank of Serbia took In December 2011, the conference “Children's Right to part in the “Night of the Museums” event, which took place on 14 Culture” was organised at the Cultural Centre in Belgrade. It May from 6 p.m. until 2 a.m. During that time, 6,715 visitors visited included a school culture fair “Marketplace of Ideas”, at which the two buildings of the National Bank of Serbia, at Kralja Petra Street Visitor Centre of the National Bank Serbia had a presentation. With and in Slavija Square. its offer of educational and exhibition materials, the Visitor Centre The visit to the National Bank of Serbia building at Kralja Petra attracted great attention and interest of the conference Street included the tour of the ceremonial hall, where the visitors, participants both in the field of culture and education. This is apart from the interior of the building, could see an educational evidenced by the invitations for cooperation the Centre received movie about the history of money and finances and their from education professionals, as well as by the interest shown in development to date. As usual, visitors were very interested in the seminar for teachers “The Dinar, Our Money”. taking a photo on a banknote with their own portrait. Study visits and requests for technical assistance by the After touring the ceremonial hall, the visitors would go further central banks from the region represented an additional to the exhibition space featuring the main exhibition and thematic international recognition to the Visitor Centre's work. Thus, in the exhibitions, including an exhibition of the Archive of the National second half of the year, the Visitor Centre hosted representatives Bank of Serbia “Capital Employed – Securities in the Financial of the central banks of Albania, Montenegro and Macedonia. Market of Serbia in the 19th and the First Half of the 20th Century”. During that visit, the guests were acquainted with the work of the One of the treasury rooms featured the exhibition “The National Communications Division. They were particularly interested in Bank of Serbia, a National and a European Institution”, while the financial education of young people and the organisation of hall towards the exit from the treasury presented the exhibition exhibition activities. “Brazil and the Brazilian Money”. At the office building in Slavija the Exhibition “Brazil and the Brazilian Money” visitors could see the exhibition called “Visas for Freedom”, organised by the Embassy of Spain, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs The visitors were able to see in March the exhibition “Brazil and of Spain and the Sephardi House “Israel” from Madrid. the Brazilian Money”, which was organised thanks to the cooperation of the National Bank of Serbia, the Embassy of Brazil, 21 “Small Graduation, Big Heart” The National Bank of Serbia hosted pupils of eight primary schools from Kosovo and Metohija in May. Their visit was organised as a part of the “Small Graduation, Big Heart” action, jointly carried out by the Ministry of Education, the Ministry for Kosovo and Metohija and the Secretariat for Education of the City of Belgrade. For the third consecutive year, the National Bank of Serbia joined the action. As part of the action, graduate pupils of Belgrade primary schools hosted their peers from Kosovo and Metohija in their homes. For its contribution to the action, the National Bank of Serbia received recognition and acknowledgment from the Ministry of Education and the Ministry for Kosovo and Metohija. “European Heritage Days” One weekend in September is reserved for participation in the event marking the preservation and representation of diversity and richness of the national cultural heritage and identity. This year, that weekend was on 17-18 September. As part of the event, the visitors, with guided tours, had the opportunity to see the interior of the National Bank of Serbia building on Kralja Petra Street as well as the exhibitions. “Akan Goldweights Exhibition” In accordance with the concept of using the exhibition space in Visitor Centre – visits by year Kralja Petra Street building to organise exhibitions related to money and banking, an exhibition of the Museum of African Art 40,000 called “Akan Goldweights Exhibition” was opened in October. 33,371 34,751 35,.000 31,064 30,000 25,742 Cooperation With Partners in the Country and Abroad 25,000 The Visitor Centre in its work and activities related to 20,000 exhibition programmes and animating the public for a specific type 15,000 12,144 of financial education, uses the valuable experience of the most 10,000 authoritative international professional organisation – ICOMON. 3,603 5,000 1,619 Representatives of the National Bank of Serbia also took part in 0 the ICOMON Annual Conference in Cyprus in 2011. On this 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 occasion, the ICOMON Managing Board proposed that the National Bank of Serbia hosts the Annual Conference in 2014, which represents a recognition of the international professional public for the activities of the National Bank of Serbia Visitor Centre. Educational Activities As part of the GIZ programme, students from seven secondary schools of economics which include a professional profile “banking” visited the National Bank of Serbia in 2011. On that occasion, the students visited the exhibition and learned about the objectives, functions and the role of the National Bank of Serbia. Also, as part of cooperation with the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, students of the second, third and fourth year visited the Visitor Centre and attended lectures by the Governor Dejan Šoškić and the Vice-Governor Bojan Marković in the amphitheatre of the NBS Slavija building. Within the project “Communication in Action”, organised by the Faculty of Economics, foreign students, the students of the Faculty of Philology in Belgrade, together with TV Production Company “Network” and the students of the Faculty of Applied Arts visited the Visitor Centre. Students of the Faculty of Organisational Sciences from Novi Sad and students of the Faculty of Economics in Subotica also visited the exhibitions. Seminars for Teachers Three seminars under the title “The Dinar, Our Money”, whose participants included primary and secondary schoolteachers from all over Serbia, were held in 2011. The aim of the seminars was to 22 enable teachers to convey some knowledge in finance to their Internal and External Promotion of “Moneture” students. The seminar was accredited by the Ministry of Education In order to present to the domestic general public the basic and the Institute for Development of Education and was classified methods of implementing monetary policy, the National Bank of in the group of compulsory school seminars. Serbia developed a board game, which in a fun and imaginative The seminar programme included the presentation of four way introduces its participants into the world of creating and didactic materials for primary and secondary schools abridged into implementing monetary policy in response to the challenges the a school manual with the following themes: “Money in history”, policymakers face every day. The game is designed for the “Counterfeit money and how to recognise it”, “The National Bank employees in the National Bank of Serbia, as well as for students of of Serbia – the concept and tasks” and “Inflation”. The manuals economics and other faculties where banking and finance courses are intended as an aid in teaching social sciences, and their are studied. certification for the school subject Civic Education is planned as In accordance with that, the activities of internal promotion of well as their introduction into the official curriculum of schools in “Moneture” were organised through the holding of a prize the territory of Serbia. tournament for employees and external promotion among the Due to an increased interest of teachers in educational students of secondary schools of economics and students from workshops, the workshop “The Dinar, Our Money” was held on 10 economics faculties from all over Serbia. May for third grade students of the secondary school of During 2012 the plan is to organise a tournament in commerce. The students on this occasion visited the National “Moneture” at universities in Serbia, as well as to create a new Bank of Serbia Visitor Centre. board game whose theme will be savings. Financial Education Programme Tours Working With Special Target Groups Educational workshops for pupils and students of primary and The National Bank of Serbia pays special attention to children secondary schools are part of the educational programme of the with special needs. A workshop “Draw a banknote of your choice” National Bank of Serbia implemented in Belgrade and throughout was therefore organised at the Home for Children and Youth with Serbia in cooperation with partner institutions that recognised the Developmental Disabilities “Sremčica” whose wards took part in importance of financial education of youth. “My Budget and Me” is the workshop. At the end of the year, the National Bank of Serbia a new creative workshop, which had its promotion at the public bought off the works of these pupils, which were exhibited as part library “Stefan Prvovenčani” in Kraljevo, followed by the of the New Year's humanitarian activities in the Slavija building presentation at the public library in Bor. hall. 23 “Young Visa Leaders” Protocol on Cooperation With the Youth Office The project “Young Visa Leaders” was launched with the aim The National Bank of Serbia and the Youth Office signed a of enabling young people in Serbia to express their views about Protocol on cooperation for establishing the conditions for the issues that directly affect their future place and role of young financial education of young people. One workshop per month is people in contemporary society in Serbia. The aim of the project is planned for 2012. to incite dialogue between young leaders and the general public, The envisaged cooperation means that the Bank organises and not to impose ready-made solutions or affect in any way the and implements the workshops so that service users of the Youth authentic views of the future leaders in Serbian society. Office could be acquainted with the functions and affairs of the Within the fifth forum “Young Visa Leaders”, which discussed National Bank of Serbia, as well as basic economic terms and the issue of entrepreneurship, representatives of the National financial products. Lectures will be organised on a range of topics: Bank of Serbia spoke about the importance of financial literacy, the place and role of the National Bank of Serbia, banking managing finances and organising personal budget, as products, credit cards, inflation and monetary policies, pension preconditions for a successful launch of a private business. The funds, insurance and electronic banking, as well as workshops participants were acquainted with the programmes implemented “The Dinar, Our Money”, “Managing Personal Finances”, and the by the National Bank of Serbia in the field of financial education presentation of “Moneture”.. and received leaflets of the Centre for Financial Service Consumer Protection and Education, as well as tables for managing personal expenses from the workshop “Managing Personal Finances”. 24 Cultural Heritage “Georg Weifert – a Visionary and Enthusiast” The publication “Georg Weifert – a Visionary and Enthusiast (1850-1937), a personal and business illustrated biography”, authored by Saša Ilić, Sonja Jerković and Vladimir Bulajić from the Archives of the National Bank of Serbia, was presented in Vršac, Pančevo, Požarevac, Bor and Belgrade in 2011. The promotions attracted adequate media coverage, on more than 20 web-portals with a few dozen pages, in newspapers and in electronic media. The number of visitors was satisfactory, with the largest visitor turnout in the hall of the public library in Bor and in the social hall of the National Bank of Serbia, where there were not enough seats for all guests. As a reminder, the above publication was published by the National Bank of Serbia in 2010, to mark the 160th anniversary of birth of the famous Governor Georg Weifert. The intention was not just to present the story about Weifert's life, nor to show numerous illustrations that should make closer to people the space and time spoken of, but rather to affirm the values that Weifert nurtured and left as a legacy – his diligent work, curiosity and research spirit, responsibility, charity and philanthropy. As part of the activities relating to the presentation of the archives material of the National Bank of Serbia, the Archives also hosted the exhibition “Capital Employed – Securities in the Financial Market of Serbia in the 19th and the First Half of the 20th Century”, which was officially opened in the exhibition space at 12 Kralja Petra Street on 7 April. The exhibition presented over 100 original artefacts, featuring for the first time the temporary share of the Privileged National Bank of the Kingdom of Serbia from 1884 and the permanent share from 1913. On this occasion the National Bank of Serbia again showed its social responsibility, primarily through education of youth, who have had the opportunity to familiarise themselves with the richness of securities that circulated in the territory of today's Serbia until the beginning of the Second World War. From 7 April until 30 September the exhibits were seen by 12,409 visitors. 25 Donations In 2011, the National Bank of Serbia allocated RSD 1,081,000.00 in donations and RSD 83,333.34 for humanitarian purposes, which makes a total of RSD 1,164,333.34. The National Bank of Serbia in the year observed did not award funds for sponsorship, given that the Decision on Terms and Conditions for Allocating Donations and Humanitarian Aid in the National Bank of Serbia does not envisage the sponsoring of legal and physical persons. Under the Decision on Terms and Conditions for Allocating Donations and Humanitarian Aid, the means for donations and humanitarian aid are established by the financial plan of the National Bank of Serbia.The Commission, established in accordance with the Decision, determined the criteria governing the awarding of donations and humanitarian aid. Under the terms and conditions and in the manner determined by the Decision, equipment that the National Bank of Serbia disposed of in a regulated manner may also be awarded. List of allocated donations in 2011 No. Amount Recipient Purpose in RSD 1. 800,000 Obstetrics and Gynaecology To cover the expenses of final works on Clinic “Narodni Front”, adaptation of the existing premises for Belgrade genetic laboratory upon the reasoned proposal of the Commission (G. No. 2785 of 24 March 2011) 2. 25,000 Humanitarian For realization of charity action NGO “Our Serbia”, “Send a Card of Friendship”, whose aim Belgrade is to support the population of underdeveloped municipalities by strengthening the local community, creating better living conditions, education and children's play upon the reasoned proposal of the Commission (G. No. 2785 of 24 March 2011) 3. 56,000 Faculty of Music Arts, To cover the expenses of bus transportation Belgrade, for the needs of the Madrigal Choir of the Faculty at the of the Madrigal Choir of the Days of Serbian Culture in Timisoara, on Faculty 12 and 13 November 2011 upon the reasoned proposal of the Commission (G. No. 2785 of 24 March 2011) The National Bank of Serbia paid the amount of RSD 83,333.34 to the primary school “Anton Skala” from Belgrade to purchase audio-vibratory lazy bag – sofas for relaxation for children with disabilities, which have a therapeutic effect. The funds were paid on the basis of written statements by Mr. Pavle Petrović and Mrs. Zorica Mladenović, the authors of awarded scientific research studies in the areas of monetary economics, supervision of financial institutions and financial stability in the competition of the National Bank of Serbia in 2011, who renounced the cash amount of their prizes for charity. 26 List of donated IT equipment and office and other The winners of the best master's theses in 2011 were: furniture Aljoša Babić, for his master's thesis “Embedded Optionality Risk in Trading and Banking Book” defended on 21 April 2011 at IT equipment (working No. Recipient stations and monitors) the Faculty of Economics, University of Belgrade; Nikola Vasiljević, for his master's thesis “Jump Fears Makes 1. Children's safe house, Novi Sad 9 pieces Volatility Smiles”, defended on 24 June 2011 at the Faculty of Primary school “Sveti Sava”, Economics, University of Belgrade; 2. 10 pieces Belgrade Milan Cvetković, for his master's thesis “Volatility of Hedge 3. Association of the Blind, Belgrade 8 pieces Funds” defended on 10 October 2011 at the Faculty of Natural Sciences and Mathematics, University of Niš. 4. Primary school “Vuk Karadžić”, 12 pieces Krnjevo The prizes for scientific research work in 2011 were awarded to: Primary school “Miropolit Mihajlo”, 5. 12 pieces Sokobanja Vladimir Njegomir (Faculty of Legal and Business Studies, Association of Self-Supporting Mothers University of Novi Sad) and Dragan Stojić (Faculty of Economics, 6. 23 pieces Niš University of Novi Sad), the authors of scientific research paper “Liberalisation and Market Concentration Impact on Performance of the Non-Life Insurance Industry: The Evidence from Eastern No. Recipient Office and other Europe”, published in Geneva Papers on Risk and Insurance, 2011, furniture 36, 94-106; Orthodox Metropolitanate 1. 32 pieces Pavle Petrović (Faculty of Economics, University of Belgrade), of Montenegro Zorica Mladenović (Faculty of Economics, University of Belgrade) Primary school “Vuk Karadžić”, and Aleksandra Nojković (Faculty of Economics, University of 2. 36 pieces Krnjevo Belgrade), the authors of scientific research paper “Inflation Primary school “Nadežda Petrović”, 19 pieces Triggers in Transition Economies: Their Evolution and Specific 3. New Belgrade Features” published in Emerging Markets Finance and Trade, The College of Hotel Management September-October 2011, 47 (5), 101-124; 4. 23 pieces Belgrade Primary school “Sveti Sava”, 57 pieces 5. Žitište Primary school “Miropolit Mihajlo”, 6. 36 pieces Sokobanja Centre for Social Work, 7. 1 piece Novi Sad Grants for Encouraging Scientific Research Work In accordance with its commitment to promote scientific research work in the field of macroeconomics, monetary economics, supervision of financial institutions and financial stability, the National Bank of Serbia awards annual cash prize reward to authors of: PhD theses defended at universities in the Republic of Serbia in the field of monetary economics, supervision of financial Zorica Mladenović (Faculty of Economics, University of institutions or financial stability; and Belgrade) and Pavle Petrović (Faculty of Economics, University of Master’s theses in macroeconomics and finances Belgrade), the authors of scientific research paper “Cagan’s defended at the universities in Serbia. Paradox and Money Demand in Hyperinflation: Revisited at Daily Frequency”, published in the Journal of International Money and Also, the authors' papers in the field and macroeconomics and Finance, 2010, 29, 1369-1384; finances need to be published in reputable international journals. Gorana Krstić (Faculty of Economics, University of Belgrade), In 2011, the grant was awarded to the Vojvodina Association the author of scientific research paper “Earnings Inequality and of Economists to cover the publishing costs of scientific magazine the Informal Economy”, published in Economics of Transition, “Panoeconomicus”. 2011, 19 (1), 179-199. The winner of the best doctoral thesis in 2011 was: Mirjana Miletić, for the doctoral thesis “Modelling the Real Exchange Rate and Credit Demand in CESE Countries by Applying the Cointegration Panel”, defended on 15 November 2010 at the Faculty of Economics, University of Belgrade. 27 Humanitarian Activities In the traditional collection of food for vulnerable families, around 900 kilograms of food was collected, 300 kilograms more During the year, the traditional Easter and New Year's than in the year before. This year, the food was collected for exhibitions were held for the employees at the NBS head office vulnerable families from Zvezdara and Palilula neighbourhoods. building. At the Easter sale exhibition of decorative and for-use At the end of the year, an action for National Bank of Serbia objects, the children from the Day Care Centre for Children and staff and their children called “A Present for an Unknown Friend” Youth with Developmental Disabilities in Belgrade raised a total of was organised together with the non-governmental organisation RSD 50,000, while the children from the Home for Children and “Mali veliki ljudi”. On that occasion, the National Bank of Serbia Youth with Developmental Disabilities “Sremčica” raised another staff made 150 New Year's presents for children with special RSD 9,000. The money was used to purchase craft materials for needs. their workshops, which are irreplaceable therapeutic aids in working with these children. At the New Year's humanitarian The National Bank of Serbia staff from Novi Sad, Kragujevac, exhibition of children's artwork, the Home for Children and Youth Niš and Užice branches was involved in community activities. The with Developmental Disabilities “Sremčica” and the Day Care Kragujevac branch organised the collection of food for vulnerable Centre for Children and Youth with Developmental Disabilities families in Kragujevac in cooperation with the Food Bank raised RSD 133,000. organisation. Owing to high employee turnout, 200 kilograms of food was collected. Another food collection action was carried out Supporting the activities of the United Nations Global Compact by the Novi Sad branch for vulnerable children from the Safe in Serbia, the National Bank of Serbia employees were involved in House shelter for children and youth in Novi Sad, raising 125 the initiative of the Global Compact working group for support in kilograms of food. The employees from the Niš branch collected emergency situations and collected 210 books and magazines that food for the Association of Self-Supporting Mothers in Niš. were sent to the public library “Stefan Prvovenčani” in Kraljevo. Participation went across the board and 200 kilograms of food was They were also involved in the action to support to socially collected. neglected children “Small Change is not a Small Thing”, carried out by the Balkan Community Initiatives Fund with the aim of Employees at the Užice branch made sweet parcels for improving the quality of life of those children. The boxes in which children at the “Petar Radovanović” Home in Užice. the employees of the National Bank of Serbia could insert the The Novi Sad branch of the National Bank of Serbia hosted the change were placed at the entrance of National Bank of Serbia Easter and New Year's humanitarian sale exhibitions featuring buildings. The funds raised during the campaign were submitted works of pupils from the school for primary and secondary to the local foundation “Mesečina” from Subotica, which, in education “Milan Petrović” and raised RSD 31,000. cooperation with primary schools, organises evening gatherings for children from families with problems. 28 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Adaptation and Revitalisation of an Electric Power Block, Gas Emission Control and New Wastewater Technology in the Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins – Topčider During 2011, before the agreed-on deadline, a very important project was completed – adaptation and revitalisation of an electric power block. The realisation also included complete renovation of the electric power block, which was built three decades ago. The electric power block was designed to meet the highest technical standards in terms of rationalisation of energy costs and to ensure state-of-the-art user friendliness. Some of the solutions were applied in this part of Europe for the first time. Adaptation of the electric power block included: replacement of 10 kV plant in substation; introduction of automated switch of power supply in the 10 kV plant in substation, adaptation of billing metering on 10 kV in substation, replacement of power transformers, replacement of 0.4 kV busbar disposition, replacement of 0.4 kV plant in substation, adaptation of sub-distributor 0.4 kV, adaptation–revitalisation of spare 0.4 kV supply and introduction of switching state and measuring value monitoring. The adaptation and revitalisation contributed to complete protection of an operator while manipulating with equipment, whether by special constructive solutions or suitable data access – via subsidiary Touch Screen Panel and monitoring centre responsible for presenting and archiving electrical values, turnedon state of switch-disconnectors and switches, load of cables, power factor and state of accordions, which is of greatest importance for maintenance or improvement of work conditions and security in an electric power block. Gas Emission Control In order to preserve and protect environment in compliance with the adopted regulations, gas emission from the boiler room in the Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins was measured twice in 2011 and reports were made accordingly. Due to the usage of crude oil fuel type NSG-S (with reduced content of sulphur) and regular maintenance of boilers, including the adjustment of combustion parameters on boiler burners, all the measuring results were within the prescribed limits. New Wastewater Treatment Technology New technologies provide a modern and by all means advanced approach to the production of our products and accompanying tools, software management of the process, omission of manual work in some work phases, as well as reduction of the use of natural resources. Positive effects are the following: saving of time and improvements in quality of work, omission or reduction of the 29 consumption of harmful chemicals and rationalization of the use of External control of wastewater quality is carried out by verified basic resources, such as fresh water and electrical energy:In the companies in accordance with the Law on wastewater and course of 2011, obsolete technologies of wastewater treatment Rulebook on the way and minimal number of wastewater quality were replaced with the new ones, which are synchronized with checks. international environmental protection standards. A new technology (AQWASAVE II WSR 1000) has been Technological Waste Management introduced for the preparation of wiping solution (necessary for Under the Law on Waste Management and Rulebook on the the process of intaglio), according to which 95% of solution is conditions and ways of secondary raw material sorting, packaging recycled and 5% is supplemented by fresh solution, not affecting and storing, numerous activities have been carried out in order to the efficiency of wiping. Until now, entire solution was processed determine place of origin of technological waste and define and discharged into sewage system, and currently only 5% is characterization and categorization, monitoring of its amount at being processed. This contributed to reduced consumption of annual level and the way of its storage. fresh water, energy and harmful chemicals. A part of technological waste (paper, cardboard, metal, glass, Monitored parameters of chemical consumption in 2011, plastic) is placed as secondary raw material, while harmful waste based on new technology, implied that the consumption of is forwarded to companies in charge of waste management, harmful chemicals is reduced by 82 to 92%, depending on a followed by adequate remuneration in accordance with product. This is considered a significant financial and ecological regulations. saving. A list of all harmful chemicals and gases has been made, with A new, modern technology (SEPOTRATT 1000GSPC) was data on the level of harmfulness, possible influence on users and introduced for technological wastewater treatment. Apart from protection measures. They have also been securely stored, and wastewater, it processes in the process of galvanization and their usage has been monitored regularly. production of printing plates for intaglio wastewater with organic content, originating from technological processes of offset and When it comes to the abovementioned activities and polymer plate production, which is an improvement comparing to measures, cooperation has been developed with the Ministry of the old technology. Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, Belgrade's City Another new technology (ЕVA 150R) enables additional Administration – the Water Management Directorate and other treatment of already processed wastewater, providing high level organisations in the field of water and wastewater management. quality of effluent which is discharged into sewage system and meeting all the conditions prescribed by the Rulebook on technical and hygienic conditions for discharge into city’s sewage system. 30 Waste Sorting in Head and Branch Offices use a common printer or photocopier on each floor, which is networked to their computers. At the National Bank of Serbia head office, employees have sorted and collected paper, PET packaging and mixed waste in In February, an installation “Eco Diamond” was presented in their premises since April 2008. an exhibition area of the commercial building at Slavija Square. We tried via internal channels of communication to make our In 2001, employees in branch offices in Novi Sad, Kragujevac, employees pay attention to the installation, whose topic was the Užice and Niš also started sorting waste. The total of 47,270 usage of plastic bags as an ecological problem. kilograms of paper and 4,250 kilograms of PET packaging has been collected since. The usage of paper in 2011 was reduced by Finally, let us say that the National Bank of Serbia's Social 20.54% comparing to 2010. The total of 463 pieces of electronic Responsibility Report is to be printed on a certified paper that is equipment and 93 toner cartridges have been recycled. produced in accordance with the principle of controlled forest growth. Electrical energy in the National Bank of Serbia's buildings is consumed carefully: regular bulbs have been replaced with the energy saving ones. The building at the Slavija Square is considered a highly automated one. All the rooms have presence detectors, which are automatically activated, thus regulating temperature. A system is being activated on its own around 6 a.m., heating up the area to 19° C. Upon the arrival of employees, the temperature is being risen to optimal 22° C. When somebody opens a window, heating or freezing system automatically ceases to work. Consumables, including toner cartridges, paper and PET packaging, are regularly recycled. During the year, a message was introduced in each employee's e-mail below a signature – “Think, before you print” – suggesting that a paper should be considered a resource for everyday work. By using e-mail as a communication channel, we pointed to the importance of environmental protection. Such action contributed to savings of paper compared to 2010. Employees are enabled to 31 CIP Каталогизација у публикацији Народна библиотека Србије, Београд 336 Social Responsibility.../ National bank of Serbia. 2007. Belgrade (Kralja Petra 12) : National bank of Serbia, 2007. 29 cm Годишње ISSN 2217-3250 = Social Responsibility COBISS.SR-ID 177934860 Published by: National Bank of Serbia Printed by: Printing Stojkov Contact: National Bank of Serbia 12 Kralja Petra Street 11000 Belgrade Telephone: 011/3027-194 Website: www.nbs.rs All rights reserved This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents.
