2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SPECIAL SECTION 01 Growth & communication INTRODUCING AMOREPACIFIC 08 CEO message 10 Company introduction 11 Corporate governance structure 13 Vision 14 Sustainability management 15 Communication with stakeholders 19 Corporate ethics 20 Risk management MAKING SUSTAINABLE VALUES 22 Economic value 23 Domestic business performance 24 Global business performance 25 Brand portfolio TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS WITH CUSTOMERS 30 Development of sustainable products 31 Sustainable purchasing 32 R&D innovation 34 Open innovation 35 Strengthening of customer communication 36 Activities for customer satisfaction TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS WITH ENVIRONMENT 38 Responding to climate change 40 Resource conservation 41 Green building 42 Protection of biodiversity 43 Green communication 44 Environmental performance results TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS WITH EMPLOYEES 46 Talent management strategy 47 Talent development 48 Employees and human right protection 49 Balance between work and pesonal life 50 Employee communication TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS WITH BUSINESS PARTNERS 52 Shared growth with beauty partners 55 Shared growth with suppliers TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS WITH COMMUNITIES 58 AMOREPACIFIC’s social contribution 59 For beautiful change of women’s lives 61 For harmonious future with society APPENDIX 66 Consolidated financial statements 68 Independent assurance report 70 Greenhouse gas verification statement 71 GRI index C1 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT A In order to make a more beautiful world, we promise to grow and communicate continuously. As a company that considers inner beauty to be as important as outer beauty, we strive to increase ‘communication’ in addition to achieving ‘growth’. We make an effort to read the minds and hearts of our stakeholders and do not just focus solely on growth. Under our vocation of becoming an ‘Asian Beauty Creator’, we will work together with our stakeholders to try and create a beautiful and harmonious world. “These days, with so many cosmetics brands, it is difficult to decide on which products to use. However, the very first thing that I consider when choosing a product is if it is safe to be applied directly on the skin. Not only that, I also want to meet a clean product that take responsibility for the environment.” Ha-na Song, Prosumer “These days, with so many cosmetics brands, it is difficult to decide on which products to use. However, the very first thing that I consider when choosing a product is if it is Number of sustainable products safe to be applied directly on the skin. Not only that, I also 139 want to meet a clean product that take responsibility for the environment.” products Ha-na Song, Prosumer 101.4% ▲ Number of Beautiful Fair Trade agreements signed 7 75.0% ▲ cases Customer complaint resolution 99.1 1.4%p ▲ % Amount of R&D investment KRW 10.8% ▲ 73.4 billion ISSUE & COMMUNICATION AMOREPACIFIC is always striving to develop products that satisfy our customers. We have strengthened a sense of safety for our customers by developing sustainable products that follows our strict standards, while we work on minimizing environmental impacts and takes the socially disadvantaged people into consideration. Also, we expanded the value chain of fulfilling our social and environmental responsibilities by increasing ‘Beautiful Fair Trade’, which is a raw material purchasing program developed by AMOREPACIFIC. By expanding communication with global customers, we are implementing the Lifetime Customer Campaign for about 2 million customers from six countries, including China, US, and Japan. Not only that, we are also implementing the customer complaint management activities, which improves and prevents even the tiniest complaints made by our customers. AMOREPACIFIC will continue to listen to the Voice of the Customer (VOC) and strive to achieve sustainable development with our customers. > Received the 2011 Korea Consumer Confidence Grand Prize (Ministry of Health & Welfare) > Sponsored in the 22nd World Congress of Dermatology > Selected as the 2011 Next Generation Best Products for all shampoo products (Ministry of Knowledge Economy) “I think it’s a natural thing. AMOREPACIFIC uses safe materials that are applied with the strict standards that reflect customers’ thoughts, while also conducts researches to develop eco-friendly products. We will strive to produce safe and eco-friendly products from product development to production and after sales services.” Ok-chan Lee, Herbal Research Team at AMOREPACIFIC “I think it’s a natural thing. AMOREPACIFIC uses safe materials that are applied with the strict standards that reflect customers’ thoughts, while also conducts researches Greenhouse gas emissions to develop eco-friendly products. We will strive to produce 31,096 safe and eco-friendly products from product development to production and after sales services.” tons of CO2 Ok-chan Lee, Herbal Research Team Basic Unit (Tons of CO2 / KRW 100 millions) 5.1% ▼ at AMOREPACIFIC Water consumption 325,610 Basic Unit (Tons / Tons of Product) 20.7% ▲ tons Solid waste generation 6,457 Basic Unit (Tons / Tons of Product) tons 25.0% ▲ Collection of empty bottles 72.1 218.8% ▲ tons ISSUE & COMMUNICATION In order to provide environment friendly management, AMOREPACIFIC established an environmental management system of global standards and implemented various activities, including the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, the development of eco-friendly raw materials and clean technologies, the establishment of eco-friendly logistics system, and the development of eco-friendly products. In particular, we launched an environment-friendly integrated SCM station (AP Beauty Production Plant) in Osan, Gyeonggido in 2011. Also, we strived to build a sustainable environment internally and externally at the company through green communication, including the development of eco-friendly products, the implementation of Beautiful Fair Trade, the efforts to build green partnership, and the recycling campaign of empty bottles. We will continue to take the lead in providing safe products for our customers, while also creating a sustainable environment where our children can run freely. > Completed the preliminary certification of Korea Green Building for main building of AP Beauty Production Plant > Number of Carbon Footprint Label Certified products: 16 “I think creating a workplace where people want to work means all employees should be able to work creatively and derive pleasure from what they do. I hope AMOREPACIFIC will be workplace where all employees, including beauty partners, can work happily while finding a balance between work and personal life. ” Han-hyuk Im, Corporate Support Team at AMOREPACIFIC “I think creating a workplace where people want to work means all employees should be able to work creatively and derive pleasure from what they do. Percentage of women in workplace I hope AMOREPACIFIC will be workplace 63.7 where all employees, including beauty partners, can work happily while finding a balance between work % and personal life. ” 0.1%p ▼ Han-hyuk Im, Corporate Support Team at AMOREPACIFIC Training hours per employee 100.8 6.8% ▲ hours Workplace accidents 0 % Engagement of employees 75.0 6.0%p ▼ % ISSUE & COMMUNICATION AMOREPACIFIC is working towards creating a corporate culture of good communication with creative work environment, while also reinforcing the employees’ global competencies. In 2011, we improved communications between employees through an internal internet communication channel called ‘AMOREPACIFIC 人(Chinese character for people)’. Employees shared a variety of ideas, such as improving work conditions and sharing ideas related to products and customer services. We established the ‘Smart Work’ system, which enabled employees to find a balance between work and personal life, by introducing a flexible work program and giving vacation to employees of long-term service, while striving to create a workplace where employees can work happily through the ‘Happy Plus’ campaign. Also, we implemented the ‘Hyecho Project’ for reinforcing the employees’ global competencies so that they can become a talented workforce prepared for the expansion of global business. > Received a Presidential Citation for Excellent Company of Equal Employment (Ministry of Employment and Labor) > Ranked 9th in manufacturing industry for best workplace to work in Korea (KMAC) “As AMORE Counselor, I have always thought of the company as my lifetime partner. I have great pride in my job that I want to pass it on to my daughter. I enjoy listening and talking to customers and working to satisfy their needs.” Soo-hyun Song, AMORE Counselor “As AMORE Counselor, I have always thought of the company as my lifetime partner. I have great pride in my job that I want to pass it on to my daughter. I enjoy Number of counselors listening and talking to customers and working to satisfy 37,073 their needs.” persons Soo-hyun Song, AMORE Counselor 1.2% ▼ Number of Arielles 1,474 4.9% ▲ persons Number of beauty partners certified as ‘Counseling Master’ 446 103.7% ▲ persons Number of beauty partners certified as ‘Make up Master’ 120 114.3% ▲ persons ISSUE & COMMUNICATION AMOREPACIFIC supported and communicated with its business partners as their valuable partner for setting the foundation for continuous growth. In 2011, we worked on reinforcing the welfare benefits and establishing a winwin relationship with beauty partners. We established the AMOREPACIFIC Beauty College (ABC), a professional beauty training institute, staffed with outstanding internal and external instructors, to ensure that AMOREPACIFIC beauty partner deliver more professionalized beauty services to their customers. Also, we established the ‘Supplier Information System (SIS)’ for forging a win-win relationship with our suppliers that covers the whole process from order to delivery, while also setting the foundation for shared growth by expanding the ‘win-win cooperation fund’, which provides financial support to our suppliers, as well as establishing the environmental management system and supporting the global green partnership. > Opened the communication channel for Flora called ‘MC&S Live’ > Introduced beauty partner welfare benefits card > Signed an agreement on pilot project for global green partnership “After overcoming breast cancer, the driving force that enabled to me to live was ‘the feeling of consideration and thankfulness’. AMOREPACIFIC provided me with the opportunity to give a lecture on early diagnosis of cancer. I am always thankful to AMOREPACIFIC for giving me the chance to help others enjoy a healthy life.” Kyeong-ja Ko, President of the Korea Breast Cancer Prevention and Promotion Association “After overcoming breast cancer, the driving force that enabled to me to live was ‘the feeling of consideration and thankfulness’. AMOREPACIFIC provided me with the Social contribution expenditures opportunity to give a lecture on early diagnosis of cancer. 11.1 I am always thankful to AMOREPACIFIC for giving me the chance to help others enjoy a healthy life.” KRW billion Kyeong-ja Ko, President of the Korea Breast Cancer Prevention and Promotion Association 21.6% ▲ Participants in Pink Ribbon Campaign lectures 31,227 39.8% ▲ persons Hope Store startup support 20 47.4% ▼ stores Number of hours employees participated in social contribution activities 27,530 47.6% ▲ hours ISSUE & COMMUNICATION Based on the slogan ‘Beautiful People Better Tomorrow’, AMOREPACIFIC has implemented various social contribution activities for women’s health and beauty. In 2011, we carried out various activities, including the ‘Make Up Your Life Campaign’ which is AMOREPACIFIC’s representative social contribution activity; the ‘BB Hope Wing’ which is a project for supporting multi-cultural women’s community; the ‘Pink Ribbon Campaign’ which is to help breast cancer patients; and the ‘Hope Store Startup Support’ which is a leading micro credit program for single mother families. Along with the company’s growth, we are also faithfully fulfilling our responsibility as a global citizen. In 2011, we carried out the ‘Make Up Your Life Campaign’ for cancer patients in Shanghai, China, while also conducted the ‘Smile Again Japan Campaign’ to support Japan’s earthquake recovery. In the future, AMOREPACIFIC will become a company that create a healthy society and share love through genuine social contribution activities. > Received the Forbes Social Contribution Grand Prize for social welfare section (Forbes Korea) > Received the 2011 Excellent PR Campaign Grand Prize for Pink Ribbon Campaign (Korea University Students’ PR Association) > Exceeded the opening of the 100th Hope Store (a total of 112 stores) “For a foreigner like me, AMOREPACIFIC is a great workplace. I can learn about my work and develop my global competency in a corporate culture that respects diversity. I want to head to the global stage and prove my ability, with the confidence I gained from AMOREPACIFIC,” Danning Fu, Sulwhasoo PM Team at AMOREPACIFIC “For a foreigner like me, AMOREPACIFIC is a great workplace. I can learn about my work and develop my global competency in a corporate culture that respects Consolidated sales diversity. I want to head to the global stage and prove my 2,555 ability, with the confidence I gained from AMOREPACIFIC,” KRW billion Danning Fu, Sulwhasoo PM Team at AMOREPACIFIC 12.4% ▲ Consolidated operating profits KRW 2.3% ▲ 373 billion Overseas sales KRW 22.7% ▲ 327 billion Distributed economic value KRW 10.8% ▲ 1,196 billion *This accompanying financial statements comply with Korean financial reporting stndards (“K-IFRS”, consolidated financial statements) ISSUE & COMMUNICATION AMOREPACIFIC has made continuous growth in the global market. Based on our outstanding brand power and distribution competitiveness, we have led the Korean cosmetics market. Also, we are showing good results in the global market, especially in China, France and U.S., so that we ranked 16th in global cosmetics company by WWD. In 2011, AMOREPACIFIC acquired France’s luxury perfume brand called ‘ANNICK GOUTAL’ to strengthen our brand portfolio, and we will continue to expand the global business by launching Sulwhasoo into the Chinese market. > Listed on DJSI World, Asia-Pacific, Korea for the second consecutive year > Ranked 16th in global cosmetics companies by WWD (Women’s Wear Daily) 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 08 CEO MESSAGE We will work towards creating ‘a more beautiful life’ where people, nature and businesses can coexist together. President & CEO of AMOREPACIFIC Corporation Kyung-bae Suh 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 09 To Our Stakeholders, Accompanying Us on Our Beauty Quest, During the past 66 years, AMOREPACIFIC has been carrying out our quest for beauty to fulfill its vocation of ‘contributing to human society by creating our own way of beauty and health’. As if a spring meets a lake to become an ocean, we are faithfully implementing our vocation to make the world more beautiful by creating new values with our deep knowledge and diverse wisdom about Asian beauty as the Asian Beauty Creator. Based on such vocation, AMOREPACIFIC has implemented sustainability management for ‘a more beautiful world’ where people, nature and businesses can coexist together. Through these efforts, we are striving to provide beauty and happiness to more people. AMOREPACIFIC has actively developed sustainable products to deliver future-oriented values to our customers. We are focusing the company’s competencies to develop products that are beneficial to customers, environment and society from raw materials to packaging. In particular, we continuously expanded our fair trade activity developed in-house by AMOREPACIFIC called ‘Beautiful Fair Trade’, which has created a new growth momentum for the company where businesses, customers and local communities can all have a win-win relationship. Last year, we strengthened the environment-friendly facilities in the new plant in Osan to minimize the impact of our corporate activities on the environment. Our employees share their thoughts and ideas through our internal internet communication channel called AMOREPACIFIC 人 (Chinese character for people) to collect all of our wisdoms together so that we can create a workplace where people want to work by finding a balance between work and personal life and to change corporate culture. Also, we improved the beauty partners’ welfare benefits to allow them to work under a more stable working condition and implemented various programs to reinforce their professional competencies. Moreover, we support our business partners to strengthen their business competencies by developing and implementing mid to long-term supporting programs. AMOREPACIFIC has expanded its social contribution activities focusing on women by also carrying out activities for immigrated women of multi-cultural families and disadvantaged women. Along with the company’s global business expansion, we have strived to fulfill its responsibility as a global corporate citizen by implementing social contribution activities in China and Japan. Moreover, we support the ten principles of UN Global Compact (UNGC) governing human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption, and we are working on ensuring these principles are faithfully reflected in AMOREPACIFIC’s management activities. Along with the implementation of sustainability management activities, AMOREPACIFIC’s employees reinforced their global competencies to deliver the Asian beauty to customers all across the globe, while also strengthened the foundation for sustainable growth by innovating our brands, distribution channels and services for domestic business operations. Based on these efforts, in 2011, we achieved KRW 2,555 billion in total sales and KRW 373 billion in operating profits. Dear stakeholders, AMOREPACIFIC is in the process of becoming a global company that goes beyond just being a local company in Korea. As a company with the vocation of becoming the Asian Beauty Creator, we will work towards identifying and developing sustainable values of beauty by embodying the wisdoms of Asia. In order to develop sustainable products that can be trusted by our customers and provide new values and experiences, we will innovate our brands and products to give the best quality to our customers. Also, we will make constant communication with our stakeholders and improve our way of working and culture to create an Evergreen Company, becoming a company that is more loved and admired by our customers and society. AMOREPACIFIC will take the attitude of preparing a seed of hope instead of only thinking about the immediate profits, enabling us to prepare for our future as well as care for others. Beauty has an infinite power to change the world and we will make concerted efforts to bring these changes. Thank you. 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 10 COMPANY INTRODUCTION AMOREPACIFIC has worked on improving customer’s quality of life by leading the Korean beauty industry during the past 66 years. We will strive to become a global beauty company that represents Asia to fulfill our vocation as the Asian Beauty Creator. Current Status of Domestic and Overseas Operation Seoul Yongin Osan Jincheon Daejeon Daegu Gwangju Busan Paris New York Beijing LA Tokyo Shanghai Hong Kong Jeju Thailand Vietnam Malaysia Singapore Korea Asia (Head Office) China France U.S. Japan (ex China, Japan) Employees 4,456 3,586 248 61 235 71 Ratio of local employees 98.8% 97.2% 90.1% 94.9% 91.5% Number of stores 1,878 3,164 2,245* 182 107 9 Major brands Sulwhasoo, Hera, Laneige, Mamonde, Lorita Lempicka, AMOREPACIFIC, Laneige, AMOREPACIFIC IOPE, Mamonde, Sulwhasoo, Lirikos Annick Goutal Sulwhasoo Sulwhasoo Laneige, etc Major business site Seoul, Yongin, New York , LA Hong Kong, Shanghai, Beijing Paris Tokyo Osan, Busan, Singapore, Daejeon, Daegu, *No. of the stores Malaysia, Vietnam, Gwangju, supplied by local Thailand Jincheon, Jeju distributors Current Status of Domestic Subsidiaries (Group Status) Name of company Location Main business AMOREPACIFIC Group Seoul Holding company Etude Seoul Cosmetics sales (Etude House) Innisfree Seoul Cosmetics sales (Innisfree) AMOS Professional Seoul Cosmetic sales (AMOS) PACIFICGLAS Gunsan, Jeonbuk Glass bottle manufacturing PACIFICPACKAGE Cheongwon, Chungbuk Printing JANGWON Jeju Green tea cultivation 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE AMOREPACIFIC transitioned into a holding company structure to focus core competencies on the beauty and health businesses and to build a transparent governance structure. The company established a responsible management system and is focusing on making each business unit more specialized with stronger core competencies, thereby continually enhancing corporate value to increase the interests of shareholders and stakeholders. BOD Composition and Authority The AMOREPACIFIC Board of Directors has authority as a top decision-making body organization. As of the end of 2011, its membership consists of nine registered members, including six executive directors and three non-executive directors (NEDs). Each director is obligated to faithfully exercise his duties and fulfill responsibilities as a good manager based on Korean commercial law and the company’s Articles of Incorporation. The directors are striving to promote the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders. The executive directors are the leaders of different business units and are recommended by the BOD. The NEDs are experts with professional knowledge and extensive experience in their respective fields, including management, finance, global affairs, and marketing. The NEDs are recommended by the NED Nominating Committee and are elected by receiving approval from shareholders during a general meeting of shareholders. The BOD guarantees the independence of the NED so that they can actively present their opinions on overall management during BOD meetings, and is actively incorporating their opinions. BOD Operation To ensure efficient management, the AMOREPACIFIC BOD has set up professional committees under the BOD which decide on key matters related to management. These committees include the Executive Committee, Audit Committee, and NED Nominating Committee. In 2011, the Board of Directors convened five times, the Executive Committee four times, and the Audit Committee four times. Information on important decisions was provided to shareholders and stakeholders through public announcements made by the Financial Supervisory Service and the Korea Exchange. Board of Directors (2011) Category Name Responsibilities Position Executive Kyung-bae Suh Overall management CEO, Chairman of BOD, Executive Committee Directors Sang-bae Shim Overall production and R&D Executive Commmitee Dong-hyun Bae Overall support Executive Commmitee Young-so Kwon Overall sales and marketing Executive Commmitee Chang-soo Yang Marketing Executive Commmitee Hak-hee Kang R&D Center Executive Commmitee Professor, College of Business Non-executive Jae-yong Song Chairman of Audit Committee Administration, Seoul National University Directors Dong-soo Kim Former President, Asia-Pacific HQ, Dupont Audit Committee Eon-oh Lee President, Busan Development Institute Audit Committee Major Shareholders CAPITAL RESEARCH AND MANAGEMENT AMOREPACIFIC Group and 10 persons COMPANY 49.5% 6.5% FIRST STATE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT 5.1% Others (institutions and individuals) National Pension Service 29.8% 4.8% Mirae Asset * Based on common shares held as of the end of December 2011 4.3% 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 12 Top Management (2012) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 Kyung-bae Suh, Chief Executive Officer 2 Young-so Kwon, Marketing BU 3 Sang-bae Shim, Supply Chain Management BU 4 Min-jeon Lee, Cosmetics Counseling BU 5 Dong-hyun Bae, Planning & Finance 6 Yoon Lee, HR & Support Service 7 Hak-hee Kang, R&D Center 8 Min-cheol Suh, Cosmetics Retail BU 9 Jae-chun Yoo, China Regional HQ 10 Bong-hwan Kim, International BU 11 Chan-hoe Kim, Mass Cosmetics & Sulloc BU 12 Kwang-yong Koh, Strategic Management Organization Chart BOD Audit Committee Executive Committee CEO NED Nominating Committee Chief Sales & Marketing Officer Chief Support Officer Chief Production & Research Officer Cosmetics Counseling BU Planning & Finance Supply Chain Management BU Cosmetics Retail BU HR & Support Service R&D Center Mass Cosmetic BU International BU Marketing BU China Regional HQ 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 VISION Vision 2015 AMOREPACIFIC’s vision is to become a ‘Global Total Care Provider of Beauty and Health’. Our strategy is to grow into one of the world’s top ten cosmetics companies by developing ten megabrands. We will build a foundation for sustainable growth by continuously searching for new growth drivers. Based on our core competency in Asian beauty, we are developing products that satisfy the demands of the global market. At the same time, AMOREPACIFIC is looking forward to becoming one of the most respected beauty companies that represents social contribution, environmental responsibility and positive stakeholder engagement. Accelerate growth in Asia AMOREPACIFIC GLOBAL Build a foundation for profitable growth Discover new drivers of sustainable growth GROWTH Cultivate megabrands Enhance environment-friendliness GREEN and product safety Strengthen win-win cooperation with business partners AMOREPACIFIC WAY The AMOREPACIFIC WAY is the set of core values our company represents, and the Code of Conduct that everyone who works at AMOREPACIFIC adheres to in their quest to become the ‘Asian Beauty Creator’. The core values of the Way are openness, innovation, proximity, sincerity and challenge. Openness refers to our belief that true growth and innovation are achieved when we communicate openly with those outside our organization. Innovation is our passion to bring refreshing newness to the beauty industry, and Proximity is our intention to remain close to our customers and serve them as partners in beauty. By Sincerity, we mean our commitment to doing every job to the best of our ability, no matter how small, while Challenge expresses our pioneering spirit that is never satisfied with doing business as usual. AMOREPACIFIC + >> + >> + >> + >> + Openness Innovation Proximity Sincerity Challenge WAY 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 14 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT AMOREPACIFIC is pursuing a vision: we are striving to become Asia’s most respected company in the beauty industry by 2015. The path that will take us there is the creation of a beautiful world where people, nature and businesses can live in harmony, and where we help our customers to achieve their dreams of beauty and health through sustainability management. Part of that commitment is the preparation of our sustainability management report, titled ‘Creating a Beautiful Life’, in which we provide a transparent view of all our activities, and demonstrate how we listen to the needs and concerns of all stakeholders and reflect their input in our management plans. Vision for Sustainable Management Vocation ASIAN BEAUTY CREATOR Vision for Asia’s most respected global beauty company by 2015 Sustainable Management Targets for 2011 10% annual growth in sustainable products 5% annual reduction in greenhouse gas emissions One of Korea’s ten most respected companies Reduction of Creation of a Safe products & Win-win corporate-wide workplace where Strategic social Strategic sustainable relationships with environmental people want to contributions Directions innovation impact business partners work Operational Apparatus The Sustainability Management Committee is the top decision-making body at AMOREPACIFIC, which made strategic decisions on sustainability management according to five strategic directions and key policies reviewed. It held three meetings in 2011, in February, June and October. In March, 2011, the Sustainability Management Team was created to integrate the company’s sustainability management commitments with its key corporate strategies, and oversee their execution. Sustainability Management Organization Chart CEO ① Sustainability Management Committee Chief Planning & Finance Officer ① Top decision-making organization in ② Sustainability Management Team sustainable management ② Control tower for sustainable management ③ Working Group of Five Strategic Directions (20 teams) ③ Sustainable management implementer 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS We seek sustainable values through open communication with stakeholders and reflect them in our decision-making process so that the company’s core business direction heads in the same direction. To achieve this, AMOREPACIFIC established its own process for stakeholder participation, to analyze and prioritize the interests of stakeholders concerning sustainability management activities through communication channels like stakeholder dialogue. Stakeholders opinions and AMOREPACIFIC's response Stakeholders Communication channel Major opinions AMOREPACIFIC’s response Customers ·Customer satisfaction surveys ·Development of products that strengthens ·Implemented the recertification of Consumer ·CGAP (Customer Gifts for AMOREPACIFIC) customer’s trust on the safety Centered Management in 2011 ·CCMS (Customer Complaints Management System) ·P revention of claims by improving ·Reinforced the awareness of environment-friendly ·Prosumer activities services management activities by holding the ‘2011 Green ·Expansion of green AP campaign Tour in JEJU’ for prosumers Employees ·Regular meetings between labor and management ·Implemented flexible working hours ·Creation of flexible working environment ·AMOREPACIFIC 人 (Intranet) ·Introduced vacations for long-term employment ·Improvement of organizational and ·Working mom community ·Implemented ‘Vium Project’ to improve corporate corporate culture ·Invitational lecture of Cornell University Johnson culture ·Expansion of facilities and systems for Graduate School of Management ·Established plans to increase internal childcare working moms ·2011 Stakeholder Dialogue facilities ·Reorganized the ways of utilizing win-win Suppliers ·A-PAC1)/ A-PRO2) General Meetings cooperation fund ·Vitalization of support for suppliers ·Seminar on win-win practices for top management ·Established the process for sharing suppliers’ ·I mprovement of sustainability for ·Win-win relationship promotion conference performances suppliers ·2011 Stakeholder Dialogue ·Improved communication by building a portal for win-win cooperation Beauty ·Satisfaction surveys on employees at discount stores Partners ·The ASE (Newsletter for beauty partners) ·Established strategies for developing career ·Improvement of working conditions ·Online community for discount store employees visions and improving working conditions ·Acquisition of visions for long-term ·‘One-heart’ event for flora (discount store employees) ·Established a relevant team to be in charge ·Ritual event for Arielles/Genies employment (HR Cooperation Team) ·Counselor 080 Local ·Support for multi-cultural women ·Implemented BB Wing of Hope Campaign Communities ·Support for neglected women to enter ·Provided support for multi-cultural women’s Pink ·Social contribution programs the workforce Tour (health lecture), including operation expenses ·Mecenat ativities ·Support for neglected families in local ·Implemented the Beautiful Beautirian Campaign communities (a program for reinforcing professional capability) ·Production and sales of products that ·Monitored laws and regulations and reflected them Government ·Visits to and meetings with government comply with regulations and are safe in internal compliance program organizations with high-quality ·Proposed improvements made on the activities of ·KCA (Korea Cosmetics Association) activities ·Support on activities for improving relevant institutions’ committees regulations to achieve industrial ·Implemented activities for supporting governmental development policy researches ·Realized the need to improve ways of sharing NGO ·S haring of information on the right designs and information for the neglected people ·Campaigns based on cooperation with NGOs products ·Strengthened the management of raw materials ·2011 Stakeholder Dialogue ·Development of customer satisfaction through beautiful purchasing products ·Established strategies for sustainable packages and raw materials ·Shared the directions for medium-and long-term Shareholders businesses ·Provision of business performances and ·I mproved the results realized and established ·Regular shareholders’ meetings trusts by announcing the results and providing IR business forecasts ·IR (Analyst Day) information ·Increase of corporate access ·Held the Analyst Day annually and operated a regular communication channel by holding global conferences 1) A-PAC: AMOREPACIFIC Partners' Committee 2) A-PRO: AMOREPACIFIC Raw material Organization 3) Floras: on-site customer service representatives in charge of selling AMOREPACIFIC personal care products at discount stores 4) Arielles: beauty consultants stationed at Aritaum shops 5) Genies: cosmetics sales representatives working in discount stores 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 16 2011 Stakeholder Dialogue In order to create a healthy society that integrates environmental and social values into the company’s core businesses, AMOREPACIFIC has established an organic relationship to create sustainable values together with our stakeholders. To achieve this, AMOREPACIFIC is seeking sustainable values through continuous communication with our stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers, beauty partners and NGOs. Also, we have reflected them in our decision-making process so that the direction of the company’s core businesses head in the same direction as our stakeholders. In 2011, we held a dialogue with stakeholders in groups to discuss our material issues, thereby strengthening the cooperation to identify diverse opinions and improve each other’s values. Setting Objectives/ Identifying Material Issues ·Review strategic compatibility, impact and risk avoidance from material issues ·Establish goals to suit applicable issues Decision-making, Feedback, Mapping Stakeholders/ Execution Selecting Engagement Methods ·Make decisions through Sustainability Management Committee ·Select stakeholders based ·Feedback from participants regardon theme compatibility, ing decision-making process representability and impact ·Execution and monitoring of tasks and outside communication Process of Stakeholder Dialogue Implementation of Strengthening Engagement Stakeholder Dialogue Capacities · Create a free atmosphere to give · Establish ground tool opinions regulations and select ·Listen courteously and the dialogue the dialogue host host maintains · Give details about themes a moderate standpoint and prior preparation to participants 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 Strengthening of Product Safety Developing customer safe products The safety should be strengthened in the overall process, including cultivation of environment-friendly raw materials, management, storage and distribution. As the industry leader, AMOREPACIFIC needs to provide a stricter standard for safety standards and make efforts to reduce toxic substances. Responsible marketing All of the information about the product, including ingredients, usage and storage, should be provided so that consumers can know them easily. Also, it is time to shift to a marketing that provides correct use of the product instead of the existing marketing that focus on mass consumption. Participants Secretary-General of Consumers Union of Korea, Jung-hwa Kang Secretary-General of Korean Women’s Environment Network, Hee-young Kang Secretary-General of Consumers Korea, Ja-hye Kim Director of Green Consumer Network, Yoon-mi Cho Professor of Seoul National University, Jung-sung Yeo Presenter Professor of KIST, Jae-cheon Ryu Strengthening of Relationship with Beauty Partners Due to the working condition of having to conduct sales activities of long hours in a limited space, the importance of health has increased. Moreover, in order to provide a working condition that enables beauty professional to work for long periods, it is necessary to improve the support and welfare systems on childbirth and childcare. 1. Arielles 2. Floras 1 2 Win-win Cooperation with Suppliers AMOREPACIFIC should increase the persons who benefit from the win-win cooperation fund, which is being operated for its suppliers, while also strengthen the support provided for the technology development of suppliers. Also, there should be a wide variety of channels where the company can reinforce communication with suppliers and also provide support on training programs for the employees of its suppliers to enhance the competitiveness of suppliers. 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 18 Material Issue Selection Process AMOREPACIFIC used a four-step process to determine which issues were sufficiently material to warrant discussion in the company’s Sustainability Report. Identification of the Pool of Issues Stakeholder Concern Business Impact Identification of Key Issues *Media analysis *Identification of *Analysis of the level *Identification of key ·AMOREPACIFIC’s sustainability-related level of interest of impact these issues based on the issues Domestic: 197, Overseas: 11 by interviewing issues have on level of interest of (January 1, 2011~December 31, 2011) internal and the management stakeholders and *Competitor analysis external performance of business impact ·Analyze key sustainability issues of five stakeholders AMOREPACIFIC evaluation competitors in the same industry · C  ustomers · Interview employees *Disclosure of *Internal sustainability strategy and KPI · E mployees · Connection with information on the analysis AMOREPACIFIC’s identified key issues · B  eauty partners ·Review internal reports strategies ·Interview relevant personnel · S uppliers *Analysis of sustainability management · L ocal communities report guidelines (Global Reporting Initiative 3.1) and detailed questions of an outside evaluation organization (SAM) Results of Material Issue Evaluation We identified a pool of twenty issues by implementing the material issue selection process. The issues were prioritized according to the level of interest of stakeholders and business impact, which were reflected in this report. (Please refer to the applicable pages) In particular, we identified issues with the highest degree of importance by stakeholders were products (strengthened product safety, R&D, environment-friendly products) and communication (employee communication structure, training of beauty partners and strengthening of customer relations). This report covers AMOREPACIFIC’s activities in detail. High Ⅲ Ⅱ Ⅰ Ⅰ Ⅱ Ⅲ 1 7 4 1 Strengthening of P.30 7 Social contribution P.58 13 Palm oil P.31 5 3 product safety strategies 2 15 14 Biodiversity P.42 8 17 P.32 Win-win cooperation P.55 Stakeholder Concerns 2 R&D 8 9 6 with suppliers 15 Water resource management P.40 3 EnvironmentP.40 friendly products 9 Balance between P.49 16 Labor-management P.50 10 11 work and personal life relations 4 Employee P.50 communication 10 Environment-friendly P.38 17 Information protection policies P.20 18 12 19 16 13 structure management 14 18 Compensation system P.48 5 Training of beauty P.52 11 Green marketing P.43 20 partners policies 19 Response to climate P.38 change 6 Strengthening of P.35 Diversity of employees customer relations 12 P.48 20 Compliance management P.19 Low Business Impact High 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 CORPORATE ETHICS AMOREPACIFIC has announced ethical management in 2003 to maintain and promote a healthy corporate ethics and increase the scope of responsibility throughout the company. AMOREPACIFIC’s corporate ethics is based on the values of AMOREPACIFIC WAY, which are the standards and norms for the consciousness and actions of Asian Beauty Creator needed to carry out the quest for beauty. In 2011, under the slogan of ‘Wider and Deeper Communication’, AMOREPACIFIC implemented various activities, including the corporate ethics training program, the cartoon event for promoting corporate ethics guide, the campaign of not giving and not receiving gifts, and the support program for introducing corporate ethics to suppliers. Also, we have enhanced the effect of corporate ethics training by implementing off-line programs, including the training of strengthening ethical leadership for team leaders, the training for new employees, as well as on-line ethics training programs such as Beautiful Company and Ethical Leader. Also, besides the training programs, we made cartoons with examples of ethical dilemmas from the corporate ethics guide to develop the capabilities of employees to resolve situations involving ethical dilemma. We held quiz events so that employees can study them more easily. Status of Participants in Corporate Ethics Training (Unit: Persons) Participant Category Participants 2009 2010 2011 Reference rate Group Training program for new employees New employees 319 100% training General On-line Beautiful Company, Ethical Leader 1,148 1,506 1,655 92% employees training Training program for strengthening ethics Group Managers 396 97% leadership training The campaign on not giving and not receiving gifts has been implemented as part of the ethics implementation program every year. At the beginning of the year, we send information about the campaign to our partners and suppliers to ask for their participation in the campaign. In the case where employees received gifts from stakeholders, we recommend them to first return them. However, in unavoidable circumstances where the gift cannot be returned, we hold auctions through an internal gift center and all of the money made from the auction is donated to local social welfare facilities. In 2011, we held auctions for 39 gifts received through the campaign. AMOREPACIFIC has signed a pledge of ethical conduct with its employees and business partners to raise their ethical mindset. In 2011, we offered a variety of programs to promote ethical business practices by sharing our know-how on corporate ethics with business partners, enabling them to voluntarily adopt various measures for ethical compliance. By implementing these programs, we have fulfilled our role as a corporate citizen, which provided an opportunity for our business partners to efficiently draw up and implement the key tasks of corporate ethics. Also, AMOREPACIFIC is receiving reports on unethical behaviors through the company’s homepage and a team in charge of such reports. The cases received and handled through the homepage are disclosed transparently. The total number of reports received in 2011 was 43 cases, especially there was an increase in cases related to suppliers. AMOREPACIFIC will strive to promote a healthy ethical mindset to our employees. Status of report on unethical behaviors (Unit: cases) Status of Gifts Received (Unit: cases, KRW 1,000) Category 2009 2010 2011 Category 2009 2010 2011 Related to internal Number of gifts 9 14 18 received 12 24 39 policies Related to customers 9 6 13 Amount of contribution 432 680 1,552 Related to suppliers 4 1 12 Total 22 21 43 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 RISK MANAGEMENT Corporate-wide Risk Management AMOREPACIFIC systematically implemented risk management to minimize negative impact on the company by practicing pre-emptive actions, such as the expansion of overseas operations, the intensified domestic and overseas competition, and the occurrence of various accidents and disasters. AMOREPACIFIC’s Risk Management Secretariat identifies the corporate-wide risks according to the business importance and risk level to take actions and monitor them. The corporate-wide risk is divided into six categories: strategic, reputational, legal, operational, financial and environmental/social, and are managed accordingly. In 2011, we have selected and managed 12 cases of corporate risks, 29 cases of division risks, and 247 cases of team risks accordingly. Also, the Risk Management Committee, whose members comprise the company’s senior managers, discusses ways to guide the monitoring and management of risks and make important decisions. The actual risk management activities are carried out by each business unit and working-level division. In 2011, we closely monitored our responses every quarter to minimize negative impacts to enhance corporate-wide risk management, as well as subdivided the risks related to competition and growth to improve the management structure, thereby contributing to the generation of business results. Also, in the event of a natural disaster and man-made disaster such as fire and war, we expanded the scope of risk management by establishing the Business Continuity Management (BCM), which protects the company’s manpower and assets and quickly restores normal businesses so that we can continue to provide our products and services to customers when a disaster is occurring. Also, we developed training programs for our employees to support their voluntary and active participation in risk management activities at work sites, while also carrying out communication activities through a corporate-wide bulletin board. BCP(Business Continuity Plan) 2011 Portfolio of Risk Management Man-made Natural Disasters Disasters 12 cases Corporate Risk ․War, terror, arson, ․Typhoon, flood, hacking, etc. earthquake, infectious disease, etc. Crisis Response and 29 cases Division Risk Work Recovery Technical Infrastructure Obstacles Disasters ․IT system failure, ․Power supply 247 cases Team Risk s/w destruction, etc. failure, communications network cutoffs, etc. A presentation ceremony for the ISO 27001 certification Internal Security and Protection of Customer Information AMOREPACIFIC is actively conducting activities aimed at protecting company information by operating the Information Security Center (ISC), which prevents the leakage of important trade secrets like management know-how and protects from hacking attacks to ensure normal business operations. In 2011, we received the ISO 27001 certification from the British Standards Institution (BSI), a prestigious global institution, by reorganizing the corporate-wide information protection management system in accordance with the internal standards. During this process, we established a medium-and long-term improvement master plan that is implemented for three years to improve the company’s security weaknesses. Also, in order to protect customer’s valuable personal information, AMOREPACIFIC improved the terms and conditions of membership agreements and guidelines for personal information use and held training on customer information protection for 2,796 sales representatives and employees at customer contact points. We strengthened the improvement activities and supervising roles to satisfy relevant laws and regulations, such as conducting regular monitoring on the suppliers managing computer network regarding the use of personal information. By minimizing the routes required to see customer information by a company insider, we worked towards preventing the leakage of customer information that might occur. 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 MAKING SUSTAINABLE VALUES ECONOMIC VALUE 22 FINANCIAL RESULTS 23 DOMESTIC BUSINESS PERFORMANCE 24 GLOBAL BUSINESS PERFORMANCE 25 BRAND PORTFOLIO This is a photo of bamboo purchased through ‘Beautiful Fair Trade’, a raw material purchasing program of AMOREPACIFIC. 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 22 FINANCIAL RESULTS Consolidated Financial Information Sales (Unit: KRW in billions) Operating Profit (Unit: KRW in billions) Net Profit (Unit: KRW in billions) 2,555 2,272 1,940 365 373 327 309 226 288 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 ROA (Unit: %) ROE (Unit: %) 18.7 16.6 16.4 13.7 12.3 12.4 Note) The 2009 results are based on K-GAAP and the 2010 results are based on K-IFRS 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Economic Value Creation & Distribution (Unit: KRW in billions) Category 2009 2010 2011 Employees* 276 303 338 Government** 88 98 128 Local communities 10 5 6 Creditors 3 2 2 Shareholders 38 41 45 Company 188 246 282 Beauty partners*** 354 384 396 Distributed economic value 956 1,079 1,196 Note 1) The 2009 results are based on K-GAAP and the 2010 results are based on K-IFRS. Note 2) Economic value was determined based on the consolidated financial statements of AMOREPACIFIC. * This amount is the sum of salaries, retirement allowances, fringe benefits, etc. provided to employees. ** This amount is the sum of taxes, utility bills, income tax expenses, consolidated income tax expenses, etc. *** This is economic value distributed to AMORE counselors, Aritaum shops, etc. 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 DOMESTIC BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Despite the overall economic downturn Cosmetics Business differentiated customer management and marketand slowdown in consumption locally AMOREPACIFIC’s cosmetics business reinforced its ing activities, while striving to strengthen the sales and globally in 2011, AMOREPACIFIC has market leadership by outperforming the market capacity of franchisees by introducing training progrowth. In 2011, the polarization of the Korean grams to foster them. In the online & home shopachieved a double-figure growth in all cosmetics market became more visible due to ecoping sales channel, we showed high growth with business areas, including cosmetics and nomic recession; therefore, the low-end cosmetprofits as there were active and regular online purmass cosmetics & sulloc tea (MC&S) busiics market got bigger compared to before, while chases. On the other hand, the sales of the discount ness, based on its differentiated brand the luxury brand market continues to maintain store channel decreased a little due to the growth power of mega brands and its compesteady growth. Meanwhile, AMOREPACIFIC led slowdown of major discount stores and the inthe growth of luxury segment due to the strong creased consumption of low-end brands. tency in distribution channels that fully performance of the duty free business and departcovers low to high-end segment. Also, we ment stores. Also, the outstanding sales growth of increased investments for future growth Mass Cosmetics & the specialty stores (Aritaum) and online channels by establishing new production facilities enabled the company to maintain its strong leadSulloc Tea Business and logistics center in Osan that will set ing position in the mid to low-end segment. As a In 2011, AMOREPACIFIC’s Mass Cosmetics & Sulloc result, AMOREPACIFIC achieved KRW 1,891 billion Tea (MC&S) business recorded KRW 403 billion in the foundation for achieving the vision of in sales, up 11% from 2010. sales, representing annual growth of 18% over becoming global top 10 beauty company. We achieved sales growth of more than 10% in the 2010. This impressive performance was driven by door-to-door sales and department store, thanks our top hair care brands, Ryoe and Mise-en-Scene, to the outstanding product power and distinctive which expanded its line of functional products brand power of leading luxury brands, such as Sulto cater to more customized individual needs. As whasoo, Hera and AMOREPACIFIC. In terms of the a result, we have the number one position in the 1. Primera counter in Lotte Department Stores’ main branch 2. Hera boutique in Cheongdam door-to-door sales, the growth has slowed a little in shampoo market. In addition, AMOREPACIFIC’s top 3. Aritaum shop in Gangnam the second half compared to the first half due to the cleansing line, Happy Bath, has further solidified sluggish domestic market. With regards to the deits brand concept of natural and organic products, partment store channel, we continued growth due and became a representative body care brand by to the sales increase resulting from our enhanced expanding the market share of its established body customer management activities and sales capaccleansing line as well as moisturizing products. In ity. In particular, there was a boom in the duty-free the green tea business, sales of leaf-form and orbusiness, which was triggered by an increase in the ganic tea premium products increased in 2011, esnumber of domestic and overseas travelers, as well pecially at our O’sulloc Teahouse theme cafes and as the increased popularity of Sulwhasoo in the O’sulloc Teashops in department stores. Also, we Asian region. increased opportunities for young customers to ex1 The Aritaum store channel and the online & home perience O’sulloc products through online malls and shopping sales channel achieved sales growth of communities, while also working on increasing the more than 15%, driven by customer communicanumber of potential customers by strengthening tion via social media and increased marketing activibrand awareness. ties for our customers. In particular, the growth was triggered by the strong brand power of our premium brands such as Laneige and IOPE. The 1,300 Aritaum shops across Korea increased the number of first-time and repeat visitors with systematic and 2 Sales by Business Unit (Unit: KRW in billions) Business unit 2009 2010 2011 Cosmetics 1,474 1,709 1,891 MC&S 295 349 403 Total 1,769 2,058 2,294 3 *Drawn up based on AMOREPACIFIC’s individual financial statements. 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 24 GLOBAL BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Asian Market Advanced Markets 1. Sulwhasoo counter in Shin Kong Place Department Store in Beijing In Asian countries and especially in China, AMOREIn the US, AMOREPACIFIC brand has achieved 2. Laneige counter in Chungyo Department Store in Beijing PACIFIC continued its growth trend by focusing on strong growth at high-end department stores, such 3. Lolita Lempicka counter in Sephora strengthening the brand recognition of Laneige as Bergdorf Goodman and Neiman Marcus, as 4. Annick Goutal and expanding distribution channels for Mamonde. well as the premium specialty store chain Sephora. Also, in 2011, we launched Sulwhasoo in the ChiFurthermore, we have installed a Sulwhasoo sales nese market to make it into a global brand. With counter at department store and increased AMORE the number one store at Beijing’s Parkson Departshops aimed at Asian customers in the US, which ment Store, we have opened seven Sulwhasoo resulted in sales of KRW 16 billion, up 34% from stores in China, including Shanghai and Tianjin, 2010. which has enhanced the brand status into a global brand together with the stores in Hong Kong and In France, strong performance by Lolita Lempicka New York. and efficient cost management allowed us to operate in the black. Also, AMOREPACIFIC acquired We have established Laneige as a young, premium 100% ownership of the luxury fragrance brand, 1 brand for the Chinese market. For Mamonde, we Annick Goutal, which is its first acquisition of forhave established it as a high quality mass brand eign brand. Through this, AMOREPACIFIC strengthin China, while Sulwhasoo has positioned itself as ened its brand portfolio for global operations and Asia’s representative luxury brand through differenwe plan to make further efforts to raise our brand tiated VIP marketing activities. AMOREPACIFIC has awareness and sales capabilities. We have high raised its sales capabilities through strengthened expectations that AMOREPACIFIC will continue to CRM activities and training programs for our sales expand its business in the Asian and global markets staff in China. We are also working on improving by offering diverse products. our brand awareness through active marketing campaigns and promotions. 2 As a result, our Chinese subsidiary achieved sales of KRW 189 billion in 2011. In addition to China, we are planning to enter into the ASEAN region, the next growth market after China, to increase our business. We are also expanding the duty free business in hub cities such as Hong Kong and Singapore with plans to enter into major emerging countries in 2012, including Indonesia, Malaysia and Vietnam. 3 Sales by Region (Unit: KRW in billions) Category 2009 2010 2011 China 115 136 189 France 97 96 100 US 12 12 16 4 Asia (Except China) 76 89 109 *Drawn up by adding up the individual statements of overseas subsidiaries, including the sales of local subsidiaries which had been excluded from the consolidated financial statement of K-IFRS. Hannule Laneige 2011 Wisdom and beauty of oriental medicine The science of water and light for Asian women AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Based on Asian herbal medicine ingredients, Hannule exemplifies Korean thinking on health and beauty. 25 Laneige products are meant for Asian women who want to create a unique look that is unconstrained The main ingredient, Yullyeodan, is grown 100% locally and restores the natural rhythms of the skin. by convention. Laneige is especially known for its ‘Water Science’ skin care line and ‘Snow Crystal’ Hannule is designed specifically for Korean skin types. www.hannule.co.kr makeup line that give skin a snowy transparency. www.laneige.com / www. laneigechina.com Happy Bath Etude Natural, healthy mass-market cosmetics brand Wanna be Sweet? Play Etude The Happy Bath brands are environmentally responsible, top-quality beauty products crafted with Etude has the brand philosophy that makeup should be a fun and playful recreation. The brand offers pleasing natural fragrances, giving them a competitive edge in the mass-consumption market. the sentiment of a young adorable girl with unique and trendy products and stores, which has made www.happybath.co.kr putting on makeup something to enjoy locally, as well as across the whole Asian region, to achieve the vision of becoming an iconic brand. www.etudehouse.com IOPE The science of skin rejuvenation IOPE is a cosmeceutical brand that promises effective solutions to a variety of skin problems. IOPE products are scientifically formulated to treat skin conditions and restore users’ clear, wholesome complexions. The brand family includes the Retinol, Super Vital and Plant Stem Cell lines. www.iope.co.kr Lirikos Inspired by the ocean Lirikos is a prestigious maritime-themed brand originally from France. The very essence and value of Lirikos is our accumulated know-how that has combined cosmetics with deep ocean water that is rich with essential minerals as well as marine placenta ingredients that were gained from the ocean, which embodies the mystery of life and birth. www.lirikos.com.cn Mamonde A beautiful name for women’s wisdom The Mamonde brand, with its emphasis on bright and lively femininity, has been hugely popular in the Korean and Chinese markets. Products contain naturally-derived ingredients that supply moisture to the skin to give a smooth, natural look. www.mamonde.com.cn Lolita Lempicka The romantic perfume brand of Parisian sensibility Developed in Paris, Lolita Lempicka is a global brand that remains popular for its romantic fragrances and artistic container design. It delivers, in a mystical way, the contrasting attractiveness of a young girl and a sensual woman, which is widely loved as a fragrance that captures the genuine merit of women. www.parfumslolitalempicka.com Sulwhasoo Beauty products that embody the wisdom of oriental medicine Sulwhasoo cosmetics products have been created as a meeting point of ancient oriental skin care therapies and modern clinical science. It is a traditional oriental medicine brand that provides healthy skin by revitalizing and illuminating skin of any age or condition. Unchallenged in its segment in Korea, the line’s overseas sales are growing steadily, based on rising international demand for naturally-derived cosmetics products. us.sulwhasoo.com / www.sulwhasoo.com.cn AMOREPACIFIC True skin care AMOREPACIFIC brand’s rare Asian botanical ingredients and innovative formulation technologies are applied to promise customers the healthiest and most beautiful skin possible. In global trendsetting markets, such as Japan and the US, AMOREPACIFIC brand enjoys steadily increasing brand value and recognition. us.amorepacific-cosmetics.com / jp.amorepacific-cosmetics.com Primera Natural energy contained in seeds gives vitality to skin Primera was made by capturing the magical potential that is released at the moment a seed sprouts. It is a brand for promoting healthy and green consumerism that is made from AMOREPACIFIC’s research experience on seeds and its differentiated technology. www.primera.co.kr HERA Confidence developed through awe-inspiring beauty Hera’s unique beauty has created its own modern aesthetic by reaching for the deep, inner beauty of women. It has established itself as the brand of choice for confident women with a clear sense of their identity and value. www.hera.co.kr Ryoe Premium hair care based on traditional medicine Ryoe is an herbal medicine hair care brand. The name alludes to a rhythmical balance of Yin and Yang to keep the scalp in its optimal condition. Based on the methods and technologies on beauty that have been accumulated over many years, the product not only help prevent hair loss but also provide hair with a healthy sheen. www.ryoe.co.kr Mise-en-Scene Hair that gives you the confidence of a supermodel Mise-en-Scene products are suitable for iconic styling that define trend, beauty and life style like a composite art that expresses the spirit and culture of the era. It also contains the belief that you can make a stylish hair by purchasing the product. www.mjsen.co.kr VB Program O’SULLOC Healthy beauty in everyday life High-class tea culture created from the best The VB Program was developed based on AMOREPACIFIC’s philosophy that the quest for external beauty ingredients of nature must begin on the inside. AMOREPACIFIC offers a wide variety of convenient menu options to suit the lifestyles of beautiful, healthy people. www.vbprogram.co.kr products at the O’sulloc Tea House chain. www.osulloc.com O’sulloc, Korea’s leading green tea culture brand, uses tea cultivated exclusively on plantations in Jeju to produce high-quality products that are available in leaf, teabag and powdered form. Customers can also enjoy the healthful benefits of these 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS WITH CUSTOMERS 30 DEVELOPMENT OF SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS 31 SUSTAINABLE PURCHASING 32 R&D INNOVATION 34 OPEN INNOVATION 35 STRENGTHENING OF CUSTOMER COMMUNICATION 36 ACTIVITIES FOR CUSTOMER SATISFACTION This is a photo of green tea, the core raw material of AMOREPACIFIC. 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 30 DEVELOPMENT OF SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS AMOREPACIFIC is striving to provide susAMOREPACIFIC Promise tainable products to customers through AMOREPACIFIC has established an internal guideuse of natural raw materials, while we will reinforce creative innovation activities. Our susline based on strict principles to meet the standards earth-friendly characteristics by increasing the use of external certification by defining products that of renewable raw materials and focus on preservtainable products are aimed to achieve are friendly to customers, environment and society ing biodiversity. Also, the major strategic direction three principles: provide safe products to as sustainable products. Among the products that for strengthening society-friendly characteristics is our customers, minimize environmental met the guideline, we labeled the certification mark to increase raw materials supplied from ‘Beautiful impact, and pursue the harmony with ‘AMOREPACIFIC Promise’ so that our customers can Fair Trade’, an in-house fair trade program, and local community Since the development identify our sustainable products. The certification prohibit animal testing of raw materials. The profile mark ‘AMOREPACIFIC Promise’ has the meaning of of individual raw material is inputted and managed of sustainable products in 2008, we have creating a beautiful earth by displaying the camelby our internal system (SAP). As a result, it is poslaunched 139 products to our customers lia blossom, representing AMOREPACIFIC’s origin, sible to have a systematic management and also and we plan to expand the number and superimposed on the earth, representing ‘Safety identify the content of natural origin in products. revenue of sustainable products annually Earth’. In 2011, AMOREPACIFIC R&D Center received supthrough endless researches. porting documents from suppliers of raw materials Strategies for the Strengthening to clearly identify the level of sustainability, which is expected to be completed by 2012. of Raw Material Sustainability AMOREPACIFIC has been striving to strengthen the sustainability of raw materials. In 2011, we carried Strategies for the Strengthening ‘AMOREPACIFIC PROMISE’ certified mark out the preparations needed to establish the frameof Packaging Sustainability work for sustainable raw materials. The direction After establishing the eco-design guideline for for the strengthening of material sustainability was packaging materials in 2005, AMOREPACIFIC has divided into focusing on their customer-friendly, worked towards reducing the impacts that our earth-friendly and society-friendly characteristics. product’s packaging materials have on the environThe major strategic direction for strengthening ment. customer-friendly characteristics was expanding the In 2011, in order to make an internal definition of sustainable packaging and enhance work efficiency between teams, we established a cross functional Types of Sustainable Products and Development Status team (CFT) to identify the current status and come Number up with implementation strategies. Sustainable Types of Sustainable Products Representative Products of Items packaging follows the direction for sustainable Additive-free products products, that is customer-friendly, earth-friendly Products that give assurance and trust through the strengthHera Cell Lift Serum 23 Customerening of safety for customers and society-friendly characteristics. friendly Customer-friendly characteristics mean to minimize LOHAS certified products Songyeum Cheongadan 12 products Products that pursue a healthy and sustainable lifestyle toothpaste toxic substances and give assurance to customers. Organic products Primera Organience Cure Earth-friendly characteristics are implemented in 19 Products that received outside certification or met internal standards by using organic materials Serum four directions, including Reduce, Recycle, Reuse Ecosystem preservation products and Renewable. If we go into details, Reduce is Happy Bath body cleanser of EarthProducts that received the certified Korea Eco-label from Koreally natural and gentle type 18 aimed at reducing packaging resources by eliminatrea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute friendly ing excessive packaging; Recycle means using reResource reduction products products Products that reduce environmental impacts by reducing conRyoe Hambitmo Shampoo 1 cycled materials and design the products to be easy tents and packaging materials for recycling; Reuse is aimed at reducing packaging Carbon footprint products resources through developing containers for refillProducts that received the certified Carbon Footprint Labelling Mamonde Age Control Cream 16 from Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute ing and replacing; and Renewable means the use of plant-based materials. Products that are considerate of socially SocietyBased on this, AMOREPACIFIC will strive to establish underprivileged Mise-en-Scene Essential friendly 50 sustainable packaging structure for all our future Products that are considerate of the needs and convenience of Damage Rinse products socially underprivileged such as physically disabled products. (Products of universal design) Total 139 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31 SUSTAINABLE PURCHASING AMOREPACIFIC has worked on making Beautiful Fair Trade the company’s development to contribute Beautiful Fair Trade is a fair trade program develronmental impacts, we chose the method of only to the development of society and envioped by AMOREPACIFIC. It is aimed at making posipicking up berries of nutmeg trees that are more tive contributions to the environment and society than 20 years old. In the case of lotus seeds, it was ronment. We are trying to fulfill our social by keeping the three important principles: safety of a raw material that was rarely used before, but we responsibility not only in the economic raw materials, environmental preservation and conprovided a new source of revenue for Jeongeupactivities but also in the overall value tribution to local communities. AMOREPACIFIC prosi. Bean is one of the three key raw materials of chain. As part of these efforts, we are vides profits to local communities through Beautiful AMOREPACIFIC, which contains cure bean ingrediimplementing the sustainable purchasFair Trade while protecting the ecosystem through ents with antioxidants. The beans of Tongilchon in environment-friendly cultivation methods. Also, we Paju-si are being cultivated in a clean area inside the ing to fulfill our social and environmental give assurance to our customers by providing transCivilian Control Line. responsibility from the purchasing stage. parent information about the place of origin. Besides using the applicable raw materials, AMOREPACIFIC also sells specialties of local communities In February 2010, AMOREPACIFIC made the first to facilitate the economy of local communities. In agreement for Beautiful Fair Trade about Camellia 2011, we contributed to local communities by sellof Sinheungri, in Jeju island. Since then, we have ing Jeju Dongbaek Village’s tangerine and Chunentered into Beautiful Fair Trade agreements about gcheongbukdo Goesangun’s apples to our employa total of seven raw materials. In 2011, we signed ees. Beautiful Fair Trade agreements about three raw materials, including nutmeg tree of Jeju, lotus of Purchasing of Sustainable Palm Oil Jeongeup-si, Jeollado, and bean of Paju-si, GyeongAMOREPACIFIC has shown interest on environmengido. Jeju Songdangri’s nutmeg oil is applied in Intal and labor issues due to the reckless cultivation nisfree’s anti trouble products because of its high of palm tree. We doesn’t directly use palm oil, but antibacterial activity. In order to minimize the enviwe have been using raw materials that are origiStatus of Beautiful Fair trade nated from palm oil. Therefore, in 2011, we have made efforts to identify the processing companies and place of origin for raw materials that have been Beans used by our company. As a result, we were able to Tongilchon Paju-si, Gyeonggido track down 9 raw materials out of 11 raw materials that were directly processed from palm oil. Also, we confirmed that all of our 8 palm oil suppliers are directly or indirectly participating in the Roundtable Ginseng on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO)*. We will work toPaper mulberry Jeonbuk Ginseng Nonghyeop wards tracking down suppliers of raw materials that Yeongpung Hanji Village Jinangun, Jeollabukdo directly processed palm oil to improve the sustainGoesangun, ability level of raw materials originated from palm Chungcheongbukdo trees. Bamboo *RSPO : a non-profit organization that is established to facilitate Daebat -Goeul sustainable production and use of palm oil Sacheon-si, Gyeongsangnamdo Lotus seeds Sandeul Agricultural Union Jeongeup-si, Jeollabukdo Nutmeg oil Songdangri Jeju-si, Jejudo Camellia Dongbaek Village Seogwipo-si, Jejudo 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 32 R&D INNOVATION Based on its accumulated know-how New Research Papers by Year and excellent technology, AMOREPACIFIC Category 2009 2010 2011 R&D Center has conducted researches on No. of research papers 48 57 57 Asian beauty, which is aimed at achieving harmony between nature and people. We combined natural materials with our adNew Patents by Year (unit: case) vanced biotechnology to develop ‘Asian Category 2009 2010 2011 beauty products’, as well as developed Domestic Pending 272 263 263 our own specialized technology by makRegistered 49 53 116 ing lots of investments and efforts to take Overseas Pending 95 113 181 the lead in establishing a new field of Registered 19 14 30 material and technology research. In par※ AMOREPACIFIC’s overall status. The patent results stated in the 2009 and 2010 Sustainability Report are based on the results ticular, in 2011, we conducted researches collected by R&D Center. on the skins of Asian people, especially China, and worked on developing related R&D Investment Outlays (Unit: KRW in millions, %) products to reinforce our R&D competiCategory 2009 2010 2011 tiveness by communicating with Asian R&D Expenditures 56,209 66,215 73,396 customers. Percentage of Sales 3.18 3.07 3.03 Development of Technology for Evaluating Skin Effectiveness by Using Artificial Skin Since 2008, AMOREPACIFIC R&D Center has conplace animal testing. ducted researches to develop models of our own AMOREPACIFIC will expand the models and fields three-dimensional artificial skin models. Using these of using artificial skin by continuing our R&D. models, we evaluated the effectiveness in various Through this, we will provide solutions that are suitareas, including whitening, anti-aging and skin reable for a wide variety of skin troubles. generation. The artificial skin is a model that reproduced human skin by recombining the constituents of skin, such as Development of Genetic keratogenesis cell, fibroblast, and collagen, with tissue engineering technology and three-dimensional Anti-aging Technology by Using Three-dimensional Artificial Skin Model cell cultivation technology. There are a lot of strucAmentoflavone tural and functional similarities between actual skin Due to the population aging, the importance of anand artificial skin, so it is even used in skin grafting. ti-wrinkle products have increased in the cosmetics Therefore, the artificial skin has emerged as a key industry. In particular, the development of technolofactor of skin researches because it can overcome gies in relevant industries, such as pharmaceutical the limitations of the existing cell experiments and products, resulted in identifying the gene causing supplement clinical experiments. The evaluation on skin aging and making concerted efforts to find acskin effectiveness using artificial skin can produce tive materials that eliminate such gene. results that have the same level of accuracy as conAMOREPACIFIC is focusing on ‘biflavonoid’, a subducting the experiment on actual human skin. Since stance that exists in small amounts in ginko trees the accuracy of the experiment is high, it can reand selaginella*, where lots of researches have 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33 been conducted in terms of anti-inflammatory tal role of securing the safety of raw materials and properties, anticancer and easing degenerative disproducts. IOPE Super Vital cream eases and medical applications. We have worked on AMOREPACIFIC has conducted researches on reconducting researches to identify its effectiveness placing animal testing for a list of five items, includand commercialize them into products. ing skin irritation, skin sensitization, eye irritation, By conducting researches on the relationship beskin phototoxicity, and skin absorption. Through tween active skin cells and aging phenomenon, continuous researches, we have developed a total we found out the fact that one of the reasons why of 11 replacement testing methods and applied aging makes the skin loose elasticity and create them in evaluating our cosmetics materials and wrinkles is decline of skin cell’s’ vitality and the gene products. lamin A, which controls all of this in the cell. We There are 11 type of testing methods including: identified the fact that a rare ingredient of biflavophototoxicity (a test to determine the phototoxicity noid called ‘Amentoflavone’ is effective in inhibiteffect of a test article in the presence or absence of ing the increase of lamin A, which is mutated by UVA light: 3T3 NRU assay); eye irritation (HET-CAM, ultraviolet rays. Also, besides prohibiting damages BCOP, a test using human cornea cell, a test using made to the DNA of skin cells from ultraviolet rays, artificial cornea); skin sensitization (a test to deteramentoflavone also has an effect of improving skin mine the possibility of a test article causing allergic aging in cells. This research results resulted in the skin reactions: THP-1 cell test, peptide re-activity development of technology for improving wrinkles test, LLNA test); mucous membrane irritation (a test and skin elasticity, which was applied in producing using mucous membrane of an artificial vagina); priIOPE Super Vital Cream. mary irritation of skin (a test on artificial skin); and *Selaginella: a perennial of lycopodiales for vascular plant that is skin absorption (Franz cell). mostly found in Asian region and inhabit in dry surface of rocks. We have improved the accuracy and predictability of assessing researches conducted on alternatives for animal testing by including additional researches Participated in the 22nd World to each item of assessment. Congress of Dermatology In May 2011, AMOREPACIFIC participated in the 22nd World Congress of Dermatology (WCD). It is called the Olympic of dermatological science field that is held once every four years. During the congress, AMOREPACIFIC held a symposium under the The 22nd World Congress of Dermatology theme of Asian skin aging for about 400 prominent domestic and international dermatological scientists (theme: New Insights in Skin Aging for Asian Beauty). Also, we announced 39 research papers on dermatological science, including the research on the skin effectiveness through three key materials, beans, ginseng, and green tea, and the results of technology researches applied to brands entering into the Chinese market, including Sulwhasoo, Mamonde and Laneige. Research By replacing animal testing AMOREPACIFIC has implemented research activities to replace animal testing. By replacing animal testing, we met the social demands for improving animal welfare, as well as fulfilled the fundamen2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 34 OPEN INNOVATION In order to innovate its products, tech2011 Progress Update on Major Open Innovation nology and services, AMOREPACIFIC has Contents Partners actively gathered the ideas from the outIn order to improve communication with Chinese customers and strengthen R&D competiside. Through our homepage, we opened tiveness, AMOREPACIFIC established the Chinese Dermatological Scientist Advisory Committee and conducted joint skin researches on Chinese customers. In February 2011, we Chinese Dermatological sites where people can make suggestions held the launching ceremony and conducted researches on Chinese women’s skin characterScientist Advisory about their Connect & Development istics, hair characteristic, skin sensitivities, behaviors and beauty methods with dermatologiCommittee cal scientists at hospitals in six locations in China (Beijing, Guangzhou, Shenyang, Chengdu, (C&D) ideas without restrictions on time Wuhan). and space. Also, we established the setTo identify scientific researches and effects of oriental medicine we have been working on ting for providing ideas by holding marincorporating it into our cosmetics. As part of these efforts, we signed an agreement with keting contests every year and R&D Centhe Basic Medical Research Center at Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine Shanghai University to develop applied beauty methods and products. Through the signing of this agreement, of Traditional Chinese ter actively works together with research we secured the infrastructure for researches on traditional Chinese medicine and conducted Medicine institutions, national projects and supplijoint researches, which will help develop products that are more suitable to Chinese people’s culture and preference. ers. Recently, we worked closely with Chinese research institutes to receive profesIn order to identify the rare Korean beans and restore them systematically for researches, sional advices. AMOREPACIFIC signed a research agreement in March 2011 with GUmediherb, which is a research institute for oriental medicine and natural resources. As a result, we have cultivated GUmediherb rare Korean beans in an environmentally-friendly way to establish gene data base, which contributed in preserving resources as well as enabled us to conduct researches for developing products. Process of Open Innovation Yes Product development Ideas Collecting 1st review Incubation 2nd review No Inventory Collect ideas from Review the Materialize the Review the efdiverse possibility of ideas ideas to apply to fectiveness and feaPool storage stakeholders at internal TFT on-site divisions sibility of realized research results Stakeholders and Channels for Participating in Open Innovation Domestic and foreign(university) research centers Suppliers ․Implementation of various joint researches with ․Receive suggestions on ideas regularly at the winC&D TFT of R&D Center win cooperation portal from suppliers ․Conduct various joint researches with R&D Center Ordinary person Employees ․Make suggestions on ideas regularly at the homepage ․Make suggestions on ideas regularly at the in-house ․Participate in the process of product development intranet through prosumer acitivities 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35 STRENGTHENING OF CUSTOMER COMMUNICATION Lifetime Customer Campaign Distribution of Leaflets on the eco-friendly insect pest control, the methods of orSustainability Management AMOREPACIFIC is expanding its Lifetime Customer ganic fertilizer and the methods of removing weeds Campaign activities to continuously strengthen the In order to share sustainability management activiwitout using herbicides. Also, we made on-site viscompany’s relationship with its customers because ties with its stakeholders, AMOREPACIFIC made a its to Seogwangdawon in Jeju island where organic we value the relationship we have made with every leaflet called ‘Beautiful Harmony, Beautiful Tomorcultivation were taken. single one of our customers. Through the campaign, row’, which introduces the sustainability managewe implement activities that enhance our customer ment activities implemented in May 2011 and values by conducting customer management that Skin Care Application January 2012. It is located at more than 1,800 Ariis suitable to individual customer needs to provide taum stores, department stores and discount store optimized products and benefits through diverse ‘Skin Forecast ++’ counters. Also, we made QR codes so that people communication channels at all contact points. In January 2011, AMOREPACIFIC launched a mobile can see our sustainability management activities Also, we are implementing the Lifetime Customer application called ‘Skin Forecast ++’, which provides through mobile channels. Campaign globally to communicate with about 2 information that helps in skin care based on the million customers in six countries, including China, weather information of the current location. Taiwan, US, Japan, Singapore and Malaysia. In The ‘Skin Forecast ++’ provides information on skin 2011, we sent customer-oriented publications and care for free of charge by utilizing skin indicators e-publications, while we shared AMOREPACIFIC’s based on the skin characteristics of Koreans and [Leaflet] Beautiful Harmony, Beautiful Tomorrow professional customer management know-how climate statistical data collected by AMOREPACIFIC with the customer management staff in each region for the past six years. The information on skin inby holding global CEM workshops. In the future, dicators consists of dryness, greasiness, ultraviolet we plan to communicate with global customers damage, pollution and sensitivity. It is indicated the from a total of ten countries by expanding the camfive major indicators in the graph form by reflecting paign to Vietnam, Indonesia, France and Thailand. the weather information, skin condition and age. In line with the changing digital environment, we AMOREPACIFIC has obtained patent on relevant will utilize digital channels like mobile, web and etechnology of the current location. mail to increase contact points with customers, as well as increase customer asset values by always A Participatory Donation Applicacommunicating with customers. tion Called ‘Pink Ribbon Guinness’ The Pink Ribbon Guinness, an application for smart phone, was launched to raise awareness about QR code Participation in World Organic Fair breast cancer among young people in their twenAMOREPACIFIC has made concerted efforts to inties and thirties and collect actual support for breast crease the use of organic raw materials. As part of cancer patients. The donation money that is acthese efforts, AMOREPACIFIC was the official sponcumulated by uploading a photo taken with pink sor of the 17th IFOAM World Organic Fair, which ribbon is given to breast cancer patients. Also, in was held in Namyangju, Gyeonggido between order to promote the importance of daily checkup September 26, and October 5, 2011. Also, we paron breasts for women, there are various informaticipated in the organic cosmetics and organic tea tion provided, including examination methods and Pink Ribbon Guinness image sections of academic conference, which was held precautions to be taken. by theme in 8 cities across the nation. The academic conference for organic cosmetics was held in Namyangju where we reported on the development of cosmetics using naturally originated ingredients and the methods of ensuring the safety of cosmetics through using oleanolic acid, which is a functional ingredient for improving wrinkles, in environmentally-friendly ways. The academic conference for organic tea was held in Jeju, announced AMOREPACIFIC’s actual application examples and results on cultivating organic teas, including the 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 36 ACTIVITIES FOR CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Prosumer Marketing Activities From product development to delivery, AMOREthrough the customer satisfaction surveys conductOperation of Prevention System PACIFIC has been conducting prosumer marketed by Korea Management Association Consultants Prior to the release of any new product, we subject ing activities where customers take part. About (KMAC), which were reflected in upgrading our it to the Prevention System to evaluate it against his300 prosumers participate directly and indirectly in duties and improving service quality. In 2011, we torical complaint records, and thereby preemptively developing products, including on-line surveys, Fointroduced the Quality Assurance Analysis (QAA) remedy any anticipated problems. Through such apcus Group Interviews (FGI), and product evaluation system to professionally manage the quality of cusproaches, AMOREPACIFIC is being proactive rather meetings. In 2011, a total of 134 opinions were retomer calls to provide one-on-one evaluation and than reactive in reducing and managing customer flected in developing our products. In particular, the feedback by each consultant so that customers can complaints, taking action ahead of time to prevent Melody Cream, which was launched to celebrate receive improved customer services. complaints right from the product development the 66th anniversary of founding, was created by stage. actively reflecting prosumers’ opinions through Recertification of Consumer In 2011, we utilized the prevention system in develin-depth interviews and product evaluation meetings. Melody Cream is a product that contains our Centered Management (CCM) oping a total of 123 products and there are plans to make better use of the system by enhancing its secret method accumulated over 60 years, which In 2009, AMOREPACIFIC has acquired the certiconvenience and strengthen training on product is a modern reinterpretation of AMOREPACIFIC’s fication for Consumer Complaints Management developers. first brand product. Also, we selected 36 Chinese System (CCMS) from the Fair Trade Commission. students as a prosumer group ‘China Beautizen’ After the introduction the CCMS in 2009, there has to identify the needs of young Chinese people and been continuous activities to improve the quality, global customers. which reduced customer complaints on an average AMOREPACIFIC will continue to establish a partnerof 23% per year. Also, in order to promptly resolve ship with prosumers who represent our customers claims made by overseas customers, we established to implement customer-oriented management phia customer complaint management process for our losophy and also we plan to reflect our customers’ overseas subsidiaries to provide quick responses to valuable opinions in our management activities. customer complaints. Based on these efforts, we acquired the recertification of Consumer Centered Activities for Resolving Customer Management (CCM) in 2011. Complaints Customer Gift for AMOREPACIFIC (CGAP) is AMOREPACIFIC’s specialized activity for managing customer complaints to promptly collect, resolve Complaint resolution rate = Number of complaints received / Number of complaints resolved (unit: %) and improve customers’ complaints. AMOREPACIFIC has considered complaints from our customCategory 2009 2010 2011 ers as presents to the company and aimed to create Improvement rate 99.1 97.7 99.1 an environment where our products can be used safely by preventing even the smallest complaints. Each year, we held an exhibition where CGAP cases Survey Results for Evaluating the Quality of Consultation Services (unit: point) were disclosed so that our employees can listen to a variety of Voice of the Customer (VOC) that Category 2009 2010 2011 took place over the year, resulting in having a better Results of evaluation 94.5 94.1 95.9 understanding about customers. In 2011, the 5th exhibition was held under the theme of ‘Retail Renaissance’, which was an opportunity to realize the Status for Managing VOC (unit: case) importance of listening to VOC by listening to customer’s complaints, suggestions, and compliments, Category 2009 2010 2011 in attendance by employees of AMOREPACIFIC and Telephone 131,681 157,177 138,173 subsidiaries. Also, AMOREPACIFIC reviewed the customer serInternet 13,623 13,893 10,843 vice level and satisfaction trends for each quarter Others 443 472 801 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS WITH ENVIRONMENT 38 RESPONDING TO CLIMATE CHANGE 40 RESOURCE CONSERVATION 41 GREEN BUILDING 42 PROTECTION OF BIODIVERSITY 43 GREEN COMMUNICATION 44 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE RESULTS This is a photo of lotus purchased through ‘Beautiful Fair Trade’, a raw material purchasing program of AMOREPACIFIC. 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 38 RESPONDING TO CLIMATE CHANGE AMOREPACIFIC recognizes the harmony GHG (Greenhouse Gas) Reduction between humanity and the environment Activities as a core corporate value as a company With the creation of our in-house Climate Change tuted the existing pumps and lamps at our plants that pursues human health and beauty. CFT (Cross Functional Team) in 2007, AMOREPAwith high efficiency facilities. CIFIC launched its corporate-wide commitment to AMOREPACIFIC’s environmental philosoGHG reduction and tabulation of GHG inventory. phy is the declaration of “Unlimited ReActivities to Reduce GHG Emissions The GHG inventory was built up at SCM units (prosponsibility for the Environment”, made in duction and logistics), as well as our R&D Center in Distribution Processes 1993, and AMOREPACIFIC’s green moveand sales business units (corporate headquarters AMOREPACIFIC has made concerted efforts to rement as part of the declaration while we and sales offices), which received the third verificaalize green logistics. In particular, we installed the tion of our emission records from Det Norske Veritas EMS (Eco-driving Management System) to vehicles make our desirable corporate image. We (DNV), an international institution for verifying GHG in 2011. This device amended the problems found will work towards achieving harmonious emissions. in the existing Green Starter so that real-time inforrelationship between our business activiIn 2011, we established the mid-to-long term GHG mation can be collected, including the installation of ties and the environment to meet the cusreduction plans for our SCM unit (production and air spoilers as well as driving information about the tomers’ expectations on environmental logistics), which is aimed at reducing 30% of GHG driver (number of hours and times for idling, high according to basic unit of sales by 2020 compared speeding, abrupt stopping, abrupt starting, etc.). protection. to 2010 by upgrading environmental management The data gathered is shared periodically and used system, increasing GHG reduction activities and apin incentivizing drivers to follow environmentally replying renewable energies. sponsible driving practices. Before the introduction of EMS, the result of the pilot test that took place Activities to Reduce GHG Emissions for 8 months (January ~ August, 2011) showed that there has been a 5.3% increase in the average fuel in the Manufacturing Process efficiency of our delivery vehicles. In 2011, AMOREPACIFIC’s mass cosmetics producWe plan to complete the installation of EMS in our tion sites implemented restructuring construction delivery vehicles across the nation by March, 2012, with the basic concept of energy saving by making which is expected to reduce the annual GHG emisinvestments to reduce energy losses, such as installsions by about 125 tons. ing facilities and establishing buildings, resulting in GHG reductions. In addition to the existing boilers of 5 tons and 4 tons, we installed two 3 tons booster boilers, which had the effect of reducing the LNG use by 15% in production units compared to the previous year by increasing operational efficiency through establishing operation plans according to each unit’s capacity. Also, we improved the efficiency of heating and air-conditioning load by installing partitions to lower the existing ceiling height. Besides these, we substiAnnual GHG emissions 31,096 25,837 23,664 2011 Target 1.291 1.338 1.225 1.162 2009 2011 Emission volume (Tons of CO2) Basic Unit (Tons of CO2 / KRW 100 millions) *Scope of the GHG emissions is SCM (production & logistics), R&D Center, and Sales division (Headquarters & Regional Offices) 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39 Activities to Reduce GHG Emissions Activities to Reduce GHG Emissions at Company Buildings in the Products AMOREPACIFIC has been implementing activities to In order to reduce GHG emissions caused by the Development of Low-Carbon Products reduce GHG emissions at company buildings. For produc-tion of AMOREPACIFIC’s products, we are example, in the Busan Regional Office, we found thinking about the GHG emissions from the dethat the energies being used on the weekends and sign stage. Also, we provide information about holidays were 40% of the energies consumed on eco-friendly products to our customers by acquirweekdays from our energy analysis. ing credible certifications, including Eco-Label and Therefore, we found ways to reduce energy conCarbon Footprint Labeling. sumption through energy audit sheet. All of the Also, we analyzed the GHG emissions of diverse employees participated in energy reduction activiproduct lines to reduce GHG emissions from prodties with a total of 22 categories, including the aducts, and based on this, we established reduction Happy Bath’s Lavender justment of operating hours for exhaust fans at the plans. Relaxing Body Wash machine room, the installation of timers to water In 2011, Happy Bath’s Lavender Relaxing Body purifiers and bidets, and the change of operating Wash applied a total of 23 cases of reduction standards for elevators during the weekdays and plans, including the change of raw materials, the weekends. replacement with high-efficiency utilities of suppliBefore After The reduction activities were carried out from April ers, the change of fan motors, the use of PCR* PET 465g CO2 6.3% ↓ 436g CO2 to December, 2011 resulting in the reduction of enand PCR* PP, and the upgrading of manufacturing ergy consumption over the previous year, including processes, to develop low-carbon products that re108,998 kwh of electricity supply and 15,476 Nm3 duced GHG emissions by 6.3%. of gas supply. The GHG reduction activities of Busan *PCR: Post Consumer Recycled Regional Office selected as the winner of the Green Management Award, an in-house ceremony, to be shared and promoted throughout the company. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE RESULTS: Shanghai Production site AMOREPACIFIC’s Shanghai production site is located in Shanghai, China. Some of the Mamonde and Innisfree products being sold in China are made here. Since it is expected that the business in China will expand, there will be increased production from the Shanghai production site as well as an increase in environmental impacts. AMOREPACIFIC will establish a sustainable environmental management system in Shanghai production site to ensure it meets domestic level of environmental management system. Energy Water Consumption Consumption 13,788 248 7,940 8,469 116 160 0.302 0.265 0.298 20.623 14.068 16.552 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Energy Consumed (TOE*) Basic Unit (TOE / Tons of Product) Total (Tons) Basic Unit (Tons / Tons of Product) *TOE(Tons of Equivalent): A unit of energy. The amount of energy released by burning one ton of crude oil 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 40 RESOURCE CONSERVATION Water Resource Management Improvement of Recycling Rate of In 2011, AMOREPACIFIC established water CFT Wastes (Cross Functional Team) to respond to water related AMOREPACIFIC has made continuous efforts to issues and reduce the company’s water consumpreduce resource use and increase operational eftion. Through the CFT activities, we plan to establish ficiency by recycling wastes arising in the produca long-term road map for water management as tion process. In particular, we investigated a list of well as reduce water usage at each business site and wastes that are not being recycled from our wastes systematically respond to water issues. and came up with improvement plans in 2011. There were oil ingredients contained in the wastes Measurement of product’s water of cream and lotion types that are produced in large footprint amounts during the production of skincare lines, which were classified as wastes that cannot be reProduct Analyzed for Water Footprint AMOREPACIFIC is making concerted efforts to recycled before. However, we provided these wastes duce water consumption in the overall process of as raw materials to places that can use them as products from production to consumption stages. heat sources by combining it in solvents with high Starting from 2011, we are participating in the pilot heating value. By using these methods, we began project for water footprint held by the Ministry of to recycle wastes from hair dye and returned prodEnvironment to measure the water consumption of ucts from mass cosmetics production sites. Also, the products arising from the overall process including mass cosmetics production site worked together production and consumption. We are measuring with the soap research center to find ways to dethe water consumption of Mise-en-Scene Shamvelop fragrances for soaps from shampoo, rinse poo and developing guideline for water footprint and body lotion wastes that used to be incinerated measurement protocol of shampoo product lines. before. As a result of these efforts, AMOREPACIFIC Mise-en-Scene Shampoo Based on this result, AMOREPACIFIC plans to develimproved the recycling rate of wastes to 71% in for Damage Care op products that can reduce water consumption by 2011 from 59% in 2010. seeking ways to reduce water consumption when producing products. Development of containers made with PCR PET material by supporting facilities and technologies of supplier AMOREPACIFIC developed containers using 40% of PCR PET (recycled plastics), eco-friendly material. These containers have same functions and level of durability in comparison with other containers, but less GHG emissions during the production process. We installed the facilities for producing containers using PCR PET raw materials at companies supplying us with packaging materials by providing them financial support through the matching fund. As of 2011, five of our products are packaged in PCR PET materials. As a result, we expect the same effect as cutting down on CO2 emissions of 273 tons per year. *PCR PET: Post Consumer Recycled PET, recycled plastics Examples of Products Made of Recycled Plastics Ryoe Heugyunsaenggi Rinse Mise-en-Scene Style Green Mise-en-Scene Anti-aging Mise-en-Scene Damage Care Shampoo Shampoo Shampoo 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41 GREEN BUILDING Establishment of the New Plant Streamlining of Energy in Osan Management In 2011, AMOREPACIFIC relocated the Suwon AMOREPACIFIC Beauty production site established production site (skin care division) and Gimcheon a Total Energy Management System (TEMS), which production site (makeup division) to Osan to esmanages the use of electricity, gas, steam, and watablish an environment-friendly production site ter for each production site, as well as the consump(AMOREPACIFIC Beauty production site)*, which tion of CO2 and renewable energy in real time. The has become a landmark in Osan region. The system identifies the overall flow of energies and AMOREPACIFIC Beauty production site is designed minimizes the losses through real-time monitoring to minimize environmental impacts by introducing of unnecessary energy usage. Also, it realizes effisolar power facilities, reusing rainwater, and implecient energy supply system by analyzing the annual menting energy saving designs. energy use trend. Not only that, the AMOREPACIFIC Beauty production site operates the energy patrols *The main building of AMOREPACIFIC Beauty production plant completed the preliminary certification for Green Building during the daytime at the business sites so that all in September, 2010. The accredited certification is expected employees can participate in the energy saving camto be completed in May, 2012 when the construction of the production plant is finished paign for facilities and also improve their awareness. Introduction of Renewable Energy Reusing Rainwater 1. Solar power facilities and Energy Saving Design AMOREPACIFIC Beauty production site established 2. Main screen of TEMS system a rainwater storage and rainwater treatment facil3. Solar powered streetlight The AMOREPACIFIC Beauty production site introity of 1,400 tons in size to protect water resources, duced solar power facilities, which uses renewable resulting in reducing the use of water and energies energy. There is a solar module on the rooftop of needed for water consumption. logistics building, which can produce electricity of 200 kw per hour. The electricity that is produced from the module is supplied and used by the main Development of Sustainable building and childcare center. Through this, we Building Guideline generated about 200,000 kw of power, which In accordance with the company’s growth, AMOREhelped reduce 89 tons of GHG emissions annually PACIFIC established a guideline for sustainable by reducing electricity consumption. Also, we introbuildings that think more about the environment duced the thermal storage tank so that the daytime and lead to future generation when constructing 1 air-conditioning used the water stored in thermal company buildings and implementing interior projstorage tank by using nighttime electricity during ects. the summer season. About 7,000 tons of water in AMOREPACIFIC Sustainable Building Guideline conthermal storage tank is turned into cold water of sists of a sustainable building guideline for build4°c by operating the freezer during the nighttime ings and a sustainable store guideline for stores. (23:00~09:00). It covers the overall process from site selection to This cold water is supplied to each of the producmaintenance of building after completing the con2 tion building for air-conditioning purposes during struction. In particular, in the case of the guideline the daytime. As a result, we reduced the operating for stores, there are programs for a sustainable enhours of the freezer during the daytime, resulting in vironment for sales staff and customers. AMOREPAthe reduction of 1,836 kw electricity per day. CIFIC Sustainable Building Guideline will be applied Besides these, we increased natural light to miniwidely after verifying its appropriateness through mize lighting energies during the daytime. Also, by pilot tests. installing solar powered streetlights in the outskirts and LED lights in underground parking lots, we minimize GHG emissions in lightening. 3 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 42 PROTECTION OF BIODIVERSITY AMOREPACIFIC has contributed in Research on Biodiversity protecting biodiversity through variAMOREPACIFIC is developing ‘Asian beauty prodit is recorded that ‘White Mother Chrysanthemum uct’ by incorporating natural ingredients and highare better’ than other chrysanthemums. AMOREous activities based upon the purpose tech biotechnologies and making efforts to conduct PACIFIC restored this rare species in Donguibogam, of the Convention on Biodiversity. sustainable R&D. Also, we established a new field of which is the world’s first, through a joint research material and technology research by continuously with Gukya Farm, and registered at Korea Seed & We are investigating and researchdeveloping our own specialized technology. Variety Service as AMOREPACIFIC’s independent ing on biodiversity through a partproduct (Kukyasulhwa, Kukyasuyul). We have also nership with a research institute for Creating a Beauty Bean Garden to applied for the patent on the White Mother ChryConduct Research on Rare Beans santhemum. biodiversity and supporting research on indigenous species native plants. AMOREPACIFIC has created a beauty bean garden of 850 pyeong (2,809 m2) in Paju City, Gyeonggi Besides theses, we are cooperating Province to restore rare beans and conduct basic rewith local communities to utilize the search on beans. At the Beauty Bean Garden, there biodiversity the region in a sustainare researches conducted with 132 types of rarely cultivated beans by signing a memorandum of unable way and distributing profits genderstanding (MOU) for R&D with Jiyu-Boncho. The erated in the process of its use. productivity of rare beans and growth characteristics are analyzed. We have completed the selection of 67 types of Beauty Bean candidates by analyzing White Mother Chrysanthemum the productivity, growth characteristics, titles, and outer characteristics. Nagoya Protocol The ‘Nagoya Protocol on Access to Generic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits Arising from their Utilization to the Convention on Biological Diversity (called the Nagoya Protocol)’ was adopted at the 10th Conference of Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity in 2010. It will soon take effect as an international agreement that regulates the mandatory implementation of the access to generic resources as well as the sharPanoramic view of Beauty Bean Garden ing of benefits arising from their utilization. In order to secure the national rights on biological generic Restoration of the World’s First ‘White resources after the Nagoya Protocol takes effect, Mother Chrysanthemum’ and developAMOREPACIFIC has been working on acquiring the sovereignty on domestic biological generic reing as a Raw Material for Whitening sources and traditional knowledge by implementing AMOREPACIFIC is the world’s first to restore ‘White the Beautiful Fair Trade since 2009 and conducting Mother Chrysanthemum’, which is currently in researches on capitalizing biological diversity. being developed into raw material for whitening. Also, we have established our own guideline for Mother Chrysanthemum is the only chrysanthesharing benefits by managing intellectual property mum that can be used for eating and medical purrights, including securing domestic generic resourcposes out of about 500 types of chrysanthemums es and acquiring the rights through patent applicain the world. It has the effectiveness of herbal medition and sharing the benefits of patents, thereby cine, such as removal of fever, reduction of pains, establishing the response strategies for monitordetoxification, treatment of skin-related diseases ing related domestic and foreign laws and reflectand troubles as well as eye diseases. According to ing them in our strategies for intellectual property Donguibogam, a Korean traditional medical book, rights. 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 43 GREEN COMMUNICATION In order to promote environmental proCampaign for Recycling Empty Happy Bath ‘Green Fence’ tection activities to customers and faBottles Campaign cilitate its implementation in daily life, AMOREPACIFIC’s campaign for recycling empty AMOREPACIFIC’s natural brand, Happy Bath, impleAMOREPACIFIC has carried out various bottles started with the purpose of protecting the mented the “Green Fence” campaign together with environment by recycling resources together with E-mart and Korea Environmental Industry & Techgreen communication activities. We have our customers. In 2009, the campaign began as nology Institute (KEITI) in June 2011 to raise awareprovided the opportunity for customers part of the event for collecting empty bottles at ness of disasters and environmental problems, reand employees to experience environInnisfree stores, which later expanded to Aritaum sulting from forest destruction caused by forest fire, mental protection activities in person stores in 2010 and department stores and large reckless logging and development, and intensified through green communication activities, discount stores in 2011. AMOREPACIFIC is impledesertification. Diverse brands of AMOREPACIFIC, menting the resource circulation of our products including Happy Bath, Mise-en-Scene, Ryoe, and and also provided the opportunity to apthrough the recycling of empty bottles. In order to Median, participated in the campaign to hold exply them in our daily life. strengthen environmental responsibility and impleperience booths for each brand. The money made ment the resource circulation on our products, from the campaign by collecting 1% of the sales AMOREPACIFIC is implementing recycling activities profit amounted to KRW 8 million, which was given together with recycling companies. The amount of as donation to the KEITI’s Eco-Tree Campaign, a tree empty bottles collected in 2011 was 72.1 tons (inplanting activity. cluding Innisfree), resulting in a total of 97.5 tons in accumulation since the campaign began in 2009. By carrying out the campaign, we have created the same effect as planting 777 pine seedlings by saving 86.3 tons of CO2. Process for Recycling Empty Bottles Empty Bottles Collection Unit Large discount stores Department stores View of “Green Fence” Campaign Amount of empty bottles collected in accumulation until 2011 CO2 9 7 . 5 tons 8 6 3 0 7 kg CO2 O2 Accumulated Reduced CO2(kg CO2) empty bottles* 7 7 7 Effect of planting 777 pine seedlings * Amount of accumulated empty bottles is including the amount of empty bottles which is collected from Innisfree. 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 44 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE RESULTS The scope of the Environmental Performance Results is five production sites, including the skin care, makeup, mass cosmetics, Sulloc tea, and AP beauty. 8,677 6,457 2011 Target 2011 Target 5,336 0.069 6,080 6,815 0.132 4,206 Energy Solid Waste 0.095 0.111 0.097 0.127 0.077 0.076 Consumption Generation 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Energy Consumed (TOE*) Basic Unit (TOE/ Tons of Product) Total (Tons) Basic Unit (Tons/ Tons of Product) *TOE(Tone of Equivalent): A unit of energy. The amount of energy released by burning one ton of crude oil 325,610 4,628 2011 Target 2011 Target 65.3 278,009 3,133 248,365 4.093 2,377 71.7 Water 4.553 3.956 4.774 Solid Waste 58.7 56.5 Consumption Recycled 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Total (Tons) Basic Unit (Tons /Tons of Product) Total (Tons) Recycling Rate (%) 185,033 2011 Target 2,011 172,862 173,401 2.552 1,904 1,737 3.169 2.781 0.035 0.029 Wastewater 2.468 Dust 0.025 Generation Generation 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Total (Tons) Basic Unit (Tons/ Tons of Product) Total (kg) Basic Unit (kg / Tons of Product) 9,754 324,760 297,740 4,929 3,661 0.147 COD* 0.067 0.070 Purchase of EcoGeneration friendly Supplies 1,895 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Total (kg) Basic Unit (kg / Tons of Product) Eco-label and GR mark purchases (KRW in millions) *COD : Chemical Oxygen Demand *Starting from 2010, the results of purchasing packaging materials have been included since we expanded the verification for harmful substances to all suppliers * I n addition to the relocation of the new business site in Osan and the remodeling of mass cosmetics production site, we have increased the size of our business and introduced a logistics automation system. As a result of these, we have not achieved the 2011 targets in some of the environmental indexes. Also, it is expected that the consumption of energy and water as well as the generation of wastewater and wastes will increase in 2012. However, we will continuously implement reduction activities to achieve long-term environmental targets by 2020. For details on AMOREPACIFIC’s environmental management activities, please visit the company’s website (www.amorepacific.com). Details are available in the “For Our Environment” section of“Sustainability Management”. 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS WITH EMPLOYEES 46 TALENT MANAGEMENT STRATEGY 47 TALENT DEVELOPMENT 48 EMPLOYEES & HUMAN RIGHT PROTECTION 49 BALANCE BETWEEN WORK AND PERSONAL LIFE 50 EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATION This is a photo of bean purchased through ‘Beautiful Fair Trade’, a raw material purchasing program of AMOREPACIFIC. 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 46 TALENT MANAGEMENT STRATEGY AMOREPACIFIC believes that employees’ Establishment of New Personnel System capabilities are the key to its growth enIn 2011, AMOREPACIFIC established a new personnel system to allow the employees to use their abilities gine. To ensure employees can focus on to the fullest. We have strengthened the performance-based evaluated system and established a long-term stable personnel plan, while created a creative working environment for our employees by introducing the their duties and showcase their abilities to Smart Work System. the fullest, we will do our best to achieve our vocation as the ‘Asian Beauty Creator’. Key Points of New Personnel System Registering regular duties and holding meetings: strengthen Improved evaluation communication between evaluator and the person being evaluated system and differentiated compensation Reflecting personal performance in evaluating incentives: differentiate compensations by individual performance Establishment of stable Establish and operate a medium-and long-term personnel plan: strengthen personnel plan financial results and productivity per employee Flexible working hours: able to adjust commuting time Introduction of Smart Flexible lunch time: able to adjust the lunch time(1~2hours) according to Work System individual circumstances Special vacation system: implement vacation and compensation programs for employees of long service Global Talent Development Creation of One AMOREPACIFIC In order to secure the competitiveness of global Corporate Culture business, we have strategically developed global AMOREPACIFIC has strived to make its own culture AMOREPACIFIC Talent Features talent. AMOREPACIFIC’s representative global taland value stronger, while continuously implementent development strategy in 2011 was the ‘Hyecho ed activities to spread this to overseas subsidiaries. Project’. In a situation where time and space is different, it is A global talent who aims for the best We have been developing global business protoo risky to manage the employees under the same through continuous self-development fessionals by sending talented people to other method. In order to resolve this, we have specified countries, which follows the challenging spirit of our core values and culture and spreading them to ‘Hyecho’ who was a monk about 1,300 years ago the employees of overseas subsidiaries. In particular, A talent who leads innovation with that wrote the diary of a journey to five countries of AMOREPACIFIC China(AMOREPACIFIC Trading Co., endless challenge and passion India (Wang ocheonchukguk jeon) by going abroad Ltd.) established the AMOREPACIFIC CHINA WAY for the first time in Korea. In 2011, 63 employees to promote our corporate culture values to suit the were sent overseas through the Hyecho Project. Chinese subsidiary’s culture and characteristics. As A talent who contributes in team work with an attitude of respect and The dispatched employees learned about the other a result, we were able to strengthen a sense of becommunication on diversity country’s language and culture, including Chinese longing by giving common value and vocation to all and English, as well as implemented our overseas employees. Besides this, we established AMOREPAmarket entry strategies and local market research. CIFIC’s corporate culture by setting the foundation A talent who fulfills social responsibility with morality and a sense of ownership The Hyecho Project aims to develop 300 talented for sharing corporate culture through the ‘ASEAN persons by 2017. Culture Pre-seminar’. 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 47 TALENT DEVELOPMENT Based on individual development, AMORE Improvement of Employee’s AMOREPACIFIC’s core value, develop next-generPACIFIC has worked on developing its Capabilities ation leader, and strengthen global competencies. AMOREPACIFIC has established diverse training In 2011, we operated the ‘One AMOREPACIFIC employees to achieve the growth of the programs for developing leadership and global Leader Course’ where outstanding talent of locompany. We are helping our employees cal and overseas employees can learn together so competencies of employees, while also operating to develop their global competencies as that they can develop management knowledge the Learning & Development (L&D) Center to prowell as their job competencies. vide learning support suitable for each individual. and leadership needed to become a global leader. In terms of job training, we are focusing on improvAlso, we implemented multifaceted diagnosis of ing the job competencies, such as knowledge, skill leadership for 230 team leaders in the company to and work performance. To achieve this, we idenallow them to have a better understanding about tified the learning needs based on the duties by themselves. division or function. The results were reflected in operating a differentiated training program of basic, advanced and specialized courses. Also, in order to improve the training effectiveness, we created new Measuring Indicators for it. The person who took the course and the superior can evaluate an improvement in job competencies after the training Training hours & training expenditures of employees with the Measuring Indicators. Starting from 2011, the employees realized a train449,202 389,722 ing productivity of low-cost high-efficiency through 328,553 100.8 smart learning, which is also referred to as mobile Training 89.7 94.4 learning. Also, it resulted in achieving an additional hours benefit of establishing regular learning culture. By 2009 2010 2011 collaborating smart learning and off-the-job trainTotal number of Training hours (Unit: hour) ing, we made persistent efforts to develop plans for training hours per employee improving learning effects. 7,357 7,185 5,697 Development of Global Leader 1.7 1.7 Training 1.6 1. Training for New Employees AMOREPACIFIC has established a Global Leaderexpenditures 2. Job Training ship Center. It provides training programs that are customized for each leadership stage to promote 2009 2010 2011 Total number Training (Unit: KRW in millions) of training expenditures per expenditures employee Job Training Structure General Skills Course Category Professional Common Job Development Course Competencies Basic Advanced Specialized 1 More than Advanced ․ Competency for Information Gathering / 8 years Level ․ Cosmetics Retail Professional Analytical Mindset ․ Cosmetics Counseling Profes․ Competency for Planning/Problem sional Solving More than Intermediate ․ MBA for MC&S SSEP Coach ․ Competency for Project Management / 4~7 years Level Building Relationship ․ Competency for Communication / Bargaining Power New ~ Elementary ․ Competency for Change Management / 2 1 year Level International Mindset 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 48 EMPLOYEES & HUMAN RIGHT PROTECTION 4,456 Employment Status 4,130 As of the end of December 2011, the domessales staff working at department stores, we imple3,663 tic AMOREPACIFIC workforce numbered 4,456 mented prevention training by using some of the 62.9 63.8 63.7 persons. The ratio of female to male is 64 to 36. monthly sales training hours to play video footages Status of domestic Also, the ratio of female executives and managers and handout printed materials. 37.1 36.2 36.3 employees showed steady growth each year. For detailed information on AMOREPACIFIC’s labor and  2009 2011 human rights policy, please visit the company’s website (www. amorepacific.com). The information is available in the “Corporate Number of Percentage of male Percentage of female Employees at Overseas Business Sites Ethics” section of “Sustainability”. employees employees(%) employees(%) The overseas AMOREPACIFIC workforce numbered 4,201 persons as of the end of December 2011. 71.1 Locally-hired persons are the majority in all ranks, Strengthening of Employee’s 69.3 70.6 including top management, to ensure we operate Health Management Female ratio 16.0 17.0 a personnel operation structure closely linked with AMOREPACIFIC has been operating a health care 14.4 by position the local region. program to enhance employee’s health. Starting 2009 2011 T he status of overseas employees by country can be found in from June, we provide stress diagnosis service and the ‘Company Introduction’ (p.10) of this report. Staff(%) Management(%) blood test service at the company’s medical room at all times so that employees can find out their choMaintaining Diversity and lesterol, blood sugar and liver status. About 20% Preventing Discrimination of our employees at the head office used these ser7.8 8.3 7.7 vices to conveniently check their health. Number of Regulations set forth in Chapter 4 of AMOREPAyears in service Also, we expanded the scope of health examinaby employees CIFIC’s Code of Ethics stipulate that equal opportution, which was applied only to our employees, to nities be provided to employees based on individual spouses of more than 35 years old, allowing them 2009 2010 2011 capability and qualifications. All employees are to to enjoy overall health examination. The health Number of years in service be judged fairly with regard to their work perforfund also operates the ‘Health Plus Program’ so mance, and compensated accordingly. that employees show higher interests on anti-aging Also, gender, region, academic background, physicare (physical age), dieting and quitting smoking. In 4,201 cal disabilities, and nationality may not be used as 2011, 83% of 117 participants succeed in achieving reasons to discriminate against any employee in their goals. Status of terms of hiring, work assignment, or promotion. In overseas 2,817 2,300 2011, not one case of discrimination was reported employees by year to the company’s Ethics Secretariat or relevant deWorkplace Safety Management partments. AMOREPACIFIC strictly abide by all chilActivities 2009 2010 2011 dren labor and forced labor prohibition regulations AMOREPACIFIC has formed a Labor-Management Number of employees stipulated by the International Labor Organization Council and Industrial Health & Safety Committee and domestic laws and regulations; therefore, the at each worksite to act as decision-making bodies relevant division faithfully monitors whether we on the maintenance of safe and congenial workhave complied with them. As of 2011, we have ing environments for all AMOREPACIFIC workers. In hired 14 disabled persons and 64 persons with na2002 and 2004, the Korea Standards Association tional merits. has granted K-OHSMS 18001 certification for the Workplace health and safety management systems at the skin accidents by year (unit:case, %) care production site and the mass cosmetics proCategory 2009 2010 2011 Labor and Human Rights Policy duction site. Number of accident In order to prevent discrimination and sexual harassAll four domestic work sites (plants) are closely 6 4 0 occurrence ment at the workplace, AMOREPACIFIC has been monitored for occurrence of workplace accidents, Accident rate 0.14 0.10 0.00 implementing the prevention training regularly for compliance with health and safety regulations and Accident frequency 0.65 0.49 0.00 each business site. In 2011, we held training proincidences of work-related illness. There was no one Accident rate of domestic grams for employees working at the head office injured or diagnosed with job-related diseases in manufacturing industry 0.70 0.69 0.65 and regional office by playing video footages and 2011. average handing out printouts during monthly meetings. For 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 49 BALANCE BETWEEN WORK AND PERSONAL LIFE AMOREPACIFIC changed the name of Establishment of Family-friendly Flexible Working Hours and Great Work Place (GWP) activities, which Corporate Culture Special Vacation has been implemented since 2010 into Operation of childcare center | AMOREPACIFIC AMOREPACIFIC’s employees may freely use vaca‘beautiful workplace that adds happiness, has been operating childcare facilities at the worktions of more than 21 days according to their needs, place of three business sites (head office, Yongin, including summer vacation, annual paid holidays, Happy Plus’. By implementing the ‘Happy Osan) to ease the female employee’s burden in and refresh vacation. Besides this, we have introPlus’ activities, we are striving to find a duced the flexible working hours and vacations for raising and educating their children, and plans to balance between work and personal life increase the numbers of such facilities. long-term employment for our employees, including achieving Installation of resting room for female emshared growth for the company and our ployees | AMOREPACIFIC has been operating restWork-Life Coaching Program employees, establishing a culture of reing room for female employees in a total of nine AMOREPACIFIC has been operating the Work-Life spect and consideration, and providing a business sites, including the head office, regional Coaching Program through external counseling inoffice, and production plant. Facilities for breast stitution to improve the quality of life and increase differentiated welfare system for our emfeeding, including breast pump and feeding bottle their engagement by proactively enhancing our ployees. employee’s psychological status. Through this, we sterilizer, are installed inside the resting room, as part of the efforts to protect maternity of female provided counseling on personal issues at work and employees with infants. home. In 2011, 230 employees used this program. Consideration of working moms | AMOREPARegarding the subjects of the counseling, career deHappy Plus Mini Concert CIFIC ensures working moms are not discriminatvelopment and stress from duties were both raised ed when they come back to work after childcare by the employees. On the other hand, counseling leave. Since the operation of flexible working hour on personal matters covered financial matters and system in 2011, AMOREPACIFIC employees have personal relations. received lots of help in self-development and raising children. Also, we have established an internal Strengthening of Welfare Benefits internet community space for working moms called ‘AMOREPACIFIC Working Mom Community’ to AMOREPACIFIC provides scholarships to our emshare their know how at work, childbirth and childployee’s children as well as give loans of housing care, as well as get psychological stability by easing funds at low interest rates. Meanwhile, the comthe stress from work and household chores. pany and employee committee share the happiness and sorrow of our employees during various family events. Also, we operate a welfare benefit 1. Childcare facility in AP beauty production site in Osan system customized to suit each person, a welfare 2. Resting room for female employees at the head office cafeteria, to use a certain amount in various fields 228 for the year, including self-development, children’ 180 education, medical and recreational reasons. The 164 Status of system helped in creating an environment where maternity employees could focus on their work with a sense leave of belonging. 2009 2010 2011 Flexible Working Hours and Special Vacation Number of employees on maternity leave 1 Category Contents Smile Widen the opportunities for self-development 109 Lunch Time by adjusting lunchtime (within 1~2 hours) and create a flexible working environment 93 96 Smart Provide opportunities for self-development Status of Working and increase childcare opportunities for employees on Time working moms through flexible working childcare leave hours (07~10) Special Implement vacation and compensation 2 2009 2010 2011 Vacation programs for employees of long services Number of employees on childcare leave (10 years/20 years/30 years) 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 50 EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATION We have established a corporate culture Internal Online Community Space Employee Engagement Survey where our employees can freely communicate -AMOREPACIFIC 人 AMOREPACIFIC has conducted employee engagement surveys since 2008 to ensure that the opinin a horizontal method while enjoying their In 2010, we created an internal on-line community ions and needs of employees are reflected in the work by being engaged in diverse themes. space called AMOREPACIFIC 人 (Chinese character decision-making process of the company’s top for people), which was made for the purpose of management. In 2011, the survey comprised of 80 ‘making suggestions about ‘ideas’ and ‘communiquestions in 12 categories, including the level of enMain screen of AMOREPACIFIC 人 cation’. By ensuring the protection of anonymity, gagement, image and leadership. employees have proposed various ideas concernThe results indicate a 75% engagement rate, which ing working conditions, welfare benefits, products, is similar to the national norm of 74%. In 2010, we sales and customers. These ideas are actually readded the wellbeing index to manage the qualitaflected in developing AMOREPACIFIC’s innovative tive satisfactions of individual employees, aside from products, implementing effective business activities the employee’s focus on their work. AMOREPACIFIC and Smart Work system. considers the engagement survey as an opportunity In 2011, about 2,000 suggestions were made for to make improvements rather than a simple survey. the themes like ‘creating a company that is loved’ in In particular, we reflected our employee’s opinions February and ‘conducting sales activities to make a to introduce the flexible working hours and Smart cool summer’ in April. Among them, the manageWork System in 2011, while we are making efforts AMOREPACIFIC人’ s theme for creating a company that is loved ment put the selected ideas into action by making to harmonize work and personal life through health prompt decisions. The sales representatives were funds and themed lectures. given cooling scarves, while the names of the new Osan production site and the internal purchasing system were made by our employees. Win-Win Cooperation between Not only that, AMOREPACIFIC 人 allowed the employees to make horizontal communication. In parLabor and Management ticular, the CEO personally uploaded in 2011, which Until 2011, AMOREPACIFIC has kept its promise of resulted in about 100,000 hits and 100 comments. being an exemplary company of win-win cooperaThere were many ideas proposed about AMOREPAtion between labor and management as a worksite CIFIC’s development. In the future, we will commuwithout any disputes for the past twenty years. nicate more actively with our employees, suppliers Every AMOREPACIFIC worksite has its own Laborand customers to realize various ideas that come Management Council to discuss matters on perout from the communication. formance-based compensation, employee welfare, dispute settlement, health and other concerns. As Promotion of Employee of the end of 2011, the percentage of employees who joined the labor union is 51%, which has the Results of Employee Participation Activities general binding force of collective agreement. All Engagement Survey (unit : %) AMOREPACIFIC’s research clubs provide our ememployees are subject to the collective agreement Category 2009 2010 2011 ployees with the opportunity to pursue various between labor and management, which is signed Employee themes besides their assigned duties. In 2011, 24 every other year. Each quarter, AMOREPACIFIC’s la82.0 81.0 75.0 engagement research clubs consisting of our employees to seize bor union holds communication meetings between Wellbeing 58.0 53.0 the Middle East and Central Asia market increased the business division leaders and the labor union index their global insights by conducting research on leaders. Also, we hold labor-management meetings Rate of global markets for about two months. Also, there Participation 57.5 45.8 45.2 between the business leaders and opinions leaders were lectures on subjects with lots of interests for of each business unit to communicate with on-site our employees. In 2011, we invited outside lecturers workers. In order to fulfill the social responsibility Status of Membership Rate (unit : %) to hold special lectures on four subjects, including of the company and labor union, the labor and investment, self-development, culture and lifestyle, management are jointly carrying out activities for Category 2009 2010 2011 which included ‘real estate market outlook and low-income neglected people, including supporting Number of labor asset strategies’, and ‘secret of wines popular for goods and creating a matching fund by donating 2,029 2,231 2,278 union members dating’. part of the salaries. Membership rate 55.4 54.0 51.2 TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS WITH BUSINESS PARTNERS 52 SHARED GROWTH WITH BEAUTY PARTNERS 55 SHARED GROWTH WITH SUPPLIERS This is a photo of green tea (flower), the core raw material of AMOREPACIFIC. 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 52 SHARED GROWTH WITH BEAUTY PARTNERS AMOREPACIFIC has maintained a close Strategies for Shared Growth relationship with beauty partners to creBeauty partners have been the foundation of on-site in Arita-um franchise stores, and the Genie ate a healthy and beautiful society, while AMOREPACIFIC’s continuous growth as our valuand Flora sales representatives provide knowledge able partners. They are establishing good relationon beauty as well as provide information on our also establishing and implementing meship with our customers by providing beauty soluproducts to customers at large discount stores. dium and long-term strategies for shared tions at all customer contact points and meeting growth with beauty partners. the needs of our customers. In order to grow together with beauty partners, we have improved the working conditions of beauty partners, while also Improving Professional Competencies strengthening the welfare benefits to ensure their AMOREPACIFIC established the AMOREPACIFIC financial stability. Also, we are providing training Beauty University to strengthen the training for programs so that beauty partners can receive beaubeauty partners so that our beauty partners can ty training and obtain certificate of qualification, enprovide the best services and professional counselhancing their pride and professionalism as a beauty ing to our customers. professional. Not only that, we have implemented AMOREPACIFIC Beauty University provides syssocial contribution activities together with beauty tematic and professional training programs that partners, which allowed the company and beauty are composed of different colleges for each area partners to contribute to the development of sociof expertise. Through this, all beauty partners can ety, as well as improve their pride as a professional. develop into beauty professionals who can deliver beauty and health to our customers. Also, we are operating the ‘ABU Advanced Course’ starting from Status of Beauty Partners 2011. This is a course of industry-academic collaboAMOREPACIFIC’s beauty partners include: the ration that has been established by Ewha Womans ‘AMORE counselors’ who carry out door-to-door University and AMOREPACIFIC to foster professales; the Arielle beauty consultants who work onsional knowledge of on-site leaders and to improve site in Aritaum franchise stores; the Genie, Flora and sales competencies of on-site workers. Tearator sales representatives located in large disWe are implementing training programs of different 1. AMORE counselor count outlets; and the ‘tea-sommeliers’ who work themes, including economy, marketing, services, 2. Aritaum Arielle at O’Sulloc tea houses. and humanities, by selecting the best on-site leadAs partners of AMOREPACIFIC for the past 50 years, ers for a course of ten weeks. As a result, we have AMORE counselors are working towards becoming developed excellent on-site leaders every year. Also, a life-time beauty partner who can share a beautiwe have operated a credible system for certificate of ful and healthy life with our customers through our qualification so that beauty partners can work with door-to-door sales activities. more pride and professionalism, while our customArielle beauty consultants provide customized ers are provided with a more professional beauty beauty counseling for our customers by working service. 1 Status of Beauty Partners Category Divisions Beauty Partners Number of person Cosmetics Cosmetics Counseling AMORE counselor 37,073 Counseling Lirikos Beaurator 2,325 Cosmetics Aritaum Arielle 1,474 Retail Discount stores Genie 1,009 Mass Cosmetics Flora 1,233 MC&S 2 Sulloc Tearator 216 * As of the end of December 2011 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 53 Strengthening of Compensation and Welfare System AMOREPACIFIC is implementing a variety of welproving their quality of life so that they can focus fare benefit systems to ensure improved welfare for on their work, such as providing various extra pays, AMORE Counselor Welfare Card beauty partners. We joined a group accident insurholiday gifts, and goods for various family events. ance for Arielle, Genie and Flora who are working The counselor welfare card and the Beauty in Life on-site at stores to ensure they get treatment for (welfare mall), which were introduced for improved safety accidents that occur during work and various welfare benefits of counselors, provide support for diseases resulting from sales activities. Also, we are sales activities, health management and children providing personal consulting services called workeducation of counselors. Until 2011, a total of life coaching so that beauty partners can resolve about 6,600 counselors have received the welfare personal problems and other work problems. card, and about 7,000 counselors are using Beauty Also, in order to provide better welfare benefits for in Life. beauty partners, we are running a welfare cafeteria AMOREPACIFIC will continue to expand welfare system so that each person receives welfare points benefits of beauty partners to provide better workthat can be used throughout the year, while we are ing conditions for them. striving to enhance the pride beauty partners by imBeauty Partner Training Structure Category New Entry Selective Major Courses Qualification Tests Liberal Arts Course · Makeup · Makeup Master Beauty College · Esthetic · Esthetic · Communication · Inner Beauty · Customer Understanding Food College · Inner Beauty 1. AMOREPACIFIC Beauty University · O’Sulloc · Organizational Activation ABU New 2. Aritaum Academy · Self-Management Employee · SSEP · Counseling Master · Advanced Coaching Sales College Training · Coaching · Professional Lecturer · Leadership · POP Design · POP Design · Advanced Course for Leader Competencies Foreign · English Language College · Chinese Beauty Partners with a Professional Certificate (Unit: persons, %) 2009 2010 2011 1 Category Number of Number of Number of Acquisition Acquisition Acquisition Certification Certification Certification Rate Rate Rate Acquired Acquired Acquired Arielle 143 12.0 190 13.5 279 18.9 Counseling Master Genie 29 2.8 110 10.9 Certificate Flora 57 3.7 Makeup Arielle 19 1.4 48 3.3 Master 2 Certificate Genie 37 3.6 72 7.1 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 54 Social Contribution Activities of 1. AMORE Counselor Nanum (Sharing) Day Activities 2. Multi-Cultural Memoir Contest Beauty Partners AMORE counselors have consistently shown genbeauty partners. erosity and love by taking part in Nanum (Sharing) Also, the counselors who are implementing doorDay at their business sites. to-door sales activities are resolving the complaints In 2011, 178 business sites across the nation particicoming out from their sales activities through the pated in various volunteer activities for local comhelp desk called ‘Counselor 080’, which is installed munities, including taking part in gimjang volunteer at the Headquarters. Through this, we provide variworks (preparing kimchi for the winter) for needy ous support to our beauty partners, such as improvneighbors; visiting welfare facilities for senior citiing working conditions, improving welfare benzens to help the elderly take a bath, eat their meals efits and developing job competencies, while also and receive massages; providing free haircuts to the enhancing the career vision and pride as a beauty 1 disabled; and providing free makeup services to the professional. center for protecting women. Our beauty partners also participated in the ‘Makeup Your Life’ camStrengthening Communication paign, providing beauty services for 1,814 women with Beauty Partners cancer patients at 50 hospitals across the nation, including making a visit to cancer patients who canIn order to resolve the complaints of beauty partnot go outside to provide makeup services. ners working on-site at various customer contact Besides this, in order to provide support to women points as well as achieve shared growth with the of multi-cultural families, we held a contest to colcompany, AMOREPACIFIC established a HR Cooplect memoirs of multi-cultural families and gave exeration Team in January 2012. The HR Cooperation penses to six winners to allow them to visit their Team establishes plans to provide long-term career 2 home country. vision to beauty partners ensure job stability and Aritaum stores held a ‘Let’s Pink Lipstick’ campaign, to improve the satisfaction level of beauty partners which was participated by Arielles, store-owners through continuous improvement of working conand student volunteers. The campaign is aimed at ditions. cheering mothers who are physically and emotionIn Addition, we have established online and offline MC&S LIVE ally tired from many years of struggling against their communication channels to listen to the complaints children’s illnesses so that it can also help in a quick and opinions of beauty partners who are working recovery of children suffering from cancer. In the on-site at various sales channels, strengthening campaign held in October of 2011, we provided smooth communication between beauty partners, makeup service, skin analysis and yoga programs suppliers and the headquarters. to make mothers of pediatric cancer patients smile. Establishing Mutual Communication Channel To provide a better working environment for our beauty partners, AMOREPACIFIC has established online and offline communication channels to listen to complaints and proposals made by beauty partners in their sales activities. Aritaum established an online communication channel called ‘Aripos’ in the POS system for Arielle who are working at about 1,300 stores across the nation. Also, we share about 9,300 cases of opinions and information from on-site through the ‘MC&S Live’ for Flora beauty consultants working at large discount stores. All of these communication channels are receiving good responses from our 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 55 SHARED GROWTH WITH SUPPLIERS AMOREPACIFIC is striving to create a souRoad Map for Shared Growth with Suppliers nd corporate ecosystem and to achieve AMOREPACIFIC has established a strategic management structure of win-win cooperation to achieve shared shared growth with our suppliers by realgrowth with our suppliers, which include diverse support programs from economic, environmental and social aspects. We provide financial support for management innovation and technology development, izing win-win cooperation that is aimed while also implementing shared growth activities by securing financial stability through purchasing cooperaat taking a long-term perspective. We tion, making mutual exchanges on personnel and providing training supports. In 2011, we established a provide open communication with our road map for shared growth with raw materials and packaging suppliers, and OEM/ODM, strengthening suppliers and established a culture of parthe activities for creating a close partnership relationship, such as establishing stricter fair trade, reinforcing ticipation for everyone, which facilitated support and increasing communication and participation, based on mutual trust. Also, we established a corporate ethics structure by introducing ethical management structure to our suppliers to provide support mutual cooperation and support as well on preventing ethical risks. as fair trade so that AMOREPACIFIC can Through this, we strengthened the ability to propagate for our suppliers so that they can have competitiverealize the corporate ethics of coexistence ness locally as well as internationally, while we strengthened the structure for providing support on sustainand coprosperity, as well as achieve the ability management to ensure the employees of our suppliers can work in a better working environment. sustainability management strategy of win-win cooperation with our business STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 partners. Establishment of Shared Establishment of Trusting and Establishment of Close Growth Structure Balanced Relationship Partnership Cooperative E stablish working-level guideline for Operating win-win cooperation portal S upport CSR activities of suppliers support AMOREPACIFIC subcontractors S trengthen economic support for suppliers S upport overseas market entry of suppliers -D  evelop sustainable guideline for suppliers E stablish sustainability monitoring system for Increase support for secondary suppliers -D  evelop performance index for win-win cooperation suppliers (establishment of audit standard) E stablish supplier complaint resolution process Realize shared growth with AMOREPACIFIC Establishing ‘Win-Win Strengthening Economic Support suppliers Open Cooperation Portal’ for Suppliers AMOREPACIFIC has been operating a win-win Fair communication AMOREPACIFIC has established the ‘win-win coopcooperation fund since 2005 to provide financial trade and support on facility investment and to ensure stable eration portal’ system to share the values of shared participation growth and provide fair trade with suppliers and financial management for our suppliers. stakeholders, which composes the supply chain. In 2011, we increased the fund size to KRW 10 bilBy establishing the portal, there is mutual commulion and increased the scope of the fund to be apnication between AMOREPACIFIC and its suppliers plicable to raw materials suppliers, so that they can as well as between the suppliers and its suppliers, make investments on production facilities and qualAMOREPACIFIC’s Win-Win Cooperation Portal which provided an open communication channel ity facilities and introduce new facilities for product to provide opinions and make various suggestions. development. Also, we monitored global raw mateThe win-win cooperation portal is designed to prorial prices and agreed to realistic prices that average vide close communication by handling work process the market fluctuations, helping our suppliers to with the suppliers by linking with the existing purexecute stable business management. chasing system and synchronized manufacturing Due to the recent fluctuation of international oil system, as well as making requests for finance and prices, in the case of related items, we reflected the training, giving technology proposals and creatincrease of raw materials by deciding on the puring communities by departments. AMOREPACIFIC chasing prices after a two month study instead of a will strive to facilitate the communication channel three month study conducted before, which helped with our suppliers so that we can strengthen the improve the profitability of our suppliers. competitiveness of win-win cooperation and shared F or more details, please visit AMOREPACIFIC’ win-win cooperation portal. growth. http://winwin.amorepacific.com 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 56 Establishing Low-Carbon ManMeeting for reporting the results of Green Partnership agement Structure for Suppliers From 2009 to 2011, AMOREPACIFIC has been AMOREPACIFIC uses its own in-house evaluation working on the establishment of a low-carbon tools to impartially assess their QCD (Quality, Cost, management structure for suppliers. To achieve this, Delivery) and basic quality management procedures. we have operated the Green Partnership Council. Based on the results, we award KRW 200 million The Green Partnership is a project that helps the in prize money annually to the top-rated suppliers, establishment of environment-friendly managewhich are once again used as facility investments to ment system of suppliers with the support of the motivate employees at our suppliers and improve Ministry of Knowledge Economy by establishing the quality of their products, aimed at establishing a eco-friendly purchasing guideline and advising ecostructure of virtuous cycle for win-win cooperation. friendly manufacturing process and transfering of eco-friendly production technologies. Support for Talent Management Leadership Development Course for Suppliers' employees The results of Life Cycle Assessment of AMOREPACIFIC’s products revealed that the carbon emissions of Suppliers in the stages of manufacturing raw materials and AMOREPACIFIC provides training programs by popackaging materials accounted for more than 80% sition to employees of suppliers with the need of of the whole process. Through this, we established such training to develop them into core talent. the basic foundation for producing low-carbon There are the representative training program is the products, as well as provided an opportunity to ‘Core Leadership Development Course’ as well as establish the environmental management system the ‘Six Sigma Training’ and the ‘Advanced Course of suppliers and to strengthen our responses to for On-site Competencies of Quality Management climate change risks. Also, by implementing global Personnel’. Also, we have improved the basic ungreen partnership, we established a low-carbon and derstanding and standards of our suppliers coneco-friendly system with 3 packaging suppliers and cerning innovation and quality by providing train2 raw materials suppliers in China. We provide suping programs suited for on-site workers of various port so that these suppliers can eliminate the risks fields, including 18 CEOs and 18 core leaders who of a new market and successfully enter into the are supervising on-site business sites. Also, we supmarket. port overseas training for excellent suppliers and more than 200 persons have benefited from this Support for Supplier Innovation from 2002 to 2011. Starting from 2011, we are implementing medium-and long-term development AMOREPACIFIC has supported the innovative acand training strategies aimed at improving business tivities of our suppliers by utilizing an innovation structure through mutual communication. infrastructure owned by the company. Since 2010, we launched a project for synchronizing suppliers’ manufacturing data to establish the web-based Support for Ethical Management Supplier Information System (SIS) for our suppliers, of Suppliers enabling them to improve production efficiency, enAMOREPACIFIC has sponsored a number of activihance profit structure and improve the visibility of ties designed to spread our ethical compliance atinformation tracking order and delivery. SIS, which titude to our employees and suppliers by receiving started with 6 suppliers, has expanded to 27 supethics pledges from them. In 2011, we shared our pliers including A-PAC (AMOREPACIFIC’s packaging know-how on corporate ethics with our suppliers suppliers) and secondary suppliers. Also, we provide and provided ethics training so that they can draw consulting services aimed at improving their proup and implement their own corporate ethics poliduction quality infrastructure. These services were cies. As a result, AMOREPACIFIC has fulfilled its role provided to 9 suppliers, including small-scale manuas a responsible global citizen, while also providing facturers, to support the establishment of an infrathe opportunity for our suppliers to draw up and structure that manages the overall quality of prodimplement their own corporate ethics policies. uct, including the purchase of raw materials, the manufacturing environment, and the final product. TAKING SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS WITH COMMUNITIES 58 AMOREPACIFIC’S SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 59 FOR BEAUTIFUL CHANGE OF WOMEN’S LIVES 61 FOR HARMONIOUS FUTURE WITH SOCIETY This is a photo of camellia flower purchased through ‘Beautiful Fair Trade’, a raw material purchasing program of AMOREPACIFIC. 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 58 AMOREPACIFIC’S SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION AMOREPACIFIC has been implementSocial Contribution Activities ing social contribution activities aimed at Our company’s social contribution slogan is ‘Beautiful People, Better Tomorrow’, reflecting our determinaachieving a harmonious relationship with tion to enrich our society with beauty and make the world a healthier and more caring place. To achieve this, AMOREPACIFIC has conducted social contribution activities aimed at bringing beautiful our local communities and creating beauchange in women’s lives, such as focusing on women’s health issues and contributing to social indepentiful change in people’s lives based on dence of women and fostering talented women, while also implementing social contribution activities social contribution vocation of ‘To bring aimed at creating a future of harmony with society, such as carrying out sharing activities with employees, health and beauty to women and their operating a non-profit foundation for public interest, and conducting businesses with external institutions. families (humanity) as a responsible corIn 2011, AMOREPACIFIC implemented a variety of social contribution activities according to its social contribution strategies. Our representative campaigns aimed at achieving beautiful and healthy life for women porate citizen’. include the Make Up Your Life and Pink Ribbon Campaign. Also, starting from 2011, we are implementing the ‘BB Wing of Hope’ campaign, which encourages multicultural women to participated in community activities, and the ‘Beautirian Beautiful The Day’ campaign, which helps the disadvantaged women to enter into the workforce. In addition, AMOREPACIFIC has proactively implemented social contribution activities in other countries as it expanded the global business. Starting with the Make Up Your Life campaign in China, we also carried out the ‘Smile Again Japan’ campaign to help with Japan’s recovery from the earthquake. We plan to increase the scope of social contribution activities on the global stage. Social Contribution Value Structure Beauty Health Improve women’s Make Up Your Life self-esteem through a Achieve healthy consciousness Pink Ribbon Campaign beautiful harmony between by making the lives of women Let’s pink lipstick and their families healthy inner and outer beauty Make up your life Hope Tomorrow Asia Women Eco-Science Forum Hope Store, BB Wing of Hope, ARITAUM IN U, Realize hopeful lifestyle Protection of environmental biodiversity Realize abundant and Happy Bath Happy Smile through social independence Adopt a Cultural Asset sustainable future together of O’sulloc Tea Museum with the society low-income women Research on Asian beauty AMOREPACIFIC’s Expenditure of Social Contribution Activities (Unit: KRW in million, %) Category 2009 2010 2011 Amount of expenditure 13,395 9,100 11,068 Ratio compared to sales 0.8 0.4 0.4 Ratio compared to pre-tax profits 4.5 2.5 2.6 *The 2009 expenditure includes the special donation for the development of local communities in Osan, amounting to KRW 5,954 million. 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 59 FOR BEAUTIFUL CHANGE OF WOMEN’S LIVES AMOREPACIFIC has resolved social issues AMOREPACIFIC Make Up Your Life Pink Ribbon Campaign related to women for their health and AMOREPACIFIC’s Make Up Your Life Campaign AMOREPACIFIC has been implementing the Pink beauty and we will work towards creating provides our professional knowledge and skills in Ribbon Campaign to widely notify the impormakeup, skin care, hair coloring and hair styling to tance of preventive checkups and raise awareness a women-friendly social environment. give them positive mindset by alleviating their emoof breast cancer, as well as established the Korea tional of female cancer patients, allowing them to Breast Cancer Foundation to ensure a healthy life overcome emotionally-distressing physical changes, for women. In 2011, we carried out the activities to such as skin changes and hair loss. 2011 marks the promote self-test by recruiting 202 persons as ‘Pink fourth year, and 500 AMOREPACIFIC counselors Generation’ PR ambassadors. Also, we sponsored a volunteered to hold the campaign in 50 hospitals team with a band and chorus consisting of women for about 1,800 cancer patients. who recovered from cancer together with 15 instiIn particular, we received great response by providtutions through ‘Our Pink Ribbon Project’, which is ing visiting services to patients who found it difficult a contest for breast cancer related activities. We also to come to the hospital. AMOREPACIFIC will contindeveloped the ‘Pink Motion’, an exercise for healthy ue to implement the Make Up Your Life Campaign breast to upgrade the campaign. because we are confident that hopeful messages In addition, we held the most famous event of can change the female cancer patient’s attitude toPink Ribbon Campaign, ‘Pink Ribbon Marathon wards life and improve their confidence. Race’, which took place in five major cities in Korea. There were various events under the theme of 1. Make Up Your Life Campaign 2. Pink Generation ‘Love Mother, Love Wife’, including the event to 3. Pink Ribbon Marathon Race raise awareness of breast cancer and the event to notify the importance of checkups for breast cancer, which made it a setting for all families to participate. Also, the fee that about 24,800 participants paid to participate in the marathon was all donated to the Korea Breast Cancer Foundation, which will help spread a culture of healthy sharing by using the money in preventing breast cancer and carrying out treatments. 1 Status of Makeup Your Life Campaign Category 2009 2010 2011 Number of participants 977 1,842 1,814 Number of participating hospitals 30 49 50 2 Number of volunteers 215 500 500 Status of Pink Ribbon Campaign Category 2009 2010 2011 Number of marathon participants 24,194 24,165 24,827 Number of persons who benefited from preventive checkups 2,325 987 550 3 Number of participants in health lectures 7,453 22,334 31,227 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 60 Support for Hope Store Startups 1. Fundraising activity for the 101th Hope Store 2. BB Hope Wing Wink Festival The ‘Hope Store’ is a leading micro credit program consulting services to 10 multi-cultural communi3. Asian Women Eco-Science Forum that operates under the financial umbrella of the ties, including‘Mongolian Migrant Women’s AssoBeautiful World Fund. It provides business startup ciation in Korea’, ‘Xin Chao Water Puppet Theater’, loans for low-income single mothers, maximally and ‘Asian Sisters Movie Club’. Also, we have held up to KRW 40 million in value, who find it difficult the ‘Wink Festival’ in December, 2011 to provide to get loans from the financial industry because an opportunity to share the results of the activities they don’t have collaterals or credit. The Beautiful taken place during five months, in attendance by World Fund was established with money set aside 250 persons from the communities. by AMOREPACIFIC’s founder Sung-hwan Suh, who during his life was an ardent supporter of charities Asian Women Eco-Science Forum that provided welfare for women and children. The 1 funds were donated to the Beautiful Foundation In 2011, we held the Asian Women Eco-Science (President Sang-Jeung Park) by the family of Mr. Forum where Asia’s up-and-coming female sciSuh in 2003. The first store was opened in 2004, entists participated to share their knowledge on and since then, there are a total of 112 Hope Stores eco-friendly science and technology. This was an across the nation. expansion from the AMOREPACIFIC Award for OutIn particular, in 2011, AMOREPACIFIC’s employees standing Women in Science that was established to held a donation event to collect money for the develop Korean female scientists. This is to facilitate 101th store to celebrate opening more than 100 the Asian female scientists as well as the local Kostores. About 1,500 employees collected about rean scientists. KRW 26 million. In addition to this, the company In 2011, about 400 female scientists from ten Asian 2 created a total of about KRW 52 million with the countries, including Korea, Japan, China, Indonesia, matching gift. This was enough to open the 101th India and Thailand announced the results of 60 restore. searches. AMOREPACIFIC will hold the forum every We expanded the people who are subject to Hope year in the hopes that Asia’s young female scientists Store to include single mothers for business diverwill take interest in eco-friendly researches and desification in 2011. The 111th Hope Store, ‘Sweet velop into outstanding scientists in the future. Four Fingers’, supported the opening of stores for single mothers who received the training to be a Beautirian Beautiful The Day cup-caker. In 2011, AMOREPACIFIC introduced the new cam3 paign called ‘Beautirian Beautiful The Day’, which is BB Wing of Hope to help females living in women facilities and lowincome women who have difficulty in entering into In 2011, the AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundation the workforce by developing them into makeup and the Korea Foundation for Women joined hands artist helpers. Beautirians are a group of beauty exto implement the ‘BB (Bi-cultural Bi-lingual) Wing perts who achieve the vocation of sharing beauty by of Hope’ for multi-cultural women community. BB sharing their talent of professional beauty capabiliWing of Hope helps multi-cultural migrant women ties with local communities. who are socially disadvantaged so that they can In September 2011, the beautirians who were sebecome independent and positive persons through lected had the professional beauty capabilities by recommunity activities. ceiving training at AMOREPACIFIC Beauty College. Since July 2011, we have provided funding and From October to November, 2011, we implemented the activities to share makeup talent by making visits Status of Hope Store Startups (Unit: KRW in millions) to social welfare facilities for women, teenagers and the disabled. 21 beautirians completed the training Category 2009 2010 2011 in 2011. The outstanding beautirians received support to take part in the makeup artist course taught Number of new Hope Stores 16 38 20 by a professional makeup arcademy. Paid-in amount 672 1,273 789 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 61 FOR HARMONIOUS FUTURE WITH SOCIETY Besides making changes for women and soOperation of Foundations for ciety, AMOREPACIFIC is faithfully fulfilling the Public Welfare cluding 10 researches topics. task to make an abundant and sustainable In addition to carrying out direct social contribution The Korea Breast Cancer Foundation sponsors a future for the next generation. We are conprograms, AMOREPACIFIC has established three wide variety of projects related to breast health, foundations dedicated to public welfare: the Koincluding the Pink Ribbon Campaign, lectures on stantly looking for ways to actively intervene rea Breast Cancer Foundation, the AMOREPACIFIC breast health, financial support for breast surgery in various social issues. Welfare Foundation and the AMOREPACIFIC Founexpenses for low-income women, and financial dation. All three are highly active in various fields support for academic research. Since its establishrelated to women’s health and well-being, as well ment, the Foundation has helped more than 20,000 as providing support for academic and cultural rewomen benefit from free checkups, while also paysearch related to women. ing for the surgery and treatment expenses of about The AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundation executes 400 low-income patients. welfare promotion projects for low-income women and their children. In 2011, in order to improve Employee’s Social Contribution women’s welfare facilities, we subsidized the mainActivities tenance of washroom and bathing room at 9 locations, along with rest areas at 5 more. Also, we AMOREPACIFIC is striving to have a positive impact provided learning expenses in the new school year on the society as a whole by motivating its employfor 102 children of female users of shelters to help ees to participate in social contribution activities to them enjoy their school life with confidence. share the value of sharing. The social contribution The AMOREPACIFIC Foundation is aimed at deactivities that are participated by AMOREPACIFIC’s veloping talented women through subsidizing reemployees, include: Beautiful Sharing, which is a searches on women’s issues and concerns. Along volunteer activity; Beautiful Saturday, which is a dowith the implementation of long-term projects, nating used items, Donating a Fraction of Employsuch as ‘Research on the Cultural and Historical ees’ Salary, which is voluntarily donating a fraction Documents Concerning Korean Women’ and ‘Reof one’s salary; Matching Gift and Adopt a Cultural search on Tea Literatures’, we have supplied KRW Asset, which is to help with the preservation of the 500 million as research funds through contests, innation’s cultural assets. 1. Improvement of Guro Women’s Society 2. Opening Ceremony for Improving Guro Women’s Society Status of Project Expenditures by Public Welfare Foundations (Unit KRW in millions) Category 2009 2010 2011 AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundation 357 413 468 AMOREPACIFIC Foundation 415 442 444 Korea Breast Cancer Foundation 521 812 1,003 Total 1,293 1,667 1,915 1 Status of 2011 Employee’s Participation in Sharing Activities Category Number of participants Details of activities Beautiful Sharing 4,543 persons 16,977 hours of volunteer activities Beautiful Saturday 1,878 persons 20,429 items of donated goods Matching Gift 334 persons KRW 51 million of donation 2 Adopt a Cultural Asset 132 persons 4 cultural heritages * The number of participants are indicated in accumulated numbers (annual numbers). 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 62 Moreover, in order to promote employee’s social place for the past 4 years, to be implemented in Beautiful Sharing Activities (at nursing homes) contribution activities, AMOREPACIFIC is operatShanghai, China. AMOREPACIFIC China held events ing a certification system for ABC Sharing Mileage, for female cancer patients at cancer center in June which is reflected in employee’s compensation acand October three times, in collaboration with Fucording to their performance in sharing activities, as dan University, which is located in Shanghai and well as the matching gift policy where the company prides itself as having leading authority in cancer. doubles the value of each employee’s contribution It was attended by about 60 of AMOREPACIFIC by paying the same amount. China’s 68 members of cancer patient club. Along with hopeful messages to cheer up female cancer patients, the events received positive reBeautiful Sharing Activities sponses from the hospitals and patients by holding lectures on styling and makeup and skincare and Through the Beautiful Sharing Activities, AMOREmakeup tests where patients took part in person. PACIFIC’s employees help out at social welfare faMoreover, we provided cosmetic kits consisting of cilities across the nation every year by sharing their Laneige products together with educational materitalents and donating goods. The Beautiful Sharing als to the patients who participated. In the future, allows employees to directly choose the facility AMOREPACIFIC plans to expand the campaign to and program in which they want to do volunteer other regions of China so that the positive energies work of sharing their talents, while the company subsidizes all of the cost and donated goods. It is are spread to all Chinese cancer patients. AMOREPACIFIC’s in-house social contribution activities. In 2011, about 4,400 employees (annual numSmile Again Japan bers) visited about 300 social welfare facilities across the nation over three times to do volunteer work In March 2011, after Japan experienced a huge of sharing their talents. They also delivered variearthquake that struck the Northeastern region, ous goods to about 1,000 facilities, including daily the bigger problem that the country faced was how necessities, cosmetics and green tea. Also, we are to ease the scars of the Japanese people. In May making efforts to supplement our sharing programs when people’s interests have subsided, AMOREthrough a sharing messenger with 21 employees so PACIFIC started the Smile Again Japan campaign, that employees can actively participate in sharing which was providing psychological counseling and 1. Make Up Your Life in China more easily. mental treatment to help Japanese people in their 2. Smile Again Japan psychological and emotional recovery so that they Global Social Contribution Activities can smile again. In accordance with the expansion of global busiWe held a contest in May against Japanese and Konesses, AMOREPACIFIC is actively implementing rean organizations and schools concerning activities social contribution activities in overseas market that can be actually implemented and suits the Japto contribute to the local communities of each anese people’s sentiments. A total of 75 proposals country. Our global social contribution activities were received. Through the contest, we selected 7 are implemented to suit the social and cultural isJapanese non-profit organizations (NPO), to subsisues of the applicable country, which is the same dize about KRW 200 million so that they can imple1 as what we do in Korea. We plan to carry out the ment the Smile Again Japan activities in various activities so that they can go on for long term, makregions of Northeastern Japan between September ing the country and local community in subject to and October. Instead of a one-time thing like donatbe healthier and more beautiful instead of being a ing goods or cash, the Smile Again Japan soothes the scars of the Japanese people with a genuine one-time thing. heart, which received good response and interest in Japan to be reported in the local media. Make Up Your Life in China In 2011, we have expanded the AMOREPACIFIC’s 2 MakeUp Your Life Campaign, which had taken 2011 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 63 63 INNISFREE’S GREEN STORY Under the slogan of “Natural Benefit from JEJU”, Innisfree is Korea’s first natural cosmetics brand that delivers our customers with the beauty and health benefits derived from its natural ingredients. Jeju is the main focus of the brand story because it is a place full of natural and pure beauty that Innisfree wants to provide to our customers. Also, preserving the beautiful values and delivering them to our customers is an important duty of Innisfree. It strives to bring beautiful experience and healthy beauty to our customers by providing the natural beauty of clean Jeju in our products at the stores. Green Product 1. Innisfree strives to bring true effectiveness from natural ingredients. In 2011, after introducing the eco-science anti-aging lines containing dried seaweed and gulfweed ingredients from the clean ocean of Jeju, we launched the eco-science whitening line in January 2012 to realize natural whitening where the vitamin C of Jeju’s organic tangerine peel and organic green tea met together. Tangerine peel contains four times more Vitamin C than the fruit flesh of tangerine; therefore, together with the outstanding green tea of JejuSeogwangdawon, we provide products filled with the green energy of nature. 2. Innisfree thinks about the environment from production to disposal. The annual 60,000 tons of tangerine peels being thrown away in Jeju are used in oriental medicine, fertilizers and animal feed, but there are still more being thrown away. Innisfree has used the leftover tangerine peels after extracting its ingredients to make paper packages for eco-science white C line. We have recycled the remaining tangerine peels 100% by making the package, which reduces peels being thrown away, as well as implements environment-friendly goals of protecting the environment of Jeju. 3. Innisfree makes products that coexist with local communities. In order to get safe and clean ingredients, Innisfree is implementing a fair trade with Songdangri and Dongbaek Village in Jeju. Innisfree has participated in the Beautiful Fair Trade being implemented by AMOREPACIFIC. It allows our customers to trust our products, while minimizing the environmental impacts and achieve harmonious relationship with local communities. In 2010, the first ingredient of Beautiful Fair Trade was camellia seeds and flowers, which are the main ingredients of Innisfree’s Camellia line, and we purchased them from Dongbaek Village. In 2011, we made our second Beautiful Fair Trade to use the nutmeg, which is the main ingredient for Innisfree’s Nutmeg Anti-Trouble line, which we bought from Songdangri, Guja-eup, Jeju. [ Official Sponsor of the 17th World Organic Fair ] In September 2011, Innisfree was the official sponsor of the World Organic Fair 2011, which is called the Olympic of organic industry, and participated in the photo academic conference and organic exhibition. At the photo academic conference, we widely spread the excellence of JejuSullocDawon’s organic cultivation system, which is the origin of our green tea product line, while at the organic cosmetics academic conference, we conducted researches on using only natural ingredients and excluded the use of synthetic ingredients. The eco-science product applied with this research was easier to apply compared to the existing organic cosmetics, as well as attracted lots of attention because it contained high natural ingredients according to eco-cert standards. 64 Green Communication 1. Clean campaign participated by employees, “Innisfree Green Expedition” Innisfree Green Expedition is aimed at protecting our environment and restoring it back to its original state by implementing eco-friendly activities by our employees. In 2011, the green expedition team met together at Suwolbong, which is one of the famous geological attraction in Jeju, where we collected wood debris as well as ocean wastes. The surrounding areas of Suwolbong are important attraction that is considered as the textbook of volcanology because you can see the remainders of various volcanic activities that took place in Jeju in the past. However, recently there are lots of styrofoams, glass bottles and waste woods found along the ocean, which calls for attention. This year’s ‘Clean Jeju Campaign’ was a way of giving back to Jeju, which has provided us with beauty through its natural ingredients. Innisfree promises to continue implementing the activity to keep Jeju cleaner. 2. Innisfree implements environment-friendly values with our customers. Since 2010, Innisfree has been implementing the “Eco-handkerchif Campaign”, which encourages the use of handkerchiefs instead of disposable tissues, making us realize that we can protect the environment if everyone takes small actions. In 2011, we included the “Natural Environment Story” of beautiful and clean Jeju, “Weather Handkerchief Story” of hoping for beautiful weather and responding to weather phenomenon, and “JejuOlle Story” of leading a relaxing life of walking down the JejuOlle Road while worrying about the damaged ecosystem due to modern people’s fast living style. The eco-handkerchief can be used in many different ways, including gift wrapping, hair accessories, and cup holders, which help make our earth healthier by making us get the habit of using handkerchief instead of disposable tissues. 3. “Innisfree Green Christmas” implements sharing. In order to think about the meaning of ‘togetherness’ and share love with the neglected people during the end of the year, we carry out the Innisfree Green Christmas campaign to establish a Christmas culture filled with warmth for everyone. In 2010, we started the sponsorship of Asian multi-cultural families together with Holt Children’s Service, and also donated KRW 50 million and 3,000 socks to Save the Children by holding the Green Christmas campaign in December 2011. The donation money was used in projects for providing support to growth development of poor children through the local children’s centers. Innisfree will lead in creating a healthy corporate culture by contributing to the society through sponsorships to the neglected people by implementing sharing activities with the help of our customers. Green Store Innisfree realizes environment-friendly stores. Innisfree has opened a new concept store, green stores, to provide a new purchasing experience to our customers. Green store is a completely new shopping space that is filled with sensitive ‘considerations’ with the concept that ‘green=nice’. The interior of green store is made using eco-friendly materials to preserve the earth. Also, we used eco-friendly construction materials that are certified by the Ministry of Environment and low-energy LED lighting in all lighting equipment . Also, in the corner of the store, there was a vertical garden decorated with plants cultivated in Jeju so that customers who visit the store can enjoy Jeju’s clean nature and beauty. The Innisfree Green Store, which consists of excellent services and environment, are currently located in Apgujeong, Ewha Women’s Univeristy, Wangsip-ri, and YonginSuji, and we plan to expand them to other regions in 2012. APPENDIX 66 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 68 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT 70 GREENHOUSE GAS VERIFICATION STATEMENT 71 GRI INDEX CONSOLIDATED 66 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statements of Financial Position December 31, 2011 and 2010, and January 1, 2010 (unit: in millions of Korean won) AMOREPACIFIC Corp. AMOREPACIFIC GROUP Dec. 2011 Dec. 2010 jan. 2010 Dec. 2011 Dec. 2010 jan. 2010 Assets Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 187,708 159,142 224,636 353,587 262,198 297,672 Financial instutitions deposits 155,736 173,374 84,147 421,536 461,574 394,647 Trade accounts and notes receivable 152,435 138,402 143,120 210,741 199,985 196,726 Other receivables 13,839 12,222 6,835 16,556 17,129 11,763 Other current assets 18,163 17,099 11,110 30,161 26,124 20,961 Inventories 225,803 208,165 161,571 283,909 249,657 182,464 753,684 708,404 631,419 1,316,490 1,216,667 1,104,234 Non-current assets held for sale 36,789 36,789 24,692 50,438 50,438 Non-current assets Financial instutitions deposits 3,656 3,456 3,427 3,698 3,477 3,445 Other receivables 59,298 45,504 45,761 81,768 62,818 53,890 Available-for-sale financial assets 9,209 11,549 7,647 18,301 22,392 15,158 Property, plant and equipment 1,655,475 1,603,380 1,394,163 1,952,810 1,865,600 1,633,039 Investment in real properties 185,546 185,546 Intangible assets 115,204 48,541 42,317 625,915 556,694 548,149 Investments in associates 4,665 4,158 3,665 8,514 28,238 25,716 Deferred income tax assets 28,684 19,860 22,448 37,112 21,539 23,077 Other non-current assets 6 189 916 19 223 916 2,061,743 1,736,636 1,520,344 2,913,683 2,560,981 2,303,390 Total assets 2,815,428 2,481,829 2,188,551 4,254,865 3,828,086 3,458,062 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade and other payables 77,987 79,891 59,438 122,768 110,771 74,357 Short-term borrowings 15,581 16,544 26,701 15,581 16,544 26,701 Other current liabilities 181,272 142,015 130,057 224,567 167,905 148,533 Current income tax liabilities 39,201 34,478 26,667 52,225 43,600 33,686 Deferred revenue 53,615 59,847 59,658 59,319 64,259 60,895 Provisions for other liabilities 5,755 13,634 19,538 11,004 21,769 24,104 Other current liabilities 52,571 34,007 36,766 64,691 42,751 46,583 425,983 380,417 358,826 550,156 467,599 414,859 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 45,904 47,904 Retirement benefit obligations 40,002 35,247 26,936 49,559 43,153 31,045 Deferred income tax liabilities 138,460 92,425 80,354 199,865 138,504 124,883 Other non-current liabilities 26,776 111,659 112,911 49,789 137,804 138,393 251,141 239,331 220,200 347,117 319,461 294,321 Total liabilities 677,125 619,748 579,026 897,273 787,060 709,180 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Capital stock 34,508 34,508 34,508 44,451 44,451 44,451 Additional paid-in capital 712,702 712,702 712,702 673,096 673,096 673,096 Capital surplus 7,690 7,690 25 7,363 7,363 5,445 Other components of equity -1,810 -1,810 -1,810 -134,136 -134,138 -133,697 Accumulated other comprehensive income -2,435 -1,051 1,406 1,793 5,885 7,315 Retained earnings 1,377,420 1,100,479 862,694 1,258,205 1,128,940 1,019,591 2,128,075 1,852,518 1,609,525 1,850,771 1,725,596 1,616,120 Non-controlling interest 10,228 9,563 1,506,821 1,315,429 1,132,682 Total equity 2,138,303 1,862,081 1,609,525 3,357,592 3,041,026 2,748,882 Total liabilities and equity 2,815,428 2,481,829 2,188,551 4,254,865 3,828,086 3,458,062 67 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Year Ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (unit: in millions of Korean won) AMOREPACIFIC Corp. AMOREPACIFIC GROUP 2011 2010 2011 2010 Sales 2,554,723 2,272,312 3,058,513 2,685,838 Cost of sales 774,623 700,160 960,632 863,832 Gross profit 1,780,100 1,572,153 2,097,881 1,822,007 Selling and administrative expenses 1,407,249 1,207,688 1,663,218 1,413,057 Operating profit 372,851 364,465 434,663 408,950 Finance income 11,165 9,426 26,138 21,125 Finance costs 1,923 2,202 2,018 2,241 Other non-operating gains(losses) net 46,512 -6,152 49,012 -6,838 Share of profit of associates 1,037 83 2,964 3,306 56,791 1,155 76,096 15,352 Profit before income tax 429,642 365,620 510,759 424,302 Income tax expense 102,373 78,011 134,640 95,297 Profit for the year 327,269 287,609 376,119 329,005 Profit attributable to : Owners of the parent 327,029 287,752 148,500 128,705 Non-controlling interests 240 -143 227,620 200,300 Other comprehensive income Actuarial loss on post employment benefit obligations -8,648 -11,976 -10,671 -14,928 Change in value of available-for-sale financial assets -376 588 -1,535 -139 Share of other comprehensive income of associates -361 281 -2,993 286 Loss on currency translation of foreign operations net -739 -3,347 -706 -3,111 Total comprehensive income for the year 317,143 273,155 360,215 311,114 Attributable to : Equity holders of the Parent Company 316,996 273,318 139,767 121,266 Non-controlling interest 148 -164 220,448 189,848 317,143 273,155 360,215 311,114 Earnings per share to the equity holders of the Company during the year Basic earnings per share for profit attributable to the ordinary equity holders 47,403 41,709 18,366 15,916 Basic earnings per share for profit attributable to the preferred equity holders 47,454 41,759 18,416 15,966 Diluted earnings per share for profit attributable to the ordinary equity holders 17,841 15,462 Diluted earnings per share for profit attributable to the preferred equity holders 17,891 15,512 Consolidated subsidiaries of AMOREPACIFIC Corp. and AMOREPACIFIC GROUP AMOREPACIFIC GROUP AMOREPACIFIC Corp. AMOREPACIFIC GLOBAL OPERATIONS Limited. Etude Corp. AMOREPACIFIC Trading Co.,Ltd. Innisfree Corp. AMOREPACIFIC EUROPE S.A.S ANNICK GOUTAL S.A.S AMOS Professional Corp. AMOREPACIFIC US, Inc. PACIFICPHARMA Corp. AMOREPACIFIC Japan Co.,Ltd. JANGWON Co., Ltd. AMOREPACIFIC Taiwan Co.,Ltd. PACIFICGLAS, Inc. AMOREPACIFIC SINGAPORE PTE. LTD PACIFIC PACKAGE Corp. LANEIGE MALAYSIA SDN BHD. COSVISION Co., Ltd AMOREPACIFIC Global Operations Pte.Ltd. AMOREPACIFIC Vietnam JSC AMOREPACIFIC Cosmetics (Shanghai) Co.,Ltd. 68 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT To the AP Mangagement At AP (AMORE PACIFIC)’s request, we have reviewed the information presented in the 2011 sustainability report (the “Report”). The management of AP is responsible for preparing the Report. Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance engagement on the Report and to provide an opinion on it based on our review. 1 2 Procedures We conducted our engagement in accordance with ISAE3000 and the requirements of a Type 2 assurance engagement as defined by AA1000AS (2008) performed We performed the following procedures to form our conclusion on the Report: · Evaluated AP’s processes for stakeholder engagement. · Reviewed AP’s processes for determining material issues of stakeholder groups. · Searched the media coverage of AP’s sustainability issues during the applicable reporting period. · Reviewed recent sustainability reports of the AP’s global competitors. · Interviewed a selection of AP senior managers to understand the current status of sustainability performance and the reporting process during the reporting period. · Interviewed selected groups from regional business divisions, beauty partners, regional and group labor union, and AP prosumers. · Reviewed selected data regarding AP’s sustainability performance, supporting evidence for assertions, and information from corporate-wide systems. · Reviewed AP’s process for collecting and consolidating sustainability performance data. · Reviewed whether financial performance data has been extracted properly from the AP’s 2011 audited financial statements. Level of We undertook a limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE3000. A limited assurance engagement is less in scope than a reasonable Assurance assurance engagement. Consequently, the nature, timing and the extent of procedures for gathering sufficient, appropriate evidence are deliberately limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement. Limitations of We did not review GHG(Greenhouse Gas) emissions from environmental performance data, environmental and social performance data prior to 2011 our review for our limited assurance engagement. We reviewed financial performance data based on AP’s 2011 audited financial statements. Conclusion The result of our review is outlined below. Inclusivity Has AP been engaging with stakeholders across the business to develop its approach to sustainability? · We are not aware of any key stakeholder groups that have been excluded from the stakeholder engagement process outlined in the Report. · We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to conclude that AP has not applied the inclusivity principle in developing its approach to sustainability. International Standard on Assurance Published by International Federation of the Accountants Engagement: Assurance Engagements other than 1  Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information 2 Second AA1000 Assurance standards published by the AA1000AS (2008)Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability 69 Materiality Has AP provided a balanced representation of material issues concerning AP’s sustainability performance? · We are not aware of any material aspects concerning AP’s sustainability performance which have been excluded from the Report. · Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that AP management has not applied its processes for determining material issues to be included in the Report. Responsiveness Has AP responded to stakeholder concerns? · We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to conclude that AP has not applied the responsiveness principle in considering the matters to be reported. Completeness How complete and accurate is the economic, customer, environment, employee, partner and local community activity data in and accuracy the Report? of performance · Except selected performance data from the overseas operations, we are not aware of any material reporting units that have been excluded from the information economic, customer, environment, employee, partner and local community activity data. · Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data relating to the above topics has not been collated properly from AP’s reporting process. How plausible are the statements and claims within the Report? · We are not aware of any misstatements of information or explanation used to support statements and claims on AP’s sustainability activities presented in the Report. Observations Without prejudice against our conclusions presented above, we believe the following matters require attention for the and areas for improved AP’s sustainability report. improvement · AP established targets for managing several sustainability issues and organized contents based on the performance, but this must be expanded to the other material issues. · In order to reflect the diverse stakeholders, periodic communication channels must be established and through these channels, a system to decide on material issues must be improved. · In the case of some sustainability performance data, a system to generate, aggregate and report the data must be improved. · To improve completeness of sustainability reporting, the scope of the Report needs to be expanded to overseas operations. Independence We comply with the Ethical Standard issued by the Korean Institute of Certified Public Accountants (KICPA). Our Assurance The assurance engagement was performed by the engagement team with a long history of experience and expertise in Team sustainability area. April, 2012 Seung Wha Gweon Country Managing Partner Ernst & Young Hanyoung 70 GREENHOUSE GAS VERIFICATION STATEMENT DNV Verification Statement AMOREPACIFIC Co., Ltd Greenhouse Gas Emission Levels in 2011 Introduction Det Norske Veritas (DNV) verified AMOREPACIFIC’s greenhouse gas emission levels in 2011 based on limited assurance level. AMOREPACIFIC is obligated to prepare greenhouse gas emission level materials based on the principles set forth in ISO 14064-1:2006, WRI/ WBCSD GHG Protocol: 2004, and IPCC Guidelines: 2006, and DNV has the responsibility to carry out limited work for AMOREPACIFIC according to contract conditions. In relation to this Verification Statement, DNV disclaims any responsibility to a third party other than the contracted party. Scope of AMOREPACIFIC’s emission data that was examined for this verification include direct emission (Scope 1 emissions) and energy indirect emissions (Scope Assurance 2 emissions) provided by the “Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report” and “Greenhouse Gas Inventory Calculation Tool”. AMOREPACIFIC data verification as well as field verification was conducted. Organizations ·Production plants (Osan, Daejeon, Jincheon) ·Headquarters/Counseling sales and Plants ·Logistics centers (Gangbuk, Gwangju, Gimcheon, Daejeon, Masan, Busan, Osan, Incheon, Jincheon, Wonju) Subject to ·R&D Center/Human Resources Development Center ·Regional offices (Gwangju, Daegu, Daejeon, Busan) Verification AMOREPACIFIC’s greenhouse gases that were reported through the Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report are carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrogen dioxide (N2O), and hydrofluorocarbons(HFCs). Verification The verification was carried out from February 2012 through March 2012 based on ISO 14064-3 verification principles and standards. DNV Method established a verification plan to acquire information and data needed to submit a verification opinion on the greenhouse gas emission levels reported by AMOREPACIFIC and completion of a greenhouse gas inventory, and conducted the verification. The sites that were visited for verification are three production plants (Osan, Daejeon, and Jincheon) and one logistics center (Osan), the R&D Center and Human Resources Development Center. For other business sites, DNV carried out data verification without making a field visit. As part of the verification process, DNV confirmed the following: ·Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report (March 12, 2012) ·Systems used to create, collect, and manage data related to greenhouse gas emissions (AP GMIS) ·Worksheet on calculating, managing, and reporting greenhouse gas emission levels (March 12, 2012) Conclusion Results of the above mentioned verification indicate that the greenhouse gas emission levels in 2011 that is specified in AMOREPACIFIC’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report are as follows. DNV did not make any discoveries that lead to the judgment that significant errors or omissions were made in the Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report. AMOREPACIFIC Co., Ltd Greenhouse Gas Emission Levels in 2011 (Unit: ton CO2-e) Category Direct emissions (Scope 1) Energy indirect emissions (Scope 2) Total emissions (Total) 2011 10,059 21,037 31,096 * ① Refer to the DNV Verification Report (Rev. 0; March 2012) for verification detail. ② There can be a difference of ±1 in the emission levels resulting from the rounding off to the nearest whole number in the Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report and Worksheet (dated March 12, 2012). March 14, 2012 Cheol-soo Kim In-gyunn Ahn Verification and Inspection CEO and Director Team Manager Det Norske Veritas This Verification Statement is valid as of the date of the issuance of the Statement. There may be an incident or situation that may have a significant effect on the “Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report” and “Greenhouse Gas Inventory Calculation Tool” between the date of issuance and the point at which this Statement is perused. This may lead to a change in this Verification Statement. 71 GRI INDEX ● Fully Reported ◐ Partly Reported N/A No Material G3.1 Indicators Reporting Status Page UNGC ISO 26000 Official Notice on Profiles Strategy and 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the 8, 9 6.2 Analysis reporting organization and strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 8, 9, 14 6.2 Organizational 2.1 Name of the organization 10 Profile 2.2 Primary brands, products and / or services 25-28 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures 10, 67 6.2 2.4 Location of organizations' headquarters 10 Number of countries where the organization operates and names of countries with either major operations or 2.5 that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 10 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 11 2.7 Characteristics of Markets served 23, 24 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 10, 22 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership 11 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period C2,2-7 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided C2 3.2 Date of most recent previous report C2 3.3 Reporting cycle C2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents C2 3.5 Process for defining report content 15, 18 3.6 Boundaries of the report C2 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report C2 3.8 Basis for reporting on the entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and / or between organizations C2 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques 22, 38, 44, 58 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 22, 32 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report none 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 71-73 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 68-70 7.5.3 Governance, 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 11, 12 6.2 Commitments and Engagement 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 11 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance 4.3 body that are independent and / or non-executive members 11 4.4 Mechanisms enabling shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 11 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and 4.5 executives, and the organization’s performance 12 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 11 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest 4.7 governance body and its committees 11 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 4.8 environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation 13, 46, 55, 58 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management 4.9 of economic, environmental and social performance 12 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to 4.10 economic, environmental and social performance 12 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 20, 36, note1) Externally developed economic/environmental/social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 4.12 organization subscribes or endorses 9 4.13 Membership in associations(such as industry associations) and / or national / international advocacy organizations 15 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 15 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 18 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 15-17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and how the organization 4.17 has responded to those key topics and concerns 15 Economic Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ● 22-24 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 Performance EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change ◐ 30, 39, 40 7 6.5.5 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations ◐ 22 Market EC4 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. ◐ note2) Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. ◐ 3, 31 1 6.4.4, 6.8 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant EC7 operation ◐ 10, 48 6 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 72 ● Fully Reported ◐ Partly Reported N/A No Material G3.1 Indicators Reporting Status Page UNGC ISO 26000 Indirect Economic 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.5, Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit ● 22, 58 6.8.6, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.6.7, EC9 Understanding and describing indirect economic impacts ● 52, 53, 55 6.7.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.6, 6.8.7 Environmental Energy EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ◐ 30 8 6.5, 6.5.4 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ◐ 30 8 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source ● 44 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source ● 44 8 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements ● 38, 39, 41 8,9 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services ● 39, 40 8,9 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved ◐ 43, 63, 64 8,9 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 44 8 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water N/A 8 Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high ◐ 42 6.5, 6.5.6 biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of signifi cant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and EN12 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas none EN13 Habitats protected or restored N/A EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing biodiversity ◐ 42 Number of national conversational list species with habitants in areas affected by operations, by level of extincEN15 tion risk N/A Emissions, Effluents EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 38, 39 8 6.5, 6.5.5 and Waste EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 38 8 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved ● 38, 39, 41 7~9 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight ◐ 38, 39, 41 8 6.5, 6.5.3 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight ● 44 8 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination ● 44 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and treatment method ● 44 8 EN23 Total number and volume of signifi cant spills none 8 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel EN24 Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally N/A 8 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats signifi cantly aff EN25 ected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff N/A 8 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.5.6 Products and EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation ● 39, 40 7~9 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.6.6, 6.7.5 Services EN27 Ratio of recycling of sold products and relevant packaging materials ◐ 40 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.7.5 Compliance EN28 Monetary value of fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental ● none 8 6.5 laws and regulations Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organi◐ 38 8 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.6.6 zation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ● note3) 7~9 6.5 Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and regio ● 10, 48 6.4, 6.4.3 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. ◐ 48, note4) LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations ● 49, note5) 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. ◐ 49 Labor / 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5, Management LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● 50 1,3 6.3.10 Relations LA5 Minimum notice period regarding important operational changes ● note6) 3 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5 Occupational LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees ● 50 1 6.4, 6.4.6 Health and Safety LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by region ● 48 1 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, 6.4, 6.4.6, 6.8, 6.8.3, LA8 their families, and community members regarding serious diseases ◐ 48 1 6.8.4, 6.8.8 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions ● 48 1 6.4, 6.4.6 Training and LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category ◐ 47 6.4, 6.4.7 Education LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning and assist them in managing career endings ◐ 47 6.4, 6.4.7, 6.8.5 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. ◐ 46-48 6.4, 6.4.7 73 ● Fully Reported ◐ Partly Reported N/A No Material G3.1 Indicators Reporting Status Page UNGC ISO 26000 Diversity and Equal LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age ● 48 1,6 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, 6.4.3 Opportunity group, minority group membership,and other indicators of diversity 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, 6.4.3, LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category ● 48 1,6 6.4.4 Human Rights Investment and ProHR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights ◐ 19 1,6 6.3, 6.3.5 curement Practices Non-Discrimination 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, HR4 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining ● 48 1,2,6 6.4.3 Freedom of AssociaOperations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, tion and Collective HR5 significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights ● 50 1~3 Bargaining 6.4.3 Child Labor Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, HR6 the elimination of child labor ● 48 1,2,5 6.3.7, 6.3.10 Forced and Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to HR7 ● 48 1,2,4 Compulsory Labor contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Indigenous Rights 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.8, HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. none 1,2 6.6.7 Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact ◐ 19 assessments. Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. ◐ Society Local Community 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7, SO1 Effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities ◐ 58-62 6.6.7 Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption ◐ 19 10 6.6, 6.6.3 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures ● 19 10 SO4 Measures taken for corruption cases ◐ 19 10 Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying ◐ 42, 56 6.6, 6.6.4, 6.8.3 Anti-competitive Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their SO7 none 6.6, 6.6.5, 6.6.7 Behavior outcomes. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws ● note7) 6.6, 6.6.7, 6.8.7 and regulations Local Community SO9 Operations with signifi cant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. none Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative SO10 impacts on local communities. ◐ 58 Product Responsibility Customer Health 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.7, 6.7.4, and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement ● note8) 6.7.5 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and PR2 safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. none Product and Service Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, Labeling PR3 services subject to such information requirements ◐ 30 8 6.7.6, 6.7.9 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and PR4 service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. ● note9) 8 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.6, PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction ● 36 6.7.8, 6.7.9 Marketing PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary rules related to marketing communications, includ● note1) 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 Communication ing advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing PR7 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. ● note1) Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data ◐ 20 1 6.7, 6.7.7 Compliance with Laws and PR9 Monetary value of fines levied for violating laws and regulations on providing products and services ● note10) 6.7, 6.7.6 Regulations 1) Information on AMOREPACIFIC’s voluntary compliance with fair trade rules is available at http://www.amorepacific.com/sustain/justice_summary.jsp 2) Minimum wage laws are strictly followed 3) Environmental conservation costs amount to KRW 2,223 million 4) Reported the Number of years in service in stead of the turnover rate, as it better reflects the employment status of the company 5) Information on AMOREPACIFIC’s benefits program is available at http://recruit.amorepacific.co.kr/personnel/pay.jsp 6) Articles 13 and 19 of the Collective Agreement stipulate the minimum notice period. 7) There were no violations of laws and regulations within the reporting period other than what is indicated in PR9. 8) Information on AMOREPACIFIC’s product safety process is available at http://www.amorepacific.com/sustain/safety_item_01.jsp 9) Paid a fine of KRW 7.2 milion in relation to the violation of labeling and advertising regulations. (3 cases) Report Summary 1. Purpose This report was created to transparently disclose AMOREPACIFIC’s sustainability management activities to stakeholders and to collect various opinions to reflect them in management. AMOREPACIFIC plans to issue this report every year to advance into a company that contributes to sustainable development and to engage in active communication with all of you stakeholders. 2. Standards Followed The 2011 AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the G3.1 guidelines set forth by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and main agenda of ISO 26000. 3. Period Covered This report covers AMOREPACIFIC activites from January 1 to December 31, 2011. Data from 2009 and 2010 were included for comparative purposes. 4. Scope This report specifies the activities and performance of the AMOREPACIFIC Head Office, the R&D Center, Human Resources Development Center, regional offices, Skin Care Division, Makeup Division, Mass Cosmetics Division, Sulloc Tea plants, and AP beauty production site. Basic information is offered on subsidiaries, both overseas and domestic. We plan to gradually disclose information on detailed activities in future reports according to sustainability management action plans. 5. Report Assurance To verify the accuracy and enhance the credibility of the contents of the report, we received third-party verification. For Inquiries Please Contact the AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Management Team at Hangang-ro 2-Ga 181, Yongsan-gu, Seoul, Korea Tel. +82.2.879.3048 Fax. +82.2.709.5339 Home page. www.amorepacific.com e-mail. csr@amorepacific.com *This report is our fourth Communication on Progress(COP) issued after joining the UN Global Compact. C2 www.amorepacific.com This report was used environment-friendly papers and was printed in Soy ink. The cover and interior pages are also environmentallyfriendly and FSC-certified paper. FSC mark only attaches on the products used timbers which have been grown in an environmentally developed and managed forestry. In addition, as opposed to traditional petroleum-based ink, soy ink is more environmentally-friendly and is not volatilized. Then, it leads to reduce air
