KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 About This Report Characteristics of Report This is the second Sustainability Report issued by Korea National Park Service (KNPS) and this report consists of our sustainable activities and results. Also this report has been verified by 3rd party to secure the creditability and the results from the validation are listed in the appendix. You can download our sustainability report from our website in Korean and English. Report Standards and G3.1 Guideline Application Standard This 2011 KNPS Sustainability Report was written based on GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 guideline and was rated GRI A+ application level complies with the all matters it requires. Report Validation This report went through objective and creditable validation process by independent validation institution, a Korean Standard Association. The validation institution confirmed and verified that his report was complied with the G3.1 guidelines with an application level of A+. Period and Scope of Report This report includes the results from January, 2009 to December, 2011 with time series analysis and the partial result from the 1st half of 2012 is also included and reported. The monetary unit in this report is based on the Korean Won (￦). We used quantitative data with ton, km, m2, m3, ha, g and KwH and any other units were indicated with values. The results of sustainable management contained in this report were based on the head quarter of KNPS and all offices and those results made public. We, the KNPS hope to meet with you by continuously publishing this report. For additional information request and other inquiries, please contact the following number. •Homepage: www. knps.or.kr •Address: 121-717 9th Floor, Taeyong BLDG 144 Mapo-daero, Mapo-gu, Seoul •Email: webmaster@knps.or.kr •Tel: 02) 3279-2700, 02) 3279-2701 (night) •Fax: 02) 3279-2785~6 •Responsible Department: Office of Performance Management, KNPS Contents CEO Message 02 Introduction 06 About KNPS 08 Institutional Governance Structure 11 Ethical Management 13 Risk Management 15 Sustainability Management Promoting System 16 Major Issues of Sustainability Management 17 Communication with Stakeholders 18 Korean National Parks 22 Special Report 1 23 Restoration and Protection of Endangered Species 24 Conservation of Habitual Environment for Animal and Plant 28 Securing the Diversify of Park Resources 30 Conservation of Cultural Heritage 32 Special Report 2 33 Ecological Welfare Program 34 Ecological Welfare Infrastructure 36 Environment 39 Environmental Management Promoting System 40 Low-carbon Green Growth 41 Environmental Maintenance 44 Management of Water Quality and Aquatic Ecosystem 45 Society 47 Customer Satisfaction Management 48 Disaster & Safety Countermeasure 49 Communication with Customers 50 Status of Officials and Employees 51 Human Resource Development and Incentive System 52 Communication with Officials and Employees 54 Safety and Health for Officials and Employees 55 Family-friendly Management 56 Fair Trade 57 Making a Happy Community 58 Economy 61 Management Performance 62 Efforts for Financial Soundness 63 Efforts for Work Improvement 64 Global KNPS 66 Appendix 67 Independent(3rd party) Validation Report 68 GRI G3.1/ISO 26000 Application Level 70 Organization and Society Membership and Award Performance 73 Introduction of Sustainability Management TFT 74 Reader's Opinion 75 2 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 CEO Message The KNPS is leading “Happy future for both nature and people” Dear all stakeholders, It is honor to release second issue of sustainability report 2011 to share our efforts and outcomes for Sustainability Management. 3 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 CEO MESSAGE A core axis of natural ecosystem, the national largest open space Win-win cooperation through the communication with As a representative area of Korea’s natural ecosystem and natural stakeholders landscape with cultural heritage, the national park is a core area to With the cooperation with communities, we will develop a great conserve the national biological resources which about 41% of valuable village in the national park, operate National Park Citizen national species and 61% of endangered species have inhabited. College and resolve the conflict factors with stakeholders by The KNPS has been putting lots of efforts to share the beauty and putting efforts in win-win cooperation with interagency to build a natural ecological value of the national parks not only with current partnership. We will expand the visiting opportunities for socially generation but also with future generation through restoration of disadvantaged who are in difficulties to support the visiting and endangered species including Asiatic Black Bear and positively contribute to society by national health enhancement Naemorhedus goral and conservation of environmental habitats program and environmental education for future generation. for animal and plant. As a result, our 15 national parks have been certified IUCN category II, raising our global status to abroad. Contribute to regional economic development and create an Also, we have been designated as the best institution in economic value through management efficiency customer satisfaction from government for 2 consecutive A ripple effect of national park on the economy has reached 2.7 years by proving the best and reliable public service to trillion won and its effects on creating the jobs for around customer and creating an advanced visiting infrastructure. 28,000 people. We will make an effort to contribute to regional economic development by activating an ecotourism and Declared a ‘vision 2020’ and prepare for 10 years in the future expanding the low-lying ground horizontal visiting In 2011, the KNPS had proclaimed a vision 2020 under the title infrastructure. Also, we will achieve our sustainable growth by of ‘A core of nature conservation, the leading institution of improving inefficient and illogical work processes through the ecological welfare’ and established a KNPS development management efficiency. strategy for next 10 years. We have established 4 different strategic goals including securing the sustainability of park Better national park, trustful KNPS resources, improvement of ecological welfare function, and The KNPS is making an effort to actively support 10 principles establishment of basis for future growth, and strengthening of UN Global Compact (UNGC) and to comply with our social the capacity of park management. For the sustainable future responsibility for human right, labor, environment and antiand proving the best value & satisfaction to all stakeholders, corruption. Accordingly, the KNPS publishes the sustainability we sincerely carry out our roles as followings. report every year to report the performance of fulfillment and tries to listen stakeholders’ voice and make them as a Play a leading role in conserving the environment foundation for our Sustainability Management. We will try hard The KNPS strives to improve the biodiversity and ecosystem to be ‘better national park, trustful KNPS’ through truly health of national park, pan-nationally spreads the awareness realizing the social responsibility and please have your of environmental conservation through the promotion of continuous support and interests for our challenge and efforts. green point system, and takes the initiative in efforts for lowcarbon green growth to deal with climate change. Thank you. April 2012, CEO of KNPS Chung, Kwang-soo Daily happiness, a piece of memory A place where the nature and culture telling us the story, the KNPS does try to be with you all. KNPS will always be together with you for yourselves to hear more stories of the nature. KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE 2011 National Parks where nature is living and breathing Taeanhaean, Swan’s dance _ by Choi, Jang-hee INTRODUCTION 8 _About KNPS 11 _Institutional Governance Structure 13 _Ethical Management 15 _Risk Management 16 _Sustainability Management Promoting System 17 _Major Issues of Sustainability Management 18 _Communication with Stakeholders 22 _Korean National Parks Mountain National Parks Marine and Coastal National Parks Gayasan national park | Gyeryongsan national park | Naejangsan national park Dadohaehaesang national park | Taeanhaean national park Deogyusan national park | Byeonsanbando national park | Bukhansan national park Hallyeohaesang national park Seoraksan national park | Sobaeksan national park | Songnisan national park Odaesan national park | Woraksan national park | Wolchulsan national park Historical National Park Juwangsan national park | Jirisan national park | Chiaksan national park Gyeongju national park Hallasan national park* *The KNPS is managing 19 national parks excluding the Hallasan national park 8 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 About KNPS Korea National Park is a place with the highest value of ●● Summary of Institution conservation in Korea’s ecosystem, is a place with the most Characteristic Cultural and citizen’s Quasi-government valuable natural resources and cultural assets, is a place allows of Institution living type Protection and conservation of us to enjoy by caring and protecting them all together and is a national park, installation, maintenance Commissioned by Contents of place should be passed down to our next generation. Project and management of national park minister of Ministry facilities, instruction and promotion of Environment To pass down these national parks to our future generation, the of national park uses Korea National Park Service (hereinafter referred to as KNPS) Location of 144 Mapo street, Mapogu, Seoul has been promoted the restoration and conservation of natural Head Office resource including endangered animals and plants and Number of As of end of 2011 Officials and 2,083 people (temporary employees restoration of core ecology since its establishment in 1987. Employees are included) Also the KNPS is conserving the natural ecology in the national park Budget 171,645 million won As of end of 2011 through the maintenance of the environmental spoiling facilities and also development and providing various visiting services. We improve the environment in the national park for visitors to use our Green Governance facilities safely and the KNPS is the only professional park management institution of Korea that improves the environment in KNPS has established mid and long-term plans in accordance the national park for visitors to use our facilities safely and builds with the strategic conservation plan that coping with and operates disaster safety management system. domestic/foreign changes such as biodiversity conservation and climate change, and provided a place-specific management Composition of organization direction for each according to the park’s status. KNPS also has established midlong term conservation plan of each park that The KNPS is composed of CEO, 3 executive directors, 1 auditor and 6 copes with changes in the park condition such as the use of park, departments (planning and finance, administration, park conservation, park management policy and climate change. In this regards, the park management, visitor management and facility management) and KNPS is striving to systemically and scientifically conserve the 5 offices (performance management, secretary, public relations, natural ecosystem and build a basis for management. partnership and audit) and 26 local national park offices, national park research institute, species restoration technology institute, ecolearning institute, and aviation team History It shows KNPS’s footprint to help a clear understanding on precious 1980’S values of National Parks and to hand over our nature as it is to next The Park Act divided into ‘Natural Park Act and ‘Urban Park Act’ 1980. 06. generation. Amendment of Natural Park Act (Provided the establishment reason of KNPS) 1986. 12. Established the KNPS 1987. 07. Designated Sobaeksan national park 1987. 12. 1960’S Designated Byeonsanbando and a Wolchulsan national park 1988. 06. 1967. 03. Enactment of Park Act 1967. 12. Designated the first national park (Jirisan) 1970’S 1970. 05. Collected the entrance fee to National Park for the first time (Songrisan) 9 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 INTRODUCTION ●● Organization Chart Board of Directors CEO Audit Office of Performance Management Secretary’s Office Executive Director of Management Planning Executive Director of Park Conservation Executive Director of Visitor Management Planning & Finance Department Administration Department Office of Park Resource Conservation Department Park Management Department Office of Visitor Management Department Facility Management Department Office of Audit Business Planning Division General Affairs Division Public Park Resource Conservation Division Park Planning & Concession Division Partner Visitor Service Division Construction & Maintenance Division Audit Division Financial Management Division Human Resources Development Division Relations ship Information Technology Service Division Ecological Restoration Division Protection Division Safety & Emergency Services Division Public Design Division Audit Planning Division National Park Offices (26) National Park Research Institute Species Restoration Technology Institute Eco-learning Institute Aviation Team Jirisan National Park Office Jirisan National Park South Office Jirisan National Park North Office Gyeongju National Park Office Gyeryongsan National Park Office Hallyeohaesang National Park Office Hallyeohaesang National Park East Office Seoraksan National Park Office Songnisan National Park Office Naejansan National Park Office Naejansan National Park Baekam Office Gayasan National Park Office Deogyusan National Park Office Odaesan National Park Office Juwangsan National Park Office Taeanhaean National Park Office Dadohaehaesang National Park Office Dadohaehaesang National Park West Office Chiaksan National Park Office Woraksan National Park Office Bukhansan National Park Office Bukhansan National Park Dobong Office Sobaeksan National Park Office Sobaeksan National Park North Office Wolchulsan National Park Office Byeonsanbando National Park Office About CI 2000’S 2004. 05. Designated as a management of organization of disaster relief 2005. 11. Authenticated Seoraksan from IUCN category V to IUCN category II by UNEP-WCMC and IUCN 2005. 11. Established national park research institute 2006. 11. Founded the endangered species restoration technology institute (Jirisan A symbol mark of KNPS is to represent the reasons for our national park) existence that the sky and land, the nature and human should be 2007. 01. Abolished the entrance fee of national park coexisting and managed together with the triangle motive that 2007. 05. Authenticated Jirisan, Odaesan, Woraksan, and Sobaeksan from IUCN represents the geographical feature of Korea’s mountains category V to IUCN category II by UNEP-WCMC and IUCN 2008. 01. Acquired the management right of Gyeongju national park continuing in layers and health and clean marine ecosystem. 2009. 11. Authenticated Dadohae, Juwang, Wolchul, Songrisan from IUCN category V to IUCN category II by UNEP-WCMC and IUCN 1990’S 1991. Implemented the sabbatical year of nature 1991. 04. Changed the supervisory body from the ministry of construction to the ministry of internal affairs 1997. 02. 1998. 02. Established our homepage (http://www.knps.or.kr) Changed the supervisory body from the ministry of 2010’S internal affair to the ministry of environment 2010. 01. Relocated the UNESCO MAB Korean committee secretariat 1998. 06. Relocated the headquarters from Nonhyundong, Gangnam-gu to Gonddukdong, Mapo-gu 2010. 11. Authenticated Chiaksan, Gayasan, Naejangsan, Byeonsanbando, Hallasaon from IUCN category V to IUCN category II by UNEP-WCMC and IUCN 2011. 06. Opened an Eco-learning Institute 2011. 10. Authenticated hallyeon national park from IUCN category V to IUCN category II by UNEP-WCMC and IUCN 10 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Business Area Conservation of park resources and patrols, we are strengthening clean and green patrol and The KNPS is promoting the conservation and restoration projects improving the work efficiency by introducing a site management which consider the characteristics of each resource in the park to system using IT equipment. increase the national biodiversity for organisms, landscape and cultural heritage in the park and secure the sustainability of park Improvement of visiting culture resources. To restore the endangered species and conserve and To awaken the importance of national park and create a healthy visiting manage the core habitats for wild animal and plant such as Asiatic culture, the KNPS is proving visiting service, expanding the visiting guide black bear, Naemorhedus goral, Cypripedium japonicum and others, infrastructure and operating a visiting reservation system. To protect we had designated a special protected area to restore and manage the visitors and resources in the national park from disasters and safety core habitats for wildlife. We are striving to increase the natural accidents, we are operating a disaster management system, promoting ecosystem health by connecting eco-axis of Baekdudaegan, removing forest fire prevention; we are putting various efforts for visitors to tour the ecological destroying species and managing marine ecosystem. national park in safe and clean way. ●Restoration of Asiatic Black Bear ●Operating interpretative program Prevention of park resources damage Installation and management of national park facilities The KNPS is exerting its utmost efforts for site management such The KNPS is installing and managing facilities based on various as prevention and crackdown of illegality and maintenance of park visiting, the visiting trail grading system, management of damaged cleanliness to provide a fresh and clean natural environment for trails, creation of Dule-gil (a sort of trail around low-lying Bukhansan), visitors. We are operating special crackdown team to reduce and universal design facilities to encourage the sustainable uses of chronic illegalities, improving the awareness of visitors with national park and create safe visiting environment. Also, we are introduction of pan-national purification activity, and protecting park creating a clean park environment through improvement of village resources. By operating an electric patrol vehicle, electric bicycle and old-shopping center in the national park, migration of old-group ●Natural damage prevention campaign of deep-seated shopping centers in the park and improvement of hindrance facilities on visit environment. ●Haebyeon-gil, Taeanhaean 11 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 INTRODUCTION Institutional Governance Structure Basis of Establishment ●● Board of Directors List Title Name Position Specialization For about 20 years since 1968, the national parks in the past had Chung, Kwang-soo CEO Forest Administration Park, Executive director of Business Environmental been divided or managed by 42 respective local governments; Young-deok Planning Management Executive thus, the management function was very poor and it was difficult officer Shin, Executive director of Nature Environmental Dong-won Conservation Administration to enforce the consistent policy. Chung, Hyun-hong Executive director of Visitor Service Administration To correct these problems caused by insufficient management, Kim, Hyun-poong Ex Head of Gangbuk-gu, Seoul Administration the government had established a ‘Korea National Park Service’ Elected Park, Sung-ha CEO of Twinscom Management on 1st of July, 1987 under the Ministry of Construction according Cho, Gyu-bae President of Seoul Alpine Federation Management to the Article 44 of Natural Park Act; we then transferred to the NonCho, Gyeong-gyu Director-general of social budget Management executive in Ministry of Strategy and Finance Ministry of Internal Affairs in Apr, 1991 and finally moved to under officer Sim, Director of Regional Natural Conservation, Administration Ministry of Environment in Feb, 1998. Mandatory Bo-gyun Ministry of Public Administration and Security Baek, Director of Natural Conservation, Administration Gyu-seok Ministry of Environment Major Function and Legal Rights Jang, Jeok Chief Buddhist monk of Wongae temple Buddhism The KNPS efficiently promoted the park management project accordance with ‘Public Institution Management Act’ and ‘Natural Park including the research and study of park resources, installation Act’. Since 2011, we have organized a committee specialized in and management of park facilities and instruction and promotion conservation, visiting and management under the Board of Directors to of park uses to conserve a beautiful national park. We are use the professionalism of non-executive directors and expand their pursuing to improve the quality of the life by conserving the engagements in the management. natural resources in its entirety and promoting the sustainable The Board of Directors provides the opportunities for relevant uses. The KNPS is currently managing 19 national parks among employees to state their opinions, understands the customer’s 20 national parks in Korea, excluding a Hallasan national park. needs through site visiting to reflect the opinions from stakeholders. Board of Directors Performance of Board A Board of Directors is a senior organization of decision making who To create a management performance through the enforcement of resolves and supervises the major agendas on matters determined by board meeting and its role, the KNPS has expanded the information law or government, basic policy of management and work enforcement. access channels on major pending issues for non-executive officers The Board of Directors is composed of 4 executive officers including a with an e-board meeting, integrated management system, CEO and 7 non-executive officers who are specialized in each area in provision of data for management strategy meeting. Also, we are operating various programs such an on-site board meeting and ●● Nomination of members in the Board of Directors orientation for new directors to improve the understanding of park CEO Executive committee → Recommended by Minister of management. We manage the 3 core indicators related to the Ministry of Environment → Appointed by president of ROK operation of board (attendance rate of non-executive officer, weight Executive officers Executive committee → Appointed by CEO of non-executive officer’s comment, number of management Executive committee →Recommended by president of proposal) in priority and striving for internally strong management Non-executive institution →Appointed by Minister of Ministry of Environment officers by holding board meetings on a regular basis. (Use KNPS advisory committee for labor force pool) 12 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 ●● Non-executive committee Board of Directors Secretary (Director of Strategy and Finance) Management committee Conservation committee Visiting committee Non-executive committee Jang-Juk Buddhist monk Director, Cho, Gyu-bae Director, Park, Seong-ha Kim, Hyun Poong Ministry of Ministry of Administration (Mandatory) Environment (Mandatory) and Safety (Mandatory) Responsible Department Department of Strategy and Finance Department of Park Conservation Department of Visitor Service Compensation and organizational Anti-collision with interests of board members performance of members of board The member who has the special interests with matters on the The performance of board of directors are evaluated based on the agenda of board excludes the deliberation of matter on the management evaluation for public institution determined by agenda. To improve the management transparency, the board government, a ‘responsible management’ indicator; and the incentives meeting record and executive director meeting record are (performance-related pay) is given differently to executive officers disclosed at our homepage. according to the results from institutional (or director of institution) management performance evaluation. In case of poor performance ●● Operational System of Board Member Recommendation Committee rated by government management evaluation and job performance, Board of Directors the person with right of appointment for members of board can dismiss •Composition of Board Member of Recommendation Committee the member from the meeting or suggest the dismissal. More than half of non-executive Board members attended Excluding the stakeholders Range from 5 to 9 people ●● Board of Directors Status Including the spokesperson of KNPS (internal employee) Including the external member (including the female member) to Division 2009 2010 2011 secure the independence and diversity Meeting (time) 8 8 9 Agenda (case) 35 46 43 Primary meeting of Board Recommendation Committee Suggestion of original plan (case) 3 5 2 •Appoint the chair of Board Recommendation Committee •Determine the method of recruitment for candidates Attendance rate (%) 90.8 86.3 92.6 Recruitment Announcement ●On-site board meeting •Notify at newspaper and homepage (more than 1 week) Secondary meeting of Board Recommendation Committee •Review the candidates’ documentations •Determine the number of interview member Third meeting of Board Recommendation Committee •Interview •Suggest the candidate (3~5 multiple numbers of people) 13 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 INTRODUCTION Ethical Management Ethical Management Promoting System Purunsol It is KNPS’s ethical management brand The KNPS is striving to lead the social responsibility by improving the to achieve clean and reliable national transparency and integrity of KNPS and complying with ethical standard park based on efforts all together by in the global level. In 2011, we have established an integrity network emulating the pine tree that never lost between the organizations to strength the anti-corruption activities and its green throughout whole 4 seasons. improve the creditability from stakeholders and also we firmly have reestablished the systematic basis by revising the related regulations. ●● Ethical Management Promoting System Vision A core of nature conservation, the leading institution of ecological welfare Strategic goal Building a foundation for future growth through improving ethical accountability and transparency Ethical management KNPS leading the social responsibilities through the quality improvement of ethical and transparent management target Improving a promoting system for Improving and implementing an Creating a sound ethical culture ethical management ethical management •Reestablishment of ethical management system •Manager’s great example and practices •Improvement of system in the area Priority work vulnerable to an integrity •Expansion of organization to promote an •Accumulation training for repeated exposure •Voluntarily ethical practice activities ethical management •Spread of external/internal ethical culture •Operation of motivation system for ethical •Establishment and amendment of ethical standards management Evaluation feedback •Internal monitoring •External monitoring Purunsol index, internal evaluation KoBEX, integrity, nation’s sensory level ●● Ethical Management Promoting Organization Strengthening an ethical management Expanding the organization for anti-corruption Strengthening public-private partnership Social Responsibility Committee (ex Ethics Committee_ Anti-corruption planning group Office of Performance Management Office of Audit Park citizen auditor (integrity ombudsman) Purunsol custodian (27 people) Practical anti-corruption T/F Ethical CoP (26 offices and research center) Audit Administration Technology District public-private partnership organizations (7) team team team 14 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 ●● Role of ethical management promoting organization Performance of Ethical Management Promoting organization Main role Social Responsibility Committee Deciding important policies in ethical management Leading by example from the management Responsible department Establishing and promoting the basic plan for of ethical management ethical management The management of KNPS is striving to settle down the Anti-corruption promoting Decision making for integrity policy related internal/external ethical management. We are continuously spreading and planning team the message of ethical management through on/offline including the Practical anti-corruption T/F Diagnosing the area to be vulnerable to corruption and improving the process intranet, SNS, resolution contest of ethical management with labor Purunsol custodian Leader of ethical management in district organization and management together and practical integrity workshop; we are The stakeholders monitor the major project and the disclosing the amount of project spending by executive officer and Integrity ombudsman area to be vulnerable to corruption and suggest the system improvement executive auditor in monthly basis and transparent way, faithfully fulfilling the code of conduct for officer and employees. Internal audit system Education Program for Ethical Management The KNPS is continuously implementing diverse programs such as The KNPS has established the audit implementation plan that a Face to Face Approach, enterprise education, integrity education connects with annual policy and mid and long-term for ourselves and cyber education for all officials and employees. management strategy through strengthening the internal Especially in 2011, we have developed customized ethical education checking system; and we are strengthening precautionary content by playing an example of ethical management that might activities through IT based e-audit system. Also, the KNPS is occur in the daily by internal actress/actor; thereby, the higher effect protecting itself from reckless management with active of education and satisfaction were obtained. consultation and policy proposal for management activities and preparing for rapid changes in management environment. Spread of internal/external ethical culture The KNPS is encouraging the ethical management CoP activities for internal ethical culture to be settled down and striving to spread ●● Improvement of system in the area to be vulnerable to corruption an ethical culture by operating an integrity private cooperation by Area System improvement Improvement effect district. Also, we are doing some promoting activities such as UCC Blind interview, introduction of interview Strengthening the fairness Recruitment production using an ethical content and campaign for setting down committee responsibility system in the recruitment Introduction of company card Complete blocking the integrity culture for all citizens. for filling gas station by car type for private use Purchasing Building a regular monitoring Preventing an illicit use for company card (2 unusual trades extracted) Internal Public Reporting System Preliminary screening system Improving the transparency The KNPS is operating an internal public reporting system to Contract for contract (cost price) in budget execution increase the transparency in the work process and install an SMS will be sent to direct Efficient control for funding integrity and anti-corruption culture. In 2011, the KNPS had Finance of responsible department when transfer spending the funding introduced Executive Audit Hot-line and Help-line System with Revenue-making Collecting facility use fee using Preventing an illegal collection in business a mobile device advance contracting out, and established regulations on “Protection of Reporter’s safety” and “Strenghthen Disciplinary Action to people who violate the obligation of anti-corruption report’. ●● Status of basic training for ethical management* (Unit : hour) Integrity Contract System 21 23 21.3 A CEO and executive officers should enter into job integrity contract. Also, all officials and employees should write a pledge to practice an ethical management and we are establishing a strong will of enterprise ethical management by encouraging 2009 2010 2011 first and second class executive officers to write additional * Training in all areas of ethical management such as a sustainability management, integrity, antiintegrity pledges. corruption, human right and others 15 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 INTRODUCTION Risk Management Risk Management ●● Countermeasure for different risk type Division Risk type Countermeasure To cope with uncertainty that has been increasing within rapidly Financial Reduction in self-earning Countermeasure by risk stage risk changing management environment in advance and to secure Strengthening internal control and drawing the Management and develop the stability of company value, the systematic improvement measures management for diverse risk factors at the enterprise Immediate reporting to disaster safety action Forest fire center request of help to Forest perspective is required. Administration site input and rescue NonThe KNPS had drawn 84 risk factors of 6 types that considered financial Immediate reporting to disaster safety action risk Safety accident center request of help to 119 site input and Disaster the effect, frequency and risk level in overall management rescue through self auditing, externally pointed out cases, and media Immediate reporting to disaster safety action Weather center reporting to center disaster action research. Accordingly, the current department is voluntarily breaking news department site control, confirming and takes effect recovering the damage inspecting and correcting through a voluntary inspection checklist; the risk management system is operating to check the implementation status through auditing activities. according to the profit goal, managing the risk by establishing the countermeasures by its scenario plan stage. The non-financial risk Coping with risk by its type can be occurred in the KNPS such as natural disaster, safety accident and forest fire and there is also other risks of the damages Risk is managed in accordance with its type into two large on life and resources that their values can’t be converted into any categories, finance and non-financial area. The biggest risk in the other forms. To protect valuable life and resources, the KNPS financial area is instability of funding management due to the operates a disaster safety action center for real-time monitoring of unexpected decreases of the profit. To cope with financial risk in forest fire, disaster and weather, managing the situation by advance, the KNPS had established the risk step standard systemically managing the manual for each situation. ●● Establishment of standard for risk phase according to revenue goal and coping strategy 100% 95% 90% 85% 80% •Declaration of emergency •Strengthening the expansion of •Enforcement of revenue •Budget management •EnSecuring of surplus finances management active revenue recovery measures monitoring •Reservation and reduction in •Reduction of lump-sum and •Adjustment of spending budget •Activation increase in revenue allocation of lump-sum voluntarily budgets budgets •Prohibition on spending other than required spending such as tax •Reviews of loans for shortage of funds Severe Alert Caution Attention Optimum level 16 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Sustainability Management Promoting System Sustainability Management Vision and Strategy The KNPS has re-established its mission of「The KNPS is leading happy future for both nature and people”」and determined our vision of「A core of nature conservation, the leading institution of ecological welfare」in 2011 to conserve the natural ecosystem and natural and culture landscape in the national park and promote its sustainable use. To achieve this mission and vision, we have determined and promoted our 4 strategic goals: securing a sustainability of park resource, improving in function of ecological welfare in the park, building a foundation for future growth and strengthening the capabilities in park management; and 14 strategic tasks, flexibly coping with them by reflecting rapid changes of internal/external management environment and change in governmental policy and social trend. ●● Sustainability Management Promoting System Mission The KNPS is leading “Happy future for both Nature and People” Vision A core of nature conservation, the leading institution of ecological welfare Improving in Strengthening Securing a function of Building a Strategic goal sustainability of foundation for the capabilities ecological in park park resource welfare in the future growth management park •Habitat management to improve •Strengthening in function of educating •Improving the level of contribution •Strengthening the research to nature’s health for future generation to management of national improve the level of scientific •Park resources management •Strengthening a recreation opportunity environmental protected areas management for park Strategic focused on conservation and healing function for citizens •Strengthening the management in •Realizing a U-Park for advancement •Improving natural affinity of park •Enhancing the engagement in park national key ecosystem, the marine area of park management assignment facilities management and regional social •Improving the brand value of KNPS •Strengthening domestic / •Lead an eco-friendly visit welfare •Building a sustainability management international network for cooperative system management for park •Park Conservation Department •Visitor Management Department •Planning & Finance Department •Research Institute •Office of Partnership •Facility Management Department •Facility Management Department •Office of Partnership Promoting •Park Management Department •Research Institute •Facility Management Department •Office of Partnership •Administration Department department •Visitor Management Department •Park Management Department •Administration Department •Office of Public Relations •Office of Performance management ●● ’Vision 2020' A core of nature conservation, the leading institution of ecological welfare Major function of Institution Visional goal: ‘core’ and ‘leading Institution National Parks are Korea’s representative ‘protected area’ to prevent the It means the KNPS will play core role in the nature conservation for country by Nature Core damage and to seek for primitive status of nature; its meaning of natural using the professionalism of national park management Conservation conservation There are many Institutions to improve the quality of national life through natural environment; however, the Institution who use the concept of’ welfare’ is very limited. The KNPS is not limited to providing a service in use of national Beyond the purpose of simple use for well-protected area by visitors, this Leading Ecological park’s great natural environment; rather it develops boarder service at the means to create high qualified utility value to improve the quality of life through Institution Welfare welfare level to improve the quality of life and lead and spread the concept of the national park at the perspective of national welfare improvement ecological welfare by maintaining its sustainability through the cooperative network with various stakeholders. 17 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 INTRODUCTION Major Issues of Sustainability Management Significance Evaluation Process ●● Significance Evaluation Process TEST 1 Internal policy evaluation, policy and standard evaluation data The KNPS continuously understands the domestic/international sustainability management trends and communicates with Domestic/international regulation, review on the standard TEST 2 and law, review on related regulation and global standard stakeholders; thereby, utilizing their comments and concerns as the basic information for significance evaluation. The KNPS had TEST 3 In-depth interviews with internal/external stakeholder implemented a significance evaluation for each issue in accordance with ISO 26000 including the internal policy, media analysis, survey on TEST 4 Surveys on internal/external stakeholder stakeholders, interviews with internal/external stakeholders, benchmarking and global standard guideline analysis for 2011 Implementation of benchmarking the sustainability leading TEST 5 sustainability report. This report provides the outcomes in activities company and any relevant information based on major issues which have been Media research, search on major press releases TEST 6 (Jan. 2009 ~ Dec. 2011) selected through the significance evaluation. Derivation of Major Issues external stakeholders. The major issues derived by these methods are used as key contents in the sustainability report and basis for Our main issues for sustainability of KNPS are economic, social and establishment of KNPS sustainability management. The KNPS will environmental trends and the effect of our management on the combine major issues with sustainability management of KNPS to economy, social and environment; have been derived from continuously manage and will strive to improve accurate and significance evaluation matrix composed of both internal and transparent information for stakeholder’s concern and opinion. ●● Significance Evaluation Chart •Community •Community cooperation and •Understanding the •Conservation of biodiversity HIGH •Awareness of •Social responsibility communication supports needs of community •Policy measures to combat community promoting system •Nurturing and securing climate change •Improvement of energy •recycling and reuse of • Customer communication environmental important issues from external stakeholders efficiency and energy saving GHG related specialized staff •Education training and self •Anti-corruption •Sustainability management report •Open the information of •Awareness level of •Low-carbon green development for officials and •Law-abiding •Spread awareness for the the company environment management growth employees sustainability management •Ethical management system •Specializedsocialresponsibilityactivity •Gaining trust from nation •Improvement of ethical •Urbanization •Environmental accounting •Strengthening ethical •Improvement of working environment MEDIUM management activity organizational culture •Safety & health •Improvement of institution •Responsible for products •Win-win cooperation supports •Sustainability management •Operation of BOD meeting governance structure and quality •CS education strategy and promoting system and steering committee •Fair trade •Improvement of •Strengthening public institution leadership •Supports for childcare •Balance between work •Communication with partners accounting transparency •Coping with governmental regulation and woman health and life •Equity of partner selection •Customer privacy protection •Female leadership •Spread of sustainability management for partners •Supports for retirement •Measurement of Sustainability •Improvement of labor and •Fairness of personnel •Reduction to hazardous substances •Employment stability Management performance management relationships system •Eradication of irrational •Ombudsman for official and •Communication of official and employee request to partners •Purchasing of eco-friendly •Financial performance employee •Providing equal recruitment opportunity •Management of goods (stability) •Respect for information environmental impacts of •Technology and product •Internal process innovation protection and privacy for LOW transportation and distribution innovations official and employee LOW MEDIUM HIGH important issues from internal stakeholders 18 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Communication with stakeholders ●Consultative group for resolving the ●National Park Citizen College Establishment of stakeholder groups and conflict of Bakdudaegan (Gyeryongsan) examples of main conflicts The KNPS considered the responsibility and mutual impacts on national parks, collected the opinions from internal employees and conducted the survey; thereby, finally the stakeholder groups have been established. The main stakeholder group is divided into government (the Ministry of Environment), park community, local government, internal employees, environmental group and NGO, trader in the ●● Stakeholder group park, monk, press release, and Korea Forest Service. For active communication with stakeholders, we are operating opened Local space on regular basis such as homepage, SNS and blog and resident various stakeholders are communicating each other through Government in the park (Ministry of Local community cooperation committee, Korea Conservation Environment) government Community (KCC), consultative group and others. When the KNPS generates conflict with stakeholder groups, Korea Executives the KNPS tries to find out the needs and complaints by each Forest Korea and staff Service National members group and analyses the core value of the needs and by doing Park this, the KNPS is establishing the ways for communication and Service cooperation with stakeholders. The KNPS is selecting the Press Visitor solutions for pending issues, negotiation and coordination by revising related regulation effects on the causing factor of Trader Environmental conflict and finding out the regulations to build the solution in the park group procedure or the reflecting element of internal policy. ●● Conflicts related to Baekdudaegan protected area in the National Park and its management process Research and analysis of effect of conflict Creating and operating a ‘consultative group to resolve the conflict related to Baekdudaegan protected area in related to Baekdudaegan protected area in the national park’ the national park Creating a bond of ● Composition : Mountain group, environmental group, the Ministry of Environment, ● Service executing institute: consensus on the Korea Forest Service, KNPS (private) conflict resolution center in the CCEJ necessity of conflict ● Main negotiations ● Description coordination between Use a legal visiting trail for conservation of Baekdudeagan in the National Park and In-depth interview with total 40 stakeholders the stakeholders its sustainable use; A joint-campaign to control the mountain climbing to restricted including the Ministry of Environment, Korea area Forest Service, KNPS, local government, citizen, As a result of research, Decide whether to promote the alternative project such as the visiting reservation mountain group and environmental group the consultative group system after appointing and investigating the target area at the Baekdudaegan in Analyzing the position and understanding proposed to be created the National Park between the stakeholders and their opinions and operated Create ‘Baekdudaegan Forum (tentative name)’, improve mutual cooperation through the interview (May, 2011) between the stakeholders and create a national consensus for conservation of Possibility of negotiation procedure to be created Baekdudaegan and settlement of sustainable visiting culture and design 19 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 INTRODUCTION ●● Background of constant communication and win-win growth of community through building a cooperative network Regulation based on park management in the past-Overflowing of community’s anti-national park sentiment ● Government policy •From the community’s side of view, living inconvenience and economic damage awareness expanded Support economic activities for vulnerable class Win-win growth Policy for win-win cooperation with regional stakeholders Win-win growth between consumer and supplier in the national park •Seeking for win-win growth by understanding the value of national park ● Securing of conservation sustainability of national park Building a system for constant communication with community and strengthening citizen support project Current conflict Promoting Creating a •Community cooperation committee, national park citizen college, creating high relations pending issues partnership quality village in the national park Changing the awareness of our national park from nuisance to treasure Realization of Improving the capability in •Win-win group with community and vitalization of community economy government policy conservation and service Especially in 2011, to resolve the conflicts around the nonOperating a constant communication channel opened section at the Marugeum (ridge) in Baekdudaegan, the for stakeholder’s engagement through KNPS has established the consultative group with mountain the community cooperation committee group, environmental group, the Ministry of Environment, and Korea Forest Service attended through 9 times to come up with The KNPS had appointed 40~50 stakeholders from each park more rational measures for park use and management and including community, local government, regional NGO, Buddhist draw the solution. temple monk and academic external experts as the member of community cooperation committee. The KNPS selected the Stakeholder Communication Channel district pending issues and park management policy for major agendas and discussed them through the community The KNPS has built various communication channels such as cooperation committee to reflect determined matters to park community cooperation committee, KCC, labor and management. In 2011, total 1,200 members of local cooperation management discussion that reflect the characteristics for each committee from 26 park offices had worked for park. stakeholder and collected the opinions from stakeholders to reflect them in our management activities so, make more Composition and Operation of various communication places. KCC: Korea Conservation Community The WCC (World Conservation Congress) will be held in Jeju Island on coming September, 2012. The KCC is a group led by ●Community Cooperation Committee ●Operating national park green market ●KCC contest by district 20 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 KNPS that makes the relationship with many groups of nature Stakeholders Engagement conservation so supported for successful WCC; furthermore, contributed to continuously spread a Park Hallyue culture to Surveys on Stakeholders domestic and international society by playing as an incubator of The KNPS is improving our creditability toward the sustainability creation of knowledge on nature and ecology. management by reflection various concerns through the KCC is largely composed of ‘KCC by district’ based on Korea’s communications with various stakeholders including customer, ecological center, the Bakdudaegan and ‘KCC by function’ which partners and communities. This survey was conducted from 27th is a network of academia, related specialist, NGO groups. In the of Feb to 2nd of March, 2012 and the comments on the future, The KNPS will share expertise through the small sized development and supplementation for our corporation from the workshop by district and function and develop our network the perspectives of stakeholders had been analyzed and the core best in the national natural ecology through establishing the issued also had been drawn; thereby, we are reflecting them in KNPS. our sustainability management activities. Park management with stakeholders ●● Results of survey by types of stakeholders* (Unit : point) 87.50 The KNPS operates diverse volunteer programs specialized by 84.60 83.90 82.30 Overall the characteristics of each National Park for culturing protection average awareness for national park and nurturing manpower in park 84.58 management. In 2011, about 25,000 volunteers were engaged in volunteer activities of national park for about 130,000 hours, creating an economic value of 70 workers; and about 319 resource supporters who had finished with candidate trainings Executives and Customers Community and Partners were engaged in various volunteering services including the staffs Government resource monitoring and interpretive program. By operating ‘1 * Evaluation of KNPS sustainability management in overall company-1 visiting trail management’ partnership and ‘Ranger volunteer camp’ for teenagers, we improve their understanding ●● Results of survey by areas in sustainability management (Unit : point) toward the national parks, striving to realize the park managed 88.85 with all people together. 86.50 83.73 83.00 Overall 81.80 average 80.30 84.03 ●● Status of 1 company1 visiting trail management partnership Year Total Company Institutes Community School Other 2011 176 groups 44 49 30 33 20 2010 108 groups 47 13 25 16 7 Institutional Sustainability Customer Win-win Community Labor and brand Satisfaction cooperation engagement management cooperation ●Volunteering activity (maintaining visiting trail) ●National Park Volunteers Convention ● Ranger Volunteer Camp (Dadoehaehaesang National Park) 21 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 INTRODUCTION Interviews with specialists Employee_a director of labor and management cooperation, Kang, Jae-gu In-depth interviews on major stakeholders, the government, officials The KNPS is putting utmost efforts for and employees, partners and representative human resources of restoration of beautiful landscape and natural and cultural heritages as the more than 40 interagency were conducted by KNPS to collect sustainability million of annual visitors to our national parks. management issues and expectation of KNPS; the issues drawn from For national park with highest value of ecological the interviews were reflected in the significance evaluation. restoration to be continuously well-managed, the park management labor and budget should be expanded and also creating an organization and park management strategy to organically manage the national park offices across nationwide. We are interested in employees’ safety and health working at the site; thus, we acquired the certificate of Government_Natural Resource Department in safety and health management system and revised and spread related Ministry of Environment, a deputy director, polities. We will keep providing various visiting services for nation to use our Lee, Jang-won national parks pleasantly and safety and will becoming a public part management KNPS taking all social responsibility as well as strengthening The main missions of KNPS are to conserve the the sustainability of KNPS. natural environment, ecosystem and cultural asset in the national park and improve national welfare and happiness by promoting the sustainable uses. As far as I know the KNPS is Win-win-corporation_a CEO of TravelersMap Inc., currently operating diverse programs such as ecological nature monitoring, Byun, Hyeong-seok damage restoration, proliferation of endangered animal and plant and The management of national park for nature and development and activation of visiting contents. The KNPS needs a long-term resource which should be handed down to the strategy because threats from climate change are moving so fast and next generation is excellent. Especially the economic value on diversity is internationally refocused. With its purpose to capability in protecting and restoring ecological increase the national well-being and happiness, it is important to determine resource are every bit as good as other the priority of strategy at the mid and long term perspective in sustainability countries. However, the KNPS needs to prevent management for 2 elements, conservation of national park and its wise use. It any conflict with community during managing the park and seek for is important for KNPS to striving to create a district ecological cultural economic and environmental development in cooperation with community community based on national park by resolving the conflicts with and government. The national park for community is a space to use the communities in harmonized way. I wish KNPS to develop into sustainable nature and also a livelihood. The KNPS needs to establish detailed plan and institution by active investments to create new additional value preparing for strategy how these national parks can be conserved, used and made at a future and return some earning to communities by creating new profit model. time. I expect the KNPS to be turned itself into a public institution taking all social responsibilities with development of product and enhancement of employee’s professionalism. Employee_labor union, a senior vice-president, Lee, Hyo-il Environmental related interagency_Department Because of the characteristics of working of Forest Environmental System in Kookmin environment in the park, the workers can stabilize University, Professor, Kim, Eung-sik their mind within the space where nature is breathing with us; however, the working The KNPS is a institution selects environmentally environment is pretty much poor since lots of time good place among our lands, restore them and would be spent at outside. To encourage employees provides services for nation to rest and working with passion and sense of duty to pass down this rich nature and appreciate great nature and environment. To ecological resource to the next generation, the improvement of treatment for become a sustainable national park employees is considered to be required. Also, to become a sustainable institution, management corporation, it is important for KNPS to become a leading the professionalism of employees should be strengthened. The KNPS needs to institution by maintaining the balance between the demand of our operate various education programs leading the policy and efficient site generation for nature and nature to be restored for our next generation. management to securing excellent competent to nurture internal manpower Therefore, the KNPS needs to put more effort for nation to realize the resources and develop itself continuously. The visiting service provided by KNPS is importance of natural protection and also the service allows nation to truly operated in very excellent way compared to other countries. We will strive to experience the national park is needed to be developed. To achieve these become a trusted institution from nation by reflecting customer’s needs of high goals, the KNPS needs to focus on the promotion on natural importance to quality visiting service and establishing a strategy to maintaining the zero percent nation and special attention and support from government to encourage the of safety accident occurrence. employees who exert utmost efforts for nation is also required. 22 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Korean National Parks A National Park is a natural managing and preserving the natural ecosystem, natural and cultural landscape that represent Korea, designated by government. The national parks are divided into 3 types: mountain, coastal and marine and historical park. Since Jirisan designated as the first national park in 1967, about 20 national parks including 16 inland parks, 2 marine parks, 1 coastal marine park and 1 historical park are currently designated and managed. ●● Location of National Park Songnisan Bukhansan Deogyusan Seoraksan Odaesan Chiaksan Taeancoast Sobaeksan Gyeryongsan Woraksan Naejangsan Juwangsan Byeonsanbando Jirisan Gyeongju Gayasan Wolchulsan Dadohaehaesang Hallyeohaesang Hallasan The national park is our livelihood and valuable assets should be handed down to the future generation. SPECIAL REPORT 1 24 _Restoration and Protection of Endangered Species 28 _Conservation of Habitual Environment for Animal and Plant 30 _Securing the Diversify of Park Resources 32 _Conservation of Cultural Heritage Seoraksan, “Northwest Main ridge”_ Choi, Nak-min 24 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Restoration and Protection of Endangered Species Background for restoration of endangered species ●● Restoration policy goal Many species have become extinct or faced with extinction risk due to the intensification of global warming. The diversity of species is Recovering heath ecosystem ultimate source of life and essential resources for economic ▲ growth including human and ecosystem. The conservation of Harmonizing and balance with ecosystem species diversity is also very important element in the aspect of nature conservation and resource management. It is hard to ▲ Improving a diversity of species recover the nature once it is damaged and requiring much of time, effort and patience to be restored. Therefore, Korea National Park ▲ Increase and restoration of endangered Service is continuously striving to increase the biodiversity of wild animal and plant national park by securing the habitats through the protection and conservation of endangered species, designation of special protection zones and creation of ecological corridors. Summary of restoration of endangered species Korea is designating and protecting 157 animal species including 22 mammals, 61 bird species and 65 plant species as the endangered plant and animal by Protection of wild fauna and flora Act. Especially and its systematic management, including the native species we plan to implement the proliferation and restoration project for protection and expansion of species subject to be restored are endangered wild animals and plants including Asiatic Black Bear, increasing due to the agreement of international agreement (ABS long-tailed goral and red fox according to the ‘proliferation and protocol). To actively cope with those changes in the domestic/foreign restoration plan of endangered wild species’. The importance or environment, the KNPS has reestablished the project goal for necessity of establishment of national biological resources sovereignty proliferation and restoration of endangered species in 2011 and is striving to conserve the resources in the national park by building a cooperative system with local government, academia and private groups and securing specialized manpower, facilities and equipments. National Park Species Restoration Technology Institute The National Park Species Restoration Technology Institute is a site-focused research institute established for research and restoration of endangered species that gradually disappear. This center is restoring the Asiatic black bear population in the Jirisan, goral population in Bakdodaegan and red fox in Sobaeksan. Particularly the restoration of Asiatic black bear population was initiated in 2004, and it is the first project that was implemented by 25 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 SPECIAL REPORT 1 ● National Park Species Restoration Technology Institute ● Wildlife Medical Center mammals have been newly built to secure more space for hospitalization and built a systematic management system from rescue to releasing process by installing the rehabilitation training center required for environment adaptation training before releasing. Restoration of the Asiatic Black Bears the central government level to conserve the endangered species This restoration has started since 2004 and this project is to increase in the wild habit. The National Park Species Restoration and restore the Asiatic Black Bears that only 5 of them are living in Technology Institute has developed its foundation as a core Jirisan. The significance of this restoration project is to find out the ways institution specialized in the restoration through initiating for human and animal can be co-exited together through the restoration project of red fox and opening an endangered plant restoration of Asiatic Black Bears, not only to restore the endangered restoration center. This center plans to continuously expand the species, the Asiatic Black Bears. Since 2004, as a result of introducing scope and target species be restored in the future, striving to 34 bears, about 23 bears including baby bears are living in the wild as of increase the diversity of species and improve the professionalism. end of 2011. To making introducing site diverse to secure the diversity of genes are receiving good evaluation that this contributes to protecting Wildlife Medical Center the genetic activation and securing the genetic diversity and its health. The KNPS had reformed the plans for restoration of Asiatic Black A Wildlife Medical Center is designated as 11 th wildlife Bears based on research data resulted from the monitoring the professional treatment institute by Ministry of Environment; it Asiatic Black Bears from 2004 to 2010 and its analysis and was founded to rescue, treat and rehabilitate the wild animals programming; our plan for restoration by 2020 has been reinside and outside of national park. Also, it performs diverse established in 2012. Also, as a result of establishment special works, securing of genetic resources (blood, hair root and etc.), managed area for Asiatic Black Bears and habitual protection disease research, individual breeding, and support for capturing based on the cooperation with community, the KNPS could achieve the destroying species. As of December, 2011, it has rescued and 0% in mortality rate and visible performance of natural birth. treated about 33 species, 91 individuals of wild animals The KNPS regularly presents the restoration of Asiatic Black Bears (increased by 160% compared to last year). In addition to this, this at the domestic and international conferences and strives to center had served as a momentum to provide a basis for self successfully promote the restoration of Asiatic Black Bears through development of proliferation by implementing reproductive the exchange and cooperation with professional groups. As a result organs and hormone tests for Asiatic Black Bears through the of promoting our efforts, about 288 cases had introduced in the industrial-educational cooperation and also increased the national major press releases and our restoration project of Asiatic survival rate with prompt diagnosis and treatment through the Black Bears was put in the IBA newsletter. Also, the number of enhancement of equipments such as ultrasound. In 2011 the participants in the Asiatic Black Bears visiting program had intensive treatment centers and quarantines for birds and increased from 13,947 in 2010 to 15,859 in 2011. ● Asiatic Black Bear Introduction ● Asiatic Black Bear’s childbirth ● Rescue of isolated Goral 26 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 ● Goral in the eco-learning center ● Fox restoration facility ● Cypripendium japonicum Management of Eco-axis of Restoration of Fox Baekdudaegan’s Korean Goral The male fox known for disappeared during 70~80Ss was found its High population of Goral was inhabited all around the Korean natural death at this one hill in Gangwon-do at March, 2004; the Peninsula in the past; however, only small population except 4 possibility for fox to be in habited in Korea has been brought up. The areas where Gorals (more than100 individuals) are relatively stable KNPS started to investigate the environmental characteristics of fox in Seoraksan and others, is currently scattered; thus, those are in habitat for scientific proliferation and restoration of endangered fox in the situation to be endangered without human’s artificial 2010 and derived national attention through ‘contest for finding a name intervention. The restoration of ecoaxis of Baekdudaegan’s for ‘Sobaeksan fox’ in 2011. The KNPS created a natural adaption Korean Goral is a project to improve the Goral’s ability to multiply in training center for fox and provided a basis for proliferation and the wild through connecting isolated habitat of endangered Goral. restoration of fox in earnest. The KNPS plans to actively promoting the To manage Korean Gorals living in the Baekdudaegan, the KNPS is proliferation and restoration of fox with cooperation with various managing the Baekudaegan by dividing Baekdudaegan into 3 stakeholders, such as community, interagency, NGO and academia. districts: the core area of Gorals, a Seoraksan; the spread area for bridge to the restoration of Gorals, an Odaesan; and area to promote Restoration of Endangered Plant actual restoration, a Woraksan. Some gorals releasing into Woraksan is currently moving to area near the Songrisan along the Since Korea has distinct 4 seasons, we have rich biodiversity and about axis of Baekdudaegan. As a result of habitat research of Goral in the 100,000 distinct species are living and distributing across the country. Baekdudaegan from 2010 to 2011, at least 268 Gorals are living in The national park, where about 67% of 66 endangered plant species the Seoraksan, Odaesan and Woraksan. The KNPS plans to strive to are living, is a place to rest for endangered plants and it’s the largest activate the regional economy and proliferate and restore the protected area in Korea. The KNPS keeps investigating and endangered species by forming infrastructure such as ecological monitoring for habits for endangered plants distributed in the national learning center and strengthening the individual study, habitat park and since 2007, we are striving for conservation and restoration of management and promotion and education through the MOU 32 species including Cypripedium japonicum and Neofinetia falcate agreement with local government (inje-gun) in the future. that gradually disappeared by forming an endangered plant center. ●●Creation of extinct plants botanical garden (15 national parks) Park 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Sobaeksan, Deogysan investigation Creation Seoraksan, Songrisan investigation Creation Juwangsan, Dadohaehaesang investigation Creation Chiaksan, Naejangsan investigation Creation Odaesan, Byeonsanbando investigation Creation Bukhansan, Hallyeohaesang investigation Creation Jirisan, Gayasan, Woraksan investigation Creation 27 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 SPECIAL REPORT 1 Also, we obtained great success in finding new spontaneous lands for the Deogyusan National Park in August, 2011 to efficiently manage 23 species including Neofinetia falcate, Trientalis europaea L., a kind of the plant genetic resources in the national park, to conserve the Korean supplejack by implementing a investigation and monitoring for biodiversity of national park through proliferation and cultivation endangered and rare plants through the MOU with external institutes researches on the endangered or considered to be endangered such as Ex-Situ Conservation Institution and academia. Also, we are plant and to develop its restoration method. During this time, the continuously implementing the proliferation and restoration and KNPS had performed the restoration of animal focused. Operating installation of protection facilities. By opening an endangered plant an Endangered Plant Restoration Center provides a basis for species restoration center, we provided a basis for more systematic restoration of not only animals but also plants. Also, the KNPS is and scientific proliferation and restoration of endangered plants. supported with 100 million won of funding annually since 2011 for 3 years by entering a supporting agreement with Samsung Global ● Creating a botanical garden ● Creating a glass greenhouse Environment Research Center for restoring and increasing the endangered species in the national park. Opening a center served as a momentum to provide a basis for more systemic and scientific management of endangered plants in the national park and major wild plants in each park and it plans to promote the restoration of damaged wild plant with proliferated and cultured individuals. Furthermore, since it could be used in the natural observation trail and restoration of damaged land, it is expected that it will contribute Creating a botanical garden to the restoration of wild plant in the park also. According to the integrated plan for restoration and proliferation of Flagship species endangered wild animal and plant by Ministry of Environment in 2006, we are promoting the proliferation and restoration project by ‘Flagship species’ is a species selected to act an ambassador, which investigating and preserving the priority plant to be conserved and reflects ecological, geographical and cultural features among the engendered plant in 15 national parks. This restoration and proliferation diverse species living in one specific area. This concept was proposed project for endangered species has been promoted since 2007 had by UNEP that presents the pioneering image of ecosystem recovery created the botanical gardens of endangered plant in 10 national parks with a flagship. The KNPS had selected 37 species including 2 highly including Odaesan and Byunsanbando in 2011. Through this creation of valuable species (animal and plant) to be conserved from each park botanical gardens, not they restored 28 endangered species including to create a social consensus for habitant stability and conservation of Cypripendium japonicum and Neofinetia falcate, they are improving park resources and encourage national engagement in the visitor’s awareness toward the natural conservation by continuously conservation of natural ecosystem. In 2011, the KNPS successfully promoting the proliferation, advertisement and training. completed the filming of Strix uraleniss, which is an endangered species and a flagship species of Odaesan at the national first. We are Open an endangered plant restoration center also continuously promoting an ecological research including the action analysis by producing and setting the artificial nest. The KNPS had opened an Endangered Plant Restoration Center at ● Opening ceremony of endangered plant restoration center ● Proliferation, cultivation experiment (Cymbidium nipponicum) ● Strix uraleniss (Odaesan flagship species) 28 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Conservation of Habitual Environment for Animal and Plant Designation of the Special Protection complaints from local residents which leads to the limitation of private Zone at Korean National Parks property right and also plays an important role in improving the park environment by removing valley environmental pollution and The special protection zone at Korean national parks is a system to landscape hindering facilities. In 2012, the KNPS plans to put 3 billion prevent the artificial damage by intensively protecting the zone to be of budgets and also plans to conserve the habits for animal and plants ecologically important such as habitat and wetland in the high by investing continuously and annual budge. mountain for endangered species. If the area is designated as a special ●●Result of core district restoration project protection zone, people will be prohibited from entering and the (Unit : km2) designated zone will be systematically and intensively managed by Important Environmental pollution Resolving the complaints Division Total prevention, cultural ecological on the limitation of private species habitat landscape protection ownership of property installing the facilities protecting the important resources and regular observation system of ecological change. In 2011, the KNPS newly 2009 891,623 475,074 207,058 209,491 designated 13 zones including the habitats for endangered species and 2010 840,374 394,166 173,368 272,840 oceanic island, currently intensively managing 98 zones in total as the 2011 973,266 567,055 304,142 102,069 special protection zone at Korean national parks. In addition to this, the name of the natural parks special protection zone in its law, the natural Strengthening the specialty of wetland park act, was newly reflected; thus, legal and systematic basis could be conservation and management provided, the management guideline has been improved. The wetland is an area with rich biodiversity and distributed to 25 ●●Status of destination of special protection zones at Korean National Parks areas including the Wangdeungjae wetland in the Jirisan. Among (Unit : km2) the wetlands, the wetland in Odaesan and Jangdo wetland in Dadohae were designated and managed as a Ramsar wetland. In 233.8 2011, 3 areas including Waegok wetland and Jungryeong wetland in 225.6 Jirisan have been designated as the special protected area. We put 217.9 effort to conserve the original form of wetland to conserve the Wangdeungjae wetland by removing woody plant and installing the 2009 2010 2011 water level controller. In addition to this, the basic status investigation for 25 wetlands and the detailed investigations for such Bananggimi wetland in Dadohaehaesang, Ipamsansung wetland in Land Nationalization for preserving Naejangsan were implemented; we are intensively implementing ecological core area the observation toward changes in the ecosystem for wetland in the high mountain distributed in the Jirisan and Odaesan. As a result of 15 billion won of investment to purchasing a private land from 2006 to 2011, total 4,978686m2 size of land were nationalized and Connecting eco-axis of discontinued habitat this land, highly valuable to be conserved was used for: Baenanggi non-wetland in Dadohae, yellow iris and white forshythia habit in Since the eco-axis is discontinued due to the construction of a road in Byunsanbando, Namsan cultural asset protected rarea in Gyeongju, the national park, the factors treating the ecosystem, such as Paeonia japonica habitat in Odeasan and the KNPS plans to fragment of wildlife habitat, minimized action and roadkill are additionally purchase 15% of total private land 1,282 m2 in the national occurring. Therefore, the KNPS became a main agent who provides park by 2020. Purchasing a private land has a key part in resolving the active actions to protect the damage and destruction of ecosystem 29 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 SPECIAL REPORT 1 due to the construction of a road and construct the wildlife crossing ●●Status of roadlkill (Unit : head) structures. 10 spots in the national park were included in the ‘national eco-axis restoration plan’ and we provided a basis for restoration of 1600 ● Reptile discontinued eco-axis by constructing 2 wildlife crossing structures at ● Amphibian 1400 the discontinued area in Jungryeongchi, Jirisan ● Bird 1200 ● Mammal 1000 ● Total Ecological destroying wildlife 800 600 As those external species imposed to Korea for various uses of 400 eating, pets and fur products during 1970~80s are evaluated as the 200 destroying species for ecosystem due to their vigorous feeding and 0 reproduction, the KNPS designated 11 plant species and 5 animal 2009 2010 2011 species as the ecological destroying wildlife and properly managing for its purpose of systematic capture and remove. As of end of 2011, about 11 ecological destroying plant species are Preventive measures for road kill distributed in 268,747m2 of national park and about 4 destroying species out of 5 except the nutria(Mycoccaster coypus) are The KNPS is monitoring 16 parks and 41 routes to reduce the investigated to live in the park. The removal of destroying wildlife roadkill of wild animals usually occurring in the roads connected to had started from 2009 and about 305,575m2 were removed, as of national park. We have entered a MOU with company specialized in end of 2011; this had increased by 1.9 times compared to 2009. navigation software to building and operating system informs the For destroying animals, about 3,606 animals were capture and areas of roadkill frequently happens for drivers. We are also removed and this had increased by 3.2 times compared to 2009. protecting wildlife from roadkill by installing customized facilities By doing this, we are striving to keep ecosystem to be stabilized including ecological trail, fence and stepping stone trail. and sustained through intensive removal management. The KNPS secured manpower to repeatedly remove and capture wildlife and currently promoting the activities to expand the national voluntarily engagement (about 54~61% of current participating numbers of people), the press advertisement and volunteer service system to induce the national supports. ●●Management Status of captured, removed destroying wildlife Division 2009 2010 2011 2 Destroying wild plant (m ) 161,657 227,264 305,579 ● Roadkill preventive sign Destroying wild animal (head) 1,135 1,391 3,606 ● Wetland soil layer investigation in Imam sansung, Naejangsan ● Installation of Eco-trail in Jungryeongchi, Jirisan ● Removal activities of destroying wildlife 30 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Securing the Diversify of Park Resources Studies on migratory routes of birds special ecosystems. We are proving measures to adapt the climate change by securing and analyzing certain observation items, the The Migratory Birds Center, which belongs to KNPS, is the first temperature, humidity, rainfall, the intensity of radiation, soil moisture, research institute for migratory birds in Korea. The center aims to soil temperature, amount of snowfall, the direction of the wind and contribute to conserve migratory birds which are passing Korea speed of wind in real time. As of 2011, about 14 installations including 7 in territories and accumulate academic information through surveys on the Jirisan, 2 in the Deokyusan, 3 in the Sobaeksan and 1 in the migration behaviors and routes. Two constant-effort banding stations in Taeanhaean were completed to be built. Among them, one in the the Migratory Birds Center are collecting information on basic Taeanhaean is to measure the climate changes in the coastal lower ecological data with various methods. Through the bird banding project ground. The KNPS will expand the installation of micrometeorology in 2011, we reported a first record of the Booted Warbler (Iduna caligata) observation in the future and based on this, we plans to provide in Korea which contributed to national biodiversity. We also revealed the adaptation measure of climate change for national park area. migration route of the Rubythroat (Luscinia calliope) banded from Japan. The Migratory Birds Center annually holds a symposium to PEN (Phenological Eyes Network) system organize networks among the researchers of the world, and discuss future co-operative works for conservation of migratory birds. PEN system is a video filming equipment behalf of monitoring for important issued area to check the period of flowering and leaf Observation of micrometeorology folding for endangered species and also the period of foliage. As of 2011, this system has been installed at 42 places in 9 national parks The KNPS is installing the micrometeorology observation equipment and the flowering and leaf folding period of endangered species, since 2010 for the purpose of finding out colony’s movement (finding out including Cypripedium japonicum, Iris odaesanensis, Corylopsis the causing factor of decline in coniferous forest) around the subalpine gotoana var. coreana and also foliage period in the Seoraksan, zone ecosystem which is the most vulnerable to climate change among Buhansan, Jirisan and Naejangsan have been confirmed. Especially, the KNPS found out the accurate reproductive period of the Black● Migration route of the Rubythroat (Luscinia calliope) ● PEN system which was banded from Japan tailed Gull and use them as an important data to understand the ecological change according to the climate change. Producing a detailed vegetation map The KNPS has established a mid-long term roadmap to make a detailed vegetation map that the distribution of plant communities growing in the national park is drawn in the digital map to provide a basis for scientific and efficient management of national park and ●●Mid-long Term Roadmap for producing vegetation map 1st step (2011) 2nd step (2012) 3rd step (2013) 4th step (2014) 5th step (2015) Pilot work Baekdudaegan Baekdudaegan Baekdudaegan and Update and others metropolitan city 1 park (80km2) 2 parks (519 km2) 4 parks (1,372 km2) 3 parks (366 km2) 5 parks (761 km2) 31 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 SPECIAL REPORT 1 ●●List of Additional Species in the National Park by 2011 Natural Resource Research (Unit : species) Freshwater Marine Mammal algae Phytoplankton Plant Bird Amphibian 92 799 Benthic 215 3,348 macro 258 (+1) Seaweed(Seagrass) (+114) 15 Higher Total invertebrates 155 fungi 949 14,585 1,135 Insect Marine Zooplankton Fish (+261) Marine benthic 6,554 Spider (hard and soft (+124) 85 296(+5) Reptile 471(+17) bottom) 19 194 ●●Status of species secured were investigated and about 93% of living species mentioned in the (Unit : species) references of national park has been confirmed. In the future, if 14,585 organisms, the lichen and microorganism are additionally investigated, the more species are expected to be living in the national park. 14,328 13,484 Placing a national park research no.1 To scientifically and efficiently manage the marine ecosystem in the 2009 2010 2011 marine and coastal national park, the KNPS took over the meteorological observatory no. 2000 from the Meteorological build the digitalized information required for national park policy Administration and held a ceremony of the very first professional support. In 2011, we made a detailed vegetation map for Naejangsan research vehicle in national park, the national park research vehicle as the 1st step, the demonstration project and we plan to make no.1 in 22nd of November, 2011 (at the new port, Samcheonpo, detailed vegetation map for 15 national parks based on the readings Gyeongnam area). This research vehicle is equipped with 12 types of of satellite image and aerial photograph and native investigation to high tech oceanographic investigating professional equipments use them as a basic data for all areas of park management including including water temperature, salinity, and depth founder system. the designation of special protection zone, park boundary Also, the KNPS hired new employees, 8 employees with Ph.D. for modification, permits, or prohibition at national parks. research area and 9 employees for vessel who can use the equipments, research, investigate, analyze and operate the research Natural Resource Research vehicle; thus, we built a basis for oceanographic study and investigate. The KNPS also went to Maemuldo (Hallyeohaesang) to hold a sailing In accordance with natural park act, the natural resource research is demonstration in December, 2011. In 2012, the KNPS plans to use it largely divided into two areas, the natural environment and academic for various coastal investigations and study including the basic survey environment and this research is conducted for 2 national parks every on coastal ecosystem of national park, investigation on manned and 10 years. The natural resource research is to investigate overall unmanned island and specific island, detailed investigation on resource in the protected area of core organisms in Korea, the national internationally interesting major resources and tracking the changes park and propose the ways to scientifically manage and conserve the in the migration of climate change sensitive species. national park. This project is suggesting basic data such as the status of major organisms, changes of ecosystem, conservation and ●●Securing of specialized equipment and experts in marine research management measures for endangered species and monitoring of Division Before expansion After expansion ecosystem according to the climate change to securing the biodiversity 5 people 20 people Research: 3 people Research: 9 people Manpower based on expert’s professional research. Also, by investigating how (2 with Ph.D. ; 1 with B.S.) (8 with Ph.D. ; 1 with B.S.) General: 2 people General: 2 people, Crew: 9 many species are living in the national park, the KNPS informs citizens CTD profiler; Box corer, Combined sonar Research Submergence equipment and how our biodiversity in Korea is richness. In 2011, about 14,585 species system; Recording and direct reading Equipment underwater filming equipment doppler current meter; etc. 32 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Conservation of Cultural Heritage Status of historical and Cultural Heritages Conserve the cultural heritages in the national park together with the community There are our precious values, the World Heritages such as Bulguksa (temple of Buddihism) and Haeinsa Temple Janggyeong The KNPS gives our best to conserve the cultural heritages through Panjeon in our national park. We also have about 604 articles that the cooperation and engagement of various stakeholders including have been designated including 40 national treasures, 139 the interagency, NGO, religious group and academia. Since 2010, treasures, 186 local tangible cultural heritages and there are about we are operating the cultural heritage conservation conference 700 cultural heritages that were not designated. composed by 26 offices in the nationwide. Especially 9 offices including Gyeongju and Bukhan Mountain are finding and recording DB establishment of historical and Cultural new recourse with community and experts and the residents Heritages and Nationwide Service themselves are practically performing such activities to conserve the cultural heritages in their regions. The KNPS promotes the The KNPS had established the cultural heritages DB to understand the history and attractive of the region to visitors and makes itself to status of historical and cultural heritage in the national part and improve the local patriotism and pride, creating a win-win culture to systemically mange them. Since 2010 to 2011, about 1,200 contents filled conserve the cultural heritages in the national park. with wisdom and good sense from ancestors were combined in the KNPS’s integrated management system for resources. We inform the Strength the capability in managing the useful visiting information to citizens through our homepage and strive to resources establish a basis for efficient cultural heritage conservation at a time. The KNPS had entered an agreement in 2011 for conservation and Introduce a monitoring system using an use of cultural heritage and historical and cultural heritages in the application from smartphone national park with Cultural Properties Administration. Great natural resources and history and culture from ancestor were contained in The KNPS had introduced a cultural heritage monitoring system the national park and it’s a treasure house of cultural heritages with a utilization of app from the smartphone in 2011 to effectively where about 6% of designated properties are located. We will make conserve the cultural heritages in the national park, shorten the sure and give more effort to fully pass down its value to our next work procedure and improve the convenience for manager. We generation by improving our capabilities in managing our valuable are actively implementing works to reduce the risk of artificial or culture and natural resources in the park in effective way. natural damage and thefts by placing the monitoring system for total 71 matters of cultural heritages, twice a year. ● DB implementation ● Smartphone Apps ● Operating Cultural Assets Protection Group (Gyeongju) ● Work agreement between corporation and Cultural Heritage Administration SPECIAL REPORT 2 34 _Ecological welfare program 36 _Ecological welfare Infrastructure We are designing our national park new for more beautiful national park. Jirisan “Sunset in Jaesukbong” _ Sim, Dal-young 34 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Ecological Welfare Program Providing an interpretive program and service Ecotour The KNPS is providing interpretive visiting programs and service The ecotour program is ● Ecotour promotion press release for visitors to experience and enjoy great natural, cultural and an expedition program, in environmental values and their beauties in the national park in which the visitors get to more fun and interesting way and al we are performing various be in the national park to activities to provide richer visiting environment. Especially we have experience the cultural discovered and operated an interpretive program made of nature and historical assets and and culture in each national park for visitor to find and experience to appreciate excellent the breathing nature and historical and cultural heritages. ecological assets which has started from 2008 to help the local economy and to utilize them safely. We developed and provided ● Operation of visiting program various programs by themes including natural ecology, marine ecology, healing forest, historical culture, farm stay and temple stay and programs for various classes including children, adolescent, adult and family. Natural, Historical and Cultural Heritage interpretive Program This interpretive program in the national park allows visitors to experience nature and culture in fun and interesting way through the stories about natural, historical and cultural heritages in the park, natural observation, nature activity that have been evaluated from specialists. This program varies from around one ●●Status of interpretive program 627,087 379 373 90.5 90.2 87.5 490,000 260 382,099 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Number of participant in the interpretive program Number of program Satisfaction of interpretive program (Unit : person) (Unit : program) (Unit: point) 35 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 SPECIAL REPORT 2 hour programs or two or three days interpretive program with Provide a smartphone based selfvisiting service the local cultural visiting or ecological visiting. As this ear becomes smartphone world with more than 10 National Park Social Contribution million users, the smart technology is tended to expand across ‘National Park, Nature Nanuri’ all areas. Thus, the KNPS has introduced and promoted a smartphone based self-visiting service at the first in the Dule-gil The KNPS is operating national park contribution activities, the course located in the Bukhansan to resolve the limitation of ‘National Park Nature Nanuri’ to induce the engagement of visiting service focused on the interpretation labor force and KNPS in the social responsibility, provide the cultural and welfare facility infrastructure at the very first. Since April, 2011, the benefits to socially vulnerable members and contribute to construction of 5 sections (19km) had completed; thereby, 54 expand the culture of sharing and caring. This project was storytelling services are provided and we also plans to build a Uinduced in 2009 at the first and supported from 54 companies based ecological introduction system by providing additional 120 and groups such as GS Caltex in 2011; thereby, it was able to storytelling services. provide 72 programs through total 264 times to 11,908 people of disabled, elders and multi cultural families. Produce a 3D digital ecological visiting guidebook Natural healing health enhancement program About 6 species including Asiatic Black bear, Hemerocallis fulva ‘Health Nanuri Sharing with KNPS’ (L.) L., Filipendula formasa Nakai which are representative species of Jirisan were produced with a 3D digital book (provided As environmental diseases have been increased according to the from April, 2012) and this would be considered as great help in changes in the environmental factors such as an exposure of nurturing an environmental leader in the future generation and toxicity and atmospheric pollution, we are spreading the scientific culturing the emotions. prevention of environmental diseases (Atopy, asthma and developmental disability) and their management methods through ● National Park Nature Nanuri the experience program connected with specialized medical institutes. Also, we are operating the ‘Health Nanuri Sharing with KNPS’ camp to provide the opportunity of health enhancement through closely examining the positive relationship between environment and health. In 2011, 15 offices including Chiaksan National park connected specialized medical institutes such as Samsung Seoul Hospital with regional health center and performed the program for about 1,580 people (increased by about 65% compared to last year) through 40 times. Also, the satisfaction rate of participants received higher rate, as much as 89% which had been increased by 14.4% compared to the last year. ● Natural healing health enhancement program ● Providing a smartphone based selfvisiting service ● 3D digital ecological visiting guidebook 36 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Ecological Welfare Infrastructure Eco-learning Institute ● Eco-learning Institute ● Dule-gil, Bukhansan An Eco-learning Institute is a facility organized for people to participate various educations on natural ecology and environment and various other programs. In 2011, the KNPS has reduced the hydropower by recycling and established an ecofriendly city neighbored institute using new renewable energies such as solar and geothermal heat at the first time and we plans to continuously expand institute by themes and use them as the core institute of environmental experiences. Pedestrian-Friendly Trail ●●Main function of Eco-learning Institute The Bukhansan national park, recognized by Guinness World Records for the largest number of visitors per unit area, has been facing with fragmentization of habits for animal and plants and ecosystem destruction since the number of visitors to this park Discover and operation of future Provision of has been increased by 77% after the abolition of entrance fee. To generation national eco-tour teenager support resolve the fundamental problem, we have created a dule-gil in service program the Bukhansan to conserve our valuable nature and also lowlying ground horizontal visiting, the Operation of national park Main function of new concept of visiting culture for mountain college Eco-learning people to use easily. In 2011, the and mountain Institute museum Dule-gil, the 70.1 km in distance was completely opened and later, Operation of Enhancement of Haebyeon-gil (a sort of trail around internationalism capability in and professionalism national park the beach) in Taean coast, Sori-gil courses management in Gayasan and Jarak-gil in Sobaeksan were opened; thus, ●●Status of major Dule-gil in the National Park (Unit : km) After expansion Name of Park Distance ~2011 ~2012 2013~ Total 340.9 242.7 31.2 67 Dule-gil, Bukhansan* 70.1 70.1 Route supplemented, amenities expanded Amenities expanded Haebyun-gil, Taeanhaean 120.0 25.0 28 67 Sori-gil, Gayasan 6.0 6.0 Amenities expanded Jarak-gil, Sobaeksan 144.8 141.6 3.2 *Introduced in 2011 global travel guideline, ‘Michelin guidebook’ 37 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 SPECIAL REPORT 2 ●●Status of Dule-gil use* ●●Grading Investigation and Analysis 87.3 Status investigation and analysis 84.7 2,661 2,632 Status investigation Status analysis •Road condition, stairs, •Slope, distance, required time bedrock •Use GPS survey map, •Recording the site visiting Google Earth, hiking guide results in filed note map 2010 2011 2010 2011 Satisfaction of Dule-gil use Number of visitors Applying the grade (unit : point) (1,000 people) Primary analysis Secondary analysis *The investigation for satisfaction of Dulegil use and number of visitors has been conducted since 2010. •Applying a trail grading •Sum up all grades for standard by section sections and applying the (slope, distance, road rating for course condition, bedrock) (required time) those contribute to providing 4 season’s leisure and activation of regional economy. Also, as the national demand for coastal visiting is increased, we will plan to create a ‘Tongyoung 100ri-gil Providing rating information (tentative) in Hallyeohaesang to provide various visiting cultures. Operating a visiting trail grading system** The KNPS is applying a grading system in each trail for all kinds and very hard) standard and this is to provide detailed of visitors including children, pregnant women, elderly and information on slope, required time, road condition of trail. In disabled people to choose the appropriate course based on their 2011, this system was demonstrated in Chiaksan and we plan to physical conditions from 5 grades (very easy, easy, average, hard gradually expand this system operation in all parks. ●●Standard of visiting trail grading Name of Rating Very Easy Moderate Intermediate Advanced Expert Pictogram Slope Very smooth Smooth Slight slope Slope Very slope Road Very smooth and firm Relatively smooth Relatively rough Rough Very rough Road wide More than 2m More than 1.5m More than 1 Stairs None Some Severe hiking shoes, Required goods Sneakers Mild hiking shoes, water Hiking shoes, water water, stick **Trail grading system: A system provides the difficulty rating standards and allows visitors to choose the appropriate course for each physical condition considering the slope, distance, road condition and required time. 38 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 ● Introduction of caravan in Deokyudae ● Log cabin ● Car camping site Operating camp site by themes Reflecting a visiting trend The KNPS equipped 44 camping sites in the national parks and As the number of people who seeking for family auto camping we are putting effort to satisfy various demands from visitors by style are increasing, the KNPS is leading Korea’s camping differentiating the site’s themes such as the mountain training culture by continuously improving and expanding the car and constellation experiences. camping sites that can satisfy the leisure activities and healthcare at a time. Also, the KNPS gentrifies lodging facilities such as caravan, red clay house, log cabin and provides rent ●●Operating a camping site by special themes services such as tent; and also the KNPS is striving to provide a Camping site Special themes visiting service through various amenities such as multi-purpose Seorakdong Mecca in the mountain training, the Seorakdong playground, picnic table, and electric facilities. Mongsanpo Mongsanpo harmonizing with pine and oceanic flavor Guemdae Rest area with Guemdae valley and chestnut tree forest Samga Constellation experiences within clean nature! Samga ●●Results of visitor’s satisfaction of using facility in the camping site (Unit : point) Naewonsa Naewansa Jirisan in the start-light Hwangjeon Hwangjeon with Black Bears 72.5 Dalgung A Dalgung with history of Mahan 69 Deokyudae Camping Mecca, Deokyudae in Goocheon-dong 62.5 ● Historical site, the Dalgung camping site ●Artificial rock face in the Seorakdong camping site 2009 2010 2011 ●●Expansion of car camping site considering the demand of advanced camping (Unit : place) Davison ~2006 2007~2010 2011 ~2016 Total 41 43 44 46 General camping site 35(85%) 27(63%) 27(61%) 24(52%) Car camping site 6(15%) 16(37%) 17(39%) 22(48%) ※The general camping site changed into car camping site according to the increase of car camping site uses (change of visiting trend) ENVIRONMENT 40 _Environmental management promoting system 41 _Low-carbon Green Growth 44 _Environment Maintenance 45 _Management of Water Quality and Aquatic Ecosystem Let’s care and protect environment together. It will be more valuable. Seoraksan, ‘Hepatica asiatica Nakai’_ Park, Hyun-kwang 40 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Environmental Management Promoting System ●●Environmental Performance Goal and Strategy of Environmental Management Division Item Standard Unit 2009 2010 2011 Amount of use (HG) kw 575,610 585,272 522,794 The environment is providing a sustainable basis Energy Amount of use (office) kw 3,626,870 4,354,180 4,014,580 of economic and social development and is a Amount of use (per capita) kw/person 2,033.1 2,448.9 2,182.5 Input core axis for improvement of quality of country. Amount of use (HG) ton 3,942 4,076 4,255 The KNPS aims to reduce 20% of greenhouse Water* Amount of use (office) ton 127,803 138,641 136,560 gas emission by 2015 in accordance with Amount of use (per capita) ton/person 64 71 68 guideline for management of GHG and energy Amount of emission (HQ) tCO2e 324.5 377.9 308.2 Greentarget in public area; we are establishing our house Amount of emission (office) tCO2e 3,228.7 3,600.6 3,782.6 GHG reduction goal every year and faithfully Gas Amount of emission (per capita) tCO2e/person 1.7 2.0 2.0 performing them. Amount of emission (office) We also have improved the energy efficiency ton 13,625 16,619 21,188 construction waste through introducing of high-efficient lightings Output Waste Amount of emission (office) ton 21 44 248 and greening the park facilities; we are striving to designated waste reduce the greenhouse gas by introducing new Amount of emission (per capita) ton/person 7 8 10 renewable energy and expanding the ecoAmount of emission (HQ) ton 3,942 4,076 4,255 friendly transportations. We are leading to create Waste Amount of emission (office) ton 127,803 138,641 136,560 water green environment through pan-national green Amount of emission (per capita) ton/person 64 71 68 point system, maintenance for environmental 1) Per capital data is calculated based on the average number of employees in the KNPS (HQ and regional office) hindering facilities and management of water 2) The HQ is rented building, is calculated by taking only our area proportionate to total uses of whole building (emission) ecosystem. *The water is calculated from service water use from water supply in each area ●●System for promoting an environmental management Goal To use water rationally and create a clean park environment Strategy Leading resource-saving Reduction in GHG Creating a green environment •Introduction of new •Green point system •Energy target renewable energy •Rooftop green business •Environment maintenance Assignment •Introduction of highefficient energy equipment •Expansion of eco-friendly •Water ecosystem transportation management Organization General Affairs Public Design Construction & Park Resource Division Division Maintenance Division Protection Division Conservation Division 41 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENT Low-carbon Green Growth ●●Detailed strategy of low-carbon green growth ●●Mid and Long-term Roadmap for Introduction of New Renewable Energy 1st step (2008~2011) •Analysis of electricity uses in all national parks Introduction Expansion •Establishment of plan for introduction of renewable of green park of a new renewable energy energy facilities Natural 2nd step (2012) friendly park facility •Expansion of low-lying ground park facility •Introduction of zero energy house Introduction Effort for of high efficient technology lighting improvement equipment 3rd step (~2020) •Replacing the electricity use with renewable energy by 20% Introduction of new renewable energy ●●Installing the solar energy system with 30.2 kw of wind power generator at refuges in Jirisan, Seraksan, Deogyusan and etc. The KNPS is striving to cope with global climate change, comply with low-carbon green growth and take an initiate role in creating Expected improvement effect Division a green environment. A new renewable energy is an energy (new) Before the Reduction Forest 2008~2010 2011 introduction rate creation converted from existing fossil fuel or energy (renewable energy) 60% converted from renewable energy such as solar, water and CO2(tCO2/year) 441 265 177 (△264) 44ha geothermal energy. The KNPS is using a solar light, wind energy, Maintenance fee 60% 315 189 126 small hydro-energy and woody pallet to refuge and low-lying (1 million won/year) (△189) ground park facilities to reduce the emission of CO2. ●●About 84.5 tons of CO2 reduced by introducing a low-lying ground park facility with 20.2 kw of solar energy system Division 2009 2010 2011 ●●Goal of introduction of new renewable energy (Unit: %) Reduced electricity uses (Kw/year) 64,500 64,800 63,119 Reduced CO2 emission (tCO2) 28.3 28.5 27.7 20.0 Effect of forest creation (ha) 4.71 4.75 4.6 8.0 ●●About 49.6 tons of CO2 reduced by introducing a low-lying ground park 4.3 6.2 facility with wood pallet 2.6 Division 2010 2011 Note Reduced CO2 emission (tCO2) 49.6 Will be 2011 2012 2013 2014 ~2020 introduced in Effect of forest creation (ha) 8.2 2012 42 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 ●●Roadmap of changes from low-efficient lighting devices 1st step 2nd step 3rd step Background (2009~2010) (2011) (2012~) •Choose from suggested •Incandescent light, •Replace with fluorescent •Others such as a system (’08) halogen and etc. light fluorescent light, sodium •Establishment of mid and •3,158 lights (15.5%) •1,987 (9.8%) •15,186 (74.7%) long-term plan (’09) rest room for visitors to easily see, touch and feel the facilities. Promote a phase out low-efficient lighting devices We also have created a rooftop garden to use it as a lounge. Also, we are promoting the importance of energy saving practices for To realize the low-carbon green growth, we are reducing the all citizens by providing a training opportunity such as a visiting energy use and expanding the use of eco-friendly products. In program. 2009, all incandescent lights had been replaced with LED lights and we plan to replace the 30% of lights of facilities in the park with LED by the end of 2012. Especially entire low-efficient lights ●●Status of greening project for park facilities such as incandescent lights and halogens had been replaced with LED lights in 2010. With the introduction of LED light, about Division 2008~2009 2010 2011 82.4 tons of CO2 had reduced and about 14.1ha of forest creation Number of facility (area) 5 25 29 effect could be obtained. Area (㎡) 323 1,616 2,177 ●●Expected performance from LED introduction ●●Status of low-carbon green growth interpretive program Division 2009~2010 2011 Total Electricity reduced (kw/year) 158,005 29,222 187,227 6,066 CO2 reduced (CO2/ year) 69.5 12.9 82.4 171 3,809 Green park facility 113 The KNPS is promoting a green project for park facilities to introduce eco-friendly architectural designs and improve the 2010 2011 2010 2011 energy efficiency of buildings. Especially we are promoting green Program (unit : time) Number of participant (Unit : person) project for park facilities such as visiting supporting center and ●A rooftop garden in Eco-learning Institute ●Greening project for public rest room ●Providing a training opportunity for all citizens 43 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENT Reduce the generation of waste through voluntarily engagement by operating the green point system and implementation of green point system is also greatly contributing to the expansion in the engagement of private companies for public works by attracting CSR. ●Green Point Logo The KNPS is promoting the green point system Expanding eco-friendly transportation nationwide as a mileage program. If The KNPS is starting and expanding an eco-friendly patrol supply anyone brings back by using an electric cars and bicycles to improve the their wastes from the national park, they receive a mileage point for that environmental issues due to vehicle exhaust and noise and and they can use their mileages for free entrance for park or be provided maintain a fresh park environment. The introduction of ecowith products based on their accumulated points. This green point friendly transportation is annually expanded and all management system had helped collecting about 5 tons of waste from August to end of vehicles used in the national are expected to be replaced with December, 2010 and this is corresponded to wastes collected from electric vehicles by 2020. Also, we could provide the convenience 100,000 persons. About 469 tons of waste (20%) had reduced compared for visitors by operating an eco-friendly electric bus in the to 1 year of before and after this green point system had introduced. northern section of Uiryeong-gil where the public transportation As a result of survey on visitors conducted in Jan, 2011, about had a hard time to access and obtain the reduction effect in the 79% of visitors responded that this green point system improves air pollution. the park environment and about 82% of visitors were agreed with the purpose of green point system and showed their willing to ●●Status of introduction of electric vehicles (Unit: car) engage in this system; the visitors’ responses to this system had shown to be highly positive. Also, the KNPS had established 23 regular savings account related to green points, a ‘together with nature’ through the work agreement with Nonghyup. 14 As mentioned above, the KNPS had established 5 mid and long 8 term plans to create a clean national park without waste produced and is continuously implementing the national 2009 2010 2011 promotion, campaign and system improvement to achieve the goal of 38g per capita emission by 2015. In particular, the KNPS is leading a upright visiting culture through inducing national ●●Amount of waste produced Division 2009 2010 2011 Total amount of waste produced (ton) 2,517 2,155 1,838 Emission per capita (g) 71 54 49 ●Entering into agreement between KNPS and Nonghyup ●Operating an eco-friendly electric bus for Dule-gil in the Bukhansan 44 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Environmental Maintenance Citizen Migration Project Maintaining the environmental hindering facility The group of business facilities had been located around valley in The KNPS has promoted improving national park environment project the national park in the past hinders the beautiful landscape of since 2006 to restore its distinct natural landscape and to create a clean park and becomes as main causing factor of environmental visiting environment; thus, we are continuously maintaining various pollution due to their waste water released and various illegal environmental facilities such as a neglected house, storage and useless actions. They also possess various problems including the risks military facilities that hinder landscape and cause the environment of disaster accident when flooding. Accordingly, the KNPS is pollution. We maintained the facilities in 274 of places in 2011. Since promoting the phased citizen migration project for areas 2010, we have been ●Maintaining neglected environmental hindrance facility considered to be moved by reviewing the feasibility of people finding and restoring migration. The area completed with migration project tangible assets based (Bukhansansung area) is induced to restore the environment on historic, culture and after demolishing the facilities and it was investigated As a result rural areas then we of monitoring 6 investigated areas, about 57 plant species were are providing various reported to be released to nature. visiting opportunities through those assets as a visiting program. ●Citizen migration project in Bukhansansung in Bukhansan National Park ●●Status of maintenance for facilities hindering environment (Unit : place) Division 2006~2009 2010 2011 Number of maintenance 1,196 399 274 ●●Provision of visiting opportunities by using historical, cultural and rural materials Division 2010 2011 Number of program (number) 100 251 Before After Number of participant (person) 4,372 5,282 ●●Mid and long-term roadmap for migration 1st step (1999~2001) 2nd step (2001~2010) 3rd step (2011~2016) •Wondobong in Bukhansan •Bukhansanseong (Fortress) •Songchu complex in Bukhansan: -1.4 billion (18 households) migrated 36.3 billion (53 households) ※ The first migration 45.4 billion (55 households) •Geumgang complex in Odaesan: → suggesting business way •Dogapsa group institutional 26.7 billion (19 households) complex ※ Reflected in the mid-term project 2.3 billion (12 households) plan (’11~’16) 45 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENT Management of Water Quality and Aquatic Ecosystem Investigation of Aquatic Ecological Environment ●Operating a water quality measuring network ●Water quality laboratory and Management of Pollutants The KNPS is striving to maintain a clean water quality through the regular investigation of aquatic ecological environment and management of pollutant. Since 1999, the water quality measuring network in the national park had started in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and we had implemented a water quality monitoring system through the physical factors in the 482 places including valley, river, seawater, sewage treatment facility and the water ecosystem health through maintenance for water and drinking water. Since 2010, we had introduced a demonstration of sewage through the negotiation between temple waste water ‘evaluation of river’s water ecosystem health’ and had conducted treatment facility support business and local government. the overall evaluations (physical, chemical and biochemical) for Songrisan, Odaesan, Gayasan, Sobakesan; and we plan to Water Quality Analysis Center continuously expand them. Also we are finding and managing he pollutants in the water and their management statuses on regular The KNPS has designated 8 national park offices including basis. We are striving for environmental improvement to maintain Jirisan National Park to maintain and mange the water ecosystem. Thus, we are operating the water quality laboratories equipped with tools to measure 6 items including BOD, SS, total ●●Status of supporting for installation of temple sewage treatment facility coliform group, detached coliform group, T-N and T-P. Employees acquired with professional certificate are dispatched Division Before 2009 2010 2011 in each lab; the KNPS is implementing a regular education and Temple (place) 90 2 2 practitioner workshop to nurturing the capabilities in analysis. Project fee (million won) 2,170 79 62 We also created our own guideline for measurement of water quality and operation of lab to standardize the work process. ●●Evaluation of water ecosystem health Operating a water quality Park Resource Monitoring Evaluation of water measurement network ecosystem health Physical element Biochemical element Water temperature, Benthic large Optimum velocity, SS and etc. invertebrate animal Good and fish habitats Chemical element and waterside Average BOD, COD, T-N, environment Poor T-P and etc. 46 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Measures for after the oil spill incident Long-term monitoring for effect of oil spill on the ecosystem On December, 2007, a crane barge Samsung No.1 hit the Hong Kong registered oil tanker Hebei Spirit off the west coast of South The KNPS had established a research institute specialized in oil Korea. The incident caused the spill of an estimated 12, 547 spill incident, the oil pollution research center and the KNPS is kiloliters of crude oil to the sea. About 61km of coastal line in the implementing a long-term monitoring for effect of oil spill on the central and northern part of Taeanhaean national park and some ecosystem over total 25 fields. As a result of long-term oil spill had spread to Byeonsanbando and Dadohaeahesang monitoring, the KNPS had found Common gorgonian and national parks. The KNPS had started to remove the remaining Scelidotoma vadososinuata hoonsooi (endangered species, rated oil to restore the coastal ecosystem back to the condition before as II designated by the Ministry of Environment) in Taeanhaean the oil spill and the KNPS is implementing a long-term national park and the ecosystem in many areas after the oil spill monitoring system to find out the damage level of ecosystem has been recovered in 2011. from oil spill. Remaining oil spill removal project and ●●Status of remaining oil indication reduction (observation length) (Unit: m) citizen supporting project 33,357 For areas affected by oil pollution disclosed through remaining oil indication research, total 1.6 billion won and about 15,000 people were invested from 2009 to 2010 to implement the oil spill removal project and citizen supporting project. Thereby, the oil indication reached up to 33.3km in 2008 had reduced to 4.7km in 2009 and then 2.1km in 2010. To protect additional damage to the 4,750 ecosystem by excessive disaster prevention, our management 2,150 1,800 policy to the oil spill had changed to natural purification and it has 2008 2009 2010 2011 been reported that the oil indication reduced to 1.8km. (Right after the accident ) ●Coral community in Taeanhaean national park ●Long-term monitoring for effect of oil spill on the ecosystem A place where people and nature gather together, this is a national park. SOCIETY 48 _Customer Satisfaction Management 49_Disaster & Safety Countermeasure 50 _Communication with Customer 51 _Status of Officials and Employees 52 _Human Resource Development and Incentive System 54 _Communication with Officials and Employees 55 _Safety and Health for Officials and Employees 56 _Family-friendly management 57 _Fair Trade 58 _Making a Happy Community Taeanhaean, “Family” _ Lee, Ki-seok 48 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Customer Satisfaction Management Customer Satisfaction Promoting System Strengthening employee’s CS capability Under the strategic goal of customer satisfaction, ‘provision of the The service is operating CS capability enhancement program for best public service to be trusted from customer’, the KNPS has internal employees to maximize the customer satisfaction through established detailed promoting strategy and project to be the quality improvement of service. We plan to operate ‘internal implemented to promote customer satisfaction management with instructor system’ to nurturing employee with the highest strengthened customer contact service. We are operating various performance or site professional as a instructor among all internal on/offline channels to communicate with customers such as employees and promote nurturing 50 employees in 2012. ‘customer’s day’, ‘visiting service for civil complaint’, and ‘follow-up action according to the satisfaction of community’. ●●Status of CS capability enhancement Division 2009 2010 2011 Improving an online customer-oriented Number of internal instructor trainer (person) Not implemented 18 41 contact point service Number of CS training participant(person) 17,360 15,362 20,463 CS education hours per person (hr) 3.67 5.4 6.2 To improve the national service, the ●●Smartphone APP KNPS has reformed its homepage Customer Satisfaction Survey based on user through a regular inspection conducted by CEO. To •Hiking information for The KNPS is seeking for the maximization of customer national park improve an aesthetic appreciation, •Dulegil in Bukhansan satisfaction through the specialization of park management Digital story telling the design making the most of each system and provision of good quality of visiting service •3Ddigitaleco-tourguide park’s characteristics were applied •Others customized to customer’s level. We have analyzed VOC in various National park quintillion, and the research function such as Traveling note for Taean classes through self customer satisfaction survey and integrated complaints request had habyeon-gil continuously implemented quality management for service. As a strengthened to improve the result, we have been designated as an excellent institution in convenience. We are activating the customer satisfaction for public area (same evaluation group) communication with customers through providing two-way online from customer satisfaction survey conducted by the Ministry of service with the application of social media such as blog village, Strategy and Finance for 5 consecutive years. Twitter, and Facebook. ●●Service by customer type and results of performance index ●●Status of homepage visitor (Unit: 10,000 persons) Customer type Service Performance index 2009 2010 2011 967 Clean and Customer Visitors comfort service satisfaction 95.5 96.0 98.6 700 530 Internet Quickness, Homepage user accurate and satisfaction 78.0 82.1 83 diversify General Citizen sensory 59.7 citizen level* (upper 20%) 2009 2010 2011 *Public sensory survey has been implemented since 2011 49 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 SOCIETY Disaster & Safety Countermeasure ●Warm-up before climbing ●Visitor rescue Strengthening preventive infrastructure to protect safety accident and disaster The KNPS has been designated as an institution in charge of disaster management in 2004 and since then, the KNPS is exerting its utmost efforts to strengthening the infrastructure to protect visitors from safety accident. About 184 safety management programs and campaigns including the campaign to prevent exclusive staffs acquired with related certificates and rescue training drinking during hiking, operating national hiking safety class, other are paced in the right place and they are taking responsibility for safety campaign and opening national park hiking schools such as a visitor’s safety with their immediate rescue service. The KNPS also safety education and field trip for general citizen and teenagers in operates a national park prevention system to manage the disaster cooperation with private companies. Also, we are operating various and accident in real-time. The KNPS is providing diverse information safety training contents on online and striving for creating a safety to take immediate action for accident in the communication culture throughout the on/offline. registered area in the national park with the utilization of QR codes ●●Status of safety training (2,272 places); the KNPS has expanded its infrastructures to protect visitors from disaster and accident by placing auto-meteorological Division 2009 2010 2011 Number of participants in national park climbing school (person) 418 466 observation to improve the disaster responsiveness in the rapidly Number of participants in the climbing safety class (person) 499 659 933 climate change at 29 places, forest-fire surveillance camera to Satisfaction of students completed with safety training 93 92 protect the national park from fire at 27 places, 30 forest-fire fighting vehicles and regular training for extinguishment of forest-fire and tool uses. In 2011, the KNPS is under the construction of system Strengthening the emergency medical providing weather information using a smartphone to visitors and we treatment and emergency relief are developing and operating hiking safety application to take an immediate action to shipwreck. To prevent people from sudden cardiac death which is the number one cause of death during hiking, we, the KNPS has installed 17 automatic ●●Type of accident and its ratio (Unit : person) defibrillators at refuges in the national park to timely mange the patients Injuries Dead in emergency situation. Also our staffs (256) here had their capabilities Year Physical injuries Exhaustion deficiency Falls drown Exhaustion Cold death with regular cooperative rescue training and acquisition of certain 2009 373 153 10 10 1 certificates related to emergency rescue and emergency treatment. 2010 301 49 11 9 4 2 2011 204 70 6 10 2 1 1 ●●Status of rescue training participants (Unit : person) 2,673 Safety Training and Culture Creation 1,363 To create a preventive culture for visitors against the accidents, we 985 are implementing a warm-up exercise before and after the climbing and a safety campaign to protect sudden cardiac death which has 2009 2010 2011 been greatly increasing these days. We are implementing various 50 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Communication with Customers VOC Management System Providing accurate information The KNPS is operating ●Operating a ‘customer’s day’ The KNPS is installing and operating visiting information center the on-offline ‘voice of and visiting supporting center at the customer contact point for the customer (VOC)’ to each park to provide safety hiking information and customized fix the fundamental visiting service to customers. In addition to this, the KNPS is complaints of the providing real-time information about national park through visitors. It tries to listen various media such as website, smartphone and iTV internet and process the broadcasting of national parks for customers to have our customer complaints updated information in outside of national park. In particular, for at the field like a mobile branch chief, visiting a civil service, customer a two-way communication with customers, we had strategically day and customer assessors. It strengthens an online VOD used Twitter, Facebook and blog; and received a ‘Grand Prize’ in management capability to improve the VOC compliance rate and the the 2011 Korea Social Media Public part. number of days of feedback; thereby, the two-way communication has been strengthened. Protecting Customer Information ●●Status of online VOC management The importance of private information protection became a great Division 2009 2010 2011 social issue as an IT technology is developing and some cases in Number of post (case) 4,505 3,263 2,909 the violation of private information occurred in the public institution Rate of compliance (%) 98.8 99.5 99.6 were reported in the press. Thus, the KNPS is complied with Number of days to completing Within 1 day Within 1 day Within 1 day private information protection act and any related acts to this and we are also operating a safe information system for customer’s confidentiality. We had induced the practice hacking and Proving a high quality service through a preventative solution for leaking of private information and customer satisfaction committee performing an information security consulting to establish the master plan. We are making our utmost efforts to protect national To discover a new service, we are operating a customer rights and benefits through strengthening the information security satisfaction committee (composed of 8 customers and 6 by improving the mid-term vulnerability. As a result of those members of KNPS) and providing continuous high quality service efforts, we have received G-ISMS certificate from the Department by evaluating customer’s suggestion and the best examples of Administration and Safety and we didn’t have any violation cases performed by office. to the regulation of related customer information. ●●Spreading the new service through customer’s suggestion ●Discovering outstanding case of customer satisfaction ●Hiking boots rent service CS case CS committee HQ Best example Spread Grading system for visiting trails Mountain parks in all nationwide Example Review (plan) Free rent for hiking boots All refuges customer Discovering and suggestion Evaluation Installing dryer for hiking boots Mountain parks in all nationwide spreading by office Reservation system for camping site Reservation system for vehicle camping site 51 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 SOCIETY Status of Officials and Employees Composition of officials and employees Opened Employment As of end of December, 2011, the number of officials and The members of the KNPS should be able to deliver a public employees working at the KNPS including the headquarters and message through important project and patrol supply by each branch is 2,082 in total. The KNPS has established a plan preserving the natural resources and providing intangible and for man power management connected to management goal of tangible services. The KNPS puts its right people for KNPS as a KNPS to maintain a balance between job creation and labor’s ‘person who can maximize the value of nature’ and introduced an efficiency. To manage flexible labor force, we had introduced in-depth interview and interview committee responsibility system weekend short-time hours, seasonal system. Also the KNPS is to select an excellent talent. Also we established our goals for securing excellent talents through visiting recruiting system and hiring disabled, veterans, youth internship and short-term labor operating a supporting program for new labors to be adapted to to fulfill the social responsibilities through expanding the socially working environment earlier. The detailed information on officials balanced recruitment. In 2011, we had implemented 4 visiting and employees status is listed as below. recruiting to hire the talents in certain district and participated in the governmental recruitment exhibition. ●●Status of officials and employees (Unit : person, %) Respect for Human Right Division 2009 2010 2011 Number of officials 5 5 3 The KNPS is complying with labor standard act and international Number of employees 1,900 1,905 2,079 labor standard to realize the human right. The wage and Total number of employees 1,905 1,910 2,082 compensation is not commensurate with gender in accordance Male 1,470 1,474 1,574 with non-discrimination and the principle of equality and we Gender Female 435 436 508 never had complaints on human rights up to present. Employment Employment Permanent 1,121 1,042 1,021 type Temporary 784 868 1,061 ●●Status of equal employment General 833 804 804 Division 2009 2010 2011 Working Operational 190 137 117 Employment rate of disabled (%) 3.8 4.1 4.4 type Particular, Occupational 98 96 97 Employment rate of patriots and veterans (%) 5.7 5.6 5.6 Average continuous service 10.4 11.3 11.2 Hiring rate of youth internship (people) 94 54 49 period (regular employment)* Hiring rate of senior personnel (people) 183 184 281 Recruitment Newly hired (Permanent)* 90 28 27 Turnover Turnover (Permanent)* 7.7 0 0 ●Visiting recruiting * Permanent employment of recruitment and turnover is solely through opened recruitment except the operational employment ●●2001 Equal employment goal Patriots and Veterans Youth Division Disabled Short-term Employment internship 3% of regular 4% of fixed 10% of newly Goal 5% of fixed number employees number hiring 52 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Human Resource Development and Incentive System A green future created by people hand and operating internal instructor and learning society to settle down the building a life-long training system learning organizational culture, giving a cultivation responsibility for juniors to executives and managing the learning efforts exerted by A HRD slogan of KNPS is ‘passion for future, toward a lifelong members by connecting them with organizational performance. A learning’ and we are exerting ourselves to nurture the global level park required learning hour to be completed by grade is promoting management rangers. Also, a lifelong learning committee, which is member’s voluntarily engagements in the learning and the hours composed of internal management and external professional are continuously increasing by exceeding the 120 hours of park members, is support the learning and related decision making. management ranger in advanced countries. ●●Guaranteed hour and completion performance by job grades Training program for the required competence (unit : hr) Division 2009 2010 2011 Hour per person 104 124 140 The lifelong learning system composed of basic competence, 1st grade 74 86 105 leadership competence and job competence is promoting a 2st grade 80 103 122 necessary training program by connecting with manpower 3st grade 104 131 129 development plan to create a great performance of KNPS and 4st grade 74 129 136 strengthen the professionalism among the members. Also, we are 5st grade 86 124 145 ●●Training Strategy HRD slogan Passion for future, toward a lifelong learning! Jumping into an institution specialized in nurturing park management ranger in 2012 HRD vision 2010 Best HRD certificate, implementing an integrated training program for special protecting area manager in 2011 Management Mid and long-term personnel management Life-long learning system plan system (3 years long plan connected with management goal) (mid and long-term nurturing system for talents) STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 •Establishment of experienced development •Advancement of experienced development plan •Intellectual contribution as a specialized plan •customized education and support for retires institutionoperating ranger academy •Customized training for each class •Nurturing job professionals •Development of training contents for park •Internal instructor (2% of all members) •Internal instructor (3% of all members) management •Activation of CoP (Outstanding CoP •Activation of CoP (Managing BSC index) •Development of Global Contents compensation) •Strengthening the evaluation for effectiveness of •Operation of life-long learning committee training ~2010 2011 2012~ 53 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 SOCIETY Professional training for green leader, employee VOB to communicate in real time. We also are operating nurturing green talents a warning system for solicited person, disclosure of name and deduction system with introduction of 2nd phase measures for Since our members or organization are scattered across the countries, personnel solicit. As a result of efforts to improve the fairness of the KNPS resolved the difficulties of group training with video meeting personnel matters since 2010, no solicitation has been reported yet system and cyber training center; we are regularly educating the core as of end of 2011 and the fairness index is improving annually. values and management ideology that all members should know. Also, we are operating a site-focused intensive education to strengthening Wage system based on performance and job the job professionalism. Our personnel development system and related education systems were recognized and certified as an The KNPS has operated a wage system based on performance and excellent institution for personnel development in 2010 and received an job to encourage the continuous growth of organization and maximize ‘excellence award’ from 8th life-long learning contest in public area. the individual’s capability. Especially in 2011, we had introduced the Also, we have designated as the ‘Best HRD institutional characteristics performance based wage system to all officials and employees at first and successful model subject for research’ by human resource time among the public institutions and implemented a wage system research center in Seoul National University. based on duty that reflects the characteristics and difficulties of job, we are striving to establish a rational compensation system. Realization of performance-based human resource management ●●Evaluation system satisfaction survey (Unit : point) The KNPS had introduced an individual performance evaluation 3.62 (MBO) since 2010 for members to deploy their capabilities and 3.57 create great performance through a fair evaluation. Also we are operating a competence evaluation that assesses the capability 3.25 required for each position, grade and job. To implement a fair evaluation by evaluation index, the KNPS is implementing the 2009 2010 2011 competence evaluation on every October and the performance evaluation on every December. Also, the assessor and non-assessor ●●A survey on organization fairness perception should record and describe the consultation and evaluation results (Unit : point) are clearly disclosed. The employees can raise the objection to the 3.41 results disclosed and 1 out of 9 objections was accepted in 2011. With those efforts, the employee’s perception on the fairness and evaluation system is improving every year. 3.30 To avoid incorrect personnel information and damage of 3.14 organization creditability due to solicit related rumor, the KNPS is disclosing the personnel information through the operation of 2009 2010 2011 personnel information notice room, communication spot, and ●New employee site training ●Strengthening the capability of middle manager ●Leadership cultivation training 54 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Communication with Officials and Employees Status of labor union Building a rational, legitimate labor and management relationship The KNPS is striving to build a win-win and harmonized relationship of labor and management by establishing a labor and management development vision based For fair and responsible labor and management culture, the KNPS is operating on creditability and communication. The Labor Act was established in 26th labor and management joint cooperative program for labor and management December, 1988; and starting from the conclusion of the first collective agreement conflict; thereby, the KNPS has fulfilled all governmental policies through labor and in 1989, the labor union is composed of 12 executive branches, 846 numbers of management negotiation by introducing performance-based wage system associations, 12 branches and 20 director execution members. Since the imposed to all employees. Also, to build a win-win labor and management culture, establishment of labor union, the KNPS is maintaining exemplary relationship the KNPS had provided a place for labor and management cooperation through between labor and management without any violation cases of labor strike and labor and management discussion, labor and management joint workshop and labor laws. Also, the KNPS is conducting an employee satisfaction survey every athletic competition for employees. The KNPS is increasing the employee year to reflect their requests to policy and improve the welfare. satisfaction by expanding and operating a family-friendly management practices. To perform a social responsibility, the KNPS is expanding the sharing culture in the ●●Status of labor union organization by donation campaign, “Cheonmimanmi’ that all labor and Rate of membership Status of employee being a member of labor union Status of labor union management employees were voluntarily engaged. As a result, the KNPS had 81.5% 1,038 people 846 people been introduced in ‘good innovate examples of labor and management in public institution’ published by Ministry of Labor and Employment; our active excellence in Advancement of relationship between labor and management win-win cooperation has been recognized; thereby, the labor and management labor and management in the KNPS received the minister citation. For an advancement of relationship between labor and management, the ●●Result of employee satisfaction survey (Unit : point) KNPS modified its existing established strategy to more productive and also Division 2009 2010 2011 modified the labor and management vision and mid and long-term strategy by Employee Satisfaction 66.6 65.5 70.2 connecting them with governmental advancement measures; thereby, we could create a bond of sympathy in labor and management. To do this, we Building an opened communication channel implemented the diagnosis for relationship between labor and management, created a labor and management joint development committee with a To create a bond of sympathy between CEO and all ●Certified ‘2011 excellent company for job innovation’ president of labor and management attended to draw an improvement project employees, the KNPS has increased the through coaching from external professionals and conducting the survey for all ‘communication-level of sympathy’ through having employees at labor and management relations; thereby, we have relunch with all members in the head quarter and established the labor and management advancement vision customized to the communication with employees when visiting local KNPS and established 4 projects and 16 promoting strategies. office. The KNPS visited an Ombudsman site in the cooperation with labor and management and listened ●Labor and management workshop ●Communication with CEO and labor union to the concerns and complaints from employees to improve the poor working environment. In 2011, As a result of our efforts, the communication meeting’ for two-way communication and the promotion of safety protection to create a safe working place for all employees, the rate of accident occurrence has been reduced (10.6% in 2010 0.58% in 2011) and certified as ‘working innovative excellent company’. 55 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 SOCIETY Safety and Health for Officials and Employees Implementation of a mid and long-term Strengthening safety training and measure for safety and health and expansion of safe equipments improvement of employee satisfaction The KNPS requires the mandatory health and safety training for The KNPS had established a mid and long-term measure for all employees from training for newly coming employees to job safety and health in 2010 to promote a systematic safety and educations to increase their awareness of health safety activities health activities for mid and long-term; and we are faithfully at all job training. We provided all employees with knee and ankle carrying out the project. In 2011, all employees were conducted guards to perform their jobs in safe way at mountain area. the physical and strength examination to investigate their physical and strength status; thus, we started to give them an ●●Status of accident occurrence and strengthening the safety and public health exercise prescription by their physical grades. Also, the KNPS Division 2009 2010 2011 determined the safety and health management regulation to 49 25 17 Number of accident occurred (case) promote more systematic safety and health activities, striving to Rate of accident (%) 1.86 1.06 0.58 secure the safety for all employees. Number of people receiving safety and public health education (person) 138 12,130 15,230 Number of safety and public health education (number) 9 622 663 Building a KOSHA 18001 system in all Safety equipment budget (1 million won) 123 1,015 national parks ●Safety training and stretching ●Physical and strength examinations for all employees The KNPS has built a KOSHA 18001 in all 28 national park offices to create a park environment for all members can promote their works in safe way. 12 offices were newly certified and 16 offices had acquired the post-certificates and we are striving to nurture the specialists of safe and public health in each office. ●●Roadmap for KOSHA 18001 system 2009 2010 2011~ 3 offices 13 offices 12 offices All 28 member offices(institutes) •Seoraksan/Songrisan •Jirisan, Jirisan (Southern part) with KOSHA •Hallyeohaesang (Eastern •Gyeoryongsan, Taeanhaean •Jirisan (Northern part), certificates part) •Dadohaehaesang, Dadohaehaesang Hallyeohaesang (Western part) •Gyeongju, Naejangsan •Chiaksan, Bukhansan •Naejangsan Baekam, Gayasan •Sobaeksan (Northern part), Wolculsan •Deogyusan, Odaesan •Byunsanbando, research institute •Juwangsan, Woraksan •Species Restoration Technology •Bukhansan Dobong, Sobaeksan Institute *KOSHA 18001: a health and safety management system of Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency to verify the status of examination. 56 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Family-friendly Management Balance between work and life Gender equality and maternity protection program The KNPS is leading a family-friendly management in public area through work and life balancing program and various The KNPS is expanding the program for gender equality and activities as a demonstrating institution of flexible working maternity protection for female employees not to be system. We are operating various programs to maintain the disadvantaged from their childbirth and child support. The CEO of balance between work (flexible working system, refresh vacation, KNPS is providing a childbirth grant and gift. The KNPS health management, national park ranger experience) and areas guarantees for vacation and taking-off system related to other than work (family, leisure and self-development). pregnancy and childbirth and expanding and operation flexible working hours continuously to secure the time for child support. ●● Ratio of male and female when evaluation for promotion (Unit : person) Also, we are providing a child family grant and operation various support program for maternity protection by installing the rest place for them and hometown working system. 351 199 ●●Benefit Package 53 40 29 Type Detailed Criteria Name of System 6 Different commuting Flexible working(2006) Intensive labor working Intensive working hour (2008) Flexible Remote working and home-based work Remote working system implementation '(2007) 2009 2010 2011 working Voluntary working Flexible work pilot test (2010) Short work Short working (10 years) Short working hours in child nurturing period Short working'(2010) Prenatal leave Collective bargaining Article 60 (statutory holiday ●●Ratio of male and female for number of managers (Unit : person) Parental leave Collective bargaining Article 60 (statutory holiday Child birth Spouse birth leave system Collective bargaining Article 60 (statutory holiday 259 and Miscarriage leave Collective bargaining Article 60 (statutory holiday 205 244 parenting Prenatal checkup leave system Collective bargaining Article 60 (statutory holiday support Feeding time Collective bargaining Article 60 (statutory holiday 11 12 Parent support allowance Family allowance payments (parents above 60) 3 Childbirth Grant Childbirth Grant’ (2011) Family issues and stress management Ombudsman system Health Management Programs Health check up fee payments (3million KRW / year) 2009 2010 2011 Stop smoking campaign Stop smoking campaign’ (2011) Employees Family-friendly educational programs participation in father school '(2007) Family programs Staff resort operation '(10 years) ●●Reinstatement and maintenance ratio after the childbirth vacation (Unit : person) Other self-development programs Self-Innovation programs '(2006) Refresh vacation system Enforcement of Refresh vacation system’ (2011) Division 2009 2010 2011 On-time working off system Family Day Female (maintenance/ reinstatement) 7/7 4/4 11 / 11 FamilySocial Responsibility activities Joint Declaration with labor and management '(2009) friendly Male (maintenance/ reinstatement) 1/1 1/1 3 / 3* culture Family loving picture contest Creation of family-friendly culture’ (2011) Other programs Employee Family rangers Camp '(2009) * 1 male taking off employee is excluded due to his dismissal at his own request in 2011. 57 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 SOCIETY Fair Trade Improving the transparency of partner appropriateness for basic amount in advance to protect the selection contractor through selecting reasonable unit price. We are supporting for rights of employee and subcontractors to be We are placing an open competitive bidding through implementing guaranteed by confirming if they insured by company and the more than 90% of electric biddings excluding some projects such cash payment for contractor are being made. as a patented construction among all projects to give a fair opportunity in the partner selection process. Also we are growing Operating a clean contract system into reliable and trustworthy institution through the expansion of private delegate participations when evaluating the proposals. The KNPS is operating a ‘clean contract system’ to In 2011, we reformed a ‘national park management service contract strengthening the transparency of contract system and building review committee organization and operation guideline’ to determine a healthy relationship with small and medium sized partnership. any requirements for composition and operation of contract review Continuing from 2010, we had completed 100% of clean contract committee for decision on the appropriateness of private contract. We for all areas in 2011 also. We also operate internal public are also disclosing the monthly private contracts (public contract reporting system and cyber corruption reporting center to find more than 10 million won; service or product purchasing contract out any unfairness and cheating and we are striving for realizing more than 3 million won) on our homepage to improve the fairness transparent fair trade by strengthening the responsibility of and transparency of private contract administration. corruption reporting and enacting reporter protection guideline. The KNPS doesn’t carry out the evaluation for human right during selecting major supply company, contracted company Communication with partners and other partners; however, we are striving to consider the compliance of labor act and human right as our first priority. The KNPS is opening a way of win-win cooperation by operating various communication channels with partners. In 2011, we had Improving the unfair trading factor operated a regular discussion with cleaning service company in each district to listen and improve any errors during executing the To improve the fairness in the contract relationship, the KNPS project and we are exerting an effort to build a win-win relationship analyses the causing factor of unfair trade and is striving to with partners by seeking the ways to promote a developmental improve them. At the planning phase, we inspect the project through active exchange of idea between each other. ●Proposal Evaluation ●Communication with partners 58 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Making a happy community Social Responsibility Promoting System ●Visiting senior lives alone ●Education for children of vulnerable class Based on the authenticity and sustainability, the KNPS is deploying social responsibility based on consumer and wish to contribute to ‘ecological welfare to open a happy future’. ●●Social Responsibility Promoting System Mission The KNPS is leading “Happy future for both Nature and People” Goal of SR ‘The best institution with a public value’ through strengthening the social responsibility Slogan 坊坊曲曲 Happy partner, KNPS Park area community Vulnerable Social group Expanding a ‘living welfare’ Growing a ‘cultural hope’ Nature & sharing Donation culture Strategy Community based on Supporting ecological Operating a social Providing a social volunteer activity (all experience and talent service program contribution donation the seasons) development for teenager, Opening an Loving blood grandfather and grandson, environmental concert donation, organ donor multi-cultural and North Korean defector children ●●Roadmap for promoting a social contribution ~ 2010 2011 2012 2013 ~ Period of Introduction Period of Growth Period of Settlement Period of Spread Creating a bond of social Building a social contribution Realization of company’s social Socially respectful company contribution consensus system responsibility Building a social contribution Establishment of social Building a social contribution strategy Organizing a group in charge of system contribution company Operating a social volunteering group social contribution Expanding stakeholder Short social volunteer work Forming a social contribution donation Introduction of system to support a engagement Promoting short assignment social contribution Strengthening a social promotion advertisement 59 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 SOCIETY ●● National Park Volunteer Group organizational chart KNPS Private Engagement Head (CEO) Social Regional Cooperation Committee, Responsibility Customer Satisfaction Committee Committee Management Support (General affairs Department) HQ 26 offices Eco-learning National Park Species Restoration Institute Research Institute Technology Institute National Park Volunteer Group group in head office and 29 offices. Also, we have built a strategic partnership with NGO, interagency and other company to provide Social service for loving neighbors, sharing talents and opportunities a basis for community to grow into brighter and health way. The KNPS is working in various social contribution activities in continuous and systematic manners for socially vulnerable class Creating a Myeongpum Village and park area community by using KNPS’s capabilities. We are striving to play as a company citizen through community based Creating a myeongpum village is a project to support funding for volunteering activities and organizing national park volunteer traditional cultural characteristics of village and excellent natural ecology for village located in national park’s mountain region and insular area and to provide a basis for community to be ●●Status of employee’s social contribution activities financially independent through the expansion of visiting infrastructure and improvement of village environment. Gwanmaedo village in the Dadohaehaesang national park is 23,414 22 23 selected as the first myeongpum village in 2010; and Naedo in 22,880 Hallyeohaesang, Gusan village in Deokyusan, Sangsu village in 13,224 12 Dadeohaehaesang and Golmyeogol village in Woraksan also have been designated as the Myeongpum village in 2011. 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Volunteering hour (unit : hr) Hour per person (Unit : hr/person) ●Ecological tour Voucher System ●Nature & sharing environmental concert ●Blood donation week 60 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 ●●Status of Myeongpum Village Operating a National Park Citizen College Year of Office Name of Household/ Major businesses Establishment Village population The KNPS is strengthening human network to nurturing a Western part •Operating village joint lodging 2010 Gwanmaedo 126/212 of Daedohae •Creating Masil-gil, developing local specialized food leadership who promotes the cooperation between national park Eastern part •Lodging remodeling and community and building a mutual cooperative system Naedo 11/28 of hayllyeo •Restoring village old road, creating a local specialties store •Landmark, public facility maintenance between the KNPS and community by introducing a park Deokyusan Gusan 44/79 •Creating 3 themes village, myeongpumgil management system and national park to residence around the 2011 Dadohaeahes •Developing a myengpum village brand image ang Sangsu 31/65 •Improving the village landscape, developing local specialties park and students and establishing a class reflecting major •Creating a park, improving shopping district service concerning issues of community. Staring from Seoraksan in 2008, Woraksan Golmyeogol 31/69 •Village road and rest and, lodging maintenance we could released about 361 graduates from college we offered to them by operating 8 offices including Seoraksan, Gyeryongsan, Establishment and operation of National Songrisan and others in 2010. Since 2011, we plan to continuously Park Green Market (Local specialties direct promote a mutual cooperative park management by opening trade market) ‘national park citizen college’ that all graduates from citizen college are participating and organizing an alumni association. The KNPS has established and operated a ‘national park green market’ for visitors to each national park such as Bukhansan and National Park Community Satisfaction Survey Gyeryongsan to promote actual earning support for communities who has difficulties in sales and advertisement of their agroSince 2009, the KNPS is exerting its efforts to discover an efficient fisher products produced from small-sized farming in the support for residents and establish the park management policy national park since 2009. Also, we support the sales of local by evaluating overall community satisfaction on park products through online shopping mall and product guide book management policy and measuring the effectiveness of in the train shop published by railway public corporate, a Korail; cooperative project with community. As a result of the first thereby, we could contribute to the increase of earning up to satisfaction survey on 2 years old community cooperative project, about 40 million won in 2011. the lower score, 39.1 out of 100 points were drawn; however, the ●●Status of green market sales satisfaction score is getting higher since we had actively promoted a project to increase the income proving actual Division 2009 2010 2011 Amount of sales 430 million won 1,401 million won 810 million won benefits by building a Myeongpum village and supports for local specialties sales. In the future, the KNPS will deploy a project to increase both pride of community and their satisfaction through Strengthening the link between the the understanding of values toward the national park. national park communities The KNPS is strengthening the link between the national park ●●Result of community satisfaction (Unit: point) communities by actively promoting the volunteer works by operating English study group and after class school for 79.1 neglected children, maintenance and improvement of building for neglected family and operating Korean class for multi-culture family. Especially we designated the Friday before the Korean 65.1 Thanksgiving day (Chuseok) every year as ‘national park citizen’s 39.1 day’ to strengthen the relationship between park management service and community through sisterhood relationship with community and each office. We are fulfilling the park management with community by continuously helping neglected 2009 2010 2011 class of people, helping village and citizen harmonizing party. ECONOMY 62 _Management Performance 63 _Efforts for financial soundness 64 _Efforts work improvement 66 _Global KNPS More lives are carried out from the national park for richer nature Wokraksan “Upupa epops saturate”_ Bae, Bok-hyung 62 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Management Performance Budget size and input status ●●A ripple effect of national park on the economy The KNPS s budget is composed of general account, the Production Earning ripple government supported project; and special account, the agency ripple effect effect project and subsidiary project. By striving to create continuous, 16,524 billion won 2,917 billion won management efficiency and rational management of budget, the KNPS could achieve a net profit during the term of 13 billion won. In particular, the special account project is invested to major key projects through the selection and focus to increase the 28,333 people biodiversity and create safety and clean visiting environment. Employment ripple effect Through this, the KNPS is returning the value of national park 7,965 billion won back to nature and citizens. Added value ripple effect ●●Summary of gain and loss calculation (Unit : one million won) ※ Excluding the Hallasan national park Division 2009 2010 2011 Project income 191,139 166,476 171,461 Creating and distributing an economic value Project costs 188,246 169,320 172,007 Profit (loss) 2,893 △2,844 △516 With reasonable budget allocation and enforcement, the KNPS Income before tax 4,089 △1,049 1,432 could create an economic ripple effect as much as 2.7 trillion won Income tax expense 1,473 449 89 to 19 national parks and regional economy in Korea. Also we have Net income 2,616 △1,498 1,344 created about 28,000 jobs; thereby, we have contributed to the strict resource conservation, provision of sustainable visiting service and public value creation through the cooperation with ●●Allocation of economic value community‘a ( ripple effect of national park on the economy’ ,3 (Unit : one million won) years study results from national park research center). Also, 15 national parks were certified by international standard national park (category II) classified by IUCN; thus, our status has been 7,800 Distributed value Community raised as a park management professional institution. Social contribution cost 66,484 123 Government Tax and dues 17,337 Partner Purchase, service, product 41,224 Officials and Employees Wage, welfare 63 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 ECONOMY Efforts for Financial Soundness Establishment of mid and long-term Efficient and rational enforcement and financial plan and feedback organization of budget The KNPS re-established a mid and long term plan according to the To efficiently and rationally execute and reorganize the budget, we mid and long term management goals with reflection of future are operating a real-time monitoring on financial budget through management environment. By faithfully re-organizing the priority of financial warning (green, orange and red colors) system, and budge based on strategic assignment that reflects revised import, spending and estimation system. When major issues are management goal and strategy, the KNPS is starting the financial occurred, the KNPS resolved them by applying scenario plan action budget management for creation of future performance. Also, by that reflects the results from management strategy meeting and establishing the project plans that responsible department engaged regular budget review board and risk stage. Also, to support prompt and predicting a reasonable investment factor to achieve a systematic decision making of management, the KNPS continuously advanced budget management. The KNPS is maximizing the budget efficiency the ERP system and newly introduced e-audit system to strengthen by building an individual performance focused evaluating system. the transparency of budget enforcement. ●●Budget Management Process Optimization of budget management through regular monitoring Budget organization, December January (previous year performance reflected) Budget management Establishment of budget enforcement, •Establishment of annual/quarterly/monthly budget management plan Budget allocation (quarter and spot) •Granting sales and budget enforcement (reduction) goals •Internal performance management connection Reflection of Budget reorganization and Enforcement and analysis of monthly •Budget management real-time monitoring •Checking the performance of sales goal and budget enforcement difference in budget and closing •Adjustment of regular and spot budget management plan enforcement for this year Analysis of quarterly difference in budget •Analysis of difference in major projects and outlook of gain and loss at the end of the year Adjustment of goal considering management environment and business condition and closing (April, July and October) •Establishment and implementation of major business recovery measure Closing and performance evaluation •Reflection of budget management result and performance evaluation (December) •Granting budget organization incentive and penalty for the next year Rational Organization of budget reflecting the analysis of difference between budget and closing Mid and Budget Project department request •Reflecting the difference between budget and closing long-term (internal verification) •Internal/external environmental analysis and establishment of budget request direction management request •Prior consultation of project demand department (March ~ May) goal Budget Pre-investigation for demand and •Prior consultation for project promoting direction with the Ministry of Environment and KNPS agreement with the Ministry of Environment Mid and longsubmission (internal and external verification) •Project demand department final agreement and budget submission (End of June) term financial budget plan Agreement with the Ministry of Budget Strategy and Finance •Government financial management direction, project validity and performance inspection (external verification) •In-depth inspection for small sum, problem, additional project (July~ end of September) Annual budget Budget Decision made from national •National Assembly deliberation determined (October ~ December) organization assembly, approval by committee •Committee determination and project execution (December ~ January) determined (internal and external verification) •Prior agreement with budget enforcement practitioner and operation of budget regular review committee Internal Management Strategy Meeting, enforced budget regular review committee, External The Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Strategy and Finance, project discussion, project demand investigation Environment Labor Committee, Budget organization guideline 64 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Efforts for Work Improvement Innovative and Creative Management What is U-Park Management? It is an ubiquitous park management The KNPS is striving to actively share the knowledge and using a latest technology such as discover a creative idea through knowledge management system smartphone to improve the efficiency of and leading a learning organizational culture to be settled down work at the site with IT utilization and to by encouraging CoP activities. Also, we are actively utilizing IT advance the working method. management to positively coping with environmental change and providing a high quality of customer service. smartphone and spread 200 smartphone; thus, working stage ●●Knowledge activity performance has been minimized and the efficiency of site working has been Division 2009 (Number 2010 of suggestion2011 per person) improved. In addition to this, since the national parks are Suggestion 0.49 0.96 1.33 scattered all over the country, it requires excessive movement, too much time and cost and administrative vacuum when gathering for meeting. Therefore, to minimize those issues, the Innovative and Creative Management KNPS had introduced and operated a video meeting system. Performance Thereby, the smooth working communication overcoming the limitation of time and space and cost reduction have been U-Park (IT) management achieved. More than 40 millions of people are visiting to national park annually; thus, efficient site dealing of accompanying various Strengthening smartphone information service visitors and provision of visiting service are very important. Thus, Recently, the demand for the smartphone among the citizens is the KNPS is systematically promoting them by introducing IT broadly increasing and the demand for various information and technology, the smartphone and wireless communication service to be provided by smartphone is also increasing. Thus, network into new concept, U-Park for efficient park the KNPS has added some more functions to provide more management and advancement of working method. A U-Park, information efficiently and take immediate action when accident minimizing the limitation of time and space at anywhere and occurs and promising fun and safe visiting. Our representative anytime is to realize the ubiquitous at the national park. As a smartphone app, the hiking information service guides you a part of U-park, we built a site management system using a visiting based on the map and provides various information ● National Park Site Management System ●National Park Hiking Information Service 65 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 ECONOMY including weather and travel. The app is also providing the Tourism. Through these serious of activities, we guaranteed an location service so when visitor gets trouble, the park manager efficient management of knowledge assets, contributing to the will find guy and take immediate action. By providing specialized knowledge management. apps such as ’Dule-gil visiting’ and ‘national park quintillion’, the customer satisfaction has been improved. Strengthening the customer focused service through an internet The KNPS is strengthening the G-ISMS Authentication communication with all nations The importance of security in the flooding information is coming through SNS and homepage. to the fore recently. The KNPS has been certified by G-ISMS KNPS is actively operating that proves the institution establishes and operates a systematic various SNS, ‘blog village’, information security system. G-ISMS is ‘national park twitter’, and to diagnose the level of information ●Certified information protection ‘national park Facebook’. As a management system security in each company and its result, KNPS has received the concept is similar to ISO27001. This Grand Prize in ‘4th Korea Social certificate is very tough to obtain and media’. As a result of efforts to only 4 out of 109 public institution are manage safe homepage from currently obtained. The KNPS will disclosure of private information, ●Received grand prize of 2011 Korea strive for safer information security. we improved the reliability of social media homepage by acquiring ‘private Strengthening the data quality for knowledge management information outstanding certificate’and ‘internet site safety mark’. We Producing and maintaining high quality of information with also acquired web-accessibility quality mark by providing minimized errors guarantee the competitiveness of company. undifferentiated services to disabled with hearing or visual The KNPS had built detailed control chart DB at 9 national parks impairments. As a result, the homepage satisfaction has increased including Jirisan and provided a basis to offer high quality of by more than 2 points and the daily visitors increased by 37.7%; the information at the national service. Also, the KNPS had national service through the homepage has been improved. implemented quality inspection and improvement activities for resource integrated management database which is a ●●Participating contents performance representative data accumulation of KNPS and received Blog village National park Twitter Customer improvement opinion request excellent DB quality prize held by the Ministry of Culture and 13,480 posts 488 posts; 1,077 followers 394 opinions ●●The errors rate between KNPS vs. domestic average ●Private information protection certificate 0% Platinum Class 0.03% Gold Class ●Web-accessibility quality mark National park (2.12%) 2.3% Silver Class 4.49% Silver below (Error rate) domestic average(5.21%) 66 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE·SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Global KNPS Preparing 2012 World Conservation Congress presenting the best practices, displaying exhibition booths at the international conference. WCC held by the world renowned environmental organization, IUCN in every 4 years will be held in Jeju Island in 2012. The Korea Protected Areas Forum KNPS had concluded into MOU with the ministry of Environment and Jeju Special Self-Governing Province and provided a basis About 1,400 protected areas in Korea are managed by the for holding a successful meeting. The KNPS plans to host 25 Ministry of Environment, Cultural Heritage Administration, Korea forum events including the World National Park CEOs Forum Forest Service and etc. Korea protected areas forum is a Workshop on DMZ conservation Strategy and etc. consultative body composed of related ministries and experts and is striving to find out joint measures for pending issues in Reclassification of IUCN categories (V> II) regards to the management of protected areas at the national level. KNPS has operating a secretariat office for the forum. Main The Hallyeohaesang national park has been certified as the program for the forum is promotion of implementing CBD(the national park (category II) in accordance with international Convention on Biological Diversity) PoWPA(Programme of Work standard of IUCN. This meant as this national park has been on Protected Areas), establishment of UNEP-WCMC WDPA recognized as an international national park. With this, there are (World Database on Protected Areas), raising public awareness 15 national parks certified by IUCN including Seoraksan, Jirisan on the protected areas through education and PR. and etc. For this result, KNPS has made great efforts to introduce the value and importance of Korean National Park into UNESCO MAB (Man and the biosphere international society for being rightly appreciated. Program) National Committee of Korea Exchange cooperation with foreign park MAB is an intergovernmental program organized by the UNESCO service and international organization to promote the relationship between human and environment globally. KNPS is operating the Korean committee of MAB since KNPS has established MOUs with park agencies in Finland, 2010. Korean committee of MAB is making great efforts to Australia, Costa Rica and New Zealand and UNEP-WCMC. There activate current existing biosphere reserves and designate new have been an active exchange and cooperation including a joint biosphere reserves. It also seeks for international cooperative workshop and joint researches. In addition, we are striving for measures by through election as a chairman of International Cointernational win-win growth by supporting the establishment of ordinating Council and hosting EABRN meeting. management plant for Indonesian park service and providing the ●2nd joint workshop with the Ministry of Environment, Mongolia staff uniforms for park agency in Republic of Ecuador. Host and participate international conferences KNPS had held 4 international conferences including the ‘International Symposium in Commemoration of the United Nations Decade on Biodiversity, 2011~2020’ and made efforts for coping and sharing the global environmental issues. Also, KNPS had improved awareness in the international societies by A place where always tells us a story, the KNPS will be always with you. APPENDIX 68 _Independent(3rd party) Validation Report 70 _GRI G3.1/ISO 26000 Application Level 73 _Organization and Society Membership and Award Performance 74 _Introduction of Sustainability Management TFT 75 _Reader s opinion Sobaeksan, “Germination of nut pine seed”_ Chung, Gyeong-soon 68 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Independent (3rd party) Validation Report To the management of 2011 KNPS sustainability report Korea Standard Association (hereafter referred to KSA) has ■ Verification type and scope commissioned to perform an independent validation of the 2011 sustainability report from KNPS. KSA, therefore, as the The verifier performed the verification according to AA1000 verifier provide you with independent verification about the verification standards n depending on the type 2 Moderate level data, and related systems and the validity of the evidence. Any (hereafter referred to Type 1). That means the verifier has claims of responsibility for the report about collection performed the evaluation of the basic system and sustainable information, analysis and summary are upon KNPS. compliance of KNPS according to AA1000 AS (2008). ■ Independence ■ Verification method The verifier has not been involved in this report. The verifier has The following method is verified using the verification the independence and autonomy from any commercial interest information associated with the scope, collecting data and about KNPS business activities except the 3rd party validation n evidence. service. •Sustainable issues review about the interest parties influencing KNPS Process review of determining major ■ Validation Scope issues contained in the report •A media or data mentioned about KNPS during reporting The object of this verification is limited to the contents of KNPS period sustainability report from 1st of January, 2011 to 31st of •Accuracy review between financial information contained in December, 2011 and KNPS’ s system based on fiscal year and the report and the audit report its activities. The validation for financial information was •Review of data acquisition system and the appropriateness compared with 2011 audit report if they are corresponding to of the reporting process each other. •Basic data review of basic internal documents •Interview on persons in each filed related to the sustainability ■ Verification standard and the level management The verifier performed the verification according to the ■ Verification result and opinion AccountAbility 1000 validation standard 2008 (hereafter referred to (AA1000AS 2008) and GRI G3.1 guidelines. The The verifier provides KNPS with the feedback of the verifier adapted the principles of AA1000AS 2008 verification information contained in the draft report and the modifications standards such as diversity, importance and responsiveness. if necessary. The verifier could not see any improper errors in KNPS report on the reliability of the information had been this report. verified on the basic level. 69 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 APPENDIX ● Diversity ● Economy The verifier evaluate if the interest parties are involved in the The KNPS’ s economic performances are greatly depending strategic development of countermeasures and the achieving on the purpose of establishment, the restoration and process. conservation of natural resources and social evaluation. It is The verifier verifies that if KNPS is aware of its responsibility of recommended that the strategic goals should be reporting on stakeholders who may be influenced or give supplemented for sustainability of park resources, ecological influence. Also, the KNPS is systematically operating the welfare and activities to strengthening the capability in future procedures of stakeholder’ s understanding and engagement. growth and park management to be highly connected with economic performances. Also, it is recommend ● Importance supplementing the risk management for endangered species, The verifier evaluates if the KNPS includes important animal and plant habits and park resources. information required for stakeholders to make wise judgment or decision and take appropriate actions in this report. ● Environment The KNPS has established a process to understand the It is recommended to build and operate an environmental sustainability management issues and drawing issues that management system to continuously deploy the environmental stakeholders are interested in through benchmarking, media policy, goal and execution plan. In particular, it is research, and internal/external stakeholders’interviews and recommended to supplement the mid and long-term roadmap includes important issues in the report. Also, the KNPS is to achieve the GHG reduction goal. establishing the process that continuously monitors and improves the performances related to this issue. ● Social A detailed evaluation for social responsibility based on the ● Responsiveness international standard, an ISO 26000 and supplementation of The verifier evaluates how KNPS responds to the concerns mid and long-term social contribution promotion are decided from stakeholders in this report. The verifier also evaluates if to be desirable to realize the ecological welfare that leads the KNPS implement the policies and related standards to happy future with nature and human together. handle with important sustainable issues and interests. To do this, it is suggested that the KNPS needs to be internally The verifier confirmed that the KNPS reflects important and externally recognized its value as an institution who leads sustainability management issues to the KNPS policy and the social responsibilities by evaluation through detailed actual activity and responds to stakeholder’ s interests. These KNPS’ inspection by each theme and area of social responsibilities s sustainability management activities are consistent and the and continuous improvement. KNPS continuously put efforts those activities to relay to stakeholders. ● GRI Application Level This report was confirmed to be corresponded to‘A+’of ■ Opinion and recommendation on improvement by area report application level suggested by GRI G3.1 We recommend a review on the following matters to March, 2012 incorporate major issues for sustainability to sustainability President of KSA management strategy at overall organization level and provide Kim, Chang-ryeong a basis for its continuous measures. 70 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 GRI G3.1/ISO 26000 Application Level ● Disclosed ◐ partially disclosed not disclosed — not applicable Indicator ISO26000keysocialresponsibility GRI Index Description ISO 26000 Satisfaction Reporting Section no. topicandtheme Principle of stakeholder involvement 6.8.2 Community Involvement ● 18~20 Border protocol Promotion of social 6.6.5 ● Report Outline responsibility in the value chain Strategy Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g, CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) on 1.1 Organizational ● 2~3 and analysis the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy Organization governance 6.2 Governance 1.2 Description of key impacts, risk and opportunities ● 10 Organiza2.1 Name of the organization ● 8 tional Pro2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services ● 10 file Operational structure of the organization, including main departments, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint Organizational 2.3 6.2 ● 8~9 venture companies Governance 2.4 Location of organization’ s headquarters ● 8 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operation or that are 2.5 ● 8~9 specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Properties of ownership and legal form ● 8, 11 2.7 Markets served (including geographic division, business sector, and types of customers/beneficiaries) ● 8~10 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization ● 8, 51 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership ● 8~9, 51 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ● 73 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) ● Report Summary Organizational Gov3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) ● Report Summary ernance 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) ● Report Summary 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. ● Report Summary 3.5 Process of defining the contents in the report ● Report Summary Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures) Refer to the GRI 3.6 ● Report Summary boundary regulation for additional guideline. 3.7 Any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report ● Report Summary Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can 3.8 ● Report Summary significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying 3.9 estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report ● Report Summary 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement — no contents for re-statement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report — No change 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report ● 70~72 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 7.5.3 Validation ● 68~69 Governance, Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for 4.1 specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight 6.2 ● 11 Commitments & 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 6.2 ● 11 Engagement For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest 4.3 governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 6.2 ● 11 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 6.2 ● 11~12 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including 4.5 departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance) 6.2 ● 11 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 6.2 ● 12 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance 4.7 body and its committees (gender and other indicators of diversity 6.2 ● 11~12 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Refer to the 4.8 6.2 ● environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation homepage Organizational Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’ s identification and management of Governance 4.9 economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or 6.2 ● 11~12 compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’ s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 6.2 11~12 environmental, and social performance ● 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 6.2 ● 14 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 6.2 ● 3, 66 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations 6.2 ● 66, 73 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 6.2 ● 18 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 6.2 ● 18 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 6.2 ● 18~21 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 4.17 responded to those key topics and concerns 6.2 ● 17~20 71 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 APPENDIX ● Disclosed ◐ partially disclosed not disclosed — not applicable Indicator ISO 26000 key social responsibility topic and Reporting GRI Index Description ISO 26000 Satisfaction no. theme Section Economic Economic value generated and distributed (e.g. revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and Community involvement and development/ 6.8/6.8.3 EC1 other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments) Engagement /6.8.7/6.8.9 community involvement/ creation of wealth and ● 62 in the community and its development/engagement in the community/creation of wealth and profit/social investment profit/ social investment EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s 6.5.5 Mitigation and adaption of climate change ● 41~42, 63 activities due to climate change Mitigation and adaptation of climate change EC3 Coverage of the organization’ s defined benefit plan obligations 6.4.4/6.8 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government ● 62 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant working condition and social protection/ Community EC5 6.4.4/6.8 ● 51 locations of operation Working condition and social care/ Engagement in the community and development involvement and development Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant Promotion of social responsibility in the value chain/ 6.6.6/6.8 No domestic EC6 locations of operation Promotion of social responsibility in the value chain/ Engagement /6.8.5/6.8.7 Community involvement and development/ job creating and — purchase in the community / job creation and function development/ creation of wealth and profit functional development/ creation of wealth and profit Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local Community involvement and development/ job 6.8/6.8.5 EC7 community at locations of significant operation Engagement in the community and its /6.8.7 creating and functional development/ creation of ◐ 51 development/engagement in the community/creation of wealth and profit/social investment wealth and profit Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided Economic, social and cultural right/ Community primarily for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.3 involvement and development/ community EC8 Economic, social and cultural rights/ Engagement in the community and its /6.8.4/6.8.5/6.8.6 involvement/ education and culture/ technology ● 58~60 development/engagement in the community/ Education and culture/ technology /6.8.7/6.8.9 development and approach/ creation of wealth and development and approaches/ creation of wealth and profit/ social investment profit/ social investment Economic, social and cultural right/ Promotion of Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the social responsibility in the value chain/ respect for extent of impacts Economic, social and cultural rights/ Promotion of social 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.6.7 right of property/ access the required service/ / responsibility in the value chain/ Respect the property rights/ approach to vital EC9 services/ Engagement in the community and its development/ job creation and /6.7.8/6.8/6.8.5 Community involvement and development/ job ● 62~63 /6.8.6/6.8.7/6.8.9 creating and functional development/ technology function development/ technology development and approaches/ creation of wealth development and approach/ creation of wealth and and profit/ social investment profit/ social investment/ social investment EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ● 40 Environmental PerforNo use of renewable mance IndiEN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials — raw material cators EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source ● 40~41 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source ● 40~41 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements ● 42 6.5/6.5.4 environment/sustainable resource uses Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and EN6 services and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives ● 41 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved ● 42~43 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 40 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ● 40 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused No use of recycled water Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected EN11 ● 28 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity EN12 ● 24~31 in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas environment/environmental protection, restoration of 6.5/6.5.6 EN13 Habitats protected or restored diversity and natural habitats ● 24~29 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity ● 24~31 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with EN15 ● 24~29 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 40~41 Environment/ Mitigation and adaption of climate EN17 other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 6.5/6.5.5 change ● 40~41 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved ● 41~43 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight — No emission cases EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight — No emission cases EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination ● 40 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5/6.5.3 Environment/pollution prevention ● 40 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills — No discharge cases Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous EN24 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of — No relevant waste transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related environment/sustainable resource uses/ Promotion EN25 habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’ s discharges of water 6.5/6.5.4/6.5.6 of social responsibility in the value chain/ Sustainable ● 45 and runoff consumption Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of Environment/use of sustainable resource/promote social EN26 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6/6.7.5 ● 41~43 impact mitigation responsibility in the value chain/sustainable consumption environment/sustainable resource uses/ Sustainable EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 6.5/6.5.4/6.7.5 consumption — No package material Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for EN28 6.5 Environment — No violations noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations No violations Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials environment/sustainable resource uses/ Promotion EN29 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6 ● 43 used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce of social responsibility in the value chain EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 6.5 Environment ● 31, 41 72 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 ● Disclosed ◐ partially disclosed not disclosed — not applicable Indicator Reporting GRI Index Description ISO 26000 ISO 26000 key social responsibility topic and theme Satisfaction no. Section LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender Custom of labor relations/ Employment and employment ● 51 Social: 6.4/6.4.3 Labor PracLA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region relationships ● 51 tices & Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Custom of labor relations/ Employment and employment Decent LA3 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4 ● 55~56 temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation relationships/ working condition and social protection Work 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/6.4.5/6.3.10 Custom of labor relations/ Employment and employment relationships/ working LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● 54 condition and social protection/ social communication/ basic principle and right of labor Custom of labor relations/ Employment and employment relationships/ LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/6.4.5 working condition and social protection/ social communication ● 51 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint LA6 management-worker health and safety committees ● 54 6.4/6.4.6 Custom of labor relations/ health and safety of labor Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, LA7 ● 49 and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist 6.4/6.4.6/6.8/6.8.3/6. Custom of labor relations/ health and safety of labor/ Involvement in the community and LA8 ● 49 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases 8.4/6.8.8 development/ involvement in the community/ education and culture/ health LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 6.4/6.4.6 Custom of labor relations/ health and safety of labor ● 55 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 6.4/6.4.7 Custom of labor relations/ human development and training at the work place ● 48, 52 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued Custom of labor relations/ human development and training at the LA11 6.4/6.4.7/6.8.5 ● 56 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings work place/ job creation and function development Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Custom of labor relations/ human development and training at the LA12 6.4/6.4.7 ● 51, 56 career development reviews, by gender work place Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4/6.4. discrimination and vulnerable group/ basic principle and right of labor/ Custom of labor relations/ LA13 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 3 Employment and employment relationships/ working condition and social communication ● 11, 51 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by Prohibition on discrimination for vulnerable group/ guarantee the rights of LA14 6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4 ● 51 employee category, by significant locations of operation economy, social and culture for company and members in the community Discrimination and vulnerable group/ basic principle and right of labor/ 56 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ● Custom of labor relations/ Employment and employment relationships Human Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include 6.3/6.33/6.3.5/6.6.6 Human rights/ actual inspection/ evasion of conspiracy/ Promotion of HR1 clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening social responsibility in the value chain ● 57 Rights Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.5/6.4.3/6.6.6 Human rights/ actual inspection/ evasion of conspiracy/ Employment and 57 HR2 partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken employment relationships/ Promotion of social responsibility in the value chain ● Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human 14 HR3 6.3/6.3.5 Human rights/ evasion of conspiracy ● rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No discrimination 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4.3 Human rights/ Ombudsman/ discrimination and vulnerable group/ basic HR4 ● 51, 54~55 principle and right of labor/ Employment and employment relationships Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/6.3.5/6 Human rights/ actual inspection/ human rights in danger/ citizenship and political rights/ basic HR5 collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights .3.8/6.3.10/6.4.3/6.4.5 principle and right of labor/ Employment and employment relationships/ social communication ● 54, 57 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, Human rights/ actual inspection/ human rights in danger/ evasion of conspiracy/ discrimination and vulnerable HR6 and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child laborNo risk of child labor ● 51 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/6.3.5/6.3.7 group/ basic principle and right of labor/ Employment and employment relationships/ social communication Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and /6.3.10 Human rights/ evasion of conspiracy/ Employment and employment HR7 ● 51 measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory laborNo forced or compulsory labor relationships/ Promotion of social responsibility in the value chain Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or Human rights/ Ombudsman/ discrimination and vulnerable group/ basic HR8 6.3/6.3.5/6.4.3/6.6.6 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations principle and right of labor/ Employment and employment relationships Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Human rights/ Ombudsman/ discrimination and vulnerable group/ No violation case HR9 indigenous people and actions taken No violations 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/6.3.8/6.6.7 citizenship and political rights/ Respect the property rights — Percentage and total number of operations that have been HR10 Actual inspection/ / human rights in danger subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed 51 HR11 Ombudsman ● and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Society Percentage of operations with implemented local community Economic, social and cultural rights/ Community engagement and development/ job creation SO1 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7/6.6.7 ● 58~60 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs and function development/ creation and wealth and profit/ respect the property right SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption ● 13 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 6.6/6.6.3 Fair operating practices/ anti-corruption ● 14 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption — No corruption case Refer to ethical doctrine SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying ● in the homepage Fair operating practices/ Responsible political engagement/ 6.6/6.6.4/6.8.3 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political community engagement SO6 — No relevant case parties, politicians, and related institutions by country Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, antiSO7 6.6/6.6.5/6.6.7 Fair operating practices/ fair competition/ respect the property right — No relevant case trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonFair operating practices/ respect the property right/ creation of SO8 6.6/6.6.7/6.8.7 — No relevant case monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations wealth and profit SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Community engagement and development ● 18~20, 44 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with 18~20, 44, 46, 60 S10 Community engagement and development ● significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Product Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and ResponsiPR1 services are assessed for improvement and percentage of significant ● 50 products and services categories subject to such procedures Economic, social and cultural rights/ Promotion of social bility 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.7 responsibility in the value chain/ consumer issue/ protection of Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations /6.7.4/6.7.5 consumer’ s health and safety/ sustainable consumption PR2 and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of — No violations products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage Consumer issue/ Fair marketing, realistic and unbiased information and 34~35, 50 PR3 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.4 ◐ of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. fair contract practices/ protection of consumer’s health and safety/ /6.7.5 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes sustainable consumption/ consumer service and support; solution to the PR4 /6.7.6/6.7.9 — No violations concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes complaint and dispute/ improvement of education and awareness/ PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 6.7/6.7.4/6.7.5/6.7.6 Consumer issue/ protection of consumer’s health and safety/ sustainable consumption/ consumer 50 /6.7.8/6.7.9 service and support; solution to the complaint and dispute/ improvement of education and awareness/ ● Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to Refer to the PR6 ● homepage marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Consumer issue/fair marketing, realistic and non bias information 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.6 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary and fair contract practice/consumer service, support and resolution /6.7.9 PR7 codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, of complaint and dispute/improve education and awareness — No violations promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomesNo violations PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of 6.7/6.7.7 Consumer issue/ protection of data and privacy 50 customer privacy and losses of customer data ● Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and consumer issue/ consumer service and support; solution to the No violations PR9 6.7/6.7.6 — regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services complaint and dispute 73 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 APPENDIX Organization and Society Membership and Award Performance ■ 2011 awards from outside of institutions/certificate status giving date Name of award / Name of Certificate Award level giving institution Remarks remarks Labor and Management Win-win cooperation citation Prime Minister Citation Ministry of Administration and Safety 2011.12.23 Certificate and Award for 2011 excellent Outstanding Ministry of Employment and Labor 2011.11.11 innovative company Company Ministry of Education, Science and Award from 8th life-long learning in public area Excellence award 2011.12.15 Technology 7th national excellent forest ecology Grand Prize Korea Forest Service 2011. 6.29 restoration content 2011 pan-government disaster measure Excellence award Ministry of Environment 2011. 7. 7 safety training of Korea 2011 the best pubic institution for customer 1st place among 8 Ministry of Strategy and Finance 2012. 1. 5 satisfaction institutions 11th natural environment contest Grand Prize Ministry of Environment 2011.11.25 (private) Korea internal communication In quasi4th Korea social media Grand Prize 2011.12. 7 society government Public campaign, 2011 Korea communication Grand Prize Electronic newspaper 2011.11.29 promotional literature parts Excellent booth 7th Korea youth exhibition Ministry of Gender Equality and Family 2011. 5.28 award Seoul Dule-gil and citizen leisure cultural Citation from the Seoul metropolitan government 2011. 6.30 development Mayor of Seoul New media integrity contents contest Grand Prize Anti·Corruption and Civil Rights 2011. 9.29 UCC part Commission 2011 contest of excellent example for efficiently Korea Research Institute for Human Grand Prize 2011.10.26 using the space in digital national land expo Settlements High quality database Excellent award Electronic newspaper 2011.12.14 Certificate changed Hallyeohaesang IUCN category II certificate IUCN 2011.10.27 (Ⅴ Ⅱ) (total 15 parks) Web-accessibility quality mark certificate Certificate National Information Society Agency 2011.12.31 ~2012.12.31 E-government information security Certificate National Internet Society Agency 2011.11.30 management system certificate Senior functional club Set book Ministry of Health and Welfare 2011. 7. 6 ■ Organization and Association membership status •Korea Council of Volunteer •International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) •UN Global Compact •Family-Friendly Forum •Korea Toilet Association •Korea Institute of Agricultural Policy 74 KOREA NATIONAL PARK SERVICE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Introduction of Sustainability Management TFT CEO, Chung, Kwang-soo Validation Committee: External Professional Group Korea Standard Association Performance Management Director, Kim, Chul-soo Planning, Kang, Ji-hyeon Sustainability TFT Environmental rformance Social Performance Economic Performance Park Resource Conservation Division Business Planning Division Financial Management Kim, young-min, An, Gil-sun, Division Jung, Seoung-joon, Park, Hae-chan Kang, Jae-sung Kwak, Byung-chan, Suh, Young-Kak General Affairs Division Information Technology Kim, Jung-yun Service Division Ecological Restoration Division Kwak, Hyung-jin Yang, Doo-ha, Kim, Gyeong-jin, Human Resources Jang, Jung-jae Development Division Office of Partnership Kim, Sun-young Kang, Hee-jin Protection Division Moon, Kwang-sun, Jung, Chan-hyun Visitor Service Division Kim, In-soo, National Park Research Institute Cho, Mi-young Park, Jung-won, Hong, Gil-pyo, Suh, Seung-jik Safety & Emergency Services Division Choi, Soo-won Construction & Maintenance Division Sung, Yoon-jeh Office of Partnership Lee, Young-kyu Public Design Division Yoon, Sang-hun, Office of Audit Jang, hyo-joong Choi, Dae-sung Reader’ s opinion This report has been published based on transparent disclosure of main performances from environmental, social and economic fields in 2011 and opinions from various stakeholders to provide a basis for sustainability management. Please tell us your opinion on this. Q1. I am involved or working with a(n) Customer Officials and employees Partners Government/public worker Industry Social group such as NGO Academia Media or press Community or autonomous entity Sustainability Expert None of the above Q2. Is this report helpful to understand the sustainability management activities? Very helpful Helpful Normal Not helpful Not helpful at all Q3. What is the most interesting information in this report? (Double check possible) Corporate Overview Overall sustainability Special Report Environment Customer Employees Partners Local community Economy Q4. What is the most satisfactory information in this report? (Double check possible) Corporate Overview Overall sustainability Special Report Environment Customer Employees Partners Local community Economy Q5. How informative is contents of this report? Very informative informative normal not informative not informative at all Corporate Overview Overall sustainability Special Report Environment Customer Employees Partners Local Community Economy Q6. Please Rate these items. Very informative informative normal not informative not informative at all Easy to understand Well composed Provides important issues and useful information Easy to find the information and well designed Reliable contents Q7. Please write down your other opinions. Address | 121-717 9th Floor, Taeyong BLDG 144 Mapo-daero, Mapo-gu, Seoul Fax | 02-3279-2785~6 E-mail | webmaster@knps.or.kr This report was printed with environment-friendly soybean oil Keeping the nature as it is for the future generations 121-717 9th Floor, Taeyong BLDG 144 Mapo-daero, Mapo-gu, Seoul Tel : 02-3279-2700, 02-3279-2701 (night time) Fax : 02-3279-2785~6 E-mail : webmaster@knps.or.kr www.knps.or.kr
