Hello! The Narodnaya Initsiativa Foundation has been in operation since 2005. During this time, we have implemented many projects to improve quality of life in the Russian Federation. The activities of our foundation is directed on the most relevant problems of modern Russian society such as private and social security, finance and pension literacy, cultural heritage, donorship, promotion of family values, safety of energy and the protection of the environment. From the start we developed our business and now our fund is the recognized expert on social and information programs. Nevertheless we do not stop and constantly implement more ambitious projects. We achieved serious successes in our activities for 7 years. The proof of our reliability and social responsibility is the trust of many Russian and foreigners major companies. During the years of activity our fund was realized projects in partnership with international companies, such as Amway, World Bank, Johnson&Johnson, Rehau, Lukoil etc. Large government structures trust us. They include: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Natural Resources, the Ministry of Health and Social Development, the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection. The Public Chamber of the Russian Federation is the social expert of programs of the Narodnaya Initsiativa Foundation. Organization of partnership with the Uniting Nations and the Narodnaya Initsiativa Foundation was an unquestionable success for us. In cooperation with the Uniting Nations and the Russian Federation Developing Program and the Millennium Development Goals, was created “the Center of Realization “Millennium Development Goals”. It allows conveying information to the Russians about global programs and initiatives of the Uniting Nations. The requirements and issues of modern society, make us to constantly rise up of effectiveness of our programs. At the same time we do not forget about social responsibility. The Narodnaya Initsiativa Foundation is strongly agreed with all 10 Principles, proclaimed in the Global Compact of the United Nations. We use these principles in our everyday work and understand that we could make a progress in the protection of the environment and human rights only by our activities. 1 These principles have become a fundamental part of policy, provide with respect to our clients, staff, peoples, local communities, environment and society. There are our achievements in the sphere of social responsibility for 2011 in the Global Compact report. Best Regards Potapovskij lane 5/2 Alexey Belozerov fl.306 The Narodnaya Initsiativa Foundation Moscow, 101000 President +7(495)730 5980 2 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses The Narodnaya Initsiativa Foundation is strongly agreed with principles of respect and protection of human rights, which declared by the Uniting Nations. Activities of our fund are based on constant interaction with our clients and partners. Taking care of our clients and partners we constantly get in touch with them and get feedback on each realized project. The Narodnaya Initsiativa Foundation respects companies with which works. We use only the most reliable sources of verified data in the Russian Federation. Our fund respects companies in the area of commercial secrets. Fund approved the position on commercial secrets which necessary to observe for all stuff. Actual and complete information about programs, services and also partners of the Narodnaya Initsiativa Foundation is always available at http://www.fondni.ru, as well as the different media sources. We have e-mail address on our website and our clients could send all their questions and get answers. The Narodnaya Initsiativa Foundation collaborated with a lot of professional unions within the framework. The fund constantly works with different types of associations and government structures. Within the framework of this collaboration we prepare proposals for improvement of business in Russia, creation of favorable investment climate and attracting investments into different regions of the Russian Federation. For realize these goals, fund stuff made presentations at conferences and round tables, and consult with businessmen. It should be noted, that Alexey Belozerov, Prezident of the Narodnaya Initsiativa Foundation also is the member of the Central Board of the “Union Pedestrians”. 3 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Collective of the Narodnaya Initsiativa Foundation consist of 20 people (50/50 male/female). It enables management of fund to find an individual approach to every employee and to avoid employment rights violations. Our organization provides adequate protection of all stages of the employment relationship, from hiring to termination. We take into consideration only professional and personal work-related qualities in recruitment. There is no discrimination for nationality, religion and gender characters in our fund. In the construction of employment relationship our basic priorities is increase employee motivation, providing of the most productive work by identification of their strengths, long-term strategy of cooperating with fund. The Narodnaya Initsiativa Foundation takes care about the health of employees.  Office of our fund is located in historical part of Moscow  Each employee have a high performance LCD monitor which saved their vision  The place of work is sufficiently well lit  Optimal temperature is maintained conditioned  There is everyday dry and wet cleaning in the office 4 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies The activities of our fund are aimed on pollution of the environment. Within the framework of these activities, the Narodnaya Initsiativa Foundation implements some projects, directed on popularized of respect for care of the environment among Russians. The Narodnaya Initsiativa Foundation implement of the program “Green Econony” within the framework of which 2 projects were realized in 2011. Promote the use of biodegradable products One of the activities directed on promoting of positive attitude towards the environment was the project “Approved by the Nature”, which directed on promote the use of biodegradable products among Russians. This project was realized in cooperation with the Ministry of Natural Resources of the Russian Federation, the Uniting Nations and the Russian Federation Developing Program and also some of the significant associations and public unions of our country. Mission of this project is to pay attention to people in Russia to the problem of environment household waste pollution. Within the framework of this project our fund has organized and conducted the round table in the Public Chamber of the Russian Federation. More than 50 media materials were published as a result of the program. We conducted negotiations with associations and unions for evaluate influence on environment in Russia. Also within the framework of these activities was an advertising campaign in differences media, including Internet (social networks, forums, also offer websites specialized). The “Clean Roads” The “Clean Roads” realized with direct participation of the Ministry of Transport of the Russian Federation and the State-Owned Company “Avtodor”. Within the framework of this project the Narodnaya Initsiativa Foundation conducted massive agitation. We called for improve culture of using of highways by drivers that they do not throw garbage on road. For these goals different media were involved. They include: outdoor advertising, advertising in press etc. Through the 5 participation of the “Lukoil” company, each driver could take a part with this project. They could take a special packet, for utilization of household waste. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The Narodnaya Initsiativa Foundation is against corruption in all its forms. We adhere to these principles in our everyday activities. We believe that corruption is decreased quality of the work, and also damage to our reputation and the reputation of our partners. 6
