Nolato sustainability report 2011 1 /28 Our sustainability work 2011 Nolato sustainability report 2011 2 /28 Contents Comments from the CEO ................................................................................................... 3 The Nolato Group in brief ................................................................................................... 4 Our value-creating business model ................................................................................. 6 Overview of sustainability performance ........................................................................... 9 Values, dialogue with stakeholders and strategy .......................................................... 10 Environmental responsibility........................................................................................... 14 Social responsibility ........................................................................................................ 17 Business partners and other stakeholders ..................................................................... 19 Economic responsibility .................................................................................................. 21 Continual improvement ................................................................................................... 22 About the sustainability report ....................................................................................... 23 Nolato and GRI ................................................................................................................. 24 Nolato and Global Compact ............................................................................................ 27 Definitions and glossary .................................................................................................. 28 Nolato AB, SE-269 04 Torekov, Sweden, +46431 442290, www.nolato.com, info@nolato.se Nolato sustainability report 2011 3 /28 It pays to think sustainably Society and industry face great challenges in the form of demands regarding the environment, energy, resources and talent in an ever more globalised world. Business activities are also becoming increasingly transparent; what you or your company do – anywhere in the world – can quickly become visible to customers, employees, shareholders and other interested parties. This brings both risks and opportunities, meaning that the stock exchange and other stakeholders have become increasingly aware of how we and other companies act within these areas. It pays to think sustainably “It pays to think sustainably, and with a long-term focus,” wrote business publication Veckans Affärer in 2011. Companies’ risk levels in relation to the environment, social issues and corporate governance – the ability to manage these risks – were assessed on a scale of 1 to 5 stars. Their ability to take advantage of business opportunities within the field of sustainable development was also examined. Nolato was one of two companies to receive five stars, but we cannot allow ourselves to be satisfied with this. We are audited from many different points of view, and level B in accordance with the GRI, and taking a more active approach to sustainaNolato’s significant exposure in China has provide the UN with an annual status bility issues within the supplier chains, and aroused many valid questions from “green report. have developed tools and trained auditors. analysts”, customers and other interested We see sustainability issues as being an However, we still have some way to go in parties. integral part of our business operations, this area. and our intention is to keep this work alive We also focus on informing our employSystematic work and to achieve sustainable improvements. ees of our values and our business ethics Sustainability work is therefore an We have identified a number of key areas principles relating to bribes and corrupimportant part of our operations: within the field of sustainability, and carry tion. We paid particular attention to these We work systematically with environout our sustainability work from group areas during 2011. mental issues, and our policy is that all our level using targets relating to the environunits should have introduced the environment, social responsibility and business Our sustainability work is a very real issue mental management system ISO 14001. ethics. to us, and we are firmly convinced that our This system creates a focus on the most The group’s exposure in China brings efforts benefit both society and our stakeimportant environmental issues, and also many questions in relation to the environholders. means that we are audited by external ment, the working environment and sociauditors. al responsibility. Many parties are highly Happy reading! We base our sustainability work on active within the field of sustainability, Nolato’s own values (The Nolato Spirit) not least our customers. We have therefore and have signed up to the UN’s Global worked with these issues in particular at Compact. our Beijing plant. Hans Porat We report our sustainability work at We have set ourselves the target of President and CEO Nolato sustainability report 2011 4 /28 The Nolato Group in brief Sales per market Development, production & sales Sales & technology Sweden North America etc. SEK 889 m SEK 326 m Asia SEK 826 m Other Nordic countries Other Europe SEK 230 m SEK 706 m Sales Our operations Our set of values SEKm Nolato is an accomplished supplier which, Ever since Nolato was founded in 1938, its 3500 3000 with its broad technological expertise and operations have featured a down-to-earth 2500 far-reaching specialist knowledge, offers combination of professionalism, ethics and 2000 1500 high-tech product and product system develenvironmental awareness. 1000 500 opment and manufacturing based on polyOur Basic Principles are customer focus, 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 mer materials such as plastic, silicone, TPE knowledge, innovative thinking, sustainable and rubber. development, social responsibility, decentrali0 0 750 750 1,500 KM Operating profit (EBITA) 1,500 Miles Examples of products are: sation and good organisation. MSEK 300 – medical devices (such as inhalers, insulin 250 pens and catheter balloons) Our employees 200 – mobile phone components (such as comThe average number of employees in 2011 150 100 plete front and back sections, display winwas around 5,500. Of these, 84 percent were 50 dows and other specialist components) outside Sweden. 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 – products for industrial companies (such as packaging, interior fittings and vehicle comOur share Earnings per share SEK ponents). Nolato was listed on the stock exchange in 8 1984. Its B shares are listed on the NASDAQ 7 6 5 Our offering OMX Nordic Exchange in the Stockholm 4 Thanks to our involvement in customers’ Mid Cap segment and the Industrials sector. 3 2 development work at an early stage, we can 1 0 contribute towards optimising design, mateOur history 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 rials and production technology and hence Nolato was founded in 1938 as Nordiska Cash flow after investments help achieve a better end product. Latexfabriken i Torekov AB, with the tradeSEKm We constantly try to learn more about our mark Nolato, which has been the company 300 250 customers’ customers in order to make proname since 1982. 200 active proposals for attractive technical soluToday’s global Group is the result of organ150 tions. This could involve retaining functionic growth and acquisitions. The head office is 100 50 ality and strength while reducing the weight still in Torekov, Sweden, but the majority of 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 of the product, developing technologies for operations are now based outside Sweden. Excluding acquisitions and disposals tactile and cosmetic effects, or designing the components to facilitate the assembly process. Nolato sustainability report 2011 5 /28 Nolato Medical Nolato Telecom Nolato Industrial Financial highlights: 2011 2010 Financial highlights: 2011 2010 Financial highlights: 2011 2010 Sales SEKm 917 808 Sales SEKm 935 1,575 Sales SEKm 1,129 994 Operating profit EBITA SEKm 110 100 Operating profit EBITA SEKm 11 122 Operating profit EBITA SEKm 102 79 EBITA margin % 12.0 12.4 EBITA margin % 1.2 7.7 EBITA margin % 9.0 7.9 Average number of employees 719 664 Average number of employees 4,052 6,252 Average number of employees 720 642 Offering: Offering: Offering: Development and production of components and Design, development and production of compoDevelopment and production of components and complete products in polymer materials for medical nents and subsystems for mobile phones, often with products in polymer materials for customers in the technology and pharmaceutical customers. significant cosmetic and tactile content. Specialist automotive industry, white goods, gardening/forsolutions in, for instance, shielding electronics. estry, hygiene, furniture and other selected areas. Sensitivity to business cycle: Low. Steady market growth. Sensitivity to business cycle: Sensitivity to business cycle: High. Volatile, project-based operations. Medium. Tracks the Northern European industrial Product life cycle: business cycle. Long. Product life cycle: Success factors: Short. Product life cycle: Success factors: Medium/Long. Medical understanding, quality, safety, traceability, technology, global presence. Short lead times, unique cosmetic design solutions, Success factors: technology, advanced project management, producTechnology, productivity, customer proximity. Geographic presence: tion in Asia. Production units in Sweden, Hungary, China and the Geographic presence: USA and sales offices in Norway, Germany, France Geographic presence: Production units in Sweden, Hungary and and the Czech Republic. Production units in China, India, Malaysia and SweRomania. den and sales offices in Taiwan and the USA. Customers include: Customers include: AstraZeneca, Coloplast, Gambro, Nonin, Customers include: Haldex, Husqvarna, IKEA, Kinnarps, Lindab, Novo Nordisk, Nycomed and Phadia. Alcatel-Lucent, Ericsson, Huawei, Motorola, MCT Brattberg, Sanitec, SKF, Volvo and Volvo Cars. Nokia, RIM and Sony Mobile Communications. 31% 52% 31% 24%2% 38% 46% Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s net sales operating profit (EBITA) net sales operating profit (EBITA) net sales operating profit (EBITA) Nolato sustainability report 2011 6 /28 Our value-creating business model Our business mission Customers Developed solution Nolato Nolato is a high-tech developer and manufacturer of polymer product systems for leading customers in specific market areas. With its many years of experience, in-depth expertise in materials and processes, early involvement in customer projects, advanced project management and detailed knowledge of each customer’s specific requirements, Nolato is an effective and innovative partner. Market Function Development Our vision Application Cost-effectiveness Project management Specification Flexibility Construction/design Nolato shall be the customer’s first choice of Production partner. Logistics Nolato’s Basic Principles We are professional Our operations rials and production technology and hence – We are professional, and we strive for Nolato is an accomplished supplier which, help achieve a better end product. long-term profitability with its broad technological expertise and We constantly try to learn more about our – We focus on the needs and wishes of our customers far-reaching specialist knowledge, offers customers’ customers in order to make prohigh-tech product and product system develactive proposals for attractive technical solu– We combine skill and experience with new ways of thinking opment and manufacturing based on polytions. This could involve retaining functionmer materials such as plastic, silicone, TPE ality and strength while reducing the weight We are well organised and rubber. Examples of products are: of the product, developing technologies for – We build our operations on a shared – medical devices (such as inhalers, insulin tactile and cosmetic effects, or designing foundation pens and catheter balloons) components to make the assembly process – We take opportunities and solve problems – mobile phone components (such as commore efficient. when they arise plete front and back sections, display win– We make sure our operations are well organised dows, shielding and other specialist compoLarge, global customers nents) The majority of our customers are large – We are responsible – products for industrial companies (such as often global – companies working within – We work actively towards sustainable packaging, interior fittings and vehicle comareas such as medical technology, pharmadevelopment ponents). ceuticals, hygiene, telecommunications, the – We focus on social responsibility, automotive industry, white goods, gardening/ integrity and openness Our business model forestry, construction, furniture and other Nolato’s business model is based on close, selected areas. long-term, innovative collaboration with our Our customers include AstraZeneca, Colocustomers. With progressive, leading technolplast, Ericsson, Flextronics, Gambro, Huaogy, advanced project management, extenwei, Husqvarna, IKEA, Novo Nordisk, RIM, sive expertise in development and design and SKF, Sony Mobile Communications and Volefficient production, we create added value vo. for our customers and for ourselves. Short decision paths and flexible producExtensive technology platform tion capacity enable us to manage changes in Nolato has in-depth and broad expertise, our business environment efficiently. and a highly developed and modern techThanks to our involvement in customers’ nology platform. Our production structure development work at an early stage, we can is both effective and flexible which, together contribute towards optimising design, matewith a business model in which decisions are Nolato sustainability report 2011 7 /28 made in close cooperation with the market, ments, needs and expectations. All our operaEight factors that create value ensures the ideal conditions for dealing quicktions shall be quality certified in accordance ly and effectively with changes in the world with ISO 9001 and industry-specific certifiAdvanced, leading technology in three market segments around us. cations such as ISO 13485 (medical technolThe majority of our operations consists of ogy), ISO 15378 (pharmaceutical packaging) Expertise in development and design developing and manufacturing components or ISO 16949 (automotive). Efficient and flexible production and complete products on behalf of our cuscapacity tomers. Our customer offering comprises Sustainability and social responsibility Advanced project management most technologies in the field of polymers and Responsibility is one of the cornerstones of Expertise in applications which contains everything from concept developour corporate culture, as well as being one adds value ment, product design and material optimisaof our Basic Principles. Issues relating to the Effective adaptation in a tion to high-volume production, post-processenvironment, working environment, social changing world ing, assembly and logistics. responsibility and ethics are therefore natuContinuous sustainability work We constantly strengthen our customer ral and integral aspects of our business activiStrong financial position offering through investing proactively in the ties. Most of the Group’s units are certified in cutting-edge technology which our customers accordance with ISO 14001. demand, and gaining a better insight into the In order to guide our continuous improneeds of our customers’ customers. vement work in this area, Nolato defined a number of Group-wide targets ahead of Quality 2011. An account of the outcome of these Nolato’s quality policy signifies that we shall targets is provided on pages 13–18. always meet our customers’ exacting requireOur base technologies Injection moulding Injection moulding is our main technology. It is a method used to manufacture, with small tolerances, components made out of plastic and other polymer materials. The raw material is melted down and injected under high pressure into a mould. After cooling, the mould is separated and the finished component extracted. Injection blow moulding Nolato uses injection blow moulding in its production of plastic pharmaceutical packaging. The method firstly involves the injection moulding of the container to give the upper part, with the neck and fasteners for the lid, a precise shape. The lower part is then inflated to form a container of the right size and shape. Extrusion Extrusion is a method for continuously manufacturing products in strands, such as tubing. Nolato uses the technique in manufacturing tubing in medical technology applications, such as catheters, and in manufacturing gaskets for EMC shielding in telecommunications. Dipping In dipping, the product is manufactured by dipping a mould element into liquid latex. The product is formed by repeated dipping. Nolato uses the technique to manufacture, for instance, breathing bags and catheter balloons. Die-cutting Nolato offers both flatbed and rotary die-cutting. Flatbed die-cutting is used, for instance, in manufacturing engine gaskets. Rotary die-cutting enables, for instance, manufacturing small gaskets and cosmetic details for mobile phones, such as logos and speaker protection, on a supporting tape for easy processing in final assembly. Nolato sustainability report 2011 8 /28 We are present in important parts of the value chain Concept development Design Choice of material By providing our expertise within polymer technolWe come up with suggestions for technology and deBased on our in-depth knowledge about polymer ogy, we support our customers early on, in the consign solutions, adapted to future trends and fashion. technology, we make suggestions about suitable cept phase. materials for the customer’s products. Construction Prototypes Production tools Based on the customer’s design, we construct the We visualise the product by producing prototypes We specify and manufacture, or buy in, moulds and product so that it fulfils the goals and can be proand materials samples. related production equipment. duced efficiently. High-volume production Post-processing Quality We manufacture components by injection mouldWe give the products their final finish through painWith automated vision systems, professional operaing, injection blow moulding, dipping, extrusion or ting, printing, metallic surfacing and/or other decotors and continuos improvements, we ensure correct die-cutting. ration technologies. quality for customers. Purchasing Assembly Logistics We buy in and check components that we do not maWe assemble manufactured and purchased compoWe deliver on a bespoke basis to customers’ nufacture ourselves, for instance displays, speakers nents. Automated and semi-manual, in high, mediassembly plants, warehouses or directly to their and other electronic components. um and low volume. customers. Nolato sustainability report 2011 9 /28 Overview of sustainability performance 2011 2010 2009 In 2011, Nolato Medical and Nolato Economical responsibility Industrial performed very positively Sales, SEK million 2 977 3 375 2 602 indeed, while Nolato Telecom had a proOperating profit (EBITA), SEK million 199 262 166 blematic year in which sales were almost EBITA margin, % 6,7 7,8 6,4 halved. The Group’s operating income was Average number of employees 5 491 7 563 4 308 lower that previous year. Several of the Environmental responsibility sustainability key performance indicators Breach of env. and working environment legislation, cases 0 1 1 relate to the Group’s turnover and the aim Energy consumption, MWh/SEK million sales 0,047 0,041 0,046 is that they should give a fair picture of Water consumption, m3/SEK million sales 40,6 41,3 42,7 how the environmental and social responEmission of greenhouse gases, tonnes CO2/SEK million sales 17,9 15,4 15,2 sibility work is connected and integrated Waste, tonnes/SEK million sales 1,3 1,1 1,2 into the overall business. Certified env. management system, % of total number of plants 85 89 100 Our work with issues that are related Social responsibility to environment, health, safety and sociLWC (lost work cases) 28 44 46 al responsibility was further developed Female employees, % 71 67 68 during 2011. Group-wide long-term objecTraining on Nolato’s Basic Principles and Code of Cond., % of employees >90* >90 >80 tives where established with the aim to put Application of ethical and compassionate principles as well as corrup0 0 0 emphasis on areas that we recognise as tion, number of registered breaches strategic from sustainability and business Evaluation of sub-suppliers, % of number of plants carrying out environmental/social responsibility breaches 90/90 84/58 81/44 points of view. As demonstrated by the Sustainability Application of ethical and human principles and corruption, 0 0 0 number of breaches Report, there are several positive activities going on in the field of sustainability. The first evaluation of compliance with the sustainability targets show that we are * Extensive efforts were made in 2010. During 2011 mainly new employees have been trained. moving in the right direction. Of course, many things remain to be managed, and the expectations and requirements of our stakeholders are continually increasing. Nolato sustainability report 2011 10/28 Value, strategy and dialogue with stakeholders Nolato’s Basic Principles Group operations. These core values are The Nolato Spirit Nolato has strong core values, which have concretised in our Code of Conduct and evolved from the down-to-earth, ethical and our three main policies, which are mandaNolato has five fundamental value and policy documents, which convey the values, prinprofessional philosophy that has charactertory for all the Group’s employees – wherciples and attitudes that make up our core ised the company ever since it was founded ever they work, and whatever their role. values. in 1938, and which are based on the view that The five value and policy documents are Nolato’s Basic Principles efficient and profitable business operations compiled in the booklet the Nolato Spirit, The Basic Principles make up the common must be combined with responsibility for which is available in the languages of the values platform for all Group operations, and people and the environment. countries where Nolato operates. are thus the guiding force for all Nolato employees, regardless of where in the world or in In recent years, Nolato has evolved into a In workplace meetings and new staff which part of the organisation they may work. Group with extensive international operaappointments, the Nolato Spirit is actively tions, with more than eight out of ten employused as an aid to make all employees aware Nolato’s Code of Conduct ees working outside Sweden. of the core values and guidelines applicable The Code of Conduct formalises the content of the Basic Principles in terms of our ethical and This has placed new demands on our susto their work at Nolato. compassionate principles. tainability work, for instance, in terms of We also strive for that our suppliers and our social responsibility initiatives in China, partners should apply the same values and Nolato’s Environmental Policy The Environmental Policy formalises the which was home to 71 percent of our employprinciples. guidelines for regard for the environment in ees in 2011. the Basic Principles. Nolato has five fundamental value and Governance of sustainability work Nolato’s Quality Policy policy documents, which convey the valAt the end of the year, Nolato had 21 proThe Quality Policy outlines the underlying ues, principles and attitudes that make duction units at 18 locations in Sweden, focus of our quality work. up our core values. Nolato’s Basic PrinciHungary, Romania, China, India, MalayNolato’s Information Policy ples make up the common platform for all sia and the USA. All of the units are wholly The Information Policy governs the dissemination of information by the Group, including in relation to listing requirements. tainability w.nolato.com/sus available at ww he Nolato Spirit”, which is in the booklet ”T licy documen ts are compiled The value and po Nolato sustainability report 2011 11/28 owned by Nolato, which enables a Grouppare organisations from a sustainability Sustainability strategy wide way of dealing with matters relatperspective. The key performance indicaing to the environment, ethics and social tors reported help us to maintain a focus The strategy for our sustainability work is based on the following cornerstones: responsibility. on important areas. Nolato reports in Matters relating to the overall sustainaccordance with GRI level B, which we Integration with business operations ability strategy, our goals and reporting of deem to be a reasonable level. It gives the Sustainability work is essential for sound the outcome are managed at Group level. Group’s stakeholders relevant information business operations. Taking sustainability aspects into account is therefore a normal feaFollow-up occurs at Board and manageabout our sustainability work. ture of, for instance, investments, company ment meetings and in the evaluation of the An important part of monitoring and acquisitions, customer and supplier relationproduction units. communication is the Group’s annual Susships, transportation and in the development of products and production processes. The Group’s overall values and policy tainability Report. This is a separate docudocuments must be adhered to. However, ment and complements the sustainability Systematic, target-oriented in accordance with Nolato’s decentralised section of the annual report. sustainability work We work in accordance with the basic prinorganisation, the Group companies have a ciple of “what gets measured gets done”. relatively high degree of freedom to draw Active stakeholders We therefore have a comprehensive system up themselves how the work is to be impleWe can observe increased interest conto gather data within the field of sustainability, establish goals and then follow up on the mented in everyday operations. The MD of cerning sustainability issues among sevresults. each company has the ultimate responsibileral stakeholders. It is mainly a number This also involves the certification of all ity for all matters relating to the environof customers that are implementing globproduction units in accordance with environmental management system ISO 14001. We ment, ethics and social responsibility. al initiatives to assess and influence theirs also review and perform systematic audits to suppliers’ sustainability performance. We ensure that our suppliers meet the requireSustainability report are target for sustainability evaluation by ments of our Code of Conduct and environmental policy. Since 2008, we have reported in accorddifferent investors. At the local level it is ance with the GRI (Global Reporting Inimainly the authorities that check our enviOpenness and dialogue with stakeholders tiative) guidelines. The purpose of this ronmental and workplace performance. Openness and transparency have long been a matter of course for Nolato. This includes, reporting system is to make it easier for The table below provides an overview of for example, reporting the Group’s sustainvarious stakeholders to assess and comthe stakeholder dialogue during 2011. ability performance in accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) guidelines, level B. Stakeholder Areas for stakeholder dialogue Activities during 2011 We also have an ongoing dialogue regardCustomers Many customers present requireAround 70 per cent of the companies were auing sustainability with different stakeholders such as customers, suppliers, investors and ments concerning environment and dited or assessed by customers with respect to various public institutions. social issues. Especially in telecom, environmental and social issues. I most cases food, pharmaceutical, automotive and with very good result. In some cases there is an Target-oriented activities furniture industries. on-going improvement dialogue with the cusSustainability work is based on the environtomer. There are a number of projects that are mental targets set within the framework of shared with customers that aim for environmenthe environmental management system. An tal adaption of products. account of the Group’s overall goals and outcome in 2011 is provided on page 29. Employees Health, safety and social issues. Information about Nolato’s Code of Conduct with focus on new employees. Many education/trainEndorsement of the UN’s Global Compact ing activities. Dialogue with the Swedish trade Since 2009, Nolato has been an endorser of unions concerning environment and safety asthe United Nations’ Global Compact, an initiapects. tive with ten principles regarding the environment, working conditions, human rights and Authorities Compliance with legislation. Inspection by supervising authorities at 1/3 anti-corruption measures. of the units. In several cases focus on chemical safety and water management issues. As a whole good judgement by the authorities. Investors Evaluation based on the sustainability Highest score in Veckans Affärer’s Hållbara Portperspective. följ (Sustainable Portfolio). Dialogue with investors concerning sustainability performance. Shareholders Risk and opportunities associated Information through Annual and Sustainability with the sustainable work. Reports. Dialogue with financial auditors during the audit of the Annual Report. Suppliers Requirements from Nolato concerning Tools for evaluation of suppliers have been deenvironmental and social issues. veloped. Training of auditors in China. During the year. More than 200 suppliers were evaluated with respect to sustainable development. Society Nolato’s role as a good citizen. Study visits, co-operation with schools and universities and financial support to activities in society. Workplaces for disabled persons in Hungary. Nolato sustainability report 2011 12/28 Compliance with legislation Energy and climate To comply with environmental and working environment legislation is a self-evident Society, investors and analysts Chemicals component of the sustainability strategy. In Sweden, the Group carries out operations Waste Customers with notification obligations in accordance with the Swedish Environmental Code at Business partners Environmental Environmental all units. None of the units plan to renew management systems Suppliers and other stakeresponsibility any notifications in 2012. The Group’s holders units outside Sweden also require permits, Environmentally or are covered by similar requirements, in Social friendly products Anti-corruption responsibility accordance with environmental legislation in the country in question. There is no known requirement for any permit renewal in 2012. Sales from operations with permit requirements and notification obligations Safe workplaces Ethical and compassionate principles make up all of Nolato’s net sales. In most cases, regular reports are subNolato has overall sustainability targets in three main areas, which complement the local environmenmitted to the environmental authorities, tal targets of the individual units. See page 29 for the 2011 outcome. and the supervisory authorities carry out inspections. No breaches of environmental legislation were registered in 2011. sible. During acquisitions of companies all caused emissions to the atmosphere of One plant was target for a sanction fee the risks that are describe below are taken approximately 100 kg of cooling media. as there was a mistake in the reporting of into account. the correct number of equipment that conClimate change tains cooling media (HCFC). There were Legal requirements One of Nolato’s plats is situated in area no complaints from neighbours or other Nolato’s production units have the permits that may be impacted by future climate stakeholders during the year. Other legisrequired for their operations, and no new change. Rising river level may cause landlation of interest for many of our plants is requirements from authorities that would slips and we carefully review risk analyses REACH (chemicals) and RoHS (restriction involve significant costs or risks have been that are provided by the authorities. of the use of certain hazardous chemicals). identified in the year’s review. About half of the units are affected by legThe Group’s units also meet the requireProducts islation concerning producer responsibility ments of the REACH chemical legislation Society has a growing interest in cleantech for packaging waste. and we continually monitor chemical subproducts, and one identifiable business risk Three of the plants were inspected, durstances that are deemed for restricted use is our product range including products ing the year, by workers protection inspecor will be banned in the future. that are no longer accepted by customers. torate for check of compliance with the As a supplier, Nolato has limited possibilihealth and safety legislation. Some minor Contaminated land ties of countering this risk, because most non-compliance were recorded during the There has been no known occurrence of products are manufactured by assignment inspections. contaminated land, neither are there any of customers. Nolato works in close collabrequirements in terms of investigations or oration with them and continuously moniRisk management decontamination. During 2011 there were tors developments to be able to initiate the To manage risks relating to sustainability no accidents or fires that caused unconexchange of existing materials with new, is a part of the Group’s sustainability strattrolled emissions to the environment causmore environment-friendly alternatives. egy. More demanding environmental legising soil or groundwater contamination. lation, taxes, fees and other environmental Group targets show the way requirements can entail significant costs for Hazardous substances In the framework of ISO 14001, manageindustrial operations. There are also risks in buildings and installations ment of environmental work by objecfrom a business perspective relating to There is no occurrence of asbestos to any tives is an important element. In 2011, the the environment and social responsibility, significant extent, or of PCB. Inventory of Group therefore set Group-wide targets for which have been identified in recent years, the hazardous substance PCB has been carthe entire area of sustainability to complewith a particular focus on production in ried out at the Swedish plants. In one case ment the local environmental goals of each developing countries. Nolato carries out the threshold limit value was exceeded and, individual unit. regular risk assessments in the field of susaccording to legislation, PCB containing The overall sustainability targets are tainability in the countries where we opermaterials will be removed latest in 2013. to stimulate the establishment of detailed ate. The aim is to identify new risks and/ Ozone depleting substances (HCFC, HFC) goals and the implementation of tangible or costs relating to the environment, ethics are present in air condition equipment. At activities. We are already seeing many posiand social responsibility as early on as posone unit in Sweden, leaking equipment tive effects of these activities. However, the Nolato sustainability report 2011 13/28 work is by no means complete and the tarTarget-oriented activities below, the journey has just started and on gets are unchanged for 2012. The first year with Group-wide long-term the following pages you will find detailed An account of the Group’s sustainability targets for sustainable development put information about the on-going activities. targets and outcome in 2011 is presented focus on core issues. Since many years We will focus on the issues that are prein the table below and on pages 15 – 18. ago, our units have been working with sented in the table, but also present perforthese issues but now we are moving in a mance data for issues that are not covered common direction. As shown in the table by the Group targets. Area Sub-area Overall targets Outcome 2011 EnvironEnergy and Energy consumption and emissions of greenhouse gases shall be reduced Although several energy-efficiency measures have mental climate in relation to the Group’s key ratios. As an intermediate target, every unit been implemented, the energy key ratio is unchanged responsishall report energy targets for 2011 and carry out at least one energy effiin a five-year horizon. Carbon dioxide emissions have bility ciency project during the year. increased, chiefly due to new reports of carbon dioxide emissions from district heating purchased at the Beijing unit. Chemicals Chemicals that are particularly hazardous to the environment or health The target has been reached. Work with the idenshall be identified and phased out. tification and phasing out of chemicals is continually under way. Waste The amount of waste produced shall be reduced in relation to the Group’s Although measures for more efficient resource key ratios. As an intermediate target, every manufacturing facility shall management have been taken at most units, waste report waste targets for 2011 and carry out at least one waste-related amounts have increased slightly in relation to the project during the year. Group’s key ratios. EnvironCertified environmental management systems shall be introduced at all Approximately 95 per cent of the employees work at mental units. Company acquisitions and other changes may, however, mean that units that are certified according to ISO 14001. Nolato management there are units at times that are not certified. Contour was certified according to the requirements of systems ISO 14001 in March 2012 and Lövepac Converting in India in 2012. No certification activity is in progress at the smaller unit in Malaysia. EnvironDuring 2011, Nolato shall take part in at least three projects aimed at The target has been reached. mentally reducing the environmental impact of new or existing products. These friendly projects shall be carried out under Nolato’s own management and/or products together with customers or other partners. Social Ethical and There shall be no cases of infringements of human rights, discriminaThe target has been reached. Information for and responscompassionate tion or forced labour. Active information shall continue to be provided to training of employees in this area are continuously ibility principles employees and new employees. under way. Safe workContinued preventive work shall minimise the number of workplaceThe target has been reached in terms of preventive places related accidents and illnesses. The reporting of incidents (near misses) work. Incident reporting is now in place at the majority at production units shall be improved. of units, but remains to be introduced at certain units. Business AntiThere shall be no cases of bribery, corruption or cartel formation. Active The target has been reached. This is an area of partners corruption information shall continue to be provided to employees and new employgreat interest in many contexts and our preventive and other ees. efforts are continuously under way. stakeholders Suppliers When entering into agreements with suppliers, requirements shall be Significant initiatives have been implemented imposed in relation to the environment and social responsibility. During during the year. For instance, evaluation tools have 2011, Group-wide tools shall be devised for effective supplier evaluation. been developed. We are actively furthering our efforts Every company shall have evaluated at least five sub-suppliers in 2011 by means of monitoring and audits to ensure that with regard to the environment and sustainable development. suppliers meet our requirements. Customers Customer requirements in relation to the environment and social responCustomer requirements have largely been met. sibility shall be met by a comfortable margin. In 2011, collaborative However, this is an area where both requirements and projects with key customers on sustainability issues shall be developed monitoring from many customers are on the rise. further. Society, Reporting shall occur in accordance with the GRI, level B. Nolato shall The reporting and endorsement targets have been investors and continue to endorse the Global Compact. We shall achieve good results in met. However, we must be more active in terms of analysts evaluations by analysts and independent institutions through transparent information about our sustainability initiatives, partiinformation within the field of sustainability. cularly in relation to working conditions in China and the demands we place on our suppliers. Nolato sustainability report 2011 14/28 Environmental responsibility Direct and indirect machines with more energy-efficient elecEnergy consumption environmental aspects tric versions reduces the energy consumpGWh GWh/SEK million Nolato´s production consists primarily of tion. Such investments are gradually made 150 0.12 0,12 manufacturing components and product throughout the Group. systems in polymer materials, metals and Energy assessments and optimisation of 125 0.10 0,10 combinations of polymer materials and systems for heating, ventilation and ligh100 0.08 0,08 metals. Common production methods ting are conducted at many of the plants. include injection moulding, injection blow This will result in increased energy effi75 0.06 0,06 moulding, compression moulding, extruciency. The same goes for energy recovery 50 0.04 0,04 sion and dipping. The plant in China carand production planning projects. ries out painting. At the Sunne unit, rubber The greenhouse gas carbon dioxide is 25 0.02 0,02 compounds are produced both for Nolato’s emitted as a result of the Group’s direct 0 0.00 0,00 own use and for external customers’ use. and indirect (purchased electricity and 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 At other units, ready-made polymers and district heating) energy consumption. TheTotal group energy consumption, GWh other input materials are bought in. Read refore you would expect that the trend, Consumption divided by sales, GWh/SEK million more about the core technologies on p. 7. that was observed for the energy consumpNolato’s main direct environmental tion, should be equal for the carbon dioxiCO2 emissions aspects are the use of energy, raw materide emissions. This is, however, not the case. tonnes tonnes/SEK million als and chemicals, emissions into the air The increase in carbon dioxide emissions 50000 20 and water, and waste. Suppliers’ activities, is caused by the consumption of district transportation and the use of our products heating in Beijing. District heating is pro40000 16 are examples of key indirect environmental duced from fossil coal and during 2010aspects. 2011, compared to previous years, we have 30000 12 got more reliable figures for the emissions. Energy and climate Figures for the emissions of carbon dioxide 20000 8 The manufacturing plants use energy for have therefore been adjusted back in time, 10000 4 process equipment, lighting, cooling, heat but we can conclude that there are still pumps and many other purposes. Around uncertainties regarding the emissions. 0 0 85 per cent of the Group’s energy con2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 sumption consists of electrical energy. In Other atmospheric emissions Group CO 2 emissions, tonnes addition to this, fuel oil, natural gas, district Emissions of air pollutants such as sulpEmissions divided by sales, tonnes/SEK million heating and geothermal heating are used hur dioxide and nitric oxides are low, for heating production premises and offiaccounting for 3 tonnes per year (3). The ces. The Group’s overall energy costs for use of more than 350 tonnes of paints and Energy sources 2011 were around SEK 93 million (104). solvents resulted in emissions of around Heating oil 2% Natural gas 2% The total energy consumption decreased 18 tonnes (22) of VOCs (Volatile OrgaDistrict heating slightly during 2011 compared to the prenic Compounds). The majority of these (coal, biofuels) vious year. The key performance indicator paints and solvents are used in mobile 11% (GWh/sales) remains almost equal for the phone-related production at Nolato Beipast five years. It is obvious that increased jing. A modern, highly effective incineraproduction and more production units will tion unit significantly reduces atmospheric result in increased energy consumption, emissions. The use of water-based paints but at the same time we have high expecwas during the year 21 tonnes. This cortations on the on-going projects to increase responds to around 10 per cent of the conElectricity 85% energy efficiency. Here are some examples: sumption of paint and lacquer. Installation of heat pumps and systems Emissions of dust and malodorous subfor free cooling reduce the energy constances from Nolato’s units are extremely sumption and the dependence on fossil low. A couple of incidents during the year fuels. Such systems are already present at a involving leaking air-conditioning equipnumber of the Swedish plants. ment caused emissions of just over 100 kg Replacing hydraulic injection moulding of ozone-depleting substances (HCFCs). Nolato sustainability report 2011 15/28 Raw materials and chemicals combination of reduced production and Water consumption Plastic and rubber polymers, metal compowater-saving measures at the unit in Beijing m3 m 3 /SEK million nents, paints, lacquers and various chemiThe amounts of pollutants discharged to 150000 60 cal substances constitute the main materiwastewater are very limited, and consist 125000 50 als in our production processes. Plastics are mainly of sanitary water. All the producthe most used materials and make up more tion units are connected to public sewage 100000 40 than 90 per cent of the raw materials. The treatment plants. The costs incurred by the 75000 30 proportion of rubber material is around 7 Group for water and treatment of wasteper cent, and metals constitute around two water totalled approximately SEK 1.4 mil50000 20 per cent of the raw materials. lion (1.4). 25000 10 The majority of plastic materials are virgin raw materials, which is a requirement Waste 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 within our medical operations. Around Waste issues are important for the majo8 (2) per cent of the plastic raw materials rity of manufacturing companies. GeneTotal group water consumption, m3 Consumption divided by sales, m3 /SEK million consists of recycled plastics, and are found ration of waste can be seen as the use of in some of Sony Ericsson’s mobile phones resources is not managed in a sufficiently and clothing crates for KappAhl. Issues efficient way. Within the framework of ISO concerning bio-based plastics and compo14001 it is common that the units establish Waste sites are of more and more interest for the objectives to reduce the amount of waste, tonnes tonnes/SEK million polymer industry, and a number of interesand within the quality system (ISO 9001) 5000 2,5 ting development projects are being carried it is common with objectives to reduce the out. For example, in partnership with the scrap rate. Further on, there are many on4000 2,0 automotive industry, where a mixture of going activities within “lean production” plastic and wood fibre is injection-moulto increase efficiency and to reduce the 3000 1,5 ded into a composite material with intereswaste of resources. 2000 1,0 ting properties. Overall, the result of all above objectiOne of the Group targets aims at reduves and activities is that positive things 1000 0,5 cing risks with hazardous chemicals, espeare happening in the waste area. This is cially substances that are identified in the partly reflected in statistics and during the 0 0,0 REACH chemical legislation, or where previous five years the amount of waste, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 the customers make special requirements. in relations to the Group’s sales, has first Group waste, tonnes Waste divided by sales, tonnes/SEK million During the year several substances have decreased and then remained unchanbeen identified and actions to replace them ged, with a slight increase during 2011. In are going on. absolute numbers the amount of waste has increased, and this is the result of higher Types of waste Water issues production volumes and more production Hazardous waste 6% Other waste 8% Water is being used primarily for cleaning, units. Landfill 12% sanitary purposes and cooling, but there In the longer perspective it a positive are some processes where water consumptrend is that less and less waste is ending tion is relatively high. This is true of proup in landfill sites, and that energy recoduction in latex rubber in Torekov and the very and recycling of materials are both spray painting cleaning plant in Beijing. In increasing. External waste processing costs order to reduce water consumption, a numduring the year amounted to SEK 2.5 milRecovery 41% ber of units have closed cooling water syslion (3.0). Energy recovery tems for injection moulds and other equip33% ment. The reduction of water consumption during 2010-2011 is mainly caused by a Nolato sustainability report 2011 16/28 Management systems ding to standards for the automotive induCertifications stry (ISO 16949) or medical technology % ISO 14001 (ISO 13485). At most of the plants, the 100 All Nolato production units are to be cervarious management systems are entirely 80 tified in accordance with the requirements or partly integrated into the operational 60 of the environmental management system system. 40 ISO 14001. Certification is an important 20 tool in the systematic work, with internal Environmental product development 0 ISO OHSAS Other and external audits that place demands in Many of Nolato’s customers are working ISO 14001 140001 OHSAS 18001 18001 ISO 9001 Andra cert. cert. terms of continual improvements in sustaiwith cleantech, i.e. to improve the envinability work. ronmental performance of mobile phoPercentage of Group companies which are certified according to common standards. The first unit was certified as early as nes, cars, household machines and medical “Other cert.” encompasses for example in 1997, which is one year the standard technology products. ISO 16949 (automotive industry), was introduced. In 2011, Nolato Contour, Within the Group we already manufactuISO 13485 (medical technology) and which was acquired by the Group in 2010, re a number of environmentally beneficial ISO 15378 (primary packaging). has prepared its certification. The certiproducts, but to emphasise the importance fication body’s audits were carried out in of environmental adaption we established January 2012, and certification is expected a Group-wide target. Examples of environto be complete in March 2012. Certificamental adaptations during 2011 are: tion work is also under way at Lövepac Recycled plastics and waster-based Converting in India, and certification is paints are used in several projects concerexpected in 2012. The smaller, newly starning mobile phones and battery covers. ted up operation in Malaysia have not yet Continued development of composites commenced its certification work. of plastics and wood fibre for automotive Since 2010, Nolato Beijing has also been components. certified in accordance with occupational Development of components that reduce health and safety management standard water consumption in toilets. OHSAS 18001, and work is in progress Plastics that replace other materials in to introduce this occupational health and vehicles, household machines and chain safety system at Lövepac Converting’s saws. This results, for example, in lower units in China as well. weight. Many activities are conducted to improLess amount of material in breathing ve the environmental management systems bags (latex free) that are used in anaestheand to maintain the certificates. In the Grotic applications. It is now possible to reuup there are more than 60 internal environse the bags which is positive with respect mental auditors that during last year carto the use of materials and generation of ried out 45 environmental audits. 17 audits waste. were carried out by external certification Primary plastic packaging for pharmabodys. ceuticals where the amount of material has been reduced. Quality certifications Almost all of Nolato’s units are certified in accordance with the requirements of the quality system standard ISO 9001. Around 75 per cent are additionally certified accorCarrierplate for a car door moulded in a composit material made of plastic and wood fibre. Nolato sustainability report 2011 17/28 Social responsibility Social responsibility in China We have updated a number of environAverage number of employees Nolato is a global company with around mental, health and safety procedures in the 8000 5,500 employees, where more than eight of management system and developed check7000 ten work outside Sweden. 71 per cent of lists for the systematic follow-up of these 6000 the employees are found in China. areas. 5000 Nolato has a large number of employWe have strengthened our management 4000 ees in China. We have therefore monitored system, reviewed agreements with staffing the criticism surrounding working condiagencies, inspected the physical circums3000 tions among suppliers in the mobile phone tances of employees at work and at leisure. 2000 sector, and in 2011 we have had a major We have intensified the preventive health 1000 focus on CSR. This applies in particular to and safety work and improved emergency 0 the working conditions of employees, such preparedness procedures. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 as minimum age, salaries, overtime and We have made changes in the Employremuneration for overtime. ee Handbook and, for example, clarified In close collaboration with our large Nolato’s Values. Employees per business area 2011 customers, we have implemented measures We have trained around 50 managers in Year average aimed at not only meeting statutory requisustainable development. Nolato Industrial 720 Nolato Medical 719 rements, but also at bringing our operaWe have trained around 20 purchasers, tions into complete harmony with Nolato’s quality and environment co-ordinators in own ethical and social values, and with our methods for how to conduct CSR audits at commitments in the framework of the Gloour suppliers. bal Compact. However, the circumstances in China At the site in Beijing we have during the are highly complex, and solutions in these year implemented a number of activities areas are not always simple and straightconcerning sustainable development, for forward. An example of this is that many example: employees in China want to do as much Nolato Telecom 4,052 We have appointed a special CSR team overtime as possible, and this can conflict (see Definitions and glossary) to co-ordiwith legislation in China and with our Employees per counttry 2011 nate matters relating to sustainable devevalues. Year average lopment. In the team you will find repreWe will therefore maintain our strong USA 175 India + others 159 sentatives from production, environment, focus on these matters in 2012. Hungary 391 quality and human resources departments. China 3,875 The team reports directly to the president Sweden 896 of the Business Area. CSR In Real Life Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is a crucial area ber of important issues came to light, which led to “Sony Ericsson is running an ambitious project for companies today. Our increasingly globalised the implementation of several improvements in our to implement its code of conduct among suppliers world places new demands on our actions in terms systems in terms of the environment, quality, workworldwide, and conducts recurring evaluations of of taking social responsibility with staff, customers, ing environment and social responsibility. us,” says Jörgen Karlsson, President of Nolato Telesuppliers and society at large. One area that we really addressed properly was com. Customers’ interest in CSR, and using it to further the development of methods to evaluate our sub“These evaluations are challenging, but also enhance the business, is also evident across the suppliers. They have to conform to our sustainability constructive,” he continues. “We started out from Group companies. and ethical rules – otherwise, no deal.” a decent level, but it was clear that certain aspects “One of our customers announced their plan to Working closely alongside customers on these needed more attention. So far, four evaluations have conduct an ethical audit on our business, so beforematters helps us in the process. For example, at been carried out and we feel that we are making hand, we carried out a preliminary audit ourselves,” Nolato Telecom, which has extensive operations constant progress.” explains Glenn Svedberg, MD of Nolato Cerbo, which in China, a major CSR project has been conducted manufactures pharmaceutical packaging. “A numalongside Sony Ericsson. Nolato sustainability report 2011 18/28 Systematic health and safety work union upon employment, and can then (73) and in USA 54 per cent (47). At the For many years, our production units make their own decision on membership. Board of Nolato AB 30 per cent (30) were have had advanced systems for registerIn 2011, all employees at Nolato in China women. The corresponding figures for the ing workplace accidents and undertaking were covered by collective agreements. Group management and subsidiary mancorrective actions. During the year, 28 (44) At the units in other countries, there are agement were 0 per cent (0) and 18 per occupational accidents resulting in more no unions or collective agreements, and cent (24), respectively. than one day’s absence (LWC, lost work this reflects the normal situation in these cases) were reported. Total absence due to countries. Training and education illness caused by occupational accidents It is a prerequisite for the competitiveness was 755 days (534) and is dominated by Diversity and equality issues of the Group, and the personal developa few long-term absences. The most comAn area that is highlighted in international ment of the individual employees, that the mon causes were injuries caused while initiatives and in our Code of Conduct are educational level match the work assignworking with machinery and equipment diversity and equality issues. Our equalments. Knowledge and skills must be kept (35 per cent), falls and slips (25 per cent). ity work is carried out on a decentralised updated and deepened and education is a At seven of the production units no workbasis at each unit, in accordance with the part of the everyday work. place accidents occurred. individual companies’ equality plans. 71 During 2011, the employees particiPreventive working environment iniper cent (67) of Nolato’s employees were pated in 57,000 (26,000) training hours. tiatives include risk analyses, working women. The proportion of female employThis corresponds to around 12 hours per environment monitoring, training, safety ees at the Group’s European units was 44 employee. rounds, safety committee work (present per cent (44), in the Asian units 81 per cent in all companies) and investments in various technical protective measures. Health and safety training is frequently conducted and in 2011 the employees participated in average in 2.9 (4.2) hours of training. Most units have, since a long time ago, systems in place to systematically register incidents (near misses) which could have led to a workplace accident. However, at some units such systems are not yet implemented and we therefore established a Group target to improve the reporting of near misses. Currently such systems are in in place at most of the units and we can therefore analyse the root causes to accidents. Of around 150 registered near misses, the majority were associated with machinery and equipment. Slips and manual work are also common in the statistics. Everybody has the right of representation Another important CSR matter is the right to organise trade unions and of representation by employee representatives. In accordance with our Code of Conduct, all Nolato employees have such rights. This also includes the right to collective negotiations and agreements. At the units in China, there are unions in accordance with the rules applicable to large companies in China. All staff are provided with information about the Nolato sustainability report 2011 19/28 Business partners and other stakeholders Zero tolerance of corruption the selection of suppliers, and we also need Methods for follow-up In accordance with our Code of Conduct to have access to experienced persons for and the tenth Principle of UN Global Comevaluation of questionnaires and to conSpreading shared values pact, Nolato’s business methods shall be duct audits. In 2011 around 200 suppliNolato’s Code of Conduct describes the overall characterised by integrity and responsibilers were evaluated by means of questionview on corruption and related matters. During Group-wide training the ethical questions ity. Nolato therefore has zero tolerance of naires, and we conducted audits on site at are explained and deepened. It is the responbribery, corruption and cartel formation. suppliers’ premises on 16 occasions, half of sibility of each manager to inform about and to For a global company, these matters are which were in China and South-East Asia. invite to a dialogue with employees concerning complex, because the perception of what Active collaboration with customers Nolato’sValues. In 2010-2011 there was spe“normal business methods” are differs As a developer and manufacturer of polcial attention to these issues and anti-corruption was an important point on the agenda during the between countries and cultures. To the ymer products and systems, many of our training of young managers (Young Manager Proright a number of methods are listed that customers operate in industries where susgramme). are used to steer and follow-up our busitainability issues are high on the agenda. ness principles. For example, customers require that we On-going monitoring fulfil their codes of conduct, that we have of expenses/income Annual evaluation introduced environmental management Investments, expenditures and other costs are As a part of the sustainability reporting for systems, that certain chemical substances followed-up in detail. “The grandfather principle” is applied with means that costs and expenses this year we asked a number of detailed are not permitted, that compliance with must be approved by the superior manager. questions concerning how the subsidiaries certain legislation (REACH, RoHS), that are managing good business practices. The the products have environmental declaraVigilance in business questionnaire was based on a questiontion and that recycled raw materials are relationships naire from Global Compact and required used in certain products. If it is obvious that a business relationship may active standpoints concerning corrupCustomers increased monitoring during lead to that the Code of Conduct cannot be met, we will terminate the contacts with the person tion. Around two thirds of the companies the year at most of our production units or company. reported that they during 2011 actively to ensure that we are meeting the requireinformed the employees about the requirements. In general, we fulfil these requirements of good business principles. ments, but in certain cases a dialogue has Our evaluations show that there is nothcommenced regarding improvement measing to suggest any deviations from the rules ures. We learn from our customers’ evaluregarding bribery, corruption and cartel ation methods and in turn we forward the formation in 2011. requirements into our own supplier chains. Increased evaluation of suppliers Contacts with other stakeholders In the 2010 annual report, we ascertained Nolato has many contacts regarding susthat Group activities regarding suppliers’ tainability with other stakeholders of the fulfilment of our sustainability requireGroup. We continuously provide sharements must be developed further. A target holders and other stakeholders with inforwas therefore established to increase the mation about our sustainability work in number of evaluations of suppliers and to articles in our company periodical Nolato develop tools and to provide training. Magazine, and we are in dialogue with We are now moving in the right direction analysts and investors to create full transand almost every company in the Group parency into our work. now require that their suppliers must take Nolato’s units participates in the local part of our Code of Conduct. We have societies where we operate. This means conducted advanced training and develcontacts with neighbours, schools, unioped comprehensive checklists for supplier versities, community organisations, sport assessments. One example is the training of organisations and cultural institutions. CSR auditors in China. Nolato Cerbo and the units in Hungary Evaluation of suppliers is a process that and USA were especially active during consumes resources. We therefore must be 2011 and where involved in several procareful with the criteria that are used for jects concerning culture, study visits, coNolato sustainability report 2011 20/28 operation with schools, safety in traffic interested parties with relevant informaCooperation with schools and actions against drugs. Nolato has a tion about our sustainability work. We will constructive co-operation with the Internatherefore continue to report according to The Handshake skills enhancement project of the tional Environmental Institute (IIIEE) and the GRI Guidelines and will participate in Chamber of Commerce of Western Sweden (VästsLund University. dialogue with interested parties. venska Handelskammaren) creates a bond between A project that received attention was the During the year Nolato was evaluatindustry and schools with a defined and long-term arrangement of workplaces for disabled ed by institutional investors and business structure. Nolato Cerbo follows a school class for persons at the site in Hungary. We are talkjournals. It is positive to notice that the three years, and therefore has the opportunity of ing about 28 blind and deaf persons that Group received a very good evaluation in getting to know the younger generation and estabwork with the assembly of products. The Veckans Affärers Hållbara Portfölj (Suslishing contacts for future recruitment initiatives. facilities were modified and work instructainable Portfolio). The Sustainable port”The Handshake project enables us to describe tions were transformed to braille. Salaries folio consists of shares that are evaluated to students what we do, and show them the various are equal to other employees and the profrom a long-term perspective. The journal professional roles in our operations,” says Glenn ject is partly subsidised by the government. takes into account the company’s ability to Svedberg, MD of Nolato Cerbo. Apart from increased quality of life for the adapt to increasing requirements concernThrough their collaboration with Nolato Cerbo, disabled persons, we recognise a very good ing environment and sustainable developstudents can gain a greater understanding of school result of their work. ment, and to seek business opportunities subjects. They also have the opportunity to meet Nolato should be a good citizen and from such requirements. role models and create their own networks for the we have set a target to provide different future. Ahead of future career choices and higher education orientation, students gain some insight into the conditions and requirements of industry at an early stage. Nolato’s production unit in Torekov, Sweden Nolato sustainability report 2011 21/28 Economic responsibility 2011 in brief Financial highlights In 2011, the Group’s sales were SEK 2,977 million (3,375). The operating income SEKm (unless otherwise specified) 2011 2010 (EBITA) was SEK 199 million (262). The Net sales 2,977 3,375 profit after financial income and expense Operating profit (EBITDA) 360 407 was SEK 184 million (243). The profit after Operating profit (EBITA) 199 262 tax was SEK 132 million (187) and the EBITA margin, % 6.7 7.8 Profit after financial income and expense 183 243 earnings per share was SEK 5.02 (7.11). Profit after tax 132 187 We are convinced that through workCash flow after investments, excl. acquisitions and disposals 112 230 ing with sustainability issues we are creatReturn on capital employed, % 13.9 18.4 ing value now and for the future for our Return on shareholders’ equity, % 11.3 16.5 customers, employees, shareholders and Net debt 82 34 stakeholders. Sustainable development Equity/assets ratio, % 54 50 means that Nolato is a good member of Earnings per share, SEK 5.02 7.11 society and contributes by taking a finanAdjusted earnings per share, SEK 5.28 7.37 cial, environmental and social responsibilAverage number of shares, thousands 26,307 26,307 ity where possible. Average number of employees 5,496 7,563 Sustainable development and finance During 2011, Nolato invested SEK 14.9 Financial value for stakeholders million (15.6) in measures relating to Stakeholder Distributed value (SEKm) Comments environmental and working environment Suppliers 1,844 Compensation for materials and services improvements. The biggest investments Employees 812 Salaries and benefits were made in equipment for increased Shareholders 132 Dividend energy efficiency. Over the course of the Creditors 7 Interest expenses year, environmental costs totalled SEK 5.6 Society 51 Reported effective tax for the Group million (6.4). During the year, environmental improvement measures generated cost savings of SEK 1.3 million (1.3). The EHS investments EHS costs majority of these savings relate to energy SEKm SEKm Fees to authorities 3% use. Waste Operation of abatement Working environment management 1% equipment 4% 6% Financial value for stakeholders Bought-in services 7% Nolato’s business generates a financial value that is distributed among the various ISO 14001, stakeholders. This includes, for example, OHSAS 18001 12% suppliers, employees, shareholders, creditors and society. During 2011, the Group had a turnover of SEK 2.977 million. SEK Administration Other investments 30% 2,846 million was distributed according to 27% the table to the right. Energy efficiency 66% Waste management 45% Nolato sustainability report 2011 22/28 Continual improvement At Nolato’s plants throughout the world, pliers in Lithuania and Poland have been the recycling of process waste and the air activities are being carried out that contribreduced with 30 per cent. In a project, in conditioning has been optimised to reduce ute to continual improvements with regard co-operation with a customer, hazardous energy consumption. to the environment, working environment phtalates have been phased out. and social responsibility. Here is a small Sunne has improved the process flow India selection of major and minor actions carand thereby reduced the number of transThe work to implement ISO 14001 was ried out in 2011: ports and work steps. The scrap rate has continued. The company has contributed been reduced. to the plantation of trees and has changed Sweden Gota in Götene has implemented the the working hours to reduce risks and Plastteknik in Gothenburg invested ”Green Cross” to improve health and safeproblems that are associated with travel to in a new docking system for trucks. This ty at work. Safety aspects are also includwork. increases the efficiency and reduces the ed in the ”5s” activities. Energy-efficient environmental impact from transport. hybrid injection machines will be prioriUSA There are continued activities to develtised in future upgrades of the plant. There The implementation of ISO 14001 was op ”environment-friendly” products, for are also plans to phase out fuel oil for successful and the company will be certiexample, composites of plastic and wood heating of the building and replace it with fied in spring 2012. Energy-saving air confibre. wood pellets. ditioning was installed during summer Polymer in Ängelholm has made investNolato Cerbo reduced the energy con2011. The possibility to utilise bio-based ments in a system for district cooling and sumption by the recently installed freeplastics originating from corn, has been energy-efficient lighting. Nolato Polymer cooling system, and increased temperature evaluated. in Torekov plans to install a heating system of cooling water has been evaluated. Othbased on heat pumps or natural gas. There er environment-related projects include are also plans for installation of energyreduced weight of primary pharmaceutical efficient lighting systems. packaging, waste reduction and continued Hertila in Åstorp has invested in energywork according to the ”Lean concept”. efficient moulding machines. Silikonteknik in Hallsberg has continHungary ued the activities to reduce the energy conAt Nolato Hungary workplaces for disasumption. bled persons have been established. WithMediTech in Hörby and Lomma implein the framework of ISO 14001 there mented measures to reduce the scrap rate are detailed targets for water, energy and and the amount of waste. They have also waste. initiated as programme called ”Medical Excellence”. New key performance indicaChina tors for energy (related to sales) have been At the plant in Beijing there were sevimplemented. eral activities concerning CSR. This is At Lövepac in Skånes Fagerhult, as described elsewhere in the Sustainability part of the energy efficiency programme, report. Together with customers there are machines and are turned off when they on-going projects to create more ”environare not in use. The same goes for lighting. ment-friendly” products. By introduction The sorting of waste at source has been of recycling, the consumption of solvents improved. was reduced. A number of energy saving MediTor in Torekov has reduced the activities were implemented, for example, amount of waste from the production proinstallation of highly efficient compressors. cesses. Further on, products with 10-20 Lövepac Converting in Beijing and Shenper cent less amount of silicon rubber have zhen continued to implement OHSAS been developed and transport from sup18001. There are also projects to increase Nolato sustainability report 2011 23/28 About the Sustainability Report Contents of the Sustainability Report manager is responsible for quality-assuring Sustainability reporting cycle The Nolato Sustainability Report for 2011 the data provided. Data is compared with covers aspects relating to the environment, figures from previous years and is verified. Questionaire sent Reports from all sites out to all sites Quality assurance health, safety and social issues. Additional quality-checks are carried out of data Our ambition is that the report, together through interviews and site visits. Sustainable section Q4 Q1 with supplementary information, will proIn the case of carbon dioxide, sulphur Preparations for new report in Nolato Annual Report vide employees and external stakeholders dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions with a clear picture of the Group’s activiresulting from the use of direct energy, conQ3 Q2 GRI/COP ties in the above-named areas, and their version factors based on the energy content report commercial consequences. and quality of the fuel used are employed. We hope that the report will be of interEmissions of carbon dioxide from indirect est to various categories of stakeholders, energy (mainly electricity) are based on Follow-up and review of sustainability data and we welcome readers’ comments and Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative (GHG suggestions for future improvements. Protocol) data that is available for the countries where Nolato operates. Figures Scope of the Sustainability Report for emissions of VOCs (solvents, paints, The Sustainability Report covers perforetc.) are based on mass balance calculamance relating to the environment, health, tions. safety and social conditions at the producIn the report for 2011 we have adjusted tion units worldwide. The figure shows data for energy consumption (district heatthe reporting cycle. All operations that ing), and related emissions of carbon dioxbelonged to the Group for most of the fiside, at the plant in Beijing. We believe that cal year are reported, except for a recently we now have more reliable information established plant in Malaysia and a small than before about the amount of MWh of unit in Beijing. A total of 19 of 21 organisadistrict heating that was purchased. The tions contributed to the report. provider of district heating could not give us any information about the emissions Reporting principles of carbon dioxide and we have therefore Each plant supplies data in accordance used GHG Protocol data for China as basis with the Group’s questionnaire for susfor the calculation. Figures for energy containability reporting. The annual reportsumption and carbon dioxide emissions ing cycle is shown to the right. Each plant have adjusted for years 2007 – 2010. Nolato sustainability report 2011 24/28 Nolato and GRI The organisation behind the GRI has than 2,000 companies around the world established voluntary comprehensive reporting in accordance with the GRI. guidelines for how companies and other Within the guidelines, the organisation organisations should report on their suscan choose at which level (A–C) it wishes tainable development activities. These to report. Nolato has chosen to report at guidelines, which are now available in verlevel B. sion G3, cover requirements on the reportThe GRI website (www.globalreporting. ing of sustainability data for finance, the org) provides a comprehensive report of environment and social responsibility. The the reporting criteria for the various levels. reports should provide a balanced and reliThe table below shows the extent to able picture of the organisation’s developwhich Nolato meets the minimum requirement within the area of sustainability, covments according to GRI G3 level B. ‘SR’ ering positive as well as negative aspects. refers to the page number in this report. The GRI guidelines are the most widely ‘AR’ refers to the page number in the 2011 used and accepted standards for reporting annual report. within the area of sustainability, with more Profil 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the President and CEO. AR7, SR3 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. AR35–36, SR7, 12 2. Organisational profile 2.1 – 2.7 Name of the organisation. Primary brands, products and services. Operational structure of the organisation. Location of organisation’s HQ. Countries where the organisation operates. Nature of ownership and legal form. Markets served. AR 14–25, SR 4–8 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. SR 4–5 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period. SR 23 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period. — 3. Report parameters Report profile 3.1 – 3.4 Reporting period. Date of most recent previous report. Reporting cycle. Contact persons. SR23 Report scope and boundaries 3.5 – 3.8 Process for defining report content. Boundary of the report. Any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the reSR23 port. Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations. SR23 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports. SR23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the SR3 3.11 report. GRI content index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the GRI indicators in the report. This table 3.13 Policy and practice regarding external verification. Self-declared Nolato sustainability report 2011 25/28 4. Governance, commitment and engagement Governance Governance structure. Governance structure concerning sustainability issues. Chairman’s position. Independent or 4.1 – 4.8 non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Compensation to management. Processes to avoid conflicts of interest. Mission, values, AR 72–75, 81, SR 6–7, 10–11 Code of Conduct. Commitment regarding external initiatives 4.11 The Group’s handling of the precautionary principle SR 12–16 4.12 Externally developed codes, principles or other initiatives to which the Group subscribes or endorses voluntary SR 11 Stakeholder engagement 4.14 – List of stakeholder groups. Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders. Approaches to stakeholder SR 11 4.17 engagement. Key topics raised through stakeholder engagement. Performance indicators 5. Economic performance indicators (EC) Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. SR 21 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change. SR 12 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations. AR 63 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Inget under året 6. Environmental performance indicators (EN) Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. SR 15 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. SR 15 Eneryi EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. SR 14 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source. SR 14 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. SR 14, 22 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. SR 15 Emissions, effluents and waste EN16,17 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. SR 14 EN18 Initiatives to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and results. SR 13–14, 22 EN20 NOx, SO2 and other significant air emissions by type and weight. SR 14 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. SR 15 EN23 Significant spills. SR 15 Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. SR 16, 22 Employment EN28 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region. SR 12 Overall EN30 Costs and investments for environmental protection activities. SR 21 Nolato sustainability report 2011 26/28 7. Labour policies and decent work (LA) Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region. SR 5, 17 Labour/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. SR 18 Occupational health and safety LA7 Rates of injury and occupational diseases. SR 18 Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee. SR 18 Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and management. SR 18 8. Human rights (HR) Investment and procurement practices HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights. SR 9–10, 19 Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and measures taken. SR 18 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 SR 10–11, 17–19 may be at significant risk and actions taken. Child labour Operations identified as having significant risk of incidents of child labour, and measures taken HR6 SR 10–11, 17–19 to contribute to the elimination of child labour. Forced and compulsory labour Operations identified as having significant risk of incidents of forced or compulsory labour, HR7 SR 10–11, 17–19 and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour. 9. Society performance indicators (SO) Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programmes and practices that assess and manage SO1 SR 10–11, 19–20 the impacts of operations on communities. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. SR 9 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. SR 10, 19 Compliance with laws and regulations Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance SO8 SR 17–19 with laws and regulations. 10. Performance indicators for products (PR) Customer health and safety PR1 Assessment of health and safety aspects of products SR 11–12, 16 Nolato sustainability report 2011 27/28 Global Compact report on progress Nolato and the Global Compact the company’s annual report and the comof the key factors within the Global ComIn 2009, Nolato joined the UN initiative pany’s sustainability report. Together, these pact commitment is carried out according for responsible business, the Global Comreports provide a true picture that Nolato to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as pact. As a result, the Group became part of supports and follows the Global Comfar as possible. a global network consisting of more than pact’s ten principles in our work. 9,000 companies and other organisations The publication, The Nolato Spirit, Cross reference table between in 135 countries that support ten basic which covers things like the Group’s Code the Global Compact and GRI principles within human rights, workof Conduct and Environmental Policy, is The following table shows how the status ing conditions, the environment and antian important internal document, guidfor each individual principle within the corruption. One aspect of Nolato’s coming and coordinating employee activities Global Compact can be reported via the mitment is that we report the company’s in line with the ten principles. Continuindicators in the Global Reporting Initiaactivities and status with regard to social ous reviews are carried out of the various tive. The table is based on the management responsibility in an annual CommunicaGroup subsidiaries’ methods and ethics, in document published by the UN Global tion of Progress (COP) report. We begin order to ensure that they correspond with Compact. therefore with the information provided in the Group’s Code of Conduct. Reporting The Global Compact Principles GRI indicators Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect internationally proclaimed human rights. HR2, HR4-7, LA7, LA13, SO5 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HR2, HR4-7, SO5 Labour standards 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. LA4, HR2, HR5, SO5 4. Businesses should work to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. HR2, HR7, SO5 5. Businesses should work to abolish child labour. HR2, HR6, SO5 6. Businesses should work to eliminate all discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LA13, HR2, HR4, SO5 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. EC2, EN26, EN30, SO5 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. EN1–5, EN8, EN16, EN20, EN22, EN26, EN28, SO5 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. EN2, EN5, EN18, EN26, SO5 Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SO3, SO5 Nolato sustainability report 2011 28/28 Definitions and glossary Carbon dioxide CO2 is formed in all carbon ardising future generations’ ability to satRoHS EU legislation limiting the use of combustion processes. The gas is released isfy their needs’. Sustainable development certain substances that are hazardous to in substantial amounts when petroleum consists of three components: Ecological health and the environmental. products are used. It is likely that atmossustainability, social sustainability and SO2 (sulphur dioxide) Sulphur dioxide pheric emissions of carbon dioxide increase financial sustainability. is formed when petroleum products are global warming (the greenhouse effect). Injection moulding A method for manufacburned. SO2 contributes to the acidificaCode of Conduct Behaviour code for Nolaturing polymer components. The matetion of lakes, streams and soil, and causto’s employees. Supplemented by policies rial is injected under high pressure into a es coniferous trees to shed their needles. relating to the environment, workplaces mould in which the component is formed. Large concentrations in the environment and relations with suppliers. ISO 14001 International standard relating are harmful to human health. Environmental aspects The parts of an to environmental management systems VOC Stands for Volatile Organic Comorganisation’s activities, products or servicthat was introduced in 1996. Just over pounds – a group of organic compounds es that interact with the environment. 250,000 organisations around the world that easily vaporises at room temperature. Environment-related costs These are costs are currently certified according to ISO The concentration of volatile hydrocarbon related to measures for preventing, reduc14001. in the air has a negative effect on human ing or repairing environmental damISO 26000 International standard that prohealth and the environment, e.g. it contribage directly associated with operations. vides guidance on how organisations can utes to the formation of low ozone. The corresponding measures taken with deal with issues relating to social responWater footprint A company’s water footregard to health and safety in the worksibility. The standard was introduced in print is defined as the total volume of place are also included. The costs reported 2010. freshwater used to produce the goods and include, among other items, administraLWC Occupational accidents causing at services consumed by the country’s popution and external consulting expenses, fees least one day’s absence (Lost Work Case). lation. to authorities, costs for introducing and NOx (nitrogen oxides) Gaseous oxides Work-related accident A work-related accimaintaining environmental management formed during combustion processes dent is a sudden event related to work systems, costs for waste and charges for through the oxidation of nitrogen. Harmthat gives rise to a wound or other physiexternal inspections and audits. ful to human health and the environment. cal injury. A typical injury in the rubber Environment-related investments These are Cause acid rain and eutrophication. industry is a minor cut or crushing injury. investments in assets designed to prevent, OHSAS 18001 Standard relating to health Nolato reports the number of work-relatreduce or repair damage to the environand safety at the workplace. ed injuries that give rise to one or more ment associated with operations. The corPAH Polyaromatic hydrocarbons or polyardays of absence, called Lost Work Cases responding investments made with regard omatics (Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocar(LWCs). The injury rate is then normed to health and safety in the workplace are bons) are a group of substances found in by stating the number of such injuries per also included. coal and petroleum that are hazardous to 1,000 employees (LWC/1,000). Extrusion This is a method for continuously health and the environment. The substancWork-related disease A work-related dismanufacturing products in strands, such as es are released into the environment via the ease is a disease caused by long-term expomedical tubing. process of combustion. sure to a particular factor in the work Global Compact A UN initiative for responPCB Polychlorinated bifenyls are a group environment. Such factors can include sible business practice. Participating organof industrial chemicals that are hazardous repetitive lifting or being exposed every isations agree to support ten basic princito health and the environment. The use of day to solvent fumes. ples in the areas of human rights, working PCB was prohibited in Sweden in 1972, conditions, environment and anti-corrupbut the substance remains in the atmostion. phere due to its slow decomposition. GRI The Global Reporting Initiative has Polymers Chemical molecules consisting of established voluntary comprehensive extremely long chains made up of smaller, guidelines for how companies and other repeating units (monomers). Plastic and organisations should report on their susrubber are examples of polymer materials. tainable development activities. REACH EU chemical legislation for the safer HCFC An organic compound that contribhandling of chemicals. Chemical substancutes to ozone depletion. es should be registered for a certain use Sustainable development A development and particularly hazardous substances can that ‘satisfies today’s needs without jeophave restrictions imposed on them.
