Sustainability Report 2011 The savings banks can count on Consolidated financial statements DekaBank as a responsible and credible partner for sustainable investments. Our sustainability strategy establishes a binding framework for all of our business activities. It covers environmental and human resources management as well as the development of sustainable investment products and the social commitment and community involvement of DekaBank and its employees. Credible and trusted partner of the savings banks for sustainable investments 112 Sustainable corporate governance 113 Environmental management / sustainable banking 116 Sustainable HR management 120 Sustainable banking products 124 Social responsibility 127 Communications 129 112 | Credible and trusted partner of the savings banks | Sustainable corporate governance Credible and trusted partner of the savings banks for sustainable investments Savings banks and sustainability. The two have always been a good match, even though the term was not an active part of our industry’s vocabulary up until a few years ago. Much of our understanding of sustainability today is part and parcel of the savings banks’ genetic code and has been ever since they were first established over two hundred years ago: the pledge to ensure that everyone has access to financial services and to put public benefit ahead of pure profit maximisation, as well as to support those in society who would not have had the opportunity to receive this assistance elsewhere. Each savings bank has its own particular focal areas, but they all have one thing in common: the commitment to be there for their own region and the people who live there – with the knowledge that this is the only way the savings bank can thrive as well. We can therefore say that hardly any other financial Basis of the report group has incorporated sustainability into its operations to the same extent as the Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe. This is one of Since the 2009 reporting year, DekaBank has been pubthe factors that helped us weather the financial market crisis lishing its Sustainability Report yearly as an integral part of its better than others. And it is one of the reasons why more Annual Report. By doing so, we document that sustainability is people place trust in the savings banks than any other financial closely linked with the long-term financial success of the institution in Germany. Group and we therefore support efforts to standardise assessment standards and definitions and thus improve comparabilHowever, the developments of the past years and decades ity. Unless otherwise indicated, our Sustainability Report present us with new challenges. Together with the savings relates to the DekaBank Group and its employees in the period banks we are rising to these challenges. Corporate social under review from 1 January to 31 December 2011. In addition responsibility that is limited to a company’s local region is no to the current report, additional information is also available longer enough. Now it is more about companies also taking on the internet at www.dekabank.de, including our Environthe consequences of their actions on global developments, mental Report and the GRI Content Index. such as climate change, into consideration. Providing customers with suitable product solutions is just one of many elePillars of the sustainability strategy ments in this regard. These products are increasingly the subject of critical review to establish whether they also comply As part of its sustainability strategy, DekaBank has been with ethical standards. We know that we can only place these setting concrete and binding sustainability objectives for itself products credibly and successfully if we ourselves act in a sussince 2009, goals that shape its decisions and actions at all tainable manner. To this end, the savings banks can count on levels. The DekaBank Group’s sustainable corporate governDekaBank as a responsible partner. DekaBank believes that ance is based on four pillars, with open and transparent comsustainability also means taking responsibility for society and munications forming the foundation for all its activities. the environment in everything that we do. DekaBank‘s comprehensive sustainability approach (Fig. 1) Our sustainability strategy establishes a binding framework for all of our business activities. And it is continually updated. We operate on the principle of “first do, then report”, rather than Sustainable corporate governance make announcements and then endeavour to implement them. For example, the socially and environmentally responsible standards of the Equator Principles have already been Environmental firmly established in our credit risk guidelines for the past three Sustainable Sustainable management/ Social HR managebanking years, however, we did not sign up to them until March 2011, sustainable ment ­products responsibility banking when we were sure we could keep our promises. We also highlighted our commitment to our sustainable strategy when we joined the UN Global Compact in 2011, which applies Communication across the entire Group. DekaBank is thus a credible partner for sustainable investments and, together with the savings banks, offers ongoing guidance and stability, especially in crisis-ridden market situations. 100% | Group management report | Sustainability report | Report of the Administrative Board | Consolidated financial statements | Other Information | 113 Sustainable corporate governance The DekaBank Group and the savings banks have a fundamental interest in ­DekaBank’s long-term performance. Naturally, we therefore adopt a comprehensive ­approach to Consolidated financial statements the DekaBank Group’s sustainable strategy and reflect this at all management levels. The challenge of sustainability management is to ensure that the wide-ranging activities of the Group meet our standards for responsible and sus­tainable actions and development. Our sustainability strategy, internal regulations and guidelines, as well as recognised standards such as the UN Global Compact, form the binding framework for this. Management approach Corporate governance Our business strategy, which is sustainable in economic, DekaBank’s sustainability strategy is flanked by complienvironmental and social terms, is a firmly established compoance. The DekaBank Group depends on the confidence that its nent of the DekaBank Group’s mission, through which we customers, shareholders and the public have in its services and ensure that all of the business divisions are aligned with the integrity. This confidence is especially affected by the conduct interests of the savings banks and their customers. We are of our employees. Adherence with the compliance standards is convinced that sustainable corporate operations and actions, thus essential, in order to safeguard the reputation of the which are also compatible with the interests of our shareholdDekaBank Group at all times. ers, not only offer opportunities but also minimise risks. We generate a sustainable economic result for our shareholders, The DekaBank Group’s Compliance Office monitors all busiwhich is the main target by which we measure our success. ness divisions to ensure that the services offered are provided with the required professional knowledge, care and diligence The Board of Management is responsible for the sustainability in the best interests of the customers. Compliance provides strategy. When defining the sustainability strategy, the Board employees with the regulations and guidelines required to of Management is supported by the Group Development unit, guarantee responsible and legal conduct. This safeguards the which functions as a coordinator and initiator for all areas of interests of our customers and prevents conflicts of interest. action relating to the sustainability strategy. In this role, the The Compliance Office identifies potential conflicts of interest unit is responsible for implementing the sustainability strategy and through precautions and detailed countermeasures and coordinating sustainability-related activities throughout ensures that the Group is operating in line with legal and reguthe entire Group. latory requirements. The Compliance Office’s specific tasks include preventing money laundering, financing of terrorism The “Sustainability Round Table” supports the communication or “other criminal acts” as well as ensuring compliance with between the Board of Management and the Group units. This the rules of conduct stipulated by capital market legislation. As committee, which is comprised of members of the top manpart of regular compliance training, employees are informed of agement and the Environmental Officer, advises on strategic the preventative measures to combat money laundering, issues and initiates the annual catalogue of measures regardfinancing of terrorism and “other criminal acts” that are in ing our sustainability strategy. The individual projects and place at DekaBank. Employees also receive training in complimeasures are accompanied at the operational level by sustainance with the rules of good conduct mandated by capital marability mentors, who are in place at all hierarchical levels and in ket legislation. all Group units and also serve as a source of ideas for new sustainability measures. Staff members are given online tests about data protection, and information is provided via various media such as the intranet and the Bank’s in-house magazine. The Data Protection Officer is independent of the Compliance unit and is based in an own unit in the Legal Affairs Corporate Centre. 114 | Sustainable corporate governance Tip-offs and suspicious cases, particularly regarding fraud, can Global Compact be reported using DekaBank’s ombudsman system. These are investigated by an external ombudsman with many years DekaBank has been a member of the Global Compact of of experience who is available as a point of contact for the United Nations (UN) since 22 February 2011. We are thereemployees. fore part of the biggest and most important global network for corporate responsibility and corporate social responsibility, Code of ethics which now comprises more than 5,000 companies as well as employee, human rights, environmental and development The requirements for banks concerning ethical responsiorganisations worldwide. Events are held regularly at a global, bility have become more complex. DekaBank’s first code of regional and national level and enable Global Compact particiethics was drawn up over five years ago and has now been pants to share experiences and exchange information. completely revised. The new code of ethics has not just been extended in terms of content, but also obliges the Bank to By joining the Global Compact, DekaBank undertakes to foladopt a more proactive approach. Whereas the main focus low a set of ten core values in its area of influence and to used to be on actions that were not acceptable under the code publicly communicate how it implements those core values in of ethics, there is now a greater emphasis on self-awareness practice. The requirements of the UN Global Compact thus and the positive direction of the Bank. As a result, the code form a basis for sustainability criteria in the investment pronow also reflects the sustainability strategy that has meancess, procurement and other areas. The corresponding reports while been adopted as well as the solution-oriented cooperamust be submitted to the Global Compact once a year. The set tion between the units in the spirit of “One Deka”. One comof values includes the protection of human rights, compliance pletely new aspect is our clear commitment to diversity. The with labour standards, proactive environmental protection as new code states: “We define diversity as an opportunity. We well as measures to combat all forms of corruption. These are convinced that different cultural, religious and social backprinciples, already firmly established in the company, are addigrounds, beliefs and abilities not only enrich internal cooperationally underpinned by the partnership with the United tion, but also facilitate fulfilment of the diverse customer Nations. requirements.” As with the GRI criteria, explanations regarding the relevant The code of ethics provides the orientation framework for an points of the Global Compact are presented in both this Susopen, transparent and legally-compliant corporate culture. tainability Report and in other sections of the Annual Report, The principles formulated in the code are summarised in the particularly the Group Management Report. Further informacategories of professionalism, responsibility, trust, collegiality, tion is also contained in the Environmental Report of the sustainability, diversity and communications. The principles DekaBank Group, which we published in December 2011 and apply to the entire Group, including to all our major shareholdwhich is available at www.dekabank.de. We have also inteings and companies (subsidiaries). grated links to Global Compact issues in the GRI Content Index on our website. To better document the role that the Global Compact plays for our business, these principles are taken into account in the GRI Content Index for the first time, which we have published online at www.dekabank.de. The content in the table there was supplemented by references to the corresponding principles. 100% | Group management report | Sustainability report | Report of the Administrative Board | Consolidated financial statements | Other Information | 115 Equator Principles UN Global Compact Consolidated financial statements DekaBank evaluates its project financing activities using the Equator Principles signed in March 2011, which are explained in the section on sustainable banking products (see pages 124 to 126). We had already been applying the ten global standards governing the consideration of social and ecological standards for quite some time before signing the By joining the Global Compact in February 2011, Principles. DekaBank undertakes to implement a set of ten core values in its area of influence. The Equator Principles are modelled on the guidelines of the World Bank and the International Finance Corporation and I. Human rights form the basis for company-specific guidelines. They oblige financial institutions to only finance projects where the borPrinciple 1 rowers act in a socially and environmentally responsible manSupport and respect the protection of international ner as defined by the guidelines and can also provide the Bank human rights within their sphere of influence with documentation and evidence of this. Principle 2 Make sure their own corporations are not complicit in The Equator Principles are applied by a total of 73 institutions human rights abuses in 27 countries and therefore cover over 70% of the financing projects in developing and emerging countries. II. Labour standards Principle 3 Freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation III. Environmental protection Principle 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies IV. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 116 | Environmental management/sustainable banking Environmental management/sustainable banking Heating, cooling, travel, printing – even the non-manufacturing industries consume resources and produce ecologically harmful carbon dioxide emissions. Through a ­series of measures, DekaBank has succeeded in continually improving its environmental balance over the past years. In the reporting year, more efficient building management, reduced paper consumption and the use of energy-saving devices ­particularly contributed to this achievement. Management approach Prisma and Skyper buildings in Frankfurt/Main. For this purpose, we started collecting all the data on processes with a Corporate environmental protection is a key element of direct and indirect impact on the environment in 2007. DekaBank‘s sustainability strategy. Corporate responsibility for DekaBank has also undertaken to submit to regular moni­ environmental and climate protection is a factor that affects toring audits that take place once a year. Recertification to the our future success and competitiveness. The economical use latest standards is carried out every three years and the next of resources not only offers substantial potential for savings, date for this is in April 2012. but also helps us convincingly demonstrate our sustainability principles both within and outside of the company. In our Our environmental management system delivers an annual opinion, credibility at every level of our business operations corporate environmental balance sheet, which is used to makes a valuable contribution to increasing the value of the draw comparisons with the previous year. The environmental company over the long term. Consequently, DekaBank endeav­balance sheet covers all the locations in Frankfurt/Main and ours to mitigate the negative impact of its business operations thus around 76% of all DekaBank’s employees. The con­ on the environment as much as possible and thereby also sumption of paper, energy and water is determined in detail, makes a contribution to global climate protection. as is data on business travel and issues related to waste. The results of this survey were collated to form an Environmental Environmental guidelines are based on the DekaBank Group‘s Report for the first time in 2009. This report is not limited to sustainability strategy and are actively communicated within an analysis of the actual status, but also highlights optimi­ the Group and to our customers and business partners. At sation potentials and planned improvement measures. the operating level, environmental management is under the direction of the “IdeasComplaintsEnvironmental ManageContinual reporting is important to us because it enables us to ment” unit. In this regard, the unit coordinates the implemenidentify progress in reducing the environmental impact in the tation of environmental protection measures in the different future. DekaBank therefore presents its Environmental Report divisions in order to conserve and cut back on our use of annually. Due to the complexity of gathering and analysing the resources. The unit is headed by DekaBank‘s Environmental data, the environmental reports are produced several months Officer. after the annual Sustainability Report. The Environmental Report for financial year 2011 is scheduled for publication at To harmonise the economic targets of the company with ecothe end of 2012. The current Environmental Report, which is logical requirements, we strive to involve our employees and available at www.dekabank.de, contains environmental data our business partners in the environmental management proup to and including 2010. cess. Together, we work on finding sustainable solutions to conserve natural resources and exercise social responsibility Measurement methods used in the environmental while taking account of our costs. management system Environmental management system Our environmental management system uses the SoFi sustainability software to monitor the individual material and To continuously improve our performance with respect energy flows as well as to calculate the relative indicators and to environmental protection, we have been implementing an CO2 emissions. To meet the data integrity requirements for environmental management system since 2009 which is certienvironmental management and the CO2 standards (for examfied in compliance with internationally recognised DIN standple VfU indicators, GHG protocol), data gaps were filled where ard EN ISO 14001 and use sector-specific environmental necessary with extrapolated values using projections, based ­indicators in accordance with the VfU (Verein für Umwelt­ on employee numbers, for example. These extrapolations are management und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanzinstituten e.V./Assosubsequently corrected with the actual consumption figures. ciation for Environmental Management and Sustainability in Financial Institutions). The certification covers the Trianon, 100% | Group management report | Sustainability report | Report of the Administrative Board | Consolidated financial statements | Other Information | 117 Development of paper consumtion in absolute terms, by category – Group (Germany) (Fig. 2) Consolidated financial statements Financial year1) 2010 Financial year1) 2009 Financial year1) 2008 Change on Change on Change on Tons Figure 2009 in % Figure 2008 in % Figure 2007 in % Letterhead, printed forms, envelopes 45 – 47 85 –7 91 119 Forms (2010 under copier paper) 150 16 129 159 Copier paper (general office paper) 256 49 172 –7 185 – 10 aggregated 256 49 322 –3 314 – 23 Printed advertising material/publications 432 – 17 518 – 29 725 – 33 Total 733 – 21 926 – 18 1,131 – 18 1) The financial year corresponds to the calendar year. Paper consumption Worldwide, the buildings sector alone accounts for around 30% to 40% of the total end energy consumption. Globally, We have been very successful in reducing our paper conbuildings therefore produce more CO2 emissions than the sumption and at 733 tonnes in 2010, we used 21% less paper transport industry. This figure impressively highlights the key than in 2009 (926 tonnes). Consumption of printed advertising contribution that energy management for buildings can make. materials and publications, which still make up the biggest Improving the energy efficiency of our buildings is therefore share of the total volume, decreased by 17%. Consumption of particularly important to DekaBank (Fig. 3). business stationary, printed forms and envelopes was down by 47% in 2010 as compared with the previous year. This was We further reduced the energy consumption in our four buildpartly attributable to a further reduction in the copier paper ings in Frankfurt/Main in 2010. Compared with the previous grammage (Fig. 2). year, consumption declined by 6%, which is more than forecast in the environmental programme (– 5%). This was mainly By using recycled paper, we also aim to counteract the high attributable to switching over our PC and telephone hardware energy and water consumption incurred in the process of manuto more energy-efficient devices. Overall, energy consumption facturing paper, which accounts for a major share of DekaBank‘s has decreased by around a fifth in the past three years. For environmental impact. Consequently, we printed our Christmas 2012, we are planning to switch to green electricity, through cards on 100% recycled paper for the first time in 2011. which we will considerably reduce the CO2 emissions from power and heat production. Since 2010, we have also been using certified paper (Forest Stewardship Council Certification), since practicing sustainabilIn 2011, we printed both our half-year report and our fondsity when logging the timber required for paper manufacturing magazin customer magazine on a climate-neutral basis for the significantly effects the environmental balance of paper. For first time. A certificate from the CO2 management company our printed advertising materials and publications we excluFirst Climate guarantees that the emissions generated by printsively use PEFC certified paper (PEFC – Programme for the ing the publications were compensated by investments in cerEndorsement of Forest Certification). tified climate protection projects. In our case, the projects involved are wind power plants in New Caledonia and Turkey. Energy consumption and emissions Since 2009, DekaBank‘s environmental programme has stipuDekaBank’s carbon footprint is primarily influenced by lated an annual reduction in CO2 emissions of 5% year-on-year. emissions related to energy consumption in office buildings While at 4%, CO2 savings at our Frankfurt/Main location were and employee mobility. just below the target in the environmental programme in Energy consumption by energy source (Fig. 3) Location Trianon Prisma Skyper Giga joule Mainzer Landstrasse 16 Hahnstrasse 55 Taunusanlage 10 Taunusanlage 1 Electricity 21,388 16,867 2,477 4,326 Back-up diesel 32 36 17 2 District heating 17,775 8,462 3,656 794 Total 39,195 25,365 6,151 5,121 118 | Environmental management/sustainable banking Time series analysis of greenhouse gas emissions1) (Fig. 4) Tons 2010 2009 2008 GHG direct 778 730 724 GHG indirect 10,214 10,912 11,810 GHG other indirect 2,552 2,615 2,692 Total 13,544 14,257 15,226 1) Including the other gases regulated in the Kyoto Protocol – methane (CH 4), nitrous oxide (laughing gas, N 2O), chlorofluorocarbons (CFC and HCFC), sulphur hexafluoride (SF 6). 2009, the target was slightly exceeded in 2010 with a reducIn order to reduce CO2 emissions from its own vehicle fleet as tion of 5.5%. Overall, DekaBank Germany decreased its emisa first step, DekaBank has been using vehicles powered by sions by 5.3% while the Group did so by 5.0% (Fig. 4). natural gas for its couriers since July 2010. The red, natural gas caddies with Deka logo are distinguished by their extremely However there is still potential here, as the decrease in CO2 low consumption of 5.9kg CO2 per 100km. achieved relates solely to energy and paper consumption. Some of the savings here are counteracted again by the rising As DekaBank does not operate its own production facilities or proportion of business trips. has any special sources for the emission of sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxide (NOx) or other significantly harmful air After energy consumption, mobility is the second largest cause pollutants, these emissions are not considered material and of environmental impact in the financial services sector and such data is not collected separately. Nitrogen oxide is released the trend is rising. The number of kilometres travelled by as a result of energy consumption in buildings and the process DekaBank employees has increased by over 25% since 2007. of combustion in modes of transport. The measures taken by In financial year 2010, we recorded a rise of 6% (previous year: DekaBank to reduce its energy consumption and CO2 emis5%). Air travel contributed to this higher figure in particular sions thus also mitigate other associated emissions. (+16%) as did car trips (+7%), while rail travel (– 21%) declined. The rise in air travel is due to an increase in long-haul flights Water consumption with a simultaneously sharp drop in short-haul flights. Overall, 54% of the kilometres travelled were by air, 32% by car and Compared with many companies in the manufacturing 14% by rail. The figures for business travel relate to the entire industry, water consumption in the financial sector is marginal. DekaBank Group. DekaBank uses water in its premises, primarily for sanitary facilities, air conditioning, cooling systems, company canteens, Water consumption by location (Fig. 5) Location/topic comparison, Selected period: Financial year 2010 Selected sub-period: annually, Display: inputs Trianon Mainzer Prisma TaunusSkyper m³ Frankfurt/Main Landstrasse 16 Hahnstrasse 55 anlage 10 Taunusanlage 1 Rainwater 2,540 – 2,540 – – Ground and surface water – – – – – Drinking water 36,636 17,011 16,462 1,221 1,942 Total 39,176 17,011 19,002 1,221 1,942 Waste water is discharged into the normal sewage system. Development of drinking water consumtion in absolute terms (Fig. 6) Financial year1) 2010 Financial year1) 2009 Financial year1) 2008 Change on Change on Change on m3 Figure 2009 in % Figure 2008 in % Figure 2007 in % Trianon ML16 17,011 – 23 22,218 –1 22,535 – 18 Prisma HS55 16,462 –8 17,830 8 16,465 5 TA 10 1,221 – 75 4,936 23 4,002 10 Skyper TA 1 1,942 11 1,745 –1 1,771 9 Total 36,636 – 22 46,729 4 44,773 –7 1) The financial year corresponds to the calendar year. 100% | Group management report | Sustainability report | Report of the Administrative Board | Consolidated financial statements | Other Information | 119 Development of absolute waste volume (Fig. 7) Consolidated financial statements Financial year1) 2010 Financial year1) 2009 Financial year1) 2008 Change on Change on Change on Tons Figure 2009 in % Figure 2008 in % Figure 2007 in % Trianon ML16 134 8 124 – 22 160 8 Prisma HS55 136 –2 139 –5 146 19 TA 10 3 – 31 4 11 4 – 92 Skyper TA 1 37 4 36 – 12 41 4 Total 310 2 303 – 14 350 –2 1) The financial year corresponds to the calendar year. • the requirement to proactively operate on a sustainaoffice plants and the design of outside areas. The volume of ble basis, waste water is therefore low. Some of the water used by the Prisma building is rainwater, but this only accounts for a small • strict separation of the interests of the contractor and proportion of the total water consumption. the private interests of employees on both sides, and based on this, compliance with detailed, specific antiWater consumption decreased by 22% overall at the four locacorruption regulations, tions in Frankfurt/Main in 2010. We consequently used over • proof of quality management on the part of the con10.000 m3 less water than in the previous year. Water contractor which excludes the use of “prohibited subsumption per employee and per working day also dropped stances” in accordance with ENA categories, substantially on the whole; only the Skyper building recorded a slight increase (Fig. 5 and 6). • DekaBank’s preference for cooperations with manufacturers and retailers that are verifiably certified under Waste an industry standard (EMAS, ISO 14001 etc.), or audited in accordance with a recognised and accepted The volume of waste generated increased by 2% in environmental quality seal, and 2010. However, the volume of waste per employee is once • certified recyclability of all packaging used by the conagain considerably lower than in other financial institutions. tractor to protect, store or transport goods. Pollutants such as oil or chemicals were not released. In principle, waste at DekaBank is handled in line with the prinIn addition to new business partners, the implementation also ciple of “avoid-recycle-dispose”. Avoiding waste is also desirapplies to existing partners. The sustainability agreement curable for economic reasons alone, as double the cost-savings rently covers 80% of the procurement volume. Furthermore, can be achieved in terms of both the resources used and their as part of the self-registration process, all new suppliers have disposal. In addition to office waste, financial service providers to provide mandatory information about their environmental generate paper waste in particular (Fig. 7). protection measures and how they deal with human rights. Particularly sustainable items are labelled as such in the pro­ Procurement management duct catalogue and are therefore readily identifiable to employees. With effect from 1 January 2011, DekaBank’s Procurement Management has approved binding rules of conduct for When issuing tenders for building management services, our contractors, which apply equally to DekaBank. These are DekaBank makes sure that bidders comply with international derived from the principles of the UN Global Compact, the environmental and social responsibility standards. Preference International Labour Organization Conventions, the General is given to service providers certified through an industry Declaration of Human Rights by the United Nations, the UN standard quality seal (e.g. EMAS, ISO 14001) or a recognised Conventions of the Rights of the Child and the elimination of and accepted environmental seal. In addition, contractors all forms of discrimination in accordance with IV.b, the OECD undertake to perform the services to be provided in accordGuidelines for multinational companies, as well as the Code of ance with a quality management system under ISO 9001 et Conduct from the Bundesverband für Materialwirtschaft, seq. In general, the activities described are to be carried out in Einkauf und Logistik e.V. (German Association Materials Mana way which ensures that the health of those using the buildagement, Purchasing and Logistics e.V). The main obligations ing is not endangered and that minimum ecological requirefor our contracting partners are: ments as well as the legal occupational health and safety regulations are met. 120 | Sustainable HR management Sustainable HR management Any company that wants to provide the best services for its partners in the ­Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe and their customers must attract the best talents as an ­employer and continually give them room to develop. The comprehensive and ­sustainability-oriented HR management at DekaBank is therefore a central success factor for the value-driven development of the entire Bank and an essential aspect of corporate responsibility. Management approach A family friendly approach DekaBank adopts a lifecycle-based approach to HR manOur flexible working time arrangements give both agement. We deal in-depth with the individual needs of our fathers and mothers more time for their families. This is demon­ employees that arise in different work-related and life situastrated by the increase in the percentage of employees worktions; needs that are also subject to social change as well. We ing part-time in the DekaBank Group (Germany) to 14.0% in continually align our personnel-related measures with these 2011 (2010: 12.9%). We promote the work-life balance with requirements and through a uniform understanding and conmore than 200 different part-time models and the option to cept of management, ensure that they are implemented at all take a sabbatical or unpaid leave. At the same time, we also levels of the Bank. make it easy for parents to return early from parental leave. Here, we focus in particular on mothers, who on average stay Specifically, we strive at home for 13.9 months after the birth of a child, whereas fathers return to the workplace after just 2.2 months. A total • to attract qualified young professionals by implementof 130 employees took parental leave in 2011, of which 38% ing an advanced HR marketing concept and to retain were fathers (Fig. 8). them at DekaBank for the long term, • to enable employees to further develop their qualificaPart-time ratio (Fig. 8) tions and skills, % (Group Germany) 2011 2010 Male 4.5 4.2 • to ensure employee performance on a long-term basis through proactive healthcare and health management, Female 29.2 27.4 Total 14.0 12.9 • to ensure a work-life balance by offering flexible working hours and tailored solutions for employees with children or those who have to care for family memIn the DekaBank Group, 51.1% of the employees manage bers, and their own hours, which means that they do not participate in the time recording system. The proportion of employees par• to contribute to the sustainable development of ticipating in the time recording system stood at 36.9% in DekaBank in the interests of the savings banks via a 2011. 12% of the employees are not allocated to any working transparent and performance-related remuneration time model (for example temporary staff). system that does not offer false incentives. In cooperation with an external partner, we are able to offer Through these measures, DekaBank is creating a safe, healthy, our employees crèche and daycare spaces and can help trustful and inclusive working environment, as well as an arrange childcare in the event of an emergency; we also help appropriate framework for utilising the personal expertise of employees organise childcare by providing advice and arrangeeach individual for the benefit of the value-driven overall bank ment services. Since the Easter holidays in 2011, parents have strategy. The Bank is well-positioned in the competition for also been able to book spaces for their children at children’s qualified and skilled personnel, a situation which will intensify holiday programmes for which we provide financial support. further as a result of the demographic change. We provide funding for up to ten days at a holiday programme per child per year. As a result of demographic developments, the issue of caring for family members is playing an increasingly important role. In such cases, we offer special support free of charge through professional partners in the form of eldercare advice and arrangements. By offering these services, we ease the burden 100% | Group management report | Sustainability report | Report of the Administrative Board | Consolidated financial statements | Other Information | 121 on our employees that results from such caregiving responsiThe work on gender diversity carried out by the two Equal Consolidated financial statements bilities as well as from having to organise and finance care. Our Opportunities Officers is supported by the management of external partner assists them in the time-consuming and difDekaBank. For example, the DekaFrauenFokus (Deka Focus on ficult task of finding care solutions, which consequently helps Women) takes place several times a year, providing women reduce rates of absenteeism and prevents employees from with a forum to discuss topics that affect them at work. Imporbecoming preoccupied with these problems while at work. tant issues and solution approaches with regard to the worklife balance are also discussed at regular parents’ group Diversity meetings. At the DekaBank Group, we view the diversity of our The representative for severely disabled employees ensures employees as an opportunity. Our customers and partners, that the particular concerns of employees with disabilities or and indeed DekaBank itself, benefit from the diverse backrestricted mobility are taken into account in day-to-day operagrounds, life experiences and talents of our 3,957 employees tions. In addition to the employee representatives, the repreworldwide, 3,459 of which are based in Germany. The consis­ sentative is also available as a contact person for people with tent appreciation, inclusion and targeted fostering of the indidisabilities or restricted mobility. vidual capabilities and skills of men and women, the old and the young, people with and without disabilities, as well as of For our employees with different religious backgrounds, we employees of different ethnicities, cultures or sexual orientahave set up lounges for prayers that can also be used for meettion are naturally part of our corporate culture and a cornerings on religious topics. stone of our competitiveness. Along with the Equal Opportunity Officers and the Disability Women in particular benefit from our options to promote a Officer, the external ombudsman is also available as a contact work-life balance and we do not want, nor can we afford, to person for all employees. lose the potential and expertise they offer in specialist and executive positions. As women are still underrepresented at Remuneration the managerial level, as an employer we have assigned ourselves the task of additionally promoting qualified women and DekaBank’s performance-oriented remuneration system further increasing the proportion of women in top manageis structured to optimally support its sustainable corporate ment. Consequently, we support talented women in their indistrategy. We therefore consistently avoid incentives for excesvidual career planning by offering special seminars. This is sive risk-taking in accordance with the regulatory requirealready delivering results and in the reporting year, the proporments. The variable remuneration is appropriately proportional tion of women in executive positions in the Group in Germany to the fixed salaries and is based on a multi-year assessment, rose slightly to 15.6% (2010: 14%); (Fig. 9). thereby promoting alignment with the company’s long-term success. We completed the revision of our remuneration sysProportion of women in management levels1) (Fig. 9) tem in response to the introduction of the Remuneration Ordi% (Group Germany) 2011 2010 nance for Institutions in the reporting year. The introduction of 1. Top management (M1) 8.7 8.3 salary bands facilitates successand performance-based remu2. Middle management (M2) 8.8 8.0 neration in line with market conditions. 3. First level management (M3) 20.0 18.2 Total management 15.6 14.0 Total proportion of women 38.1 37.7 1) As of 31 December. 122 | Sustainable HR management In Germany, 41% of Group employees are covered by collecPersonnel development and further training tive bargaining or tariff agreements. Non-tariff contracts were concluded with 59% of the workforce. As a matter of prin­ A transparent and binding process is in place to support ciple, remuneration is strictly independent of gender. Remuthe development of our employees. As part of this process, we neration is based solely on the employee’s function and pernot only agree on targets and define the support measures formance (Fig. 10). required to attain them, but also draw up individual development plans for employees. The performance review process Breakdown of remuneration (Fig. 10) was revised in financial year 2011 and supplemented by a % development plan based on central questions. 89.9% of our employees attend regular target-setting meetings. Tariff 41.3 Non-tariff 58.7 We want to maintain and enhance the skills and performance of our employees in the long term. Consequently, we set great 61 78 store by their continuing professional development. The “DekaBank Colleg” offers seminars to develop professional, personal and social skills, project management skills, management expertise, IT skills and language courses, which build on the 39 22 existing skills and expertise of the participants. Qualification requirements are met by individual coaching, team training sessions and cross-team training. We also offer orientation female male seminars for new employees. Employees have the option of depositing bonus payments, Our ongoing commitment to personnel development is paying holiday leave and arranged overtime into working hours off and the high level of employee satisfaction is reflected in accounts so they can retire earlier or take temporary leave of the staff turnover rate which remains low at 5.1%. absences in the form of a sabbatical. Furthermore, along with the benefits provided by the employer under collective barThe leadership curriculum gives all managers in the Bank a gaining agreements, DekaBank grants additional benefits on a uniform concept and understanding of management as well voluntary basis. These include group accident and corporate as core competencies that are required in actual management travel insurance, a “job ticket” travel card for employees at practice within the DekaBank Group. In March 2011, for examthe Frankfurt/Main location and corresponding arrangements ple, we introduced a “Manager as Coach” intensive training at other DekaBank Group sites, as well as capital-forming course. During the course, line managers work in small groups payments. comprising a maximum of eight people and two trainers and examine what coaching really means in day-to-day managePermanent employees receive an employer-funded company ment and how this method fits with other management tools. pension and variable remuneration. Part-time employees receive these benefits in accordance with their part-time ratio. Furthermore, our employees can attend open training sessions Details on pension obligations can be found on pages 157 to run by external providers or receive support from the DekaBank 158 in the consolidated financial statements. Group for part-time qualification measures. Overall, the DekaBank Group’s financial expenses for continuing professional development and further training in Germany amounted to €1,435 per employee. This figure does not include expenses for further training that took place as part of projects. As we also want to provide appropriate support for interns, we participate in the Fair Company initiative run by the Handels­ blatt publishing group. The Fair Company quality seal is awarded to companies who advocate an ethical approach in the world of work and give graduates a fair chance of per­ manent employment and interesting tasks during their internship. 100% | Group management report | Sustainability report | Report of the Administrative Board | Consolidated financial statements | Other Information | 123 Healthcare and health management Company integration management also helps prevent lengthy Consolidated financial statements illness-related absences. The support we provide for the Our modern health management system, which is inteemployees concerned in order to help them regain their ability grated in the processes of the entire Bank, is a strategic comto work goes beyond the statutory requirements. petitive factor, since it creates the necessary framework conditions for maintaining and promoting personal performance The average illness rate for employees at DekaBank Group and thus the sustainable success of the company. Our responlocations in Germany was 3.7% during the 2011 reporting sibility for the physical and mental well-being of our employperiod. ees also stems from our duty of care as an employer. In addition to offering individual measures we motivate employees to Auditing actively take responsibility for their own health. DekaBank’s personnel policy is regularly certified by DekaBank issued its first Health Report in financial year 2011. “audit berufundfamilie”. We took part in our second re-audit The report, which is prepared for internal purposes, docuin the autumn of 2011, highlighting our sustainable familyments the status of our comprehensive health management friendly personnel policy. The quality seal of the initiative, system, which goes far beyond individual measures and prowhich is under the patronage of the German Minister of Family vides employees with a range of different offerings. These Affairs and the German Minister of Economics, will be prewere supplemented with informational events. sented in the spring of 2012. The health management system is based on four central Our health management system was awarded the Prädikat pillars: seal in the Corporate Health Awards in the autumn of 2009 and the Exzellenz seal in the autumn of 2010 and 2011. The • physical activity, initiators of the Corporate Health Awards – Handelsblatt, TÜV • nutrition, Süd and EuPD Research – certify companies that demonstrably show above-average commitment to the health of their • medicine and prevention, employees and pursue a forward-looking, sustainable HR • mental health. strategy. Consequently, this certifies the outstanding level of corporate health management at the DekaBank Group, which A wide range of tailored options are available to employees is among the best in the country and ranks second place in the within these four pillars: preventative medical checkups for Finance/Insurance category in Germany. executive staff, flu vaccinations, regular workplace inspections to evaluate ergonomic aspects, presentations on healthy eatDekaBank’s particular commitment to health management at ing, courses on back care and exercises, health days and the work was distinguished by the jury for the Deutscher Unter­ Bank’s own Deka Health Centre all help prevent illnesses and nehmenspreis Gesundheit (German Corporate Award for health-related problems that affect performance. A particular Health) in 2011 and the Bank was awarded the “Move Europe focus is put on measures to support mental health. Partner Excellence” certificate. The Employee Assistance Programme represents a key component in the prevention of mental stress and illnesses. In difficult situations, both professional and personal, all employees based in Germany or abroad and any family members in their household can talk to doctors, psychologists and other consultants from an independent advisory service – free of charge. The consultations take place by phone or in person. The service is open 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Both the contact with the service and any advice given are treated in the strictest confidence and upon request can be handled on a completely anonymous basis. DekaBank is therefore addressing the trend, which studies have corroborated, that mental health problems are becoming the main reason for absence due to illness. 124 | Sustainable banking products Sustainable banking products Solar power and wind power for thousands of households – co-financed by DekaBank. More and more green buildings in Deka property fund portfolios. Access to clean investments that comply not only with economic criteria but also ecological and social principles for savings bank customers – made possible by the Deka-Nachhaltigkeit fund family. Three examples from financial year 2011 all demonstrate the same point: sustainability is not just lip service at DekaBank. DekaBank’s approach is thus a 100% match with the philo­sophy of the savings banks, which have always operated on a sustainable basis with a focus on the common good. For the growing number of investors and securities savers for whom both aspects are important – who want to preserve and increase their assets whilst at the same time making a personal contribution towards the conservation of natural resources for future generations – the savings banks and DekaBank are the partners of choice. Management approach DekaBank also expanded its product assortment of sustainable funds at the end of 2011 with the Deka-Nachhaltigkeit fund Sustainable development not only reduces business and family, which comprises an equity fund, bond fund and a social risks, but also opens up new opportunities for growth mixed fund. This enlargement of the range of sustainable and added value. In the interests of our customers, owners investments underscores the Bank‘s commitment to promotand employees, we therefore not only want to comply with ing sustainability. legal and regulatory requirements, but also meet ethical and social standards. The DekaBank Group is also involved in the „Hoch im Kurs“ education initiative of the Bundesverband Investment und In asset management at DekaBank, sustainability has long Asset Management (BVI) and provides speakers to give pre­ been a central variable alongside yield, risk and liquidity. But it sentations at schools. These are aimed at explaining financial is not just products explicitly labelled as sustainable, such as issues to the pupils to help increase the general understanding the Deka-Nachhaltigkeit fund family launched at the end of of funds and other forms of investment. 2011, that offer investors responsible and profitable investment opportunities. Asset managers in the AMI business diviSales support sion, for example, pay special attention to certified energy efficiency and environmental sustainability when making new With their uniquely dense network of around 15,600 acquisitions and modernising existing properties. branches throughout Germany, the 429 savings banks in the Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe are the ideal sales partner for Deka To optimally meet the growing social and ecological requireinvestment funds. Savings bank customers throughout the ments of the savings banks and their customers, we work with country can achieve their individual investment targets using other organisations including the Institut für Markt-UmweltDekaBank products. We believe that due to their risk-diversifiGesellschaft (Institute for Market, Environment and Society – cation effect, mutual securities and property funds play a imug), which specialises in socio-ecological corporate analyses major role in the accumulation of financial assets by private and assists us in the selection of securities for sustainable fund households that are so important for the national economy. products. In project financing, DekaBank consistently applies That is why we are involved in the “Environment and Sustainthe Equator Principles, which was signed in March 2011, and ability” project run by the Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe, which is sets high benchmarks for environmental and social standards. aimed at positioning the securities business on a forwardlooking basis. In addition to our range of banking products, raising awareness and interest in sustainable banking products in society is In addition to attractive products, the quality of advice availaa central element of our sustainability strategy. Consequently, ble to customers locally is of key importance. To ensure that in the reporting year, we started to support the nationwide the products, some of which are complex, are explained in line “Gut” umbrella campaign run by the Sparkassen-Finanz­ with the customers’ requirements, we support the customer gruppe with campaigns and training sessions on our products. advisers at the savings banks, not only with extensive product As part of the DSGV “Environment and Sustainability” project, information, but also with training and suggestions for sales 100% | Group management report | Sustainability report | Report of the Administrative Board | Consolidated financial statements | Other Information | 125 and marketing. As a matter of course, our product information As at 31 December 2011, the volume of our investment funds Consolidated financial statements complies with legal requirements regarding advertising and geared towards sustainability totalled approximately to €1.1bn. marketing. Over the year, DekaBank recorded a decline of 8% in this investment segment, which was essentially due to the very difFurthermore, we support the savings banks, as our exclusive ficult conditions in the capital market. sales partner, with the organisation of customer events on the topic of sustainability and sustainable investments by providHowever, we do not limit the strict implementation of our ing speakers as well as extensive informational material on our understanding and concept of sustainability to our investment expanded range of sustainable fund products. We further funds. Consequently, we also express our viewpoint on susdevelop this cooperation as part of our ongoing dialogue with tainability aspects, as on other issues, including through our the savings banks. Naturally this is based on compliance with voting rights. both legal and supervisory requirements, which is ensured through stringent processes. This cooperation has proven Asset management in real estate fruitful for all parties concerned: savings bank customers receive information on the options available for responsible Investments in energy-efficient and ecological buildings financial investments, while our experts learn more about the not only benefit the tenants, but also our investors, who needs of the market at these events. achieve an attractive long term yield. That is why we strive to have our properties certified by the Green Building CertificaAsset management in securities tion Institute (GBCI). The certification is issued to buildings that are energy-efficient and therefore eco-friendly and which are All of the fund products managed by DekaBank, includdesigned, built and operated in conformity with health standing fund-linked asset management, incorporate individual susards. The relevant factors for certification are water efficiency, tainability criteria in their investment decisions. We see susthe materials used and the air quality in the building. Complitainable actions and development as safeguarding the future, ance with these criteria not only meets ecological and social and thus as features of an attractive investment. We firmly requirements, but also reduces lifecycle costs for the owners. believe that share prices are just as strongly influenced by environmental and social issues as they are by bond yields. All buildings held in our fund portfolios now have a building profile, which also includes all the environmentally relevant In addition, more and more investors are actively interested in building data. In addition to this, energy passports are being what happens with the money they invest, especially in view developed in many European countries for the purpose of of the growing criticism of ethically dubious banking products. documenting consumption figures for properties. Through the In order to satisfy the resultant growing demand for investcommitment declaration that has applied to service providers ment solutions that meet particularly stringent sustainability in building management since the reporting year, we ensure criteria, DekaBank substantially expanded its range of pro­ that the cleaning and waste disposal services also take sustainducts in financial year 2011. ability aspects into account (see page 119). With the Deka-Nachhaltigkeit (equities/bonds/balance) investMany of the properties we have recently acquired are already ment funds, investors can invest specifically in companies that certified as „green buildings“, and this is now also a prerequioperate sustainably in terms of economic, environmental and site of our major international tenants in particular. Of the social criteria. To select the securities included in the funds, properties in our mutual funds, 34 are certified as green buildDekaBank works in partnership with the Institut für Marktings or are set to be certified in the near future. This already Umwelt-Gesellschaft (imug) and the Ethical Investment equates to more than 10% of all our properties and we aim to Research Service (EIRIS), two established specialists in ethical increase this ratio to over 40% by 2015. Among these will be investments. the former Poseidon-Haus building in Frankfurt/Main, which is currently being enlarged for ING Diba and, following the renoThe new fund family rounds out DekaBank’s existing line of vation, is set to receive the Leadership in Energy and Environsustainable investment products, which also includes the ment Design (LEED) gold certificate from the GBCI as a green DekaSelect: Nachhaltigkeit fund of funds and the Deka-Stifbuilding. In principle, we endeavour to achieve further certifitungen Balance mixed fund. The Deka-UmweltInvest equity cations in respect of sustainability. At present, the certification fund, which invests in companies worldwide that operate in systems still differ around the world and a uniform internathe fields of climate protection, environmental protection, tional certification standard does not yet exist. water management and renewable energies, supplements our commitment. 126 | Sustainable banking products | Social responsibility Studies are also being conducted to determine how ecology development. By committing to these principles, we underand economy can be even better integrated. A good example take to comply with strict environmental and social standards of this is the letting of large flat roofs on our logistics properwhen making our investment decisions, especially in relation ties, where photovoltaic units have been installed to produce to project finance. The details can be found in the section on energy, generating both green electricity and additional sustainable corporate governance (see pages 113 to 115). income for our customers. These should start producing power in 2012. Using the criteria, we conduct a critical assessment of the following business areas: Asset management-related lending business • financing relating to arms transactions (financing suppliers, manufacturers and trading companies) to counOne of the ways that DekaBank’s sustainability strategy tries or recipients in areas of conflict outside NATO, is reflected in its lending business is through its support for projects that promote the economic cycles in the respective • financing which gives rise per se to significant risks for regions. Loans in the renewable energies segments are parthe environment (based on OECD environmental ticularly appropriate in this regard and in the reporting period, guidelines), 60% of the financing we provided was related to energy pro• lending transactions where public reporting (including duction capacities. In addition to solar parks and onshore wind as a result of socio-cultural aspects) about the financfarms in Germany and abroad, with Nordsee-Windpark Global ing itself, about a business partner or business pracTech I, DekaBank is the first co-financier of an offshore facility tice, could adversely affect public trust in our Bank in together with the European Investment Bank and 15 other the long term. commercial lenders. The 80 wind turbines generate enough power to supply around 445,000 households. In contrast, transactions that do not meet our sustainability criteria are undesirable and also pose a higher risk to our business. In March 2011, we signed the Equator Principles, highlighting the importance we attach to responsibility for the environment and society with regard to our corporate actions and Equator Principles Reporting Project finance reviewed (> USD 10bn) by sector and region (Fig. 11) EP category Oil & Gas Commodities Power Other A 1 – – – B – – – – C – – – – Total – – – – Europe North South Middle East & Australia & EP category Europe (EU) (Non-EU) America America Asia Africa Other A – 1 – – – – – B – – – – – – – C – – – – – – – Total – – – – – – – Category A: Projects with potential significant adverse social or environmental impacts which are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented. Category B: P rojects with potential limited adverse social or environmental impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures. Category C: Projects with minimal or no social or environmental impacts. 100% | Group management report | Sustainability report | Report of the Administrative Board | Consolidated financial statements | Other Information | 127 Social responsibility Together with the savings banks, DekaBank assumes responsibility for people in Germany and makes an active contribution to strengthening social structures Consolidated financial statements and improving the quality of life in local areas. Social responsibility is firmly ­enshrined in our corporate culture and is supported by the Board of Management and employees alike. Management approach Support for architecture and contemporary art Our commitment and involvement is twofold: As a partAs a longstanding partner of the MMK Museum für ner of the savings banks, we participate in the national supModerne Kunst (Museum of Modern Art) in Frankfurt/Main, port on the part of the Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe. On the DekaBank, together with Helaba and DSGV, supported other, our involvement also includes our own projects and the anniversary exhibition „MMK 1991– 2011. 20 years of long-term partnerships, especially providing support for conPresence”. As part of this exhibition, the three main sponsors temporary art and architecture, social projects and academic presented photographic highlights and artist’s books from the institutions. This agenda makes us a reliable partner for MMK collection at their respective locations since the end of selected aid organisations and research institutions. September 2011, under the joint exhibition title “Parallels”. Key pieces by Thomas Ruff, Candida Höfer, Taryn Simon, Tobias DekaBank’s social responsibility also includes supporting the Zielony and Larry Sultan & Mike Mandel were on exhibition at private commitment of its employees. DekaBank from 30 September 2011 to 12 January 2012. Joint activities with the Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe The International Highrise Award has been bestowed by the City of Frankfurt/Main, the Deutsches Architekturmuseum As an important social institution, the Sparkassen-Finanz­(German Museum of Architecture) and DekaBank every two gruppe and its 718 foundations support social and cultural years since 2004. The award recognises buildings that comprojects in their local regions and throughout Germany. bine exceptional aesthetics, forward-looking design and inteDekaBank provides assistance for three major national gration in the urban landscape with innovative technology, projects. efficiency and sustainability. The award is judged by an international jury of experts. The next award ceremony will be held In addition to the Staatliche Kunstsammlungen Dresden at the Paulskirche church in November 2012. museum, with which a partnership has been in place since 2006, the Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe has been supporting the Social commitment Staatliche Museen zu Berlin (National Museum) since 2011, which comprise a total of 15 collections, three research organiDekaBank’s social commitment begins in its immediate sations and a Replica Workshop. As the main sponsor, the environment in Frankfurt/Main. In March 2011, a second cenSparkassen-Finanzgruppe is co-financing projects in youth tre for disadvantaged children from socially deprived areas education as well as fascinating exhibitions such as “Divided was opened in the Nordweststadt district of Frankfurt by the Heaven. 1945–1968” at the New National Gallery and “100 charitable Christian organisation Kinderund Jugendhilfs­ Years of Nefertiti” at the New Museum. werks Arche e.V. with the support of DekaBank. DekaBank had already supported the opening of the first Arche centre in Moreover, with substantial support from DekaBank, the Spar­ Frankfurt-Griesheim in 2010. The centre provides the children kassen-Finanzgruppe has been a partner of the German with a hot meal, a quiet room for homework as well as two Olympic Sports Association (Deutscher Olympischer Sport­ other rooms where they can give free rein to their creativity. bund) since 2008. As a national sponsor, we have already supTogether, the two Arche centres care for around 270 children ported top German athletes at the Olympic Games in Beijing in every weekday. DekaBank trainees also collected money for 2008 and the Winter Olympics in Vancouver in 2010. We will the new Arche centre at the company’s Christmas party in also be on board at the next Olympic Games in London in the Frankfurt. These donations totalled almost €1,500 and are to summer of 2012. be used for the Arche’s holiday programmes. 128 | Social responsibility | Communications However, our social commitment is not restricted to our local Support for academic institutions area, and through our longstanding partnership with the Don Bosco Mission we also support international activities: by proSupport for studies and academics at universities is a viding funding of €25,000 in each case, we sponsored the central pillar of our social commitment. Here, we focus on fosconstruction of a vocational training centre in Kep, Cambodia, tering disciplines that are closely related to our area of as well as a street kids project in Freetown, Sierra Leone. Since business. 2004, DekaBank has donated €295,000 to support the work of the Don Bosco Mission. For example, we have been supporting the Centre for Financial Studies at the House of Finance at the Goethe University in DekaBank is also a reliable partner of the annual German Golf Frankfurt/Main for several years on behalf of the SparkassenCharity Cup to benefit the non-profit organisations Deutsche Finanzgruppe. Krebshilfe e.V./Deutsche KinderKrebshilfe e.V (German Cancer Aid/German Children’s Cancer Aid), for which we are a genAs the issue of sustainability in the financial sector is a topic eral sponsor. Around 150 golf clubs in Germany take part in which we believe should be included in the university curricuthis event, which is Europe’s biggest charity golf tournament. lum, in 2011 we decided to endow a chair in Sustainable BankThe proceeds, which are in the six-digit range, are topped up ing and Finance, with a focus on Sustainable Corporate Govby a further generous donation from DekaBank to support the ernance, at the House of Finance at Goethe University. work of Deutsche KinderKrebshilfe e.V. Since 2007, we have also been fostering and supporting the social commitment of our employees through our traditional Christmas donation as part of the „DekaBank – Engagiert vor Ort“ (DekaBank – Making a Local Commitment) campaign. Every year our employees can apply for a donation of €1,000 for “their” project. In 2011, the amount available totalled €25,000. The Eschersheim Youth Office in Frankfurt/Main received a donation of €5,200 from the DekaBank’s Staff Council Social Foundation. The money is intended to enable six young people from socially disadvantaged families to take part in an educational trip. Since 1999, DekaBank’s Staff Council Social Foundation has been providing support, initially to DekaBank employees in need of assistance, but starting in 2008, also to promote the involvement of employees in social or non-profit projects in the fields of academia, science, art, monument conservation and culture. The AMI business division also participated in the “Clean Working Day” campaign organised by the Ministry of Environment in the German state of Hesse. Equipped with gloves, rubbish bags and long-handled litter pickers, employees from the Accounting unit spent an hour clearing litter and waste from the park Taunusanlage. 100% | Group management report | Sustainability report | Report of the Administrative Board | Consolidated financial statements | Other Information | 129 Communications Transparency is the basis for sustainable development. This is why DekaBank attaches great importance to open communications when it comes to pursuing its sustainability strategy in particular. The regular dialogue with our stakeholders on the ethical, social and ecological aspects of our activities enables us to continually review the implementation of our goals. In this sense, we view DekaBank’s sustainability strategy as an ongoing learning process for the entire company. Dialogue with the savings banks Dialogue with savings bank customers and institutional investors The commitment and activities of the savings banks and DekaBank are coordinated and complement each other. We identify the needs and requirements of both private Through the specialist advisory committees that advise the and institutional investors through regular detailed surveys Board of Management as well as the various sales committees, and the very close contact that our Sales units maintain with DekaBank actively involves the expertise of the Sparkassencustomer advisers and other managers in the savings banks. Finanzgruppe in its decision-making process. We discuss the results in depth and derive measures from them which can be used to further improve DekaBank‘s perWe maintain a close dialogue with our owners about all issues formance and its sustainable strategy. The insights into invesregarding sustainability via executive bodies, joint projects and tor trends also provide an important impetus for the design of workshops. new sustainability products. Dialogue with other stakeholders Investors and analysts receive comprehensive and timely information on our business strategy and development, both In addition to the extensive dialogue with the savings directly as well as via rating agencies. In addition to the report banks, in-depth market monitoring and regular interaction in the Annual Report, we also provide regular information on with various social groups ensures that the relevant stakeholdthe implementation of our sustainability strategy in the susers are involved on a targeted basis at an early stage. Their tainability section of our website. suggestions on the topic of sustainability, as with on all other issues that affect the Group, are taken into consideration with Dialogue with employees and employee regard to our business policy and strategic decisions. representatives In reporting year 2011 we extended our dialogue with nonWith the assistance of an independent adviser, we regugovernmental organisations (NGOs) and value this as an larly conduct staff surveys on subjects such as management important source of ideas for our work. and corporate culture. The Board of Management maintains a close dialogue based on trust with the employee representaThe main stakeholders in this dialogue are: tives of the DekaBank Group. Our employees are represented by the Staff Committee and Works Council (Germany) and • Savings bank customers and institutional investors, the Comité Mixte (Luxembourg). Furthermore, the Disability • employees/employee representatives, Officer and Equal Opportunity Officer serve as internal contact persons and provide assistance to our employees in the event • supervisory authorities, of problems at the workplace. • suppliers, We see employee innovation as a real benefit that we are • associations and organisations, happy to reward. We have received numerous proposals and • academic institutions, suggestions through our well-established and multi awardwinning idea management system, and many of these ideas • rating agencies and analysts, have been implemented. • non-governmental organisation (NGOs). 130 | Communications During its day-to-day HR activities, the DekaBank Group internal expertise available to politicians and policymakers always ensures that the employee bodies (WorksCouncil, Disexclusively in the interests of our shareholders. The following ability Officer, Equal Opportunity Officer) are involved as institutions should especially be mentioned in this regard: promptly as possible. The relevant information is passed on to employees as quickly as possible through publication on inter• Bundesverband Investment und Asset nal company media or by e-mail. Management (BVI) e.V., • Bundesverband Öffentlicher Banken This ongoing dialogue not only stems from the precept of a Deutschlands e.V. cooperation based on trust, but also from the desire to be (Association of German Public Sector Banks – VÖB), open and transparent. We consider these principles as an essential prerequisite to successfully implementing change • DAI Deutsches Aktieninstitut e.V. processes with the support of all involved. (German Equities Institute), • Deutscher Sparkassenund Giroverband e.V. Dialogue with supervisory authorities (German Savings Banks and Giro Association), During the course of our business operations we are in • EFAMA – European Fund and Asset Management regular contact with the supervisory authorities relevant to our Association, Bank. We also actively assist with the further development of • European Association of Public Banks, relevant topics related to supervisory law. • Forum Nachhaltige Geldanlagen Dialogue with suppliers (Forum for Sustainable Financial Investments), • Institut der deutschen Wirtschaft Through constructive cooperation with our specialist (German Institute for Economic Research), departments and our suppliers, our Procurement Management ensures quality and success in the procurement process, • Umweltforum Rhein-Main e.V. right from the outset. Here we set great store by long-term (Rhine-Main Environmental Forum), partnerships and maintain a dialogue with our contractors, • Verein für Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit particularly with regard to issues relating to sustainability. The in Finanzinstituten e.V. demands that we make of ourselves as a Group are also (Association for Environmental Management and directed at our suppliers and service providers. Binding guide­Sustainability in Financial Institutions), lines for sustainable procurement on both sides thus form the basis for our business relationships. • CRIC Corporate Responsibility Interface Center e.V., • CDP Carbon Disclosure Project, Dialogue with associations and organisations • WDP Water Disclosure Project. The DekaBank Group is an active member of various associations and organisations and is driving forward the Dialogue with academic institutions debate in these bodies on conserving resources and structuring business processes in a socially responsible manner. We are DekaBank is also an active member of various non-profit therefore helping to create a broad forum for dealing with associations and institutions with economic, social and social issues related to sustainability. Furthermore, we exchange sciences backgrounds that deal with issues relating to sustaininformation and ideas with other members on relevant topics. ability. Regular exchange of ideas and information with acaThrough our membership in these organisations, we make our demic institutions enables us to include the latest theoretical findings in our day-to-day operations. We see financial support for universities as an opportunity to further promote this dialogue and drive forward research. 100% | Group management report | Sustainability report | Report of the Administrative Board | Consolidated financial statements | Other Information | 131 Valuation by rating agencies GRI Guidelines Consolidated financial statements Rating agencies specialised in sustainability are very The Sustainability Report was prepared on the basis of important for investors who put a top priority on ecological the Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) includand social aspects, since these agencies make it easier to coming the Financial Services Sector Supplement. The GRI was set pare the sustainability reporting of companies that is based on up in 1997 with the aim of developing and disseminating an different standards. Consequently, these agencies are also an internationally recognised guideline for voluntary reporting of important point of reference for the further development of the economic, ecological and social performance of organisaDekaBank‘s sustainability strategy. In this context, our focus is tions and companies. The companies themselves decide which on three rating agencies, both for internal purposes as well as aspects they take into account and consequently the degree of in communications with our stakeholders. In the reporting transparency they provide. year, all three agencies upgraded their ratings for DekaBank compared with the previous year. It is our assessment that this report complies with GRI Appli­ cation Level A (Fig. 12). This means that we now take every imug aspect of the GRI Guidelines into account and thus provide the The imug rating, which concentrates mainly on public greatest level of transparency. sector and mortgage Pfandbriefe, already upgraded DekaBank from its previous rating of „neutral“ to „positive“ in 2010. This GRI Application Level (Fig. 12) rating was affirmed in 2011. Environmental management, social and governance aspects were highlighted here in C C+ B B+ A A+ particular. Mandatory SelfReport externally assured Report externally assured Report externally assured declared oekom DekaBank achieved “prime” status in the corporate ratThird ing conducted by oekom for the first time in 2011. This makes party checked Optional us one of the leading companies in our industry with regard to the issue of sustainability and we are recommended by oekom GRI to investors who take social and ecological aspects into conchecked sideration when investing. sustainalytics The rating experts at sustainalytics rank us 14th out of 63 rated companies (as compared to 17th out of 51 rated comThe GRI Content Index, which we have published at panies in 2010). In the reporting year, we therefore achieved a www.dekabank.de provides an overview of all of the GRI indibetter rating from sustainalytics than in the previous year as cators reported with a cross-reference to the corresponding well. DekaBank publications in which the respective information can be found. Contact points for questions regarding corporate sustainability reporting Ralph D. Martens Head of Group Development ralph.martens@deka.de Dr. Wolfgang Steiniger Environmental Officer wolfgang.steiniger@deka.de
