United Nations Global Compact WE SUPPORT The University of South Africa Communication on Progress 2011 Towards Sustainability and Social Transformation university of south africa Preface DR BLADE NZIMANDE MINISTER OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING A higher education and training position on sustainability S cience and innovation are crucial instruments for effective transition towards sustainable development. In this regard, South Africa has made significant progress in dealing with environmental and sustainability issues. In 2002, we hosted the World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD), an event that reaffirmed our commitment to sustainable development and placed poverty eradication at the centre of our efforts. In 2005, the Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism (DEAT) released a discussion document for the development of a South African National Strategy for Sustainable Development. Within the higher education (HE) sector, sustainability is regarded as a mechanism for educational change and innovation. The National Plan on Higher Education, the Higher Education Act, (Act 101 of 1997) as amended and the Education White Paper 3: A Programme for the Transformation of the Higher Education System provide guidance on how to integrate issues of sustainability as part of the core business of universities. To this end, the ratio of research and development (R&D) spending to gross domestic product has risen significantly. As a result, in February 2008, the South African government adopted an ambitious Ten-Year Innovation Plan (TYIP) for the development of an effective national system of innovation. All these initiatives are, in part, intended to support the production of graduates with a sound knowledge base regarding environmental sustainability. I am pleased that Unisa has taken the lead in becoming the first South African university to sign the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). This commitment serves as a catalyst for other South African higher education institutions to imbue and integrate the UNGC principles of human rights, labour, anticorruption and environment into their curriculum and research focus areas. In so doing, it locates the HE sector in a favourable position to move towards the development of sustainable and socially responsible policies and an integrated framework for reporting their activities in these areas. Finally, this framework is a vehicle for reporting to stakeholders the contributions of HE towards economic, social and environmental sustainability. Acronyms& Abbreviations ABET Adult Basic Education and Training IRPD International Relations and Partnerships Directorate ACHRAM Academic Human Resource Allocation Model ISPCAN International Society for the Prevention of Child Abuse and Neglect AMIFAM Archie Mafeje Insitute for Applied Social Policy on the Family and Poverty LTS Library Technical Services APSA Academic and Professional Staff Association MANCOM Management Committee ARCSWID Advocacy and Resource Centre for Students MDGs Millennium Development Goals with Disabilities MIT Multi-, Interand Transdisciplinary CAES College of Agriculture and Environmental Sciences MPRDA Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (Act No 28 of 2002) CC&M Corporate Communication and Marketing NEHAWU National Education, Health and Allied CEDU College of Education Workers Union CEMS College of Economic and Management NEMA National Environmental Management Act Sciences (Act No 107 of 1998 as amended) CESM Classification of Education Subject Matter NFSD National Framework for Sustainable Development CHE Council on Higher Education NPA National Prosecuting Authority CHS College of Human Sciences NSSD National Strategy on Sustainable CLAW College of Law Development CoP Communication on Progress NWA National Water Act (Act No 36 of 1998) COP17 17th Conference of the Parties, United ODL Open Distance Learning Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change OHS Act Occupational Health and Safety Act (Act No 85 of 1993) CRPD Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities PQM Programme Qualification Mix CSET College of Science, Engineering and QA Quality Assurance Technology QEI Quality Evaluation Instrument DCC Disability Coordination Committee QIP Quality Improvement Plan DEAT Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism QMS Quality Management System DHET Department of Higher Education and R&D Research and Development Training REC Risk Ethics and Controls Committee DISA Department of Information and Statistical SADA South African Disability Association Analysis SADC Southern African Development Community DoL Department of Labour SMPPD Study Material, Publication, Production and DSPQA Department of Strategy, Planning and Delivery Quality Assurance SWD Students with Disabilities EE Employment Equity SADA South African Disability Association ERM Enterprise Risk Management Directorate SADC Southern Africa Development Community GCSAT Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool TMIAL Thabo Mbeki Institute for African GRI Global Reporting Initiative Leadership HEIs Higher Education Institutions TYP Ten-Year Plan HEQC Higher Education Quality Committee UN United Nations HR Human Resources UNGC United Nations Global Compact ICT Information and Communication Unisa University of South Africa Technology UWF Unisa Women’s Forum IOP Institutional Operational Plan WIL Work-Integrated Learning Contents 1 Background 2 1.1 Purpose and context 2 2 The South African government’s commitment to sustainability 4 3 The South African higher education sector’s position on sustainability 6 4 Unisa’s position on sustainability 7 4.1 Institutional levers for sustainability 7 4.1.1 Transformation of the institutional ethos 7 4.1.2 The integrated transformation plan (ITP) 8 4.1.3 Risk management 9 4.1.4 Quality assurance, management and sustainability 13 4.1.5 Student governance 13 4.1.6 International partnerships 13 4.1.7 Diversity, equity and transformation 14 5 Integrated sustainability reporting 16 6 Unisa’s standing as an ODL institution 18 6.1 The student profile as an indicator of institutional sustainability 18 7 Assessment towards sustainability 21 8 2011 progress towards sustainability and social transformation 22 8.1 Institutional progress 22 8.1.1 Human rights 22 8.1.2 Labour 24 8.1.3 Environment 24 8.1.4 Anti-corruption 25 8.2 Academic progress 26 8.2.1 Teaching and learning 26 8.2.2 Research and innovation 26 8.2.3 Community engagement 29 9 Conclusion 34 10 Acknowledgements 35 11 Appendices 36 12.1 Appendix 1: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool (GCSAT) 36 12.2 Appendix 2: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool percentage analysis 36 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 1 1 Background 1.1 Purpose and context As the first university in South Africa to become a signatory to During the current year 2011, this institutional commitment the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) on 17 January has gained prominence and additional momentum through 2007, the University of South Africa (Unisa) has entrenched a Unisa’s participation in the 17th Conference of the Parties practice of reporting annually on its commitment to the goal of (COP17) to the United Nations Framework Convention on sustainable development. This report seeks to give an account Climate Change. This participation underscores the relationship of Unisa’s progress in terms of its commitment to “sustainability between the UNGC principles and the concepts of integrated and social transformation” in the higher education sector. sustainability and social transformation, as highlighted in The theme “sustainability and social transformation” has been the King III Code of Governance Principles. In addition, this formulated to highlight the organisational transformation participation strengthens the development of an integrated initiatives that have been facilitated by the newly appointed sustainability reporting approach, which communicates Unisa’s leadership. economic, social and environmental performance to its stakeholders. 2 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 Unisa’s Communication on Progress (CoP) for 2011 is once again structured to include the elements of the integrated sustainability reporting approach, as stated above. Furthermore, the approach taken in reporting ensures that the principles relevant to the vision of an African university in the service of humanity resonate with those of the UNGC. This CoP seeks to provide a coherent narrative and identifies the key strategic imperatives through which Unisa has endeavoured to respond. In addition, it discusses the strategic focus areas planned for intervention. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 3 2 The South African government’s commitment to sustainability T he definition of sustainable development, This was followed by the National Framework for Sustainable as qualified by the report of the World Development (NFSD) which was developed in 2008. The Commission on Environment and Development, main purpose of this initiative was to provide an outline of the in its description of new directions for our country’s national vision for sustainable development and to common future, states that sustainable development is articulate strategic interventions to re-orientate the country’s “development that meets the needs of the present without developmental path in a more sustainable direction. The five compromising the ability of future generations to meet strategic interventions contained in the NFSD are as follows: their own needs”. This enduring formulation is widely accepted in the South African context. • Enhancing systems for integrated planning and implementation. South Africa’s position on sustainability has been supported by several initiatives that the government has taken towards • Sustaining our ecosystems and using natural resources addressing the issues of sustainable development. Since efficiently. 1994, South Africa has brought about far-reaching political, economic and social changes, and has shown an increasing • Promoting economic development by investing in commitment to sustainable development. In its demonstration sustainable infrastructure. of commitment to sustainable development, South Africa has, among other things, hosted and participated in the following • Creating sustainable human settlement. initiatives: • Responding appropriately to emerging human • The United Nations Conference on the Human development, economic and environmental challenges. Environment, Stockholm (1972), where the environment was recognised as a development concern. Given the challenges that remain, the National Strategy on Sustainable Development (NSSD) has been developed to • The 1992 Earth Summit, where Agenda 21 was agreed on provide a framework aimed at altering the government’s as a blueprint for sustainable development, reflecting global development path to one that is appropriate and specific to the consensus and political commitment to the integration of South African context. environmental concerns into social and economic decisionmaking processes. • The 2000 United Nations Millennium Summit at which the Millennium Development Goals were adopted. • The World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg (2002), which reaffirmed the commitment to sustainable development, placed poverty eradication at the centre of efforts to achieve sustainable development, and reinforced the notion of development that aims for equity within and between generations. 4 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 As such, South Africa’s commitment to sustainable development resonates with the new democratic structures, policy and legislative developments. The following developments summarise the country’s commitment to the attainment of sustainable development and highlight some of the key legislation made over the past years: • The National Environmental Management Act (Act No. 107 of 1998 [NEMA]) provides the core principles and framework for sustainable development in South Africa and sets out environmentally sound policy. This includes the ‘precautionary’ and ‘polluter pays’ principles. A wideranging series of acts and amendments in terms of NEMA covers the management of air, biodiversity and protected areas, coastal and marine areas and, most recently, waste management. • The Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (Act No. 28 of 2002) (MPRDA), with the key purpose being to promote equitable access to mineral and petroleum resources. • The Occupational Health and Safety Act (Act No. 85 of 1993) (OHS Act) that provides for the health and safety of persons at work and the protection of people against hazards arising out of the activities of persons at work. • The National Water Act (Act No. 36 of 1998) (NWA) emphasises the scarcity and uneven distribution of water in South Africa in terms of its natural distribution through historical practices which prevented equal access. As a result, South Africa has made significant progress towards the development of a framework for the promotion of sustainable development. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 5 3 The South African higher education sector’s position on sustainability T he National Plan on Higher Education and the Higher Education Act 101 of 1997 make provision for higher education institutions (HEIs) to address issues of sustainability as a national priority. In this regard, the National Plan for Higher Education gives effect to the vision of transforming the higher education system as outlined in Education White Paper 3: A programme for the transformation of the higher education system. The plan presents a detailed implementation framework that seeks to identify key strategic issues that are imperative for the transformation of the higher education system. Sustainability, if closely embraced by HEIs, means that its values should be reflected in each of the core functional areas of university life. In reality, the net impact of political, economic and globalisation pressures from the knowledge economy on South African higher education has had challenging consequences. In this context, the provision of relevant programmes that give expression to the diverse needs of South African society needs attention. Sustainability and sound governance should therefore drive the ethos of universities. The South African higher education system is mature with a series of world-class educational institutions, a funding framework, a solid, quality regimen and clear governance structures. Over the past few years, the government has implemented a series of strategies, programmes and instruments to further strengthen the system so as to enhance sustainable practices within the higher education environment. 6 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 4 Unisa’s position on sustainability In this context, Unisa occupies a privileged position, given its size and scope, where it can influence and shape societal beliefs and practices. Education in South Africa serves the vision and values enshrined in the Constitution. All policies and frameworks guiding education in South Africa, and specifically higher education, thus ascribe to the principles embedded in the Constitution and supporting legislative frameworks. The ten UNGC principles align closely with the South African Constitution and the legislative frameworks guiding higher education. These principles further address specific concerns regarding the need for more responsible and sustainable business and corporate practices; including human rights, labour standards, environmental concerns and anti-corruption. Unisa’s vision, “Towards the African university in the service of humanity” is a statement that is conscious of its educational and social responsibilities nationally and on the African continent. This commitment is once more underscored in the Unisa 2015 Strategic Plan, in which Unisa has committed to establishing itself as a leader in sound corporate governance and the promotion of sustainability. According to its mission, UNISA is “a comprehensive, open distance learning institution that produces excellent scholarship and research, provides quality tuition, and fosters active community engagement”. While the vision and mission are inspired by the foundational 4.1 Institutional levers for sustainability precepts of our transforming society, social justice, fairness, excellence and integrity remain the values that animate our Higher education in South Africa has a mandate to uphold strategy, guide our efforts and influence our imagined future. and celebrate the values and principles of the Constitution and Unisa’s journey towards the African university in the service to infuse these values into its core business of teaching and of humanity steers its commitment to the UNGC and the learning, research, postgraduate education and community King III Code of Governance Principles with regard to placing engagement. The UNGC principles are fully aligned with the sustainability and governance prominently on the institutional constitutional tenets of human rights, labour, environment and agenda. The growing knowledge base of the institution and anti-corruption. In this regard, Unisa has made significant strides the pioneering initiatives will place Unisa in a good position to towards effectively institutionalising the four main principles of influence society and the higher education sector in particular the UNGC. to follow suit in entrenching sustainability. This CoP showcases the importance that Unisa has placed on governance and However, there are challenges that still need to be addressed. sustainability during the period under review. This could not The process involved in meeting the targets of sustainable have been realised within the commitment of Unisa’s Council development and the MDGs is critical. It is therefore essential which has been a stalwart in its endorsement and application of that Unisa responds to these issues through its core functions. the Code of Corporate Practices and Conduct and the Code of Unisa has consciously elected to infuse sustainability into its Ethical Behaviour and Practice as set out in the King III Code of business model. This includes teaching and learning, research, Good Corporate Governance. postgraduate education and community engagement. While teaching and scholarship must begin to reflect on sustainability 4.1.1 Transformation of the institutional ethos related issues, students must be taught to learn to think in a The basic purpose of grounding an explicit institutional ethos more integrated manner. There is emerging consensus within is to create an inclusive organisation that values each and every the higher education sector that institutions should also model member of staff and other important stakeholders. In this regard, sustainable practices. It is therefore important that academics Unisa’s leadership has introduced a novel concept of 11 Cs plus and institutions keep experimenting with, and sharing, their one (Communication, Conversation, Conservation, Community, efforts to embody sustainability, especially in making it a focus Connection, Care, Collegiality, Commitment, Cooperation, of their disciplines and professions in the process of curriculum Creativity, Consultation and Courage) in an attempt to define the design, development and research. type of institutional culture appropriate for Unisa. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 7 The Principal and Vice-Chancellor at the launch of the Unisa According to the university’s Transformation Charter which was Charter of Transformation on June 2011 indicated that, in launched on 27 June 2011, transformation is “a fundamental acknowledging that lack of institutional culture and ethos that and purposeful advancement towards specified goals: individual, reflects openness, warmth, compassion, inclusiveness, and collective, cultural and institutional, aimed at high performance, community and the genuine sense of isolation and alienation effectiveness and excellence”. In other words, transformation that continues to be experienced by so many staff members is a multilevel construct that occurs at various levels, as is vividly at Unisa, he has made it his personal mission – in fact, a elucidated by the above quotation. cornerstone of his vision for Unisa – to work systematically, together with the leadership of this institution, and indeed, Fundamental to our journey to transformation is the aim to each and every one at Unisa, to transform Unisa into the kind become a high performance institution and to provide access of university that everyone can all proudly call “home”. The with success in order to ensure a quality learning experience for purpose of the institutional ethos is to define and create an our students. This entails ongoing improvement and continuous institutional culture that focuses on sustainability and social renewal guided by justice and ethical action. transformation. According to the university’s Transformation Charter, With this clear expression of intent, and the core values as our transformative leaders; guide, Unisa is committed to the principle of sustainability not only to protect but also to enhance the environment and to are to be found at all levels and in all sectors of the make a significant contribution to the development of staff and organization, not necessarily dependent on positional the society within which we operate. power. They are distinguished from mere actors by their insight into how things are in comparison to where 4.1.2 The integrated transformation plan (ITP) they need to be, with the resolve and capability to act Unisa as an institution is legally, morally and ethically obliged to catalytically in pursuit of institutional and societal change transform in line with national priorities. Unisa’s stakeholders imperatives, in the face of opposition, resistance and limited want to see the university change to being the African resources. university in the service of humanity. 8 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 Prof. Mandla Makhanya signs the Unisa Transformation Charter, endorsing his belief that this is going to bring the Unisa community closer to and on par with the best on the African continent. The type of leadership required to take the university’s Risk management forms a sound foundation on which planning transformation agenda forward is one of servant leadership, imperatives in support of mitigating the key risks associated which the Principal and Vice Chancellor argues in the following with service delivery, technology enhanced systems, throughput manner: “Servant leadership is a conscious choice, that implies and success and Unisa’s drive towards becoming a fully fledged a long-term, transformation approach to life and work that has ODL institution could be defined. This methodical approach the potential for creating positive change in our institution and enables the Unisa management to monitor and control risks by extension, our society”. in order to minimise any possible adverse consequences. Therefore, the risk register is treated as an organic instrument 4.1.3 Risk management that is updated on a regularly basis. The University is committed to a continuous, systematic, integrated planning and enterprise-wide risk management For the purpose of this CoP report, Unisa has clustered the Key process that focuses on identifying risks and managing and Risk Register and the operational risk registers in accordance monitoring all known forms of risk across the institution. The with the UNGC principles. These are shown in tables 1 4. features of this process are outlined in the Enterprise Risk Management Policy Framework of the institution. FIGURE 1: ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT Moreover, figure 1 illuminates a detailed process that is FRAMEWORK followed in identifying and managing risks Risk management is embedded in the Unisa Integrated Operations Planning Framework as elements that foster the achievement environment and promotion of the core values and principles as espoused by and strategy the Transformation Charter, the UNGC and the King III Code Monitoring and Risk of Good Corporate Governance. Risk management protects performance identification the University, its human capital and its physical infrastructure improvement against the financial and physical consequences of risks. Risk Risk information assessment communication and evaluation Risk mitigation and control activities UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 9 TABLE 1: KEY RISK REGISTER – HUMAN RIGHTS PROPOSED MITIGATING RISKS EXISTING CONTROLS 2011 PROGRESS ACTIONS Instability in partner countries • The Quality Management • Assess the profile of the • All our partners’ facilities could lead to closure of System for Partnership country or the potential were assessed in 2010 and partners’ facilities. Collaboration and Licencees. partner by looking at their additional assessments of financial and political stability. certain facilities had to be • Due diligence process. conducted for well-run • Undertake visits to the registrations in 2012. proposed partners to ensure that we see their facilities and • Memorandums of obtain first-hand information agreement were then about the particular institution. concluded with African partners and a Swiss-based • Implement the Quality centre. Management System for Partnership Collaboration and Licences. Non-compliance with OHS • Safety committees; • Include OHS function in • Safety inspections are Act. legislative appointments; OHS KPAs of appointees (managers conducted and irregularities inspections. and directors); regular reported to University Estates reporting. on a regular basis. • Labour Department inspections. • Awareness training, comply • Regular liaison with with regulations, i.e. quantity University Estates on OHS storage. matters – ongoing process. Inadequate response to the • Division dedicated to HIV • Institutionalising an • Health & wellness strategy impact of HIV and Aids and & Aids. Employee Health and finalised and approved, other health risks on the Wellness and Assistance a steering committee institution. • Health and wellness strategy. Programme. established and programme for staff offered. • Unisa Campus Health Clinic. • Proactive health awareness • Unisa programme on HIV events are being implemented & Aids. according to national health calendar. The HIV and Aids • 2015 REVISITED coordinating committee convened two successful • IOP 2011 testing and counselling events. Inadequate response to • Dedicated centre for • Create a nurturing • Four dedicated actions the needs of persons with students with disabilities environment for staff and address the aim of elevating disabilities. (ARCSWID). students with disabilities. the interests and concerns of the disabled in policy • Quality management system • Establish a responsive formulation, planning and for students with disabilities. recruitment and selection management practices. system to attract high quality • The implementation plan staff with disabilities. • Apart from the centralised for recruiting people with database and collaboration disability in response to Goal • Provide leadership on with ARCSWID, the regional 5 of the 2015 revisited has disability issues as per the offices also collaborate with been developed and discussed Employment Equity Act. local agencies such as the in terms of the Employment deaf and blind associations Equity Plan and with the • Vacancies submitted to to provide additional local Directors in HR. SADA for placing in the support to students in database for persons with particular. • 2015 REVISITED disability; the services of the service provider that recruits • Execution of the • IOP 2011 persons with disability are communication and marketing utilised. plan is underway, improving accessibility to websites and producing a student marketing video. 10 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 PROPOSED MITIGATING RISKS EXISTING CONTROLS 2011 PROGRESS ACTIONS • The rollout of signage to assist persons with disabilities attempts to create of a more nurturing environment for students and staff with disabilities. Disability is highlighted in the Protection Services’ Service Charter. • Inclusion of people with disabilities in all articles appearing in corporate publications. Successful launch campaign with high-profile participation promoted awareness. • Facilitating cooperation with partners and preparing MOUs is ongoing and collaboration with the IGNOU, India formalised. Possible fraud and corruption • Policies and procedures, as • Supplier database must be • A regional visit was in procurement practices. well as a Code of Ethics, are in reviewed annually and when scheduled in July to train place and on the intranet. a supplier is being awarded a staff and update the supplier tender/project. database; information sessions • Whistle blower facility is in were held to invite new place. • Verify that new suppliers are regional suppliers. The rest of not blacklisted. the training will be scheduled • Oracle system controls in September after approval of and reviews of the supplier all policies. database improve operations. • Review is in process and • Internal and external audit suppliers were made inactive if reviews are conducted. documentation had not been submitted by the due date. TABLE 2: KEY RISK REGISTER – LABOUR STANDARDS PROPOSED MITIGATING RISKS EXISTING CONTROLS 2011 PROGRESS ACTIONS Non-compliance with EE • Operations have been • HR to follow up with other • Print Production worked targets in the printing industry. restructured to improve stakeholders in the Industry with Printing Industry efficiencies through in terms of critical and scarce Federation of South Africa multitasking and personal skills. (PIFSA) to put together a development. proposal for training to be • Plan underway to make provided by Unisa. A proposal Unisa the training service resulting from research provider for the industry. conducted in the UK was presented to Unisa in 2010 and is being finalised. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 11 TABLE 3: KEY RISK REGISTER – ENVIRONMENT PROPOSED MITIGATING RISKS EXISTING CONTROLS 2011 PROGRESS ACTIONS Non-compliance with • A physical accessibility • To conduct an audit of the • A status report on all statutory requirements in advisory committee has been existing buildings to determine Unisa’s new buildings and a relation to maintenance of established and is meeting the compliance status of commitment to sustainability buildings regularly to discuss the buildings with statutory to be provided by 16 statutory requirements. requirements, as well as to November 2011. Outdated equipment in, for obtain and implement the example, halls; biodiversity auditors’ recommendations. • A proposal will be drafted damage, for example cycads for minimum standards of uprooted, poor maintenance all existing Unisa buildings of gardens to support environmental sustainability. TABLE 4: KEY RISK REGISTER – ANTI-CORRUPTION PROPOSED MITIGATING RISKS EXISTING CONTROLS 2011 PROGRESS ACTIONS Fraud • Verification of authorised • Enforcement of policies and • Unisa has a whistleblowers signatures, claims and procedures. hotline monitored by KPMG. contracts. • Regular meetings with • Internal auditors perform • Job rotation – administrators interdependencies such as HR independent and objective rotating tasks. and ICT. assurance and consulting activities on the operation of • Access to the system is • Continuous training to internal control systems. granted in terms of levels of improve accountability. responsibilities, manager and • Top management is focused administrator. • Revisit the revenue on improving the system of management process to internal control and the ethical • The ICT system is set to strengthen controls around culture of the University. prompt users to change the authorisation and signing passwords regularly. of cheques. • More functional managers are realising the importance of good control. Unauthorised payments/debts • Review supplier database. • Annually verify suppliers’ • Supplier review conducted compliance with legislation. and suppliers have been made • Internal and external audit inactive if documentation was reviews. • Communicate and not submitted on due date. encourage the use of • Whistleblower facility is in whistleblowers to report • Whistleblower details are place. fraudulent activities. printed on all orders. • Oracle system controls. • Implement internal controls • The internal and external and recommendations from audit register is kept and internal and external auditors followed up on in the monthly to ensure that fraud and report. corruption is prevented. Theft, damage, abuse, • Security cameras. • 2015 Library Plan • The plans were approved vandalising of resources. to address the physical and a quantity surveyor was • Security staff. requirements. appointed for the project. • 3 M system in place. • Communicate the student • Meetings were held with ICT access policy to ICT and Library Technical Services (LTS) • Access control. other stakeholders. and ICT, and guidelines were compiled for use of computers • Internal Control Officer. in the libraries. Currently awaiting implementation by • Staff monitoring. ICT. 12 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 4.1.4 Quality assurance, management and sustainability of Students with Disabilities (SWD) have been developed. Quality improvement has become an important These two systems, together with quality standards for transformational strategy for HEIs, resulting in an increasing partnerships and licensee agreements, support the need recognition for the need to align strategic objectives and for regional and international collaboration and effective the quality efforts of the institution. The Higher Education cooperation to promote quality assurance, the recognition Act of 1997 assigns responsibility for quality assurance in of qualifications and the facilitation of student and higher education in South Africa to the Council on Higher employee mobility. This is central to advancing the African Education (CHE) through its permanent subcommittee, the and international footprint and affirms our commitment to Higher Education Quality Committee (HEQC). The mandate the principles of human rights. of the HEQC includes quality promotion, institutional audit and programme accreditation. As part of the task of building • A supporting instrument, the Quality Evaluation Instrument an effective national quality assurance system, the HEQC has (QEI), will provide critical planning and management also included capacity development and training as a critical decision-making information for the University by component of its programme of activities. evaluating the student’s total learning experience in terms of the quality of the design, development and delivery of In response to the Act, Unisa has demonstrated its the approved modules. This will ensure the integration commitment to the continual improvement of the quality of a of the UNGC principles in the design, development and diverse range of products and services to fully realise its vision delivery of the Curriculum. and mission of delivering a unique and quality student learning experience. The main challenge is to generate a culture of • Unisa is faced with the challenge of creating an quality, accountability and sustainability within the institution environment for University-community engagement that shared by the academic leadership; professional, academic and facilitates and advances quality management, sustainability administrative support staff, and students. This is an ongoing and social accountability. A quality management system for process. community engagement provides a foundation for pursuit of good practice in the planning, implementation and In so doing, Unisa has undertaken two institutional audits to monitoring of Unisa’s community engagement initiatives. assist in determining it strengths and areas of improvement in The primary aim is to guide the University towards the teaching and learning, research and community engagement. seamless integration of the quality arrangements of The outcomes of these interventions have led to a quality community engagement with those of teaching and improvement plan with the focus on specific commendations, learning and research. This integration is presented in the and recommendations for continuous improvement and Unisa Community Engagement and Outreach Policy. In assigned accountabilities and responsibilities. The Quality this regard, the quality management system will assist Improvement Plan 2010–2015 is continuously updated and to strengthen and monitor the effectiveness of the quality aligned with the institutional planning process. The quality arrangements. improvement areas are seamlessly integrated into Unisa’s mediumand long-term plans and create a sound basis for 4.1.5 Student governance future planning interventions. The Directive for the Recognition of Student Structures and Organisation was approved by Council and implemented in As part of the process of transparency and continuous ways that not only regulate but also encourage the freedom improvement, an institutional progress report with regard to of association of students within the University. Practices that the status on the recommended improvements was drafted discriminate against other student organisations and structures and submitted to the HEQC in September 2011. This report are always discouraged. also demonstrates the alignment with the UNGC principles and the following milestones and achievements are highlighted: 4.1.6 International partnerships As an internationally recognised university with an extensive • The development and the approval of the Quality geographical footprint, Unisa affords graduate recognition Management and Assurance Policy confirms our and employability in many countries across the world. A commitment to human rights (principles 1 and 2) and key purpose of the International Relations and Partnerships affirms the institutional values of social justice and fairness, Directorate (IRPD) is to implement sound corporate and excellence with integrity. This policy furthermore fosters governance principles. This ensures strategically aligned and the facilitation of constructive dialogue through critical selfmutually beneficial partnerships in order to mitigate risks in evaluation and reflection on performance against agreed these diverse and complex forms of collaboration effectively. criteria and standards. The University is committed to advancing its continental and global development agenda through partnerships that enhance • In addition, the development of a integrated quality teaching, learning, research and capacity building through ODL management and assurance framework makes provision practices in a changing environment. Table 5 below shares the for creating a supportive environment where expectations purpose of the new development. and standards are defined, continuous improvement and innovation are encouraged, and development and training opportunities provided. Furthermore, a quality management system for teaching and learning, and a customised version UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 13 4.1.7 Diversity, equity and transformation The Principal’s annual engagement with the UWF on Tuesday The Unisa Women’s Forum (UWF) is constituted as an 5 July 2011 consisted of an inspirational and challenging independent platform within the organisation, constitutionally conversation, which signalled support for the UWF. Currently, mandated to advocate gender rights, promote the the Forum is in the process of developing a strategy to create empowerment and wellbeing of women, showcase their spaces and interventions for improving the quality of lives and achievements and represent their concerns in all relevant working conditions for women in the workforce (women decision-making structures in the organisation. currently form 56% of the workforce). A second crucial conversation was held during September 2011, as part of the The core purposes of the UWF resonate well with the process of constructive engagement and dialogue with Unisa current transformation attempts, as expressed in the leadership. Unisa Transformation Charter. The UWF is committed to strengthening the kind of transformative leadership required The UWF confirmed its support for the Unisa Charter on to champion these change processes. The biggest challenge Transformation as well as the integration of these principles and identified is to transform leadership styles and to engage the 11Cs plus one into its planning and operations. stakeholders in meaningful ways to facilitate interaction and With regard to equity and transformation, Unisa prides itself touch the lives of people. A monthly newsletter has been on taking its role in actively adhering to the Transformation reintroduced as a communication and dialogue tool to facilitate Agenda, as put forward by the Minister of Higher Education such conversations and sharing, and has been well received. and Training, very seriously. This translates into ensuring that a representative staff cohort is well qualified and dedicated The following actions form the basis for promoting gender to excellence, professionalism and ethical standards in the issues and raising consciousness of the role and contribution of workplace. women at Unisa: Unisa therefore acknowledges the issues of concern raised by • High noon seminars which focus on topical issues and the inspection team from the Department of Labour and takes create a platform for dialogue. very seriously the need to comply fully with the Employment Equity (EE) Act. The successful implementation of EE has an • Engagements with Unisa’s Principal and Vice-Chancellor. important role to play in the achievement of the strategic objectives as set out in the Unisa 2015 Strategic Plan. • An annual Woman of the Year Award which recognises the sterling contributions made by women across all sectors, not only in academia and research. TABLE 5: NEW PARTNERSHIP DEVELOPMENTS NEW DEVELOPMENTS PURPOSE Ongoing relationship with the Thomas Edison University in To strengthen relationships with existing university partners, Trenton, New Jersey. to cultivate new relationships with role-players in the fields of higher education and training, especially in open and distance learning. Discussions with Howard University and selected agents of the To implement a partnership to promote democracy building State Department in Washington DC. in Africa and other related projects of mutual interest in the furtherance of quality services to humanity. Strengthened ties with the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam (VUA) To operationalise agreements reached during the 2010 FIFA Joint journal launched in October 2011. World Cup at Unisa with selected regional centres. To consolidate the academic inputs of the relationship. Ongoing discussion with NEPAD delegation and Unisa To examine the possibility of a partnership to enable Unisa Foundation. stakeholders to be part of the capacity-building initiatives of the NEPAD Secretariat in Africa. A visit by a delegation from the Angolan Ministry of Education To share experiences and insights with regard to training, and and Argentinean universities. education and benchmark service provision To pursue stronger ties. New discussions with the West African Insurance Institute in To assist with the training of accountants in West Africa. Gambia. Hosted several delegations on familiarisation visits to Unisa: To share knowledge and experience. • Nigeria To explore areas of collaboration and capacity building in Africa. • Congo • China 14 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 NEW DEVELOPMENTS PURPOSE Hosted 10 students and three faculty members from the To promote a staff and student exchange programme. University of Mumbai with the aim of establishing the Gandhi Inspired Student Talk Programme. Completed first round of UIFP participation. To expose Unisa professional staff to other experiences internationally. Hosted licensee training workshop from 31 October to 3 To imbue seamless understanding of Unisa’s registration and November 2011. other policies among service providers. Hosted the Pro-Vice Chancellor and Registrar of the Zimbabwe To strengthen academic and research ties with another ODL Open University (ZOU). university in the SADC region to provide better services to Unisa students in that country. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 15 5 Integrated sustainability reporting 16 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 T his concerted effort to transform has created a sound platform for critical engagement on the concepts of triple bottom-line reporting. Although not an explicit intention, this has been on the Unisa radar since 2007, when Unisa became a signatory to the UNGC. In this regard, Unisa has reported to the UN on its various activities in respect of anti-corruption (profit), labour and human rights (people), and the environment (planet). Notwithstanding, the integrated reporting framework based on sustainability, as defined in King III Code of Governance, has not been completely implemented at Unisa. In 2010, Unisa took the first step towards an integrated report in its Annual Report. It is anticipated that the 2011 Annual Report will, however, contain a fully integrated report in accordance with the approved sustainability reporting framework. In addition, the University has committed itself to a discreet focus on the role that it can play in respect of climate and environmental change – mitigation and reduction strategies. Notwithstanding the intention, reality must prevail: Unisa is an academic institution with a particular character and student population. It cannot place a brake on activities that may be environmentally detrimental without taking cognisance of the other impacting factors. However, the University has a plan of action for becoming an environmentally friendly institution that focuses both on individual activities which may be adjusted, as well as looking at the bigger composite institutional picture. The set-off principles that involve adjusting actions to compensate for environmentally-unfriendly activities that cannot be eliminated in the short term are fundamental to the plan. The plan of action for becoming an environmentally-sensitive institution is an open and living document, as the University is only just beginning to understand the full ramifications of environmental sustainability. As an indicator of the demonstrated pledge towards becoming an institution sensitive to environmental complexities, the Vice-Chancellor has taken overall strategic control of the project with the aim of fostering the appropriate tone and embedding the climate change/sustainability initiative. During this process, it was identified that many initiatives at the University are in their infancy or are still prospective activities, and/or range across the institution. To this end, our first major initiative has been to set up the Unisa LivingGreen website on the institutional intranet. All staff members have been invited to log their various projects on this website. In terms of a carbon footprint, a project plan was finalised and presented to an expert working group early in November. The plan covers the calculation of activities in respect of (i) travel; (ii) electricity; (iii) water; and (iv), paper usage. The expert calculation of carbon usage forms Phase 1 of this sub-project and thereafter reduction and mitigation strategies have to be identified for implementation in Phase 2. The underpinning rationale for the mitigation/reduction strategy is twofold: • To consider the institutional carbon footprint holistically and identify reduction/mitigation strategies that could be applied to offset carbon usage. • To consider each of the identified areas individually and assess which reduction strategies could be implemented. The second principle agreed to is that, while cost saving is a very important bias in looking at carbon reduction strategies; it is not the only focus. Unisa is a learning institution and needs to acknowledge the moral and social value proposition that impels it towards a culture of carbon mitigation and reduction. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 17 6 Unisa’s standing as an ODL institution U nisa, as an open distance learning (ODL) As table 6 below indicates, the enrolment patterns reveal that institution, is Africa’s premier distance Unisa’s growth remains aligned to the set national goals and learning university. It is a dedicated, reputable, priorities for growth and development: comprehensive, flexible and accessible ODL institution, offering internationally accredited qualifications • The growth trend in the College of Agriculture and and has world-class resources that inspire learners to create Environmental Sciences increased from 4.3 to 19.34%, with meaningful futures on their own terms. Unisa’s vision the annual average growth rate for Science and Engineering “Towards the African university in the service of humanity” is increasing slightly from 8.3 to 8.50%. The disaggregated a driving force for finding answers to Africa’s education and growth for Education is at 4.88%. developmental problems. By forming partnerships in Africa and throughout the world, the university is able to help the people of Africa achieve their dreams. • The actual number of graduates for 2010 (26 073) The defining characteristic of the new Unisa is its exceeds the 2010 projection figure of 25 323, which had comprehensive nature, with a formidable total student body in been negotiated with the DHET in January 2011. This the region of 300 000. The institution offers a diverse choice of attests to the important role that Unisa plays in the sector, study fields at levels that range from certificate to degree, and but also signals that subsidy losses need to be managed postgraduate qualifications in fields ranging from animal health, vigilantly. agriculture, law, business management, communications and education to the humanities. Unisa is now also represented • The race and gender growth patterns also support the in all the provinces of South Africa with a strong outreach to achievement of the goals of equity and redress, and the SADC countries, as well as other African countries and facilitate the participation of formerly excluded citizens in internationally. benefiting from higher education opportunities. 6.1 The student profile as an indicator of institutional sustainability Enrolment figures for 2010 show that the 293 437 registered students in the six colleges are dispersed across 28 countries. African students are dispersed across the African continent, while the global pattern reveals that the rest of the students are located mainly in European countries, North and South America, Asia, Australia and Oceania. When further disaggregated to portray the African and international footprint, the trend reveals that Unisa’s greatest contribution is to the development in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) region. The SADC protocol in place to facilitate this is achieving its planned outcomes. 18 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 TABLE 6: TOTAL NUMBER OF ENROLMENTS FROM 2005 TO 2010 ENROLMENT TRENDS AVERAGE ANNUAL PERFORMANCE INCREASE: MEASURES 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2005 2010 Number of head count 924 508 995 490 1 041 725 1 180 000 1 216 567 1 339 084 7.47 enrolments per college College of Agriculture and 14 611 16 752 19 308 23 969 24 937 31 615 19.40 Environmental Science College of Education 443 831 489 696 525 228 578 146 542 941 573 916 4.88 College of Economics & 85 719 93 079 93 155 125 070 155 616 176 901 17.73 Management Sciences College of Human 151 668 161 379 160 894 181 226 207 655 245 474 10.31 Sciences College of LAW 150 661 158 019 167 331 170 116 177 301 193 383 4.73 College of Science, 78 018 76 565 75 809 101 473 108 117 117 795 8.50 Engineering & Technology Head count students per 207 650 227 137 239 123 261 888 263 559 293 241 6.87 race group African 116 863 131 197 146 120 167 613 168 686 195 553 11.22 Coloured 12 534 14 151 14 378 15 280 15 338 16 610 5.42 Indian 21 089 22 580 22 211 22 701 23 418 24 113 2.39 White 57 164 59 209 56 414 56 294 56 117 56 965 – 0.06 Head count enrolments 207 930 227 539 239 380 261 927 263 559 293 437 6.85 by gender Female 114 298 128 825 136 731 153 212 177 503 177 503 9.22 Male 93 632 98 714 102 649 108 715 115 934 115 934 3.97 The graphic representation in figure 2 below provides a Engineering and Technology (CSET) and has invested snapshot of Unisa as a mega-ODL and a comprehensive considerable resources into building the necessary infrastructure institution. It is evident that the College of Economic and for laboratories and practical learning sites. Management Sciences is the biggest college in the University, followed by Education. However, Unisa remains committed As a comprehensive ODL university, Unisa makes a significant to the smaller strategic flagships of College of Agriculture contribution to the development of professional and vocational and Environmental Sciences (CAES) and College of Science, graduates as discussed above. FIGURE 2: PERCENTAGE OF ENROLMENTS PER COLLEGE FOR 2010 7% 2% 10% COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE AND COLLEGE OF ECONOMIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES MANAGEMENT SCIENCES 15% 48% COLLEGE OF EDUCATION COLLEGE OF HUMAN SCIENCES COLLEGE OF SCIENCE, ENGINEERING COLLEGE OF LAW AND TECHNOLOGY 18% UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 19 TABLE 7: STUDENT HEAD COUNT PERCENTAGE ENROLMENT PER NATIONALITY NEW DEVELOPMENTS 2010 HEAD COUNT STUDENTS % Algeria 6 0.02 Angola 430 1.76 Asian countries 407 1.67 Australia 34 0.14 Botswana 1 651 6.77 Burundi 57 0.23 Democratic Republic of Congo 439 1.80 European countries 923 3.79 Gabon 39 0.16 Guinea 8 0.03 Lesotho 443 1.82 Madagascar 2 0.01 Malawi 275 1.13 Mauritius 626 2.57 Mozambique 321 1.32 Namibia 1 646 6.75 Nigeria 805 3.30 No information 56 0.23 Other Africa 3 033 12.44 Rwanda 89 0.37 Seychelles 19 0.08 South America 50 0.21 Sudan 30 0.12 Swaziland 1 423 5.84 Tanzania 75 0.31 United States of America 192 0.79 Zambia 642 2.63 Zimbabwe 10 655 43.71 TOTAL 24 376 100.00 FIGURE 3: 2010 STUDENTS HEAD COUNT ENROLMENTS PER NATIONALITY Zimbabwe Table 7 and Figure 3 give a representation Other Africa of the student head count and the Botswana Namibia percentage enrolment per nationality. It Swaziland is clear that the figures for 2010 show European countries a considerable increase in head count Nigeria enrolments per nationality as compared to Zambia the 2009 figures. Zimbabwe, which leads Mauritius in terms of head count per enrolment in Lesotho Africa (excluding South Africa), has shown Democratic Republic of Congo Anglo an increase from 35.46 to 43.71% and Asian countries overall there has been a total head count Mozambique enrolment per nationality (excluding South Malawi Africa) increase of 15.8% from 21 047 in United States of America 2009 to 24 376 in 2010. Rwanda Tanzania No information Burundi South America Gabon Australia Sudan Seychelles Guinea Algeria Madagascar 0.00% 10.00% 20.00% 30.00% 40.00% 50.00% 20 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 7 Assessment towards sustainability A nother survey was conducted by Unisa using the In terms of order of priority, the participants in the Global SelfGlobal Compact Self-Assessment Tool (GCSAT), Assessment Tool were most inclined to labour matters followed which is used to enable the organisation to by human rights, anti-corruption and environment; however, measure performance against the four main there is an increase in addressing labour matters from 66.6% principles of the UNGC. In 2010, Unisa scored 45% across in 2011 to 95.45% in 2011, for environment an increase all four UNGC areas when assessing the standards of from 17.64 to 32.43 and for anti-corruption 37.5 to 69.23%. operations. This year, the University scored 58.67%, which Human rights, on the other hand, showed a slight decline from demonstrates an improvement of 14.23%. 71.42 to 70.49%. (See table 8 below and appendices 1 and 2 attached for ease of reference at the end of the report.) TABLE 8: 2010 2011 COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS UNGC PRINCIPLES 2010 2011 1. Human rights 71.42 70.49 2. Labour 66.6 95.45 3. Environment 17.64 32.43 4. Anti-corruption 37.5 69.23 TOTAL 44.44 58.67 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 21 8 2011 Progress towards sustainability and social transformation 8.1 Institutional progress • The right of students with disabilities to have access to quality study material in the format of their choice. The preparation for the 2011 Unisa/UNGC CoP report attempted to foreground the four UNGC pillars of human rights, • The right of students with disabilities to have access without labour, environment and anti-corruption. These are not mutually penalty. exclusive notions and there are synergies inherent in the account that straddles the four pillars. An analysis of the most salient • The right of students with disabilities to function within a features determined in which categories they would be reported. barrier-free environment. 8.1.1 Human rights • The right of students with disabilities to equality of The Unisa Institutional Operational Plan (IOP) emphasises the opportunity. need to focus on the creation of an enabling environment for persons with disabilities, which presupposes the promotion and • The right of students with disabilities to full and effective protection of the rights and dignity of persons with disabilities. participation in their teaching and learning. However, apart from the various actions in the Plan, Unisa also draws on core international human rights instruments, notably As the Soudien Report (2008) shows, racism and discrimination the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities still persist in universities, making life difficult or even unbearable (CRPD), which was adopted by the United Nations in December for many students and workers. The Directorate of Student 2006, and came into effect on 3 May 2008. Governance and Social Development has responded to the recommendations of the Soudien Report by implementing With specific reference to students with disabilities, Unisa student health and wellness and student leadership development implements and monitors programmes aimed at promoting programmes. and protecting the rights of students with disabilities. Also encapsulated in Unisa’s Institutional Operational Plan is the need to “promote institution-wide advocacy and awareness-raising on the diverse needs of staff and students with disabilities”, and advocacy programmes are implemented to promote the rights of students with disabilities in the context of their teaching and learning activities. The advocacy programmes are rooted in the following fundamental human rights principles: 22 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 The following policies are now regulating this domain: • Sexual Harassment Policy for Students • Diversity Policy • HIV/Aids Policy (including zero tolerance for any form of discrimination) At another level, a comprehensive ICT Policy on Private Information, as well as a Policy on Information Security, are in place to guide the use and access of users and students to private information. A single body has been identified within Unisa (Legal Service Office) for the approval of any access to personal information, with strict legal guidelines in this regard for ICT. ICT systems that support human resources, finance and student systems are audited annually by both internal and external auditors in order to highlight areas of concern. A full-time compliance officer has been appointed to ensure that all audit findings are followed up to the point of successful implementation. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 23 8.1.2 Labour Unisa has a dynamic relationship with its organised trade unions and promotes their right to engage in collective bargaining and to represent their membership base. In line with the recognition agreement, there are two recognised unions, namely the National Health and Allied Workers Union (NEHAWU) and the Academic and Professional Staff Association (APSA). Unisa has dedicated resources for proactive compliance measures, such as human resource (HR) policies and procedures. These activities ensure that all organisational initiatives and policies are reviewed for compliance and effectiveness, as well as their broader alignment with national and global imperatives, such as the UNGC. In terms of the development of human intellectual capital, the HR department has developed a Unisa HR Governance Framework that will allow HR governance to align itself with the broader UNGC principles. Unisa upholds the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation and has performed well in terms of the Employment Equity Plan. The DHET Strategic Plan (2011 – 2015), has identified the following two pertinent goals for the higher education sector that are aligned to the national Human Resources Development Strategy: • To increase the size and calibre of the academic teaching and researcher population in order to create the knowledge required for economic and societal development in the next 50 or more years. • To ensure that the level of investment in education is equivalent to the global average for the further and higher education and training system. These critical areas deserve attention and will become a site for engagement with regard to developing consensus on an HR strategy that includes equitable development and conscious succession planning. 8.1.3 Environment Unisa is responsive to emerging pressures from society, government and business and acts in an environmentally responsible manner. As is evident from past environmental research, Unisa’s priority focus should fall on both employee and institutional levels. Past empirical research has shown that the successful implementation of sustainable environmental practices by organisations can contribute to, among other things, improved staff morale, cost savings and corporate image building. In an endeavour to foreground sustainability practices, Unisa has already implemented several institutional measures. These include the management of electricity consumption, water management and conservation, the reduction of carbon emissions, the application of green building principles and the promotion of recycling by using and providing recycling stations and bins. At the beginning of 2011, the Office Automation Project was initiated and the rollout of the project will be fully completed early in 2012. The purpose of this initiative is to reduce the number of desktop printers and the number of hard copies being printed. 24 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 8.1.4 Anti-corruption Unisa is geared towards displaying good corporate governance standards in all its policies, processes, procedures and systems, both in principle and in practice; to this end the University has established systems and procedures that prevent, detect and mitigate risks relating to theft. Unisa has organised training for all members of staff and relevant stakeholders through the Ethics Institute of South Africa and the HR Department, the main objective being to expose staff to issues underpinning workplace ethics. Unisa has committed to working against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery, by adopting the following policies and procedures, which have all been recently revised and updated: • Anti-fraud/corruption/irregularities statement approved by Council in 2007. • Unisa Code of Ethics and Conduct. • Unisa Disciplinary Code for Employees. • A fraud/corruption/irregularity prevention policy approved by Council in 2007. • A policy on the reporting of fraud/corruption/irregularities (the Whistleblower Policy) approved by Council in 2010. • An ethics hotline managed by an outside service provider. • A fraud/corruption/irregularities response protocol approved by Council in 2007. The Unisa Finance Department is conscious of the fact that fraud and corruption are risks that it faces on a daily basis; moreover, these have been identified as high-risk items on the departmental risk assessment. The main objectives relating to fraud and corruption have received attention and include responding appropriately to any identified or suspected fraud or corruption incidences, as well as designing and implementing appropriate internal controls to prevent and/ or detect such incidents The audit management letter, which highlights the risks identified during the audit process, includes recommendations from the external auditors on how to minimise these risks. In addition, a whistleblower fraud and corruption line has been established, which is attended to by an outside, independent organisation that sends all the reported incidences to the Unisa Internal Audit Department for investigation. Such incidents are reported to the Audit Committee of Council. Unisa has also instituted a gifts register, where all gifts in excess of R500 from suppliers must be recorded. All staff members have attended mandatory ethics training and have been asked to sign a code of conduct, whereby they have committed themselves to, among other things, confidentiality as well as the mission, vision and values of the institution. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 25 8.2 Academic progress Economics. Principle 3 is addressed in a study unit titled “Unions and collective bargaining”. The outcomes of this study 8.2.1 Teaching and learning unit focus on collective bargaining and the labour market, the One of the ongoing projects in the academic portfolio is union movement, the impact of the unions and the influence the revitalisation of teaching and learning. This requires the of strike action, bargaining councils and minimum wages. This academic sector to take a critical look at the programme principle is supported by the Labour Relations Act, which also qualification mix (PQM) and to ensure that study material is of forms part of the subject material. a high standard. During 2010 several new qualifications were accredited by the HEQC. Senate has also adopted a framework Although principles 4 and 5 are not directly addressed in the for the implementation of a team approach to curriculum and module outcomes, references are made to these throughout learning development to support the development of study the text on labour legislation in South Africa and all the material. This development is one of the cornerstones of an labour laws governing the South African labour market are ODL institution and the implementation of a team approach discussed (eg Basic Conditions of Employment Act). Principle ensures that the quality of study material will be enhanced by 6 is addressed in one study unit entitled “Labour market stakeholder contributions. discrimination and inequalities”. The outcomes of this study unit concentrate on the definitions and types of discrimination, Council has approved the Curriculum Policy recommended by theories of discrimination and the inequalities in the South Senate. This policy aims to provide an overview of the principles African labour market, as well as the way in which these according to which curricula at Unisa will be developed. These inequalities can be addressed, equal pay for work of equal principles take cognisance of the sustainability aspects and will value and affirmative action. This principle is supported by the result in Unisa’s curricula meeting international good practices Employment Equity Act. in curriculum design, and being responsive and student-centred. The implementation of the policy will provide clear principles The College of Economic and Management Sciences has to which colleges, schools and departments can refer when introduced a comprehensive strategy of ‘going green’ projects determining the validity of the increasing demands on curricula in line with the MDGs. For this report, the projects relating in higher education. to MDG 7: To ensure environmental sustainability, are briefly discussed. At a curriculum level, there is evidence of the introduction of relevant modules with regard to UNGC labour An awareness-raising lecture series, entitled CEMS Going standards, principles 3, 4, 5 and 6. These are covered in Green, involves internal and external experts, and consists of the two undergraduate Labour Economics modules (ECS204D following themes: and LEC101L) offered as electives by the Department of “Energy challenges and calculating our carbon footprint” LECTURE 1 Presented by Ms Diksha Somai – Exxaro Energy I Carbon Process Engineer, 4 April 2011. “Will COP17 – CMP 7 Durban 2011 be mother nature’s 9/11?“ LECTURE 2 Presented by Dr Godwell Nhamo, Exxaro Chair – Institute for Corporate Citizenship, Unisa. “Carbon neutrality equals profitability” LECTURE 3 Presented by Dr Marco Lotz – NedBank Sustainability Carbon Specialist, May 2011. “Greening CEMS and Unisa: from theory to practice” presented by Tracey Cohen – Dept. of Business Management, LECTURE 4 Unisa – awareness-raising presentation to CEMS Change and Transformation Committee, 8 June 2011 LECTURE 5 “Greening the Ghetto” presented by Marjora Carter, video presentation and hosted discussion, August 2011. LECTURE 6 “Higher Education and global climate negotiation regimes: seeing beyond the African COP” – 20 October 2011. The series was intended to raise awareness and deepen Ultimately, the activities will contribute to the Principal and understanding, and experts were made available to the rest of Vice-Chancellor’s sustainability vision at college level. the university community. 8.2.2 Research and innovation The establishment of the CEMS Going Green Committee, Unisa has committed itself to increasing its total weighted as a subcommittee of the CEMS Community Engagement research outputs and to building and sustaining research Committee, is another innovation. The terms of reference capacity. This commitment finds expression in the institutional of this committee consist of driving and sponsoring practical research plan which has identified sustainability as a flagship sustainability projects in line with the CEMS Community project that underscores the principles outlined in the UNGC. Engagement goals and aspirations; to inspire broad participation Unisa also continues to demonstrate its commitment to multi-, in sustainability matters (practical and academic) in CEMS; and interand transdisciplinary (MIT) research, epistemologies, to contribute to graduateness by advocating the inclusion of methods and programmes to ensure that innovative solutions sustainability matters in the CEMS PQM renewal processes. are generated. 26 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 27 The establishment of the Unisa School for Graduate Studies, • Investigating the ‘best’ environmentally sustainable practices the introduction of e-books and mobile libraries to reach of leading universities and corporate business to guide the a broader spectrum of Unisa’s student population and construction of an environmental sustainability policy, action the continued investment in training and development plans and goals for a green Unisa campus. programmes for young upcoming researchers provides evidence of Unisa’s strategic drive to increase relevant • Investigating environmentally sustainable office practices research outputs. among Unisa employees. The Bureau of Market Research (BMR) at Unisa has recently • Investigating the potential for infusing environmental participated in a series of research projects produced for the education (content and skills) into existing courses and the public and private sector across South Africa which relate to extent to which this has been done thus far. sustainability issues. These projects are highlighted below. In 2011, the Behavioural and Communication Division • Investigating environmentally sustainable service practices at of the Bureau of Market Research (BMR) produced an Unisa. exploratory study on business response to climate change and sustainability. The interest and significance of a study of this Clearly, the scope of the study outlined above reflects a nature derives from the ongoing debate on how the business comprehensive environmental awareness assessment and is community can, and possibly should, respond to issues of regarded as a pioneer study in the HEI sector of South Africa. climate change and sustainability so as to make a meaningful The recent International Banking Conference held at Unisa and effective contribution to achieving a green economy. included themes such as the “African banking sector in a low Besides giving some direction to corporate deliberations, the carbon and green global economy” and “Factors influencing the study also intends to inform policy decision makers of what adoption of e-business in the South African insurance industry”. is happening within a certain section of the South African The full proceedings of the conference and the findings of the business community and to make recommendations on how Unisa study will be reported in the 2012 CoP. policy could remove barriers to effective change. The final report was entitled “Business responses to climate change and The College of Economic and Management Sciences’ (CEMS) sustainability: An analysis of the nonfinancial reports of 10 JSEprojects relating to the MDG 7: To ensure environmental listed companies (2011)”. sustainability, has produced eighteen accredited articles and chapters in international publications in less than two years. A potentially significant observation was that the concept The topics of the published material range from “Global climate of sustainability rather than climate change dominated negotiating regimes: challenges and opportunities for Africa”; and provided the organisational framework for companies’ “Copenhagen 18/12: Africa must continue calling for a fair, interactions with the natural and social environments within ambitious and binding climate deal”; “Dawn of a new climate which they operate. The study also revealed that many of order: reading between the USA-India-China partnerships” to the companies’ communications on their interaction with “Co-leadership in climate change: an agenda for 2013 and environmental sustainability issues are dominated by measures beyond”. to reduce carbon emissions and other resources such as paper and packaging. This type of interaction leans towards a In addition, the following groundbreaking texts have been more technologically-driven response to the issues. A positive published, attesting to the growing body of expertise and finding gleaned from the research is changed behaviour knowledge at Unisa which has been achieved in a relatively among some businesses that seem to have moved beyond short space of time. a technology-driven approach by supporting measures that impact on environmental sustainability beyond their own • Climate change: A guide for corporates – published by resource use, through scientific research and sustainability Unisa Press in 2009 under the authorship of Hennie education schemes. The research revealed strong awareness Stoffberg and Paul Prinsloo (156 pages). among many companies of the importance of communicating the values, ethics and cultural change that underpin their • Green economy and climate mitigation: topics of relevance actions. to Africa – manuscript in print from Africa Institute of South Africa Press and will be ready for launch during COP17. Finally, the study showed keen interest in and awareness of Edited by Godwell Nhamo with chapters written by six the need for a bottom-up approach to achieving a ‘green other authors from across Unisa (256 pages). economy’. The second phase of the study is intended to gain a better understanding of business perceptions of the • Breakthrough: Corporate South Africa in a low carbon and influential aspects on sustainability outcomes. To this end, a green economy – a COP17 legacy project publication in qualitative study on retail and financial business responses to the pipeline by Unisa Press. The book will involve more than sustainability and climate change is being conducted. 20 authors and is scheduled for completion early in 2012 to include the COP17 resolutions and outcomes. The focus of another study on “Sustainable environmental practices at Unisa” is multidimensional and has the following scope: 28 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 The University is also in the process of appointing a leading researcher to drive the portfolio of the Archie Mafeje Institute for Applied Research on the Family and Poverty (AMIFAM). The aims of AMIFAM are to conduct applied research that will feed into and monitor policy formation on the effects of poverty on the family in South Africa and the continent. The project has already received seed funding after which it will become a fully fledged institute at Unisa. Funding for community engagement remains a challenge and more planning is envisaged to create an enabling environment for community engagement that will ultimately promote teaching, learning and research. An Environmental Awareness and Responsibility Statement (Principle 8) has been developed between staff and students at 8.2.3 Community engagement departmental level as an example of innovative practice. At the Progress with regard to community engagement has been moment the draft statement reads as follows: made since the approval of the Community Engagement Policy. Colleges have submitted their plans and the university is now As staff, students and alumni of the Department of in the process of consolidating an institutional community Geography (UNISA), we recognize that the complex engagement plan that will be aligned to the MDGs and related interactions between political, religious, economic, social, strategic initiatives. cultural, and environmental factors determine the wellbeing of our community. Further, we acknowledge that Unisa has set aside a strategic fund for emerging strategic we have power as individuals to influence these complex initiatives and this has contributed significantly to promoting and interdependent relationships. As such we undertake to community engagement in the University. An example in this make responsible decisions that will be sensitive to matters regard is Unisa’s Summer School Campaign for Learning, which of sustainability to ensure quality of life now and for the comprises a compendium of customised learning initiatives that generations to come. encourage and inspire informal learning in a variety of social contexts on a national scale. A group of staff in the Department are actively involved in a community engagement project in the Bojanala Region (North The Bright Site of Sunnyside Service Learning Centre provides West Province). This project not only allows the Department to another excellent example of Unisa’s community engagement achieve its vision within the broader context of the Unisa’s vision projects and was awarded second place in the MacJannet “towards the African university in the service of humanity”, but Prize for Global Citizenship. The Centre aims to tackle the it also allows the Department to develop geographers within a unprecedented challenges that threaten the livelihoods and multi-, interand trans-disciplinary context. The project is based wellbeing of society, in particular in Sunnyside, a suburb that lies on grass roots-driven rural development and the basic premise adjacent to the Unisa Muckleneuk campus. Unisa’s Department is that communities can take the lead in identifying their own of Social Work, through the Bright Site of Sunnyside Service problems and the solutions to those problems. Put simply, the Learning Centre project, plays a crucial role in providing approach argues that little is achieved by identifying needs and opportunities for training and serving people who would the emphasis should rather be on the assets already available otherwise not have access to education. within a given community. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 29 Looking at communities holistically to ensure environmental sustainability means that the work being done in the Bojanala Region not only addresses Principles 7, 8 and 9 of the UNGC, but also the 7th and 8th MDGs. The long-term goal of the project is to assist communities in mobilising themselves to create their own opportunities for employment, while at the same time ensuring sustainable economic, social, cultural and economic development in the North West Province. A water research flagship project has been launched in the College of Agriculture and Environmental Sciences (CAES). South Africa is a water-scarce country with an average rainfall that is just over half of the world’s average. This already precarious water situation is further exacerbated by climate change, which has the potential to impact significantly on both the availability of and requirements for water in South Africa. Although the country is en route to meeting the MDGs, more needs to be done to close the existing gaps in water provision and water sanitation between urban and rural areas. Since major water infrastructure creation and large-scale water transfers, are no longer solutions to the country’s water crisis, new water sources such as wastewater recycling, water conservation, rainwater harvesting, and so forth will require new levels of cooperation and public understanding. This CAES flagship project explores current issues in the field of water engineering and related fields. Human rights Unisa’s academic departments are playing a positive role in addressing the principle of human rights through involvement in and engagement with organisations such as the National Prosecuting Authority’s (NPA) subcommittee on human trafficking, the International Society for the Prevention of Child Abuse and Neglect (ISPCAN) and presentation of papers on human trafficking at both local and international conferences. Significant progress has been made in pursuit of this objective in a number of constituencies within the university. Unisa has established a Disability Coordination Committee (DCC) and has produced a disability statement and strategy aligned to Unisa 2015 revisited and the requirements of the South African Disability Association (SADA). In addition to this statement, a quality evaluation instrument was developed to measure the level and quality of services provided to students with disabilities. Labour During 2010 particular emphasis was placed on the management of human resources at Unisa. Three areas were prioritised to give effect to operational sustainability, including HR planning and staffing, remuneration and affordability, and talent management. 30 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 In the area of planning and staffing, the Academic Human Resources Allocation Model referred to as the ACHRAM was widely consulted to effect envisaged improvements. The transformation and migration to a fully fledged ODL pedagogical model was proactively planned for. The HR model is based on information relating to variables such as gender, age and resignation. The system implements planning priorities which ensure that all mission-critical positions are filled and that the necessary succession planning systems are in place. This ensures that Unisa retains a representative workforce at organisational and departmental levels. Unisa has slightly exceeded the human resource targets set by the DHET but conscious attention is being given to reducing the budget while not compromising service delivery. Environment The following are some of the environmental sustainability initiatives conducted by the University during the 2011 academic year: The CAES Department of Environmental Sciences was asked to compile an Environmental Management Plan for Unisa (including the other campuses and the Regional Centres) and to act in an advisory capacity. This will be used as a working document in the establishment of a recycling system at Unisa in order to improve the entire waste management system and to improve the University’s responsibility toward the environment by reducing its carbon footprint. The Department of Environmental Sciences, together with staff from the Bright Site Project in Durban, gave their support at school level in order to also reach the wider community. At the Isnembe School north of Tongaat, a working recycling system was in place. They however needed advice on how to improve the waste management at the school and in the neighbouring village. It was suggested that, among other things, compost be made from the green waste from school garden and of the peels and food rests from the established food scheme at the Isnembe School. The Department of Environmental Sciences has also offered to become involved in the design of a Water. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 31 The Recycling @ School Project The College of Science, Engineering and Technology (CSET) has been involved in three emerging flagship research projects March 2010 saw the launch of a fog water harvesting relating to the environment theme, the first of which involved project by the CAES together with the Alfred Nzo District ecotoxicology research, a niche area that involves postgraduate Municipality. The resulting water quality is very high and teaching and research. The field of ecotoxicology includes conforms to World Health Organization and South African concepts arising from disciplines such as toxicology, biology water standards for potable water. and molecular biology, environmental (soil, water and air) sciences, analytical and organic chemistry, nano-chemistry, As a university, community outreach is not an extra, but one biochemistry, physiology, ecology, genetics, microbiology, of its core business areas. For the 2011 reporting period, immunology and economics. The approaches to this research, Unisa has supported environmental responsibility and which are multidisciplinary and transdisciplinary in nature, are environmentally friendly technology. A vegetable garden has based on existing expertise and the research track record of been established at Mandlethu school community located in the participating members. Kwa-Mhlanga, Mpumalanga province through a mentoring programme during which recycled organic waste from the One project team is focusing on the decontamination of kitchen was used as fertilisers and an explanation of the role pesticides and the toxic nerve agents that are prevalent in the of vegetables in carbon mitigation of the atmosphere was environment. Poisonous organophosphates were previously explained. In addition, a government food scheme has been destroyed by bleach and alkali to yield less toxic inorganic implemented at Mandlethu school and fresh produce from phosphates through hydrolysis of P-O and P-S bond. However, the garden has been used in the kitchen menu and fresh the use of large volumes of bleach and alkali, which are vegetable sold to the teachers. This vegetable project serves corrosive, has posed logistical problems. The group has since not only as an educational project for the school but as a demonstrated that nitrosation reactions on phosphorus model for the community to reduce the carbon load. Later centres of the phosphate ester can lead to the degradation of on, the celebration of a World Food Day event was used as a common organophosphate contaminants in the environment. platform for raising community awareness of environmental issues and the upcoming Conference of Parties number 17 The water research flagship recognises that South Africa is a (COP17) in Durban. water-scarce country with an average rainfall of just over half of the world’s average. The already precarious water situation A COP17 ambassador addressed the Kwa-Mhlanga is further convoluted by climate change that has the potential community on the impact of climate change and various to impact very significantly on both the availability of and interventions for dealing with issues such as carbon mitigation. requirements for water in South Africa. To this effect, the Department of Agriculture and Animal Health has established a vegetable garden and one of the Although the country is on route to meet the millennium main future initiatives is to plant fruit and indigenous trees development goals more needs to be done in order to close together with the community. Community education has the existing gaps in water provision and water sanitation expanded on the challenges posed by climate change. Appeals between urban and rural areas. Since the buildings of major have been made to the community to contribute to finding water infrastructure as well as the large-scale water transfers a solution to environmental degradation and also to learning are no longer the solution to the country’s water crisis, how to adapt positively to the adverse impact of altered new water sources such as recycling of wastewater, water climatic conditions. conservation, rainwater harvesting, etc, will require new levels of cooperation and public understanding. The flagship project Vegetable garden projects in partnership with explores current issues in the field of water engineering and Mandlethu School community located in related fields. Kwa-Mhlanga, Mpumalanga Province The Fuel Cell and Nanotechnology Flagship Project recognises that most of the energy needed for domestic and industrial consumption comes from just one natural source, fossil fuel. This means that the world fossil fuel demand outpaces production, resulting in a shortage of supply and price instability. A significant outcome of the energy crisis is the realisation that the earth’s fossil fuels are limited resources and they have been shrinking in recent years. There is also the awareness that individuals and countries have real responsibilities not only for the future generation of energy but to also conserve the environment because whatever is taken from the earth has an explicit cost to the geophysical state of the environment. Although there is no energy source that is completely environmentally safe, energy must be used more wisely in order to minimise environmental hazard and optimise the efficiency with which it is produced. The flagship project focuses on research agendas intended to achieve this aim. 32 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 Unisa offers modules in Adult Basic Education and Training (ABET) and youth development which focus on environmental challenges and how to deal with them in communities. The students who take these courses are ABET and youth facilitators and practitioners in the communities. They, in turn, teach adult learners and this knowledge of the environment is passed down to their families and the communities at large. At the departmental level colleagues are encouraged to reduce carbon emission and waste materials. The environment as a focus area is the topic of a module on Environmental Economics (ECS208H). Principles 7, 8 and 9 are all covered by the five study aims in this module: (i) the relationship between the economy and the natural environment; (ii) the reasons for environmental degradation; (iii) decision making and the environment; (iv) comparative policy instruments; and (v) environmental issues and the global economy. Anti-corruption To work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery, Unisa arranged training sessions for staff to be educated on this important issue. Unisa staff have also been trained in business ethics. The Department of Enterprise Risk Management, in collaboration with all departments, has developed detailed risk registers for all directorates in line with the standards and requirements of the risk management system. The University has also instituted a Procurement Workgroup, which includes members across departments to select, evaluate and appoint suppliers in a transparent way based on carefully designed criteria. The anti-corruption focus area receives attention in an undergraduate elective and a postgraduate module in Public Economics (ECS304G and PECH00G). Principle 10 is addressed in a study unit on market and government failure. The study unit requires three outcomes to be achieved: (i) describe the role of political parties and special-interest groups in the political process and discuss how they contribute to government failure; (ii) distinguish between political and bureaucratic corruption and discuss alternative policy options to approach the problem; and (iii) discuss alternative views on the relationship between corruption and democracy. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 33 9 Conclusion T hroughout the world there are numerous examples of institutions of higher education pursuing environmental sustainability. Some institutions believe that they have met the challenge of sustainability through the signing of national or international declarations while others create individual institutional policies. Regardless of how a university approaches its commitment to sustainability, there are foundational themes that exist in both macro and the micro approaches to sustainability. These themes include sustainable physical operations, sustainable academic research, environmental literacy, ethical and moral responsibility, cooperation between universities and countries, the development of interdisciplinary curricula, and partnerships with government, non-governmental organisations and industry. By gaining an understanding of these themes, sustainability has been comprehensively mapped within a higher education context. Finally, the UNGC project must be seen as a work in progress and a truly collaborative effort between all University departments and structures. Its primary objective is to foreground the critical and important work being done at Unisa in the areas of social transformation, climate change and environmental sustainability. The four pillars of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption provide the conceptual reporting framework and schema for organising the 2011 account. This is not a closed project and ideas can and will be introduced as the project evolves. Moreover, the levels of enthusiasm of participating staff are acknowledged. Their willingness to give so freely of their time and knowledge augurs well for the successful implementation of the planned projects and activities. The CoP 2012 Report will provide an update in this regard. 34 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 10 Acknowledgements T he Department of Strategy, Planning and Quality GCSAT respondents Assurance (DSPQA) under the auspices of • Prof M Linington, Executive Dean, CAES the Portfolio of Institutional Development, is • Prof D Singh, Assistant Principal responsible for coordinating the Communication • Mr I Mogomotsi, Acting Executive Director: University on Progress (CoP) Report to the UNGC on behalf of Estate the entire institution. The following colleagues made a • Mr C Baloyi, Dean of Students valuable contribution to the completion of the report for • Prof I Alderton, Acting Executive Dean: CSET 2011, and are duly acknowledged: • Ms L Sangqu, Executive Director: ICT • Ms B Mbambo-Thata, Executive Director: Library Services Overall strategic leadership • Mr H van Kradenburg, Enterprise Risk Management • Dr M Qhobela, Vice-Principal: Institutional Development • Ms A Steenkamp, Executive Director: Internal Audit • Dr M Mahomed, Executive Director: SMPPD Authors • Dr M Singh, Executive Director: Human Resources • Ms L Griesel, Executive Director: Strategy, Planning and • Prof G Cuthbertson, Unisa School of Graduate Studies Quality Assurance • Mr JT Makgamatho, Planner • Ms R Prinsloo, Director: Strategy and Planning • Dr L Netshitomboni, Chief Planner Contributors • Prof D Singh, Assistant Principal • Dr B Mbambo-Thata, Executive Director; Library Services • Dr J Diescho, Director: International Relations and Partnerships • Ms A Steenkamp, Executive Director: Internal Audit • Mr H van Kradenburg, Enterprise Risk Management • Prof G Cuthbertson, Unisa School of Graduate Studies • Mr C Baloyi, Dean of Students • Prof M Linington, Executive Dean, CAES • Prof H Ngambi, Executive Dean, CEMS • Dr M Singh, Executive Director: Human Resources • Ms V Memani-Sedile, Executive Director: Finance • Ms L Sangqu, Executive Director: ICT • Prof I Alderton, Acting Executive Dean: CSET • Prof R Moeketsi, Executive Dean: CHS • Prof V Clapper, Deputy Executive Dean: CEMS • Prof M Masenya, Department of Old Testament • Dr E Johannes, Directorate of Quality Assurance and Promotion • Prof L. Swanepoel, Directorate of Quality Assurance and Promotion • Dr M Mahomed, Executive Director: SMPPD UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011 35 11 Appendices 12.1 Appendix 1: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool (GCSAT) TOPIC YES NO F/A N/A NOT ANSWERED TOTAL HUMAN RIGHTS 43 1 17 0 0 61 Health and safety 6 0 0 0 0 6 Hours, wages and leave 13 0 1 0 0 14 Fair treatment 11 0 2 0 0 13 Community Impacts 6 0 8 0 0 14 Product stewardship 3 0 2 0 0 5 Country risk 2 1 2 0 0 5 Suppliers 2 0 2 0 0 4 LABOUR 21 0 0 1 0 22 Trade unions 8 0 0 1 0 9 Forced labour 4 0 0 0 0 4 Child labour 4 0 0 0 0 4 Non-discrimination 2 0 0 0 0 2 Suppliers 3 0 0 0 0 3 ENVIRONMENT 24 16 31 3 0 74 Compliance and management 7 10 7 0 0 24 Precaution 3 2 0 0 0 5 Responsibility and performance 13 4 21 3 0 41 Technology 1 0 3 0 0 4 ANTI-CORRUPTION 27 0 12 0 0 39 Anti-corruption environment 9 0 6 0 0 15 Policy and procedures 8 0 2 0 0 10 Third parties 6 0 4 0 0 10 Joint actions 4 0 0 0 0 4 TOTAL 115 17 60 4 0 196 12.2 Appendix 2: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool percentage analysis TOPIC YES NO F/A N/A NOT ANSWERED TOTAL HUMAN RIGHTS 70.49 1.64 27.87 0 0 61 Health and safety 9.84 0 0 0 0 6 Hours, wages and leave 21.31 0 1.64 0 0 14 Fair treatment 18.03 0 3.28 0 0 13 Community Impacts 9.84 0 13.11 0 0 14 Product stewardship 4.92 0 3.28 0 0 5 Country risk 3.28 1.64 3.28 0 0 5 Suppliers 3.28 0 3.28 0 0 4 LABOUR 95.45 0 0 4.55 0 22 Trade unions 36.36 0 0 11.11 0 9 Forced labour 18.18 0 0 0 0 4 Child labour 18.18 0 0 0 0 4 Non-discrimination 9.09 0 0 0 0 2 Suppliers 13.64 0 0 0 0 3 ENVIRONMENT 32.43 21.62 41.89 4.05 0 74 Compliance and management 9.46 13.51 9.46 0 0 24 Precaution 4.05 2.7 0 0 0 5 Responsibility and performance 17.57 5.41 28.38 7.32 0 41 Technology 1.35 0 4.05 0 0 4 ANTI-CORRUPTION 69.23 0 30.77 0 0 39 Anti-corruption environment 60 0 15.38 0 0 15 Policy and procedures 80 0 5.13 0 0 10 Third parties 60 0 10.26 0 0 10 Joint Actions 100 0 0 0 0 4 TOTAL 58.67 8.67 30.61 2.04 0 196 36 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2011
