SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 The only Company in the world, to be carbon, water and solid waste recycling positive Creating over 5 million FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS sustainable livelihoods More than 38% of energy consumption at ITC is from renewable sources ITC Hotels Greenest Luxury Hotel Chain in the world G R I G 3 C O M P L I A N T A P P L I C AT I O N L E V E L A + CONTENTS Chairman’s Statement: 04 ITC’s Vision and Strategy Key Impacts, Risks and 07 Opportunities ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 44 14 82 Creating Enduring 50 ITC Institutions ORGANISATIONAL SOCIAL PROFILE PERFORMANCE Certifications, Honours 26 Labour Practices and 84 and Awards Decent Work Report Profile, Scope and 30 Social Investments 94 Boundary Mission Sunehra Kal Governance, 34 Product Responsibility 101 Commitments and 52 Engagements GRI Index 106 ENVIRONMENTAL Annexures PERFORMANCE Management 113 Climate Change and 54 Approach Sustainable Development Policies and 118 Water Management 62 Guidelines Stewardship Memberships and 126 Recycling and Waste 71 Affiliations Management Independent 128 Significant Air Emissions 76 Assurance Statement Material Sustainability in 80 Self-declaration on 131 ITC’s Businesses Application Level ITC : AN EXEMPLAR IN TRIPLE BOTTOM LINE PERFORMANCE 02 TRIPLE BOTTOM LINE ENVIRONMENT WATER POSITIVE: 10 YEARS IN A ROW SOCIAL CARBON POSITIVE: CREATING OVER 7 CONSECUTIVE YEARS 5 MILLION SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOODS SOLID WASTE RECYCLING POSITIVE: CREATING FOR THE LAST COMMUNITY ASSETS 5 YEARS Strengthening the agri production base of nearly 4 IRRIGATING lakh farmers 98,000 HECTARES ITC’s Watershed Development EDUCATING 3,00,000 initiative brings precious water CHILDREN to over 98,000 hectares of ECONOMIC ITC’s Primary Education moisture-stressed areas initiative has educated over $ 35 BILLION MARKET 3,00,000 children 38% RENEWABLE CAPITALISATION ENERGY EMPOWERING 4 More than 38% of ITC’s total $ 7 BILLION TURNOVER MILLION FARMERS energy consumption is from renewable sources ITC’s globally acknowledged e-Choupal initiative is the TOTAL SHAREHOLDER GREENEST LUXURY RETURNS OF world’s largest rural digital HOTEL CHAIN IN THE infrastructure benefitting over 26% PER ANNUM 4 million farmers WORLD All ITC premium luxury hotels 29,000 EMPLOYEES 40,000 SUSTAINABLE are LEED Platinum certified LIVELIHOODS FOR ITC Group provides direct RURAL WOMEN ITC’S NEW ICONIC employment to over 29,000 HOTEL ITC GRAND people ITC’s Women’s Empowerment CHOLA IS THE WORLD’S initiative has created nearly LARGEST LEED 40,000 sustainable livelihoods POWERING GROWTH PLATINUM GREEN WITH MULTIPLE BUSINESS ANIMAL HUSBANDRY HOTEL DRIVERS SERVICES TO 5,00,000 1,38,000 HECTARES Diversified multi-business MILCH ANIMALS GREENED conglomerate spanning FMCG, ITC’s Livestock Development ITC’s Social and Farm Forestry Hotels, Paperboards & Packaging, initiative has provided animal initiative has greened over Agri Business and Information husbandry services for nearly 1,38,000 hectares Technology 5,00,000 milch animals ITC conferred the prestigious ‘World Business and Development Award 2012’ at the Rio+20 UN summit for its Social and Farm Forestry Initiatives Figures in this section are as on October 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 03 ITC’S VISION AND STRATEGY CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT I have great pleasure in presenting ITC’s commitment that guides every thought and Sustainability Report 2012. action in pursuing the Company’s superordinate goal of creating larger value for This is the 9th consecutive year of its society. This vision has powered a multipublication. As in earlier years, the Report pronged competitive strategy to enhance conforms to the stringent ‘G3’ guidelines of economic contribution, enable world-class the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) at the benchmarked environmental practices, highest ‘A+’ level. It is also independently contribute to climate change mitigation and validated by M/s. Ernst & Young Pvt. Ltd. adaptation, and integrate societal value A transparent and voluntary disclosure, creation in its business models. the ITC Sustainability Report presents the Triple Bottom Line performance of the ITC has been “Carbon Positive” for 7 Company. The Report encapsulates ITC’s consecutive years, sequestering twice its vision, strategy and action in contributing to emissions. It has been “Water Positive” for building a sustainable, inclusive and secure 10 years, having created freshwater potential future for the larger Indian society. that is more than twice its consumption. For over 5 years now, ITC has been “Solid Waste This year, ITC was honoured with yet Recycling Positive”. These milestones another global recognition for its exemplary remain unparalleled globally, with ITC sustainability initiatives. At the historic Rio+20 being the only enterprise in the world of United Nations Summit, ITC was conferred its dimensions to have accomplished and the World Business and Development Award sustained these environmental distinctions. 2012 for its large-scale social and farm forestry It is also a matter of immense satisfaction programme. This Award is indeed a tribute to that ITC’s businesses and value chains the efforts of thousands of tribals and poor support sustainable livelihoods for more than farmers in rural India who have partnered ITC in 5 million people, many of whom represent enriching the country’s environmental capital the weakest sections of society. whilst generating significant sustainable livelihood opportunities. I am happy to once again reiterate the THE CHALLENGES OF Company’s support to the principles DEVELOPMENT underlying the United Nations Global Compact. It is a matter of great satisfaction In the aftermath of the global economic that ITC’s unique and inclusive business crisis, which many say is the worst since models together with its focussed social the Great Depression of the 1930s, nations investments contribute meaningfully to the across the world are waking up to a new Millennium Development Goals enunciated reality. There is an increasing realisation that by the United Nations. this time around, the challenges are far more deep-rooted. It is now quite apparent that ITC’s enduring vision to create larger the economic model followed by the world societal capital and sub-serve national for decades has not delivered growth with priorities is manifest in its commitment to social equity. put Country before Corporation and the Institution before the Individual. It is this Despite a century of economic progress, the 04 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT inequities today are far more pronounced in rural India. This approach has fostered than ever. Recent OECD studies reiterate that innovative business models and an enduring income inequalities have actually widened in engagement with rural communities to coITC’s enduring vision the last 30 years in a majority of advanced create livelihood opportunities. Various to create larger nations as well as emerging economies. initiatives have been put in place to transform societal capital and According to the UN Human Development rural communities into vibrant economic sub-serve national Report, nearly 2 billion people in the world organisations, and empower stakeholders priorities is manifest still live in multi-dimensional poverty. With with enhanced incomes and livelihoods. in its commitment to one-third of the world’s poor living in India, One of the most globally celebrated put Country before the challenges are equally daunting. Corporation and the examples is the ITC e-Choupal which has Institution before the The 50-fold increase in world GDP over the empowered 4 million farmers in 40,000 Individual last half century has also taken place at a villages, and is today the world’s largest huge cost to the environment. So much rural digital infrastructure. In addition, ITC’s so that mankind today faces the threat Watershed Development programme of irreversible damage to the eco-system provides soil and moisture conservation to which has put the planet in peril in ways nearly 90,000 hectares of water stressed that have no parallel. Climate change and areas enhancing productivity and raising its impact on poor farmers in developing farm incomes. ITC’s vibrant food brands, nations, the loss in biodiversity that alters Aashirvaad and Bingo, support such nature’s balance, severe water stress that sustainable agri-value chains empowering impacts food security and basic human thousands of farmers. Another path needs, the alarming rate of natural resource breaking initiative is ITC’s Social and depletion are all challenges that have put Farm Forestry programme which utilises the world at the edge of a precipice, thus an extensive research-based clonal severely threatening the future. propagation programme and encourages plantations through poor tribals and small farmers in their private wastelands. This EMBEDDING SUSTAINABILITY initiative has created over 56 million person INTO BUSINESS STRATEGY days of employment while greening over 1,25,000 hectares ITC believes that businesses can bring as of March 2012. about transformational change to create This is yet another a more sustainable future. Inspired by the example of creating opportunity to sub-serve larger national sustainable value priorities, ITC redefined its Vision, a chains through the decade and a half ago, to make societal wood to fibre valuevalue creation the core of its business chain implemented strategy. It is my firm belief that sustainable by ITC’s Paperboards corporations can create larger societal value by not only serving their consumers through competitively superior value propositions but by innovating business strategies to ensure that it simultaneously leads to the creation of sustainable livelihood opportunities and a positive environmental footprint. ITC has consciously strived to deliver societal development in the context of its businesses through inclusive value chains that encompass the most disadvantaged sections of society, especially those residing SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 05 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS business. Similarly ITC’s incense sticks FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS brand Mangaldeep, is creating sustainable livelihood opportunities for rural women ITC has traversed a successful journey of more than a century. We believe we have ITC has consciously through competitive value chains. ITC’s created a future-ready corporation -by strived to deliver Livestock Development programme, which societal development has covered over 5,00,000 milch animals, significantly enhancing our competitive in the context of its supports a dairy value chain and contributes strengths to power the engines of growth businesses through to additional livelihood opportunities for the Indian economy, and also by creating inclusive value chains for farmers. Further, the Company’s sustainable businesses for tomorrow by that encompass the Supplementary Education Programme has keeping societal value creation at the heart most disadvantaged benefitted nearly 2,70,000 children. of our business strategy. This Vision to sections of society, create larger societal capital is driven by especially those strong Values of Trusteeship, Transparency, residing in rural India TOWARDS A CLEANER AND Empowerment, Accountability and Ethical GREENER ENVIRONMENT Corporate Citizenship which are the cornerstones of its Corporate Governance ITC’s approach to address environmental philosophy. challenges is governed by its low ITC’s competitive capabilities that have carbon growth strategy, integrated water enabled it to create world-class Indian management strategy and improved brands, provide the strength to create larger efficiencies in natural resource usage. societal value for all its stakeholders. This Apart from concerted efforts by all units competitive vitality is manifest in its deep to reduce energy consumption through consumer insights, robust brands, trade stringent audits and benchmarking, ITC has marketing & distribution organisation, worldsignificantly expanded its renewable energy class manufacturing and vibrant human portfolio. More than 38% of its energy resources. Large investments in cuttingconsumption is now met from renewable edge Research & Development aimed at sources and this is expected to touch creating the game-changers of tomorrow 50% in the next 4-5 years. ITC has also are further enriching this wide spectrum of spearheaded the green building movement competitive vitality. It is this amalgamation in India. All its super premium luxury hotels of Vision, Values and Vitality that forms are now LEED Platinum certified. Its first the bedrock of our endeavour to create an green building – the ITC Green Centre, exemplary Indian enterprise. is today the world’s highest rated green I hope this Report will inspire meaningful building with Platinum certification by the action to shape a better and secure US Green Building Council. ITC’s new iconic tomorrow so that we can collectively weave property in Chennai – The ITC Grand Chola a brighter future for the generations to come. Hotel, is now the world’s largest LEED Platinum certified green hotel. As part of its commitment to sustainable natural resource management, ITC has also implemented a number of measures in waste management to create a positive environmental footprint. Over and above the YC Deveshwar initiatives in waste recycling, ITC has also Chairman, ITC Limited September, 2012 initiated a unique project – Wealth Out of Waste (WOW) – a recycling programme to create awareness on the ‘Reduce-ReuseRecycle’ approach, and inculcate the habit of source segregation. Apart from augmenting scarce natural resources, the initiative also generates cost-effective raw materials for the paper, plastics, metal and glass industries. 06 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT KEY IMPACTS, RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES: SUSTAINABILITY CHALLENGES TAXATION AND REGULATION High Rates of Taxation on Cigarettes The cigarette industry in India continues to be impacted by a discriminatory taxation and regulatory policy framework. The steep increase in the tax rates on cigarettes, both at the Central and at the State level, has led to the undesirable consequence of shifting consumption to lightly taxed (bidis etc) or tax evaded tobacco products, which constitute ITC will continue as much as 85% of the total tobacco consumption. to engage with policy makers The domestic legal cigarette industry is faced with the growing menace of illegal cigarettes. through industry Independent research indicates that, in India, whilst there is a fall in volumes of ‘duty paid’ associations to seek cigarettes by 4.4% during the period 2005 to 2010, the ‘duty-not-paid’ volumes grew by a non-discriminatory 49.3% during the same period. tax and regulatory India has now been recognised as one of the leading destinations for illegal cigarettes. regime on tobacco Attractive tax arbitrage opportunities, as a result of the high level of taxes on the legal products in the interest domestic cigarette industry in India, incentivises illegal flow of cigarettes into the Country. of the Government exchequer, domestic Another dangerous outcome of the increasing volume of illicit trade is that it encourages farmer community the entry of organised criminal syndicates, which can have serious law and order and industry consequences for the country. ITC’s Initiatives ITC will continue to engage with policy makers through industry associations to seek a non-discriminatory tax and regulatory regime on tobacco products in the interest of the Government exchequer, domestic farmer community and industry. It has been ITC’s strategic intent to create multiple drivers of growth by building a portfolio of world-class businesses leveraging enterprise strengths such as consumer insights, innovative product development, brand building, state of the art manufacturing as well as an efficient supply chain and distribution infrastructure as well as sustained investments in R&D. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 07 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Impact on Livelihoods of Farmers Given the agro-climatic nature of the tobacco growing regions which are mostly rainfed, the farmers get an assured income from growing tobacco and without any proven alternative crops. The disproportionately high taxation on cigarettes also adversely impacts the livelihood of famers in general and the dependent community in particular. Tobacco farmers are important constituents of the Tobacco Industry. Nearly two hundred thousand farmers grow tobacco in 2 southern states of India. High excise duty on cigarettes leads to an increase in the price of cigarettes, which has an impact on the demand for the product. As the price of the product becomes unaffordable, consumers tend to switchover to low cost options like Bidis and illegal cigarettes, which has been quite evident with the decline in the proportion of cigarettes in overall tobacco consumption from 25% in early 1990’s to 15% in 2011-12. Reduction in the demand also impacts the market prices of the farm produce. ­ To cite an example, due to the steep increase in excise duty (by 360%) on non-filter cigarettes during the Union Budget of 2008-09, non-filter cigarettes which accounted for nearly 30% of the cigarette industry, were virtually wiped out of the markets. This had an adverse impact on the demand for domestic tobacco. As a result of this steep hike in tax rates, tobacco which was being used in the manufacture of non-filter cigarettes witnessed a sharp fall in prices (over 20%) during the 2010 market season, thereby adversely affecting the incomes of tobacco farmers. Disparities in cigarette taxation structures would lead to an increase in the smuggling of cigarettes from nearby countries, which would jeopardise the prospects of the Indian Domestic Trade and in turn the dependent farming community. The growth in contraband cigarettes will also lead to a decline in demand for locally produced farm produce and will in turn impact farm prices. 08 KEY IMPACTS POLICIES IMPACTING AGRI BUSINESS In the modern context, the private sector has a vital and complementary role to play in ensuring an increase in agricultural productivity. Investments by large agri businesses can ensure coordination of the availability of inputs, facilitation of finance for crops and capital investments, and augmentation of resources. This will also enable the delivery of customised extension services to improve productivity through technology, regenerate and enrich land fertility, enable better usage of scarce water resources and adopt best practices in crop management. Apart from the lack of fiscal incentives, sizeable investments are today unviable for large agri businesses due to constraints like non-implementation of the ‘Model APMC’ act recommended by the Centre. There is also a lack of cohesiveness of licenses required for agri input sales. For instance, each input like seeds, nutrients, and crop protection chemicals, is governed by a separate act, making it especially cumbersome for companies working across geographies. In addition, the ‘Essential Commodities Act’ imposes an undue burden as it restricts storage, transportation and exports, further affecting the viability. Similar limitations are also imposed by the ‘Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act. While it is acknowledged that strong regulation is necessary to curb excessive speculation, the Act doesn’t allow sufficient flexibility for genuine hedgers and takes away critical risk management tools from them, such as options. ITC operates across the agri value chain in 13 crops with presence in 17 states with resource intensive models that entail heavy capital infrastructure. These initiatives that have empowered over 4 million farmers have been severely crippled by such restrictive regulations that do not distinguish between genuine agri businesses and unscrupulous hoarders. Policy reforms in the agriculture sector need to cognise for several conflicting needs impacting the value chain from the farmer to consumer. The conflicting needs arise from the following: The need to control food-price inflation while simultaneously raising farmer incomes, specially that of small & marginal farmers. Balancing the demands of the high and middle income consumers for quality, variety, safety, and convenience in food products with the food and nutrition security imperative of the low income consumers. Expanding agricultural production through intensive usage of inputs, at the same time being sensitive to the rapidly depleting natural resources. Effectively managing and balancing these conflict is possible though a set of integrated solutions that would include the following: Raising farm productivity. Efficient transmission of demand signals to enable a responsive production system. Optimising transaction cost along the entire value chain. Building market-based institution is the most sustainable and scalable approach to deliver these solutions. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 09 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS POLICIES IMPACTING AGRI BUSINESS ITC’S INITIATIVES ITC will continue to engage with policy makers through industry associations, organisations and other appropriate fora for enabling a balanced and pragmatic policy framework that not only removes restrictive conditions on the efficient functioning of agri businesses but also facilitates the establishment of market based institutions that can raise agricultural productivity and optimise transaction costs across the value chain. ITC’s e-Choupal network, which leverages information technology to empower farmers is a rich repertoire of agri based interventions, not only address the core needs of farmers in terms of infrastructure, connectivity, price discovery and market access, but also provide a significant boost to farm productivity through extension services and research based agri-inputs. Initiatives like the ‘Choupal Pradarshan Khet’ bring suitable agricultural best practices to farmers and have demonstrated significant productivity gains. These interventions have helped transform village communities into vibrant economic ITC’s e-Choupal organisations, by enhancing incomes and co-creating markets. ITC’s e-Choupals network , which serve 40,000 villages and 4 million farmers, making it the world’s largest rural digital leverages information infrastructure. technology to empower farmers is a rich repertoire of agribased interventions not only address the core needs of farmers in terms of infrastructure, connectivity, price discovery and market access, but also provide a significant boost to farm productivity through extension services and research based agriinputs CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEGRADATION The race for unbridled economic growth has left a planet seriously depleted of environmental resources and perched on the brink of disaster. The world’s ecological footprint suggests that consumption of natural resources every year is one and a half times more than the earth’s capacity to regenerate. With increasing population, people will have only 25% of the resources that were available in 1950. India mirrors these environmental challenges. With 17% of the world’s population, India accounts for only 2.4% of the global land mass, 4% of the world’s freshwater resources and 1% of the global forest resources. The exacerbating impact of climate change and global warming is reflected in the changed weather patterns and higher temperatures. This affects agricultural production and thereby severely impacts the livelihoods of farmers. Given that several of ITC’s businesses are dependent on agricultural inputs, the impact of climate change and global warming has important ramifications for the Company and some of its major stakeholders – the farmers and communities in rural India. India is on the edge of a serious water crisis with more than one third of the districts reeling under severe water-stress and 99 districts officially deemed drought-prone. The conservation and management of India’s depleting water and other natural resources is therefore very important. More so because it directly impacts the livelihood security of over 70% of its population and 58% of its workforce, who are dependent on agriculture and related activities for their livelihood. 10 KEY IMPACTS CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEGRADATION Largely consisting of resource-strapped small/marginal farmers, these agricultural communities are almost invariably engaged in rain-fed agriculture and therefore most vulnerable to the adverse impacts of seasonality and environmental degradation. India is also confronted with the challenge of waste management. For example, nearly 7 million MT of paper and paperboards are getting dumped into garbage every year and ending up in landfills. This not only leads to wastage of precious natural resources but also affects public health and hygiene. Energy security is today one of the biggest developmental challenges with 400 million people lacking reliable access to energy in India. The world over, mounting public pressure from civil society and other stakeholders will compel the implementation of stringent regulations on carbon emissions. It is clearly evident that the future competitiveness of companies will depend on their ability to adopt strategies for low carbon growth. Given the growth in infrastructure development in the country, there is a significant increase in the consumption of natural resources. The establishment of green buildings is a natural response to addressing the need to conserve and augment environmental resources. ITC’S INITIATIVES ITC has adopted the following strategies for climate change mitigation and adaptation 1. Identify and evaluate climate change risks for each business. 2. Reduce the environmental impact of our processes, products and services and work towards creating a positive environmental footprint. Adopt a low carbon growth path through reduction in specific energy consumption and enhancing use of renewable energy sources. Enlarge our carbon positive footprint through increased carbon sequestration by expanding forestry projects in wastelands. Reduce specific water consumption and augment rainwater harvesting activities both on site and off site at watershed catchments areas. Work towards minimising waste generation, maximising reuse & recycling and using external post consumer waste as raw material in our units. 3. Creating Sustainable Livelihoods and promoting sustainable agricultural practices. ITC has expanded its renewable energy portfolio with more than 38% of its energy consumption being met from renewable sources. As a part of its low carbon and green growth strategy, ITC has spearheaded the establishment of green buildings which have set benchmarks in energy efficiency, water conservation and solid waste recycling. All ITC’s super premium luxury hotels are LEED Platinum certified. The ITC Green Centre has been identified as the highest rated Platinum Green Building in the world by the US Green Building Council during its certification in 2011. ITC’s afforestation programme has greened over 1,25,000 hectares, which has led to large ITC’s afforestation scale carbon sequestration besides creating over 56 million person days of employment. programme has ITC’s watershed development programme provides soil and moisture conservation to greened over 1,25,000 over 90,000 hectares. This has contributed to the Company’s water positive status for a hectares, which has led decade now. to large scale carbon sequestration besides ITC’s Wealth out of Waste programme promotes recycling, and source segregation and creating over 56 also creates awareness among all stakeholders on the benefits of the Reduce-Reuse and million person days of Recycle Approach. This initiative has enabled ITC’s paperboards business to source and employment recycle post consumer waste, thereby contributing to ITC’s solid waste recycling status. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 11 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS POVERTY AND SOCIAL INEQUITIES Nearly 700 million people living in rural India, with low adaptive capacities, have a direct and symbiotic dependence on climate sensitive sectors (agriculture, forest and fisheries) and natural resources (such as water, bio-diversity, mangroves, coastal zones and grasslands) for their substance and livelihood. Limited options of alternative off-farm employment combined with endemic poverty continue to imperil the livelihood security of millions of small and marginal framers, mainly in the rain-fed agriculture regions. The production regime in rain-fed agriculture is inherently fragile and getting more so due to a number of factors: An estimated 147 million hectares suffer from various forms of land degradation due to water and erosion, stemming mainly from unstable use and inappropriate land management practices. Erosion rates are reported to be in the range of 5 to 20 tonnes/ hectare. As many as 99 districts spread over 14 states were identified by the Central Water Commission as drought prone in the country. Such areas are concentrated in the states of Rajasthan, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. Of the total utilisation water available for agriculture, groundwater alone accounts for 39% of the water used in agriculture yet, the central Ground Water Board reported that 1,565 blocks (one-third of the total) ranged from semi-critical to over-exploited groundwater status. Based on the current evidence, there is a compelling case to argue that these factors are likely to get exacerbated due to the changes wrought by climate change, leading to an increase in the frequency and intensity of droughts and floods. Climate change over the long-term will thus affect the rural economy in a number of ways – the majority of which would threaten food security for the most vulnerable people. ITC’S INITIATIVES Recognising that business enterprises are economic organs of society and draw on societal resources, it is ITC’s belief that a company’s performance must be measured by its Triple Bottom Line contribution to building economic, societal and environmental capital. ITC is therefore, committed to creating larger ‘stakeholder value’ by aligning its performance to such Triple Bottom Line objectives. As an Indian enterprise, ITC believes that this approach can unleash strong drivers, making growth more inclusive and equitable and also ensures long-term business sustainability and competitiveness. ITCs has implemented an extensive social Investments programme in geographies where the Company has strategic business interests and presence. To ensure long term sustainability of these investments, and to enable replicability and scalability, these programmes have been aligned and integrated with the business value chains of the ITCs has implemented Company. an extensive The programmes strive to empower stakeholder communities to conserve and manage social Investments their natural resources, create sustainable on and off farm livelihood sources and improve programme in social infrastructure in order to support creation of sustainable livelihoods on a significant geographies where scale backed by an empowered stakeholder community. the Company has strategic business The scale and impact of these initiatives are reflected in the following: interests and presence ITC e-Choupals have empowered over 4 million farmers in 40,000 villages. ITC’s Social and Farm Forestry Programme has created over 56 million person days of employment and has greened over 125,000 hectares. ITC’s Watershed Development Programme covers nearly 90,000 hectares of moisture stressed areas. ITC’s Livestock Development Programme has reached out to over 3,00,000 milch animals. ITC’s Women’s Empowerment Programme has benefitted nearly 40,000 rural women. ITC’s Supplementary Education Programme has covered nearly 2,70,000 children. 12 KEY IMPACTS SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Our supply chain comprises a large number of small-scale partners. Many of them operate under limiting circumstances in terms of their ability to invest in efficient technologies and their necessity to rely on labour intensive practices. It will be important to integrate the Triple Bottom Line approach amongst the supply chain for long-term competitiveness by adopting a balanced approach towards creation of livelihoods and economic viability of the small scale units. ITC’S INITIATIVES The Company’s engagement with the supply chain will be extended in a structured and phased manner. ITC has mandated some of its suppliers to comply with external certifications such as ISO 14000. Efforts have been made to engage with our suppliers to enable reduction in specific energy consumption. ITC is progressing on the Life Cycle Analysis of its products and services to identify risks and opportunities along the entire value chain, which would necessitate larger interventions with our supply chain. ADDRESSING ISSUES RELATED TO EMPLOYEE SAFETY Given India’s favourable demographic dividend, it is evident that a large pool of India’s youth is joining the workforce every year. The presence and participation of a large young pool of man power makes it critically important for an organisation to address issues related to accidents and safety. While we are progressing steadily towards our target of zero accidents within our premises, we cognise that accidents outside the workplace are on the rise in India given issues such as the steady proliferation of 2 wheelers on the roads, which are rendered unsafe due to poor conditions and inadequate infrastructure. ITC’S INITIATIVES While we have introduced a number of safety measures in our Units and have achieved international benchmarks in safety standards, we have witnessed an increase in the spate of road accidents amongst our young employees. We have designed and implemented specific programmes to address the issue of road accidents, which have begun to show tangible benefits. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 13 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE Powering Growth with Multiple Business Drivers Creating World-Class Indian Brands Certification, Honours and Awards FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS I TC is one of India’s foremost private the World Business and Development Award sector companies and a diversified 2012 at the historic Rio+20 United Nations conglomerate with interests in Summit. Consumer Goods, Hotels, Paperboards ITC’s businesses help in generating over and Packaging, Agri Business and 5 million livelihoods across value chains Information Technology. With a market that touch the lives of many who live at the capitalisation of around US$ 35 billion margin in rural India. ITC’s inclusive business and a turnover of nearly US$ 7 billion, models have transformed lives in such ITC has been rated among the World’s meaningful ways for the weakest sections of Best Big Companies, Asia’s ‘Fab 50’ and our society. among India’s Most Valuable Companies by Business Today. It has been ranked as the world’s 6th largest ‘sustainable value creator’ among consumer goods companies globally, according to a report by the Boston Consulting Group (BCG). These achievements are an extension of ITC’s continuing story of transformation, from ITC: Powered by the Vitality of a single product company to a diversified world-class Indian Brands conglomerate with multiple drivers of growth. ITC is today the leading FMCG marketer in India, the second largest Hotel chain, the leader by a distinct margin in the Paperboard and Packaging industry, and the foremost Agri business player in the country. ITC’s wholly owned subsidiary, ITC Infotech India Limited is one of India’s fast growing IT companies in the mid-tier segment. ITC’s exemplary performance along the Triple Bottom Line is powered by its overarching vision, its robust corporate strategies and its relentless pursuit to create enduring and sustainable value chains. This is fundamentally inspired by a larger national purpose to build societal capital. Indeed, ITC’s achievements in the environmental and social dimensions have been remarkable. ITC has been Carbon Positive for 7 consecutive years, sequestering twice its emissions; Water Positive for 10 years, having created freshwater potential that is more than twice its consumption; and has remained Solid Waste Recycling Positive for over 5 years now. These achievements remain unparalleled globally, with ITC being the only enterprise in the world of its dimensions to have accomplished and sustained these environmental distinctions. For its transformational rural initiatives in social and farm forestry, ITC was conferred 16 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE FAST MOVING CONSUMER GOODS T he Indian Fast Moving Consumer short span of time, ITC has established Goods (FMCG) sector is the fourth several strong consumer brands in the Indian largest sector in the economy. FMCG market. ITC’s unwavering focus on Currently estimated at US$ 13.1 billion, quality, innovation and differentiation backed ITC has continued it is expected to grow to US$ 33.4 billion by deep consumer insights, world class R&D to rapidly scale up by 2015. and an efficient and responsive supply chain its FMCG Businesses will further strengthen its leadership position comprising Branded In light of these encouraging trends, ITC in the Indian FMCG industry. Packaged Foods, has continued to rapidly scale up its FMCG Personal Care Businesses comprising Branded Packaged Products, Education & Foods, Personal Care Products, Education & Stationery Products, Lifestyle Retailing, Safety BRANDED PACKAGED FOODS Stationery Products, Lifestyle Retailing, Matches and Incense Sticks (Agarbattis). ITC’s portfolio includes a robust range of Safety Matches Segment revenues have grown at an well-differentiated products, supported and Incense Sticks impressive compound annual rate of nearly by significant investments in product (Agarbattis) 40% in the last 6 years. Within a relatively development, innovation, manufacturing SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 1705 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS technology. ITC’s array includes staples, of soaps, shampoos and shower gels spices, biscuits, snack foods, confectionery under the Fiama Di Wills, Vivel and Superia and ready-to-eat meals, under six brands – brands. During the year, it forayed into the ‘Aashirvaad’, ‘Sunfeast’, ‘Kitchens of India’, talcum powder and face wash categories Segment revenues ‘Bingo!’, ‘mint-o’ and ‘Candyman’. In 2010 with offerings under the Fiama Di Wills and have grown at an The Business launched ‘Sunfeast Yippee’ Vivel brands. The Business also successfully impressive compound noodles in the fast growing instant noodles introduced new range of soaps under the annual rate of nearly category. ‘Vivel’ franchise – ‘Vivel Luxury Créme’ 40% in the last 6 years. Last year several new products were added variant and ‘Vivel Clear 3-in-1’. Within a relatively to the existing assortment with the launch The Business continued to grow at a healthy short span of time, ITC of ‘Bingo! Tangles’, ‘CandymanToffichoo – rate despite the high degree of competition, has established several Lychee Flavour’, ‘Sunfeast Dream Cream especially from entrenched players. .‘Vivel’ strong consumer Biscuits’ and ‘MintoGol – Green Mango and ‘Superia’ soaps and shampoos have brands in the Indian Chew.’ together reached over 9.9 crore households. FMCG market Despite the economic slowdown last year, Sustained investment in R&D has resulted the Business enhanced its market standing in a healthy pipeline of new and innovative across segments, recording a growth of products. Together with investments in 24% over the previous year. world class manufacturing processes and technology, this will enable the Business to A combination of improvements in product further strengthen its portfolio of superior and process efficiencies, smart sourcing and differentiated products. and supply chain initiatives ensures that the quality of products continues to be ‘best-inclass,’ and is seen as a benchmark in the industry across all segments. CIGARETTES The market leader for cigarettes in India, ITC’s leadership position is backed by its PERSONAL CARE PRODUCTS ceaseless innovation in quality, technology and sustainability. ITC’s Personal Care Products Business continued to strengthen its existing portfolio 18 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE LIFESTYLE RETAILING With a distinctive cross-segment presence at the premium end, ITC has also established ITC’s Lifestyle Retailing Business offers John Players as a brand that offers a discerning consumers a complete fashion complete fashion wardrobe to the male Wills Lifestyle is the wardrobe as well as an international shopping youth of today. first Indian brand to experience through a nationwide chain of receive the prestigious exclusive Wills Lifestyle stores. Wills Lifestyle Wills Lifestyle is now available in 86 exclusive ‘Oeko-Tex Standard offers a tempting choice of Wills Classic stores in 40 cities and across more than 300 100 Certification’for work wear, Wills Sport relaxed wear, Wills leading departmental stores and multi-brand limiting the use of Clublife evening wear, fashion accessories outlets.The presence of ‘John Players’ was certain chemicals and Essenza Di Wills -an exclusive range expanded to 340 flagship stores and 1,100 of fine fragrances and bath & body care multi brand outlets and departmental stores. products and Fiama Di Wills – a range of premium shampoos and shower gels. In the premium range, Wills Signature offers a bouquet of designs by leading Indian fashion designers. Last year the brand further consolidated its premium tag with designer Wendell Rodricks. Wills Lifestyle is also the first Indian brand to receive the prestigious ‘Oeko-Tex Standard 100 Certification’ for limiting the use of certain chemicals. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 1905 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS EDUCATION AND STATIONERY PRODUCTS ITC is the leading and fastest growing player in the Indian stationery market. Its flagship brand ‘Classmate’ is India’s leading student notebook brand with a distribution footprint of over 75,000 stationery retail outlets across the country. The Classmate range is sourced from small scale manufacturers, who have continuously improved their delivery and quality capabilities. A majority of them, with ITC’s assistance, are ISO 9001:2008 certified. Paper and recycled board are also sourced from ITC’s mills which use pulp sourced from renewable forestry. The Business has also positioned Paperkraft Premium Business Paper, as an environment friendly multi-purpose paper. Its green credentials are supported, among other factors, by ITC’s membership of the prestigious Global Forest & Trade Network. INCENSE STICKS (AGARBATTIS) ITC’s Agarbatti Business recorded an impressive growth in revenues and enhanced market standing during the year. This was driven by increasing consumer franchise for the ‘Mangaldeep’ brand combined with deeper distribution reach and innovative consumer offerings. Mangaldeep is the second largest national brand in the industry. The Business continues to provide livelihood opportunities to more than 12,000 people through small and medium scale entrepreneurs and NGOs and Self Help Groups across India. Business initiatives of introducing enabling tools and technology in the rural communities continue to enhance product quality and increase the earning potential of agarbatti rollers. The Business was a significant contributor to ITC’s commitment to Triple Bottom Line objectives. SAFETY MATCHES ITC’s Safety Matches Business maintained its market leadership aided by continued consumer preference for its strong brand portfolio across all market segments. 20 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE HOTELS I TC’s Hotels Business continues to be Fortune’ this year under the ‘Fortune’ brand, rated amongst the fastest growing designed to cater to the upscale business hospitality chains, with over 100 traveller. The first ‘My Fortune’ hotel was ITC Hotels pioneered properties in 80 locations, and operating launched in Chennai during the year and the concept of under four distinct brands – ‘ITC Hotel’ further expansion is on the anvil. ‘Responsible Luxury’ for ‘luxury’, ‘WelcomHotel’ in the ‘five star in the hospitality In pursuit of ITC’s commitment to segment’, ‘Fortune’ in the ‘mid-market to industry, drawing ‘Responsible Luxury,’ investments have upscale segment’ and ‘WelcomHeritage’ in on the strengths been made to provide clean power to ITC’s the ‘heritage leisure segment.’ of the group hotels in Bengaluru, Mumbai and Jaipur. ITC Hotels pioneered the concept of Further investments in wind energy were Company’s exemplary ‘Responsible Luxury’ in the hospitality also made at the newly built ITC Grand sustainability practices industry, drawing on the strengths of Chola at Chennai. the Company’s exemplary sustainability practices. Responsible Luxury personifies an ethos that integrates world-class green practices with contemporary design elements to deliver the best of luxury in the greenest possible manner. The Responsible Luxury commitment of ITC Hotels blends elements of nature to deliver a unique value proposition to guests who are conscious of their responsibility to be planet positive. A leader in the premium hospitality segment, ITC Hotels has pioneered several first–of-itskind offerings, creating new benchmarks with the introduction of value based accommodation brands, branded cuisines and the ‘eco-easy’ model of hoteliering. Today, these unique interventions have made ITC Hotels the ‘greenest luxury hotel chain in the world’ with all its premium luxury hotels LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Platinum certified. Recognising the changing preferences of the business traveller, ITC launched ‘My SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 2105 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS PAPERBOARDS, SPECIALTY PAPER AND PACKAGING PAPERBOARDS AND A front runner in introducing cutting edge SPECIALITY PAPERS environmental practices in India, ITC established the country’s first Elemental BUSINESS Chlorine Free fibre line and Ozone Bleaching India’s largest, technologically advanced technology. ITC also became the first in the and most eco-friendly Paper and country to gain membership of the Global Paperboards Business. The Business caters Forest & Trade Network (GFTN) of the to a wide spectrum of packaging, graphic, World Wild life Fund (WWF). Committed communication, writing, printing and to developing a sustainable raw material specialty paper requirements through its base, ITC’s pulpwood is largely sourced four world-class manufacturing units, which from renewable plantations under its Social are today FSC certified. and Farm Forestry Programme, which 22 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE ITC also became the first in the country to gain membership of the Global Forest & Trade Network (GFTN) of the World Wild life Fund (WWF) assists tribals and farmers to convert their wastelands into commercial plantations – turning an unproductive asset into a sustainable livelihood option. Further, ITC’s collaborative initiative called ‘Wealth Out of Waste’ (WOW) continues to promote and facilitate waste paper recycling, with a view to conserving scarce natural resources. ITC also achieved the distinction of being the first paper company in India to obtain the Forest Stewardship Council Forest Management (FSC-FM) certification covering 8,000 hectares of social forestry plantations involving about 9,000 farmers. PACKAGING AND PRINTING BUSINESS The largest value added converter of paperboard packaging in South Asia. It converts over 70,000 tonnes of paper, paperboard and laminates per annum into a variety of value-added packaging solutions for the food & beverage, personal care products, cigarette, liquor and consumer goods industries. With 3 packaging factories at Tiruvottiyur near Chennai (in the South), Munger in Bihar (in the East), and Haridwar (in the North), ITC offers a comprehensive product range in packaging backed by its packaging expertise over decades and cutting edge technology making it truly a ‘one stop shop for Packaging’. Last year, the Business won several awards for operational excellence, innovation and creativity. These include 2 ‘World Star Awards’ from the ‘World Packaging Organisation,’ 3 ‘Asia Star Awards’ from the ‘Asian Packaging Federation’ and 13 awards instituted by ‘Indian Flexible Packaging and Carton Manufacturers Association’ (IFCA) for excellence in packaging solutions. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 2305 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS AGRI BUSINESS I TC’s commitment to creating enduring the transfer of new varieties of wheat value chains is evident in its strong farmer seeds to farmers under Public Private partnerships that have revolutionised Partnership (PPP). and transformed the agricultural sector. ITC also initiated the ‘Market Based ITC’s pioneering initiatives in the Indian Partnership for Health’ programme on a agricultural sector has led to enhancement pilot basis in alliance with the United States of farm productivity and empowerment Agency for International Development of farmers. By promoting sustainable (USAID). The programme specifically agricultural practices and providing efficient focussed on improving maternal and child market access, ITC’s e-Choupal initiative is ITC’s pioneering health and hygiene. These initiatives will an example of how private sector initiatives initiatives in the Indian progressively transform the e-Choupal can complement state interventions to agricultural sector has network into an all-weather venture create significant value for the farmer. led to enhancement – relatively de-risked from regulatory of farm productivity In order to enhance productivity and uncertainties and market volatility – and empowerment of establish effective linkages to markets, even as it continues to provide strategic farmers ITC signed an MoU last year with Indian sourcing support to ITC’s Foods and other Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) for businesses. 24 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY I TC’s wholly owned subsidiary, ITC Infotech has today carved a niche for itself in the arena of global IT services and solutions with a robust outsourcing model, comprehensive suite of differentiated solutions & services and focus on excellence in execution. The company services a plethora of industries, including Banking Financial Services & Insurance (BFSI), Consumer Packaged Goods (CPG), Retail, Manufacturing, Engineering Services, Media and Entertainment, Travel, Hospitality, Life Sciences and Transportation and Logistics. The Business is focussed on providing Engineering and IT solutions to industries in Oil and Gas, Manufacturing, Consumer Goods and Transportation segments among others. ITC Infotech’s capabilities also accrue from business critical engagements with leading organisations across 5 continents, and a service delivery footprint spanning over 140 countries. Last year, the Business also set up branches in Hong Kong, France, Germany and South Korea. This was part of a selective expansion of market presence in high potential geographies to leverage market opportunities and also to serve as a measure of risk mitigation in the event of economic challenges in other markets. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 2505 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS CERTIFICATIONS, HONOURS AND AWARDS Development, presented by the Finance Minister, Shri Pranab Mukherjee (2010) Chairman Y C Deveshwar received the Business Person of the Year Award from UK Trade & Investment (2006) Chairman Y C Deveshwar was awarded the SAM/SPG Sustainability Leadership Award in Zurich (2007) ITC conferred the prestigious ‘World The National Award for Excellence in Business and Corporate Governance from the Institute Development of Company Secretaries of India (2007) Award 2012’ at the ITC was ranked 2nd among top Indian Rio+20 UN Summit companies in the first of its kind Sandard for its Social and & Poor Environmental, Social and Farm Forestry Corporate Governance ratings (2008) Initiatives ITC ranked 2nd among top companies in India and 7th in Asia in the first of its kind Asian Sustainability Rating released by MAJOR AWARDS CSR Asia (2010) OVER THE YEARS ITC became the first Indian Company to Chairman Y C Deveshwar was conferred gain Membership with WWF-GFTN for the Padma Bhushan by the Government Responsible Forestry (2010) of India (2011) ITC was ranked the world’s 6th largest Chairman Y C Deveshwar was conferred sustainable value creator among the Global Leadership Award by the consumer goods companies according US India Business Council of the US to a Report by Boston Consulting Group Chamber of Commerce (2010) (2010) The FICCI Outstanding Vision Corporate ITC won the top UNIDO Award at the Triple Impact Award, presented by the International Conference on Sharing Prime Minister, Dr Manmohan Singh (2008) Innovative Agri Business Solutions at The FICCI Award for Outstanding Cairo (2008) Achievement in Rural and Community ITC was conferred the Corporate Social 26 CERTIFICATION, HONOURS AND AWARDS Responsibility Crown Award for Water The Paperboards Unit in Kovai was Practices from UNESCO and Water conferred the CII National Award for Digest (2008) Excellence in Water Management 2011 The Asian CSR Award for Environmental ITC’s Unit at Bhadrachalam received the Excellence, given by the Asian Institute of Excellent Energy Efficient Award from CII Management (2007) at the National Awards for Excellence in Energy Management 2011 ITC was the 1st Indian Company and 2nd in the world to win the Development ITC Hotels was awarded the ‘Most Gateway Award for its trail-blazing Trusted Hotel brand’ in the Public Choice e-Choupal initiative (2005) Honours category at the Times Travel Honours 2011 Inaugural World Business Award by UNDP for ITC’s e-Choupal initiative Bukhara, Dum Pukht and Dakshin (2004) were the only 3 Indian brands that were awarded among the TOP 20 Restaurants ITC e-Choupal won the Stockholm of Asia by the Miele Asia, Singapore Challenge Award (2006) ITC’s Unit at Kolkata was conferred ITC was rated amongst Asia-Pacific’s 50 the Water Efficient Unit for the second biggest listed companies in ‘Asia Fab 50’ consecutive year by CII at the 8th by Forbes in 2010 National Awards for Excellence in Water All ITC’s super premium luxury hotels Management, 2011 accorded LEED Platinum status making ITC Hotels the ‘Greenest Luxury Hotel Chain in the World’ SELECT AWARDS RECEIVED IN 2011-12 Rotary International honoured Chairman Y C Deveshwar with the title “Jewel of India” for demonstrating exemplary leadership ITC’s Paperboards Units at Bhadrachalam, Bollaram, Kovai and Tribeni are now FSC Chain of Custody certified The Smart Wood Program of the Rainforest Alliance has awarded ITC’s Unit at Bhadrachalam, the Forest Stewardship Council Forest Management certification ITC Green Centre re-certified LEED Platinum with the highest ratings by US Green Building Council ITC’s Corporate Communications received 6 national awards from the Public Relations Society of India Wills Lifestyle products have been granted the OEKO-TEX Standard 100 certification by Hohenstein Textile Testing Institute ITC’s Agri Business Division has won the FICCI Food 360 Award in recognition of ITC’s contribution to the entire Food Value Chain SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 2705 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS CERTIFICATIONS AND ITC Gardenia received this certification AWARDS from the Indian Green Building Council Green Factory Building – LEED ISO 14001: Environment Management ‘PLATINUM’ rating by the Indian Green Systems Building Council All manufacturing Units of ITC, all the Cigarette Units at Saharanpur and major hotels and the ITC R&D Centre at Bengaluru Bengaluru hold this certification. OHSAS 18001: Occupational Health & AWARDS Safety Management Systems The following awards received during All the manufacturing Units of ITC have 2011-12 bear testimony to the highest EHS this certification. standards maintained in the various units of the company and significant achievements SA 8000: Social Accountability made. Leaf Processing Plants at Chirala and Anaparti, Cigarette Factory at Kolkata, Sword of Honour by British Safety Surya Nepal’s Simra Unit, Packaging Council & Printing Unit at Tiruvottiyur and ITC Paperboards and Specialty Paper Units Infotech Bengaluru Unit have this at Bollaram and Tribeni certification. Globe of Honour by British Safety Food Safety: ISO 22000/HACCP Food Council Safety Management System: Paperboards and Specialty Paper Units ITC Maurya, ITC Mughal, ITC Maratha, at Bhadrachalam and Kovai ITC Grand Central, ITC Sonar, ITC Windsor, ITC Kakatiya, ITC Rajputana 5 star Health and Safety Management and WelcomHotel Sheraton New Delhi rating by British Safety Council and My Fortune Chennai have this Paperboards and Specialty Paper Units certification. at Bollaram, Tribeni and Kovai Foods Unit at Haridwar & Pune have also International Safety Award by British received this certification. Safety Council Leadership in Energy & Environmental Paperboards and Specialty Paper Unit at Design (LEED) Platinum Rating Kovai ITC Maurya, ITC Windsor, ITC Maratha, Green leaf threshing plants at Anaparti ITC Grand Central, ITC Mughal, ITC and Chirala Sonar, ITC Kakatiya and ITC Rajputana have this certification from US Green Packaging and Printing unit at Munger Building Council. 28 CERTIFICATION, HONOURS AND AWARDS Five Star rating in Environment Rajasthan Energy Conservation Management by British Safety Council, Award 2011 by Dept. Of Energy, Govt. UK of Rajasthan Paperboards and Specialty Paper Units ITC Rajputana at Bhadrachalam and Kovai Award for achievement in Energy ROSPA Occupational Health & Safety Conservation by Karnataka Renewable Gold Award by Royal Society for Energy Development Ltd. Prevention of Accidents, UK Cigarette Unit at Bengaluru Cigarette Factory at Munger, Bengaluru, ENCON Award 2011-12 by Saharanpur and Kidderpore Confederation of Indian Industry – “Shreshtha Suraksha Puraskar” (Silver Eastern Region trophy and Certificate) by National Cigarette Factory at Munger Safety Council, Mumbai Certificate of commendation for Cigarette Factory at Munger excellence in Environment, Health & National Award for Excellence in Safety for 2011 by Confederation of Energy Management 2011 “Energy Indian Industry – Southern Region Efficient Unit” by Confederation of Cigarette Unit at Bengaluru Indian Industry Excellence award in Safety, Health Cigarette Unit at Bengaluru & Environment for 2011-12 by National Award for Excellence Confederation of Indian Industry – in Energy Management 2011 Eastern Region “Excellent Energy Efficient Unit” by Cigarette Unit at Kidderpore Confederation of Indian Industry International Safety Award 2012 by Paperboards and Specialty Paper Unit at British Safety Council Bhadrachalam Packaging and Printing Unit at Munger Unnatha Suraksha Puraskara 2010-11 by National Safety Council, Karnataka Chapter Cigarette Unit at Benguluru Gold Award in FMCG sector for outstanding achievement in Environment Management by Greentech Foundation, New Delhi Foods Business Unit (Biscuits unit & Snacks unit), Haridwar National Awards for Excellence in Water Management, 2011 by Confederation of Indian Industry Cigarette Units at Benguluru and Kidderpore Green leaf threshing plant at Anaparti National Award for Efficient Unit in Water Conservation, 2011 by Confederation of Indian Industry Paperboards and Specialty Paper Unit at Bhadrachalam Packaging and Printing unit at Tiruvottiyur SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 2905 REPORT PROFILE, SCOPE AND BOUNDARY 30 REPORT PROFILE, SCOPE AND BOUNDARY T his 9th Sustainability Report covers influence assessments or decisions of the sustainability performance for the our stakeholders. Our Businesses/Units period from April 1, 2011 to March continue to proactively engage with key 31, 2012. stakeholders, who, either have a major interest or are significantly affected by our We report our performance on an annual operations, products or services. The details basis and the last Sustainability Report was on stakeholder engagement are covered published in September 2011. elsewhere in the Report. ITC is headquartered at Virginia House, 37 Sustainability and sustainable development J L Nehru Road, Kolkata, 700 071 (India). are integral to ITC’s ethos and find The contact point for any clarifications on expression in our commitment to enhancing the report or for requesting additional copies the Triple Bottom Line of economic, social of this report is Corporate Communications and environmental capital. Department at the above address or e-mail: enduringvalue@itc.in. We continue our efforts to influence we continue our sustainability practices along the value chain efforts to influence This Report covers performance of all the sustainability and we intend to extend them significantly in Businesses and Units directly under ITC practices along the the years to come, to cover all our suppliers. value chain and we Limited and the 4 subsidiary companies where we have operational control. The economic performance reported here intend to extend them significantly This covers all our significant operations in is from the Company’s Report & Accounts in the years to come, India and the one subsidiary company based (R&A) 2012. The R&A 2012 was prepared to cover all our suppliers. in Nepal as detailed in Reporting Boundary. in accordance with the Companies Act, 1956 and has been audited by independent The reporting principles and methodology External Auditors M/s Deloitte Haskins & continue to remain in accordance with the Sells. 2006 version of GRI G3 guidelines. The relevant indicator and technical protocols The data on environment & social sections is have been followed for reporting on various based on actual performance of the various indicators and there has been no significant businesses, factories, hotels and large change in reporting scope or boundary limits offices of the Company and the Subsidiaries. over last year. Authenticities of these data and systems have been verified by M/s Ernst & Young This report reflects material issues, which as per the assurance statement provided, have significant economic, environmental which forms a part of this Report. and social impacts that can substantially SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 31 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS REPORTING BOUNDARY T his Report covers the following PAPERBOARDS, PAPER & Businesses and their corresponding Units: PACKAGING Units at: Munger (Bihar), Tiruvottiyur (Tamil Nadu), Haridwar (Uttarakhand), FMCG Tribeni (West Bengal), Bhadrachalam (Andhra Pradesh), Bollaram Cigarette Units at Kolkata (West Bengal), (Andhra Pradesh), Kovai (Tamil Nadu) Bengaluru (Karnataka), Munger (Bihar), Saharanpur (Uttar Pradesh) & Pune (Maharastra) LIFESTYLE RETAILING & OTHERS FMCG OTHERS Units at: Design & Tech. Centre, Gurgaon (Haryana), ITC R&D Centre, Bengaluru Foods Units at Haridwar (Uttarakhand) (Karnataka), ITC Green Centre, Gurgaon & Pune (Maharashtra), Personal Care (Haryana), ITC Head Office, Kolkata Products Units at Haridwar (Uttarakhand) (West Bengal) & Manpura (Himachal Pradesh) HOTELS SUBSIDIARIES ITC Hotels Maurya (New Delhi), Maratha ITC Infotech India Limited (Mumbai), Grand Central (Mumbai), Units at Bengaluru (Karnataka) and Kolkata Sonar (Kolkata), Mughal (Agra), Windsor (West Bengal) (Bengaluru), Gardenia (Bengaluru), Rajputana (Jaipur), My Fortune (Chennai), Surya Nepal Private Limited Sheraton New Delhi (New Delhi) Cigarette Manufacturing Unit at Simra (Nepal) Srinivasa Resorts Limited AGRI BUSINESS ITC Kakatiya, Hyderabad (Andhra Pradesh) Units at: Anaparti (Andhra Pradesh), Chirala (Andhra Pradesh), Research Centre, Bay Islands Hotels Limited Rajahmundry (Andhra Pradesh) Fortune Resort Bay Island hotel, Port Blair (Andaman & Nicobar) 32 REPORT PROFILE, SCOPE AND BOUNDARY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 33 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENTS FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Effective management of multiple businesses through a three-tiered governance structure Clearly defined roles and responsibilities Robust & comprehensive framework of strategic planning and performance management Building an institution of tomorrow 34 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENTS O ur Corporate Governance each one of them. The practice of Corporate processes are designed to support Governance at ITC takes place at three effective management of multiple interlinked levels: businesses while retaining focus on STRATEGIC SUPERVISION by the Board of Directors (Board) STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT by the Corporate Management Committee (CMC) by the Divisional/Strategic Business Unit (SBU) EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Chief Executive assisted by the respective Divisional/SBU Management Committee (DMC) The role, powers and composition of the Board, Board Committees, CMC and DMC are available on the Company’s corporate website. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 35 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE BOARD OF DIRECTORS SUSTAINABILITY AUDIT COMPENSATION CORPORATE NOMINATIONS INVESTOR COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE SERVICES COMMITTEE COMMITTEE DIVISIONAL / SBU CORPORATE FUNCTIONS MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES Each headed by a Divisional/SBU Chief Executive Each headed by a Head of Department Businesses include: Corporate Functions include: FMCG, Hotels, Paperboards, Specialty Planning & Treasury, Accounting, Taxation, Papers & Packaging, Agri Business and Risk Management, Legal, Secretarial, Information Technology Internal Audit, EHS, Human Resources, Corporate Communications, Corporate Affairs, Research & Development and IT Support Services 36 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENTS CHAIR OF THE HIGHEST amongst eminent professionals with GOVERNANCE BODY experience in business / finance / law / public enterprises. The selection of Executive The Chairman is the Chief Executive of the Directors is done by the Nominations ITC has a diversified Company. He is the Chairman of the Board Committee, which comprises the Chairman business portfolio, and the CMC. His primary role is to provide of the Company and eight Non-Executive which demands leadership to the Board and the CMC for Directors, seven of whom are Independent that the senior realising Company goals in accordance with Directors. leadership has an the charter approved by the Board. in-depth knowledge and understanding ITC has a diversified business portfolio, which PERFORMANCE OF THE of the functioning demands that the senior leadership has an of the Company, so in-depth knowledge and understanding of HIGHEST GOVERNANCE as to enhance the the functioning of the Company, so as to BODY value-generating enhance the value-generating capacity of The Board evaluates Directors collectively capacity of the the organisation and contribute significantly to reinforce the principle of collective organisation to stakeholders’ aspirations and societal responsibility. expectations. The Chairman of the Company is therefore chosen from the Executive Management. COMPENSATION FOR MEMBERS OF THE HIGHEST BOARD OF DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE BODY Remuneration of the Chairman and other The ITC Board is a balanced Board, Executive Directors is determined by the comprising 4 Executive and 12 NonBoard, on the recommendation of the Executive Directors (including 9 Independent Compensation Committee comprising only Directors). Non-Executive Directors; remuneration of the Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders. Such remuneration SELECTION OF DIRECTORS is linked to the performance of the ITC’s Governance Policy requires that Company in as much as the performance the Non-Executive Directors, including bonus is based on various qualitative Independent Directors, be drawn from and quantitative performance criteria. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 3705 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Remuneration to Non-Executive Directors PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH is by way of commission for each financial year; such commission is determined by As a diversified enterprise, the Company the Board within the limits approved by the has always had a system-based approach shareholders. Their remuneration is based, to business risk management. Backed inter alia, on Company performance and by strong internal control systems, the regulatory provisions and is payable on a current risk management framework of the uniform basis to reinforce the principle of Company consists of the following elements: collective responsibility. Non-Executive The Corporate Governance Policy clearly Directors are also entitled to sitting fees lays down the roles and responsibilities for attending meetings of the Board and of the various entities in relation to risk Committees thereof, the quantum of which management. A range of responsibilities, is determined by the Board, within the limit from the strategic to the operational, approved by the shareholders. is specified in the Governance Policy. These role definitions, inter alia, are aimed at ensuring the formulation In terms of the ITC AVOIDANCE OF CONFLICTS of appropriate risk management Code of Conduct, OF INTEREST policies and procedures, their effective Directors, senior implementation and independent In terms of the ITC Code of Conduct, monitoring and reporting by Internal management and Directors, senior management and Audit. employees must avoid employees must avoid situations in which situations in which their personal interests could conflict with The Corporate Risk Management Cell their personal interests the interests of the Company. This is an works with the Businesses to identify and could conflict with area in which it is impossible to provide establish the respective risk profiles. The the interests of the comprehensive guidance but the guiding risk profiles include both strategic risks Company and operational risks. principle is that conflicts, if any, or potential conflicts, must be disclosed to higher management for guidance and action as appropriate. Contracts in which Directors are interested, if any, are required to be placed before the Board for approval. Further, senior management is also required to confirm on an annual basis that no material transaction has been entered into by them which could have potential conflict with the interests of the Company; such confirmations are placed before the Board. The Company has a Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading (‘ITC Code’) in the securities of the Company. The ITC Code, inter alia, prohibits purchase/sale of securities of the Company by Directors and employees while in possession of unpublished price sensitive information in relation to the Company. SHAREHOLDER MECHANISMS Detailed in the Shareholders’ section of ‘Stakeholder Engagement’. 38 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENTS A combination of centrally issued policies OVERSIGHT, and divisionally-evolved procedures brings robustness to the process of IMPLEMENTATION AND ensuring that business risks are effectively AUDIT OF ECONOMIC, addressed. Appropriate structures ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL have been put in place to proactively AND RELATED POLICIES monitor and manage the inherent risks in Businesses with unique/relatively high The CMC approves the relevant Financial, risk profiles. Environmental, Occupational Health & Safety and Social Development policies of A strong and independent Internal ITC. The Corporate Internal Audit Function Audit function at the Corporate level audits the implementation of all systems carries out risk-focussed audits across and policies in all Company businesses and all businesses, enabling identification Corporate Headquarters. The Head of the of areas where risk management Corporate EHS Department is responsible processes may need to be improved. for laying down ITC’s EHS standards, The Audit Committee of the Board preparing EHS Guidelines and ensuring reviews Internal Audit findings, and effective implementation. EHS performance provides strategic guidance on internal of all Units/Factories/Hotels is audited at controls. The Audit Compliance and least once annually, to ensure conformity Review Committee closely monitors with statutory requirements, Corporate EHS the internal control environment within Guidelines and Standards. Environment the Company and ensures that Internal Management Audit recommendations are effectively The Corporate Human Resources (CHR) Systems in all ITC implemented. Department similarly coordinates all manufacturing units activities relating to the Company’s Social and major hotels are At the business level, Divisional Auditors performance. Reports relating to Economic, continuously verify compliance with certified in accordance EHS and Social performance are provided with ISO 14001. laid down policies and procedures, and to the CMC on a monthly basis. In addition help plug control gaps by assisting the The Occupational to the above, periodic presentations are Health & Safety operating management in the formulation made to the CMC to ensure performance in of control procedures for new areas of Management Systems accordance with specified targets. in all manufacturing operations. All management systems and standards Units are certified A robust and comprehensive framework in ITC conform to relevant national and in accordance with of strategic planning and performance international standards and benefit from OHSAS 18001 management ensures realisation of internationally accepted best practices. business objectives based on effective Quality Management Systems in various strategy implementation. The annual businesses are certified in accordance planning exercise requires all businesses with ISO 9001, International Quality Rating to clearly identify their top risks and System (IQRS), Hazard Analysis and Critical set out a mitigation plan with agreed Control Point (HACCP), TQM/TPM, Six timelines and accountability. Businesses Sigma and other internationally renowned have confirmed that all relevant business standards, as applicable to the respective risks have been identified, assessed, businesses. evaluated and appropriate mitigation systems implemented, on a continuous Environment Management Systems in all basis. ITC manufacturing units and major hotels are certified in accordance with ISO 14001. The The combination of policies and processes, Occupational Health & Safety Management as outlined above, adequately addresses the Systems in all manufacturing Units are various risks associated with the Company’s certified in accordance with OHSAS 18001. businesses. The senior management of the Company also periodically reviews the The Investor Service Centre of the Company risk management framework to maintain is certified in accordance with ISO 9001:2008 its contemporariness so as to effectively and rated ‘Level 5’ (highest level) by third address the emerging challenges in a party certifying agency. dynamic business environment. Internal Audit Services relating to Systems and Controls in all areas of operations in the Company are certified under ISO 9001:2008 and rated ‘Level 5’ (highest level) by DNV. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 3905 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The stakeholder engagement process has evolved over the 100 years of W e have robust systems Our Chairman addresses and provides the organisation’s and procedures to identify, clarifications to the shareholders at least existence, based on prioritise and address the once a year at the Annual General Meeting, mutual trust and needs and concerns of all our the principal forum for face-to-face respect developed key stakeholders, across all businesses interaction, in the presence of the Board. over the years and units. The stakeholder engagement process has evolved over the 100 years of the organisation’s existence, based on mutual trust and respect developed over the years. The information gathered through the stakeholder engagement process as well as the understanding of sustainability issues within the context of ITC’s Businesses guides specific materiality issues. This is further crystallised in our Chairman’s Statement and Vision from which our sustainability approach emerges. Our prioritisation and reporting stems from this abiding vision which determines our unique business models and strategies. The engagement with different segments of stakeholders as detailed below helps us keep abreast of development issues, anticipate influences and frame responses in a way that can be appropriately managed. SHAREHOLDERS As trustees of shareholders, we believe it is our responsibility to protect and enhance their wealth. Their primary expectations remain centered around continued profitability and growth, communication and investor servicing. As one of India’s foremost private sector companies, we have performed consistently for a century now and since the inception of the Company, have rewarded our shareholders with uninterrupted dividends and issue of bonus shares from time to time. 40 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENTS The Board encourages open dialogue with Each Business has various all the shareholders individuals, corporates mechanisms to capture the needs and or foreign investors. expectations of the customer, such as market surveys, personal contacts/visits, Our corporate website www.itcportal. events, customer satisfaction surveys, joint com provides comprehensive information development and improvement projects, and an exclusive section on ‘Shareholder key account management, multi-level Value’ which serves to inform and service interfaces at dealer-customer-end user, shareholders. An exclusive e-mail ID isc@itc. personalised lifestyle privilege programme, in has also been provided to the shareholders etc. ITC continues to engage with customers for direct interaction. on an on-going basis to capture their needs and aspirations. CUSTOMERS Product/service quality, availability, visibility & on time delivery, cost competitiveness, Understanding customers’ needs and continuous product/process innovation, aspirations and continuing to seek consumer demand for ‘green’ products and value delight by making available products and added services are the major topics/ services of high quality along with cost issues which are discussed during the competitiveness and on-time delivery, customer engagement process. Robust thereby developing a strong long-term Quality Assurance systems supported by customer relationship is the prime focus in all process innovations, adoption of green our businesses. technology, lean management, six sigma, Robust Quality Assurance systems supported by process innovations, adoption of green technology, lean management, six sigma, and TPM help to achieve benchmarks in products and services quality in line with customer expectations SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 4105 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS and TPM help to achieve benchmarks in SUPPLIERS products and services quality in line with customer expectations. We continue to Suppliers are critical to our value chain and invest significantly in R&D to develop newer intrinsic to our product and service quality. products/variants. All our businesses have processes and practices in place such as regular formal & informal interactions, reviews, vendors’ EMPLOYEES surveys & feedbacks, etc, which are held annually or based on needs to understand We continue to progress our strategic their key issues and concerns, thereby agenda of remaining globally competitive ensuring the capability of suppliers/vendors and creating engines for sustainable growth to provide best-in-class products/services. by nurturing quality talent and blending Cost of materials, products and services, proven skills and capabilities drawn from variability in demand, long-term business different parts of the ITC Group. Each partnerships, timely payments, technology business focusses on engaging with upgradation, capacity improvement and employees on a regular basis as well as hygiene standards are some of the key topics based on specific requirements through discussed during the supplier engagement communication meetings, workplace process. interactions, mentoring and suggestion schemes, employee/manager surveys and Supply chain management with emphasis talent recognition programmes. on IT and infrastructure development ensures world-class products and services. We have strived to attract and retain talent Additionally, supplier audits, product through various initiatives that focus on certifications, sharing best practices, joint providing personal development and product development, supplier/vendor growth, a work culture that ensures high capacity building, help suppliers/vendors to levels of performance, world-class learning remain competitive. and a conducive work environment. Our managers directly supervise significant We have further strengthened the outsourced-manufacturing sites, organisational vitality and competitiveness which ensure product quality, delivery through various efforts including: commitments, compliance with EHS Developing agility and creativity to standards and cost competitiveness. speedily embrace change. Developing leaders from a pool of talented, passionate and diverse individuals. Creating an environment where employees are inspired, engaged and aligned with the Company’s Vision, Mission and Core Values. FARMERS Given their significant role in our value chains, we continue to engage with farmers on a regular basis. A large part of our R&D efforts is dedicated to providing expertise and support to improve agri quality and productivity. We partner with farmers in ensuring them better price realisation, assured markets and improved productivity. More details are provided elsewhere in this Report. 42 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENTS COMMUNITY Livelihood support, infrastructure needs, health & sanitation, primary education, All our Businesses/Units regularly women economic empowerment and skill interact with communities surrounding development are the priority concerns raised All ourBusinesses/ their operations. We actively undertake through these PRAs. Units regularly interact Participatory Rural Appraisals (PRA) to with communities assess the needs/aspirations of such Limited options of alternative off-farm surrounding communities in and around project areas. employment combined with endemic their operations. These are conducted through specialist poverty continue to jeopardize the livelihood Community need NGOs with relevant multi-disciplinary security of small and marginal farmers. In assessment surveys by expertise as project implementation addition, habitats around industrial clusters competent agencies partners. are typically overcrowded and congested. are conducted in and Infrastructure is poor or creaking under the around the Units. These lead to the formation of village pressure of an increasing population base, institutions that are the key decisiondrawn to such regions in the hope of gainful makers in the planning, implementation and employment. Sanitary facilities are almost monitoring of specific interventions planned. non-existent creating unhygienic conditions This is followed by a capacity building phase which have a direct bearing on the high where village institution members undergo morbidity rates, especially among women, a intensive training in financial management distinctive trait in such settlements. and various thematic aspects of each intervention. Interventions are tailored to Based on this, the various community the specific needs of the target community. development initiatives are implemented, To improve the quality and effectiveness of which are detailed elsewhere in the Report. the interventions, we bring in professional/ technical agencies to introduce appropriate technologies that complement traditional GOVERNMENT methods of farming, conserving water, soil and nutrients. We continue to maintain ‘beyond compliance’ status by adopting globally The entire spectrum of activities is recognised best-in-class practices. We carried out by the community through the proactively interact with Government/ village institutions – making community Regulatory Authorities on an on-going basis participation the fundamental component of on aspects relating to regulatory and public the model promotes high levels of ownership policy framework through industry bodies and long-term sustainability. and various other fora. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 4305 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Progressive investments in multiple drivers of growth Sustaining high quality top line and earnings growth 26% growth in total shareholder returns over the last 16 years 32 fold increase in market capitalisation from 1996 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS I ` 6162 TC posted yet another year of impressive nearly `1,80,000 crores and has consistently results with strong top line growth and featured, over the last 16 years, amongst the high quality earnings reflecting the robustness of its corporate strategy top 10 private sector companies in terms of market capitalisation and profits. Crores profit after tax of creating multiple drivers of growth. This performance is particularly remarkable direct economic impact when viewed against the backdrop of the ` Crores extremely challenging business context in KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 which it was achieved, namely, a slowdown in the economy, high levels of inflation and Gross Revenue 26,200 30,528 34,872 the continuing cascading effect of arbitrary Net Revenue 18,153 21,168 24,798 increases in VAT on cigarettes. Gross Revenue for the year grew by 14.2% Exports 2,239 2,464 2,253 to `34871.86 crores. Net Revenue at Contribution to Government/Exchequer 13,573 15,843 17,936 `24798.43 crores grew by 17.2% primarily driven by a 23.6% growth in the nonCost Of Bought Out Goods & Services 10,685 13,133 14,206 cigarette FMCG businesses, 20.0% growth in Agri Business and 16.6% growth in Employee Wages & Salaries 1,003 1,140 1,265 the Cigarettes segment. Profit before tax Payments to Providers of Capital increased by 22.4% to `8897.53 crores while Interest & Dividend 3,883 3,512 3,596 Net profits at `6162.37 crores registered a growth of 23.6%. Retained Profits -391 986 2,073 Earnings Per Share for the year stands at * Detailed Financial Performance available at www.itcportal.com `7.93 (previous year `6.49). Cash flows from Operations aggregated `8334 crores REVENUE AND PROFIT compared to `7528 crores in the previous year. BEFORE DEPRECIATION, INTEREST AND TAX (PBDIT) For the year ended 31st March, 2012, ITC declared a Dividend of `4.50 per share ` Crores (previous year `4.45 per share including a YEAR 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 CAGR Special Dividend `1.65 per share). Gross Revenue 21,268 23,059 26,200 30,528 34,872 13% Continuing with its chosen strategy of creating multiple drivers of growth, ITC is PBDIT 5,015 5,393 6,689 7,993 9,674 18% today the leading FMCG marketer in India, the second largest Hotel chain, the clear market leader in the Indian Paperboard ANALYSIS OF VALUE ADDED and Packaging industry and the country’s foremost Agri Business player. ITC’s distribution of value added wholly owned subsidiary, ITC Infotech Share of Value Added (%) ` Crores India Limited, is one of India’s fast growing Information Technology companies in the 26,000 mid-tier segment. 23,000 5% Additionally, over the last 16 years, ITC’s Gross Revenues and Net Profits recorded an 20,000 5% 23% impressive compounded growth of 12.7% 17,000 6% 21% and 21.8% per annum respectively. During this period, Return on Capital Employed 19% 14,000 5% 6% improved substantially from 28.4% to 45.4% while Total Shareholder Returns, measured 20% 20% 11,000 in terms of increase in market capitalisation 72% and dividends, grew at a compounded 8,000 74% 75% annual growth rate of 25.7% during this 75% 74% period, placing the Company amongst the 5,000 foremost in the country in terms of efficiency 2,000 of servicing financial capital. ITC today, is 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 one of India’s most admired and valuable corporations with a market capitalisation of Employees Providers of Capital Exchequer 46 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE top 10 private sector companies in terms of market capitalisation and profits and is amongst the most influential stocks in the Indian equity market. During the current year, it has declared a dividend of `4.50 per share of `1 each. dividend paid (incl. dividend distribution tax) 5000 2449 4089 4000 1484 3000 2000 2518 1634 2004 1543 1000 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Dividend Paid (` Crores) `1,80,000 Special Dividend (` Crores) Crores market CONTRIBUTION TO THE capitalisation NATIONAL EXCHEQUER RETURN ON TOTAL ASSETS The Company’s excise payments account for almost 7% of the total excise revenue ITC has been delivering higher rates of return on total assets even as its balance 31% return on total of the Government of India. In the area of sheet size (peaking at `28966 Crores in the assets in 2011-12 income tax, the Company is the highest tax current year) has grown at a compound rate payer in eastern India and among the top tax of 14% since 2007-08. payers in the nation. `4.50 contribution dividend per share to exchequer ` Crores in the current year 18000 17936 16500 15843 return on total assets 15000 ROTA Total Assets 13573 (%) ` Crores 13500 12000 11142 32% 30000 10768 10500 31% 31% 28000 9000 7500 30% 26000 6000 29% 29% 4500 24000 3000 28% 1500 27% 22000 27% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Exchequer 20000 26% 26% 18000 DIVIDEND PAYOUT 25% 25% ITC is one of India’s most admired and 24% 16000 valuable corporations and has consistently 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 featured, over the last 16 years, amongst the Total Assets ROTA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 4705 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS LOCALLY BASED SUPPLIERS Bhadrachalam and Bollaram Units in Andhra Pradesh and for expansion of the Kovai unit ITC businesses have modern facilities and in Tamil Nadu. use state-of-the-art technologies to ensure benchmarked quality and value. Subsidies Received ` Crores The Company’s suppliers, both local and 1.90 1.8 1.8 international, constitute one of our most 1.70 important stakeholder groups. 1.6 1.50 The Company sources specialised 1.30 production machinery globally as well as 1.0 1.10 from reputed Indian manufacturers. Highclass utility machinery such as boilers, 0.90 gensets, air-conditioning and refrigeration 0.70 machinery, electrical & electronic systems 0.50 are sourced largely from Indian or India based suppliers. Competent Indian contractors 0.30 0.1 carry out construction of new manufacturing 0.10 facilities, hotels, warehouses & offices and 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 large-scale upgradations and modernisation thereof. Nearly 87% of our raw materials have been locally procured. ENGAGING TALENT, LOCAL HIRING AND SENIOR raw material consumed MANAGEMENT ` Crores ITC’s human resource management systems 9000 and processes are designed to enhance employee engagement, organisational 8000 capability and vitality so as to ensure that each of the Businesses is world-class, 7000 positioned for competitive superiority 6000 and capable of achieving the Company’s ambitious plans for growth. 6662 5000 6033 4000 5241 employee benefits 4334 ` Crores 3000 3905 1200 2000 1100 1000 1000 572 667 714 939 999 900 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 800 Imported Indigenous 700 902 1031 600 783 500 720 400 599 FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE 300 FROM GOVERNMENT 200 102 117 128 Several of our projects are geared towards sub100 100 84 serving national priorities. The Governments 71 118 121 106 0 50 of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu offer incentives such as deferment of sales tax for 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 setting up new units or for modernisation/ Contribution to Provident & Other Funds expansion/diversification of existing Units. Our Paperboards & Specialty Papers Division Workmen & Staff Welfare Expenses (PSPD) has received such assistance for the Salaries & Wages 48 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE The Company has fostered a culture that rewards continuous learning, collaboration and capability development across the organisation to be future-ready and meet the challenges posed by ever-changing market realities. The pension plans and other applicable It creates and nurtures workplace employee benefits obligations are challenges that keep employees engaged, determined and funded in accordance with motivated and innovative. This talent has, independent actuarial valuation. Expected through strong alignment with ITC’s vision, rate of return on plan assets is based on successfully built and sustained its standing the current portfolio of assets, investment as one of India’s most admired and valuable strategy and market scenario. corporations despite unrelenting competitive In order to protect the capital and optimise pressures. returns within acceptable risk parameters, Unswerving belief in the mutuality of interests the plan assets are well diversified. The of key stakeholders binds all employees to a funds are consistently sustained to meet shared vision and purpose, thus providing it requisite superannuation commitments. with the vital force for winning in the market place. The Company encourages local employment CORPORATE SOCIAL in the workforce in manufacturing and hotels, RESPONSIBILITY depending on the availability of requisite skills. Citizen First ITC’s overarching aspiration to create large PENSION OBLIGATIONS scale societal value while simultaneously delivering shareholder value is manifest in Employees’ Retirement Benefit Schemes its strategy to enhance the competitiveness include employee pension, provident fund of its value chains which encompass the and gratuity which are admnistered through disadvantaged sections of society. duly constituted and approved independent In pursuance of the Company’s policy on trusts. Corporate Social Responsibility (ITC’s CSR Provident Fund and Family Pension Policy detailed in the Policies & Guidelines contributions in respect of unionised staff, section of this Report), ITC has crafted as required by applicable statutes are innovative business models that create larger deposited with the Government in a timely and enduring value by not only generating manner. new sources of competitive advantage for its businesses, but also in the process ` Crores augmenting natural capital and sustainable livelihoods for the nation. 140 130 121 120 118 ` Crores 110 106 100 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 90 Corporate Social 48 68 88 80 Responsibility spends 77 70 71 Average Net 60 Profits during three immediately 3028 3482 4104 50 50 preceding Financial 40 Years (FYs) 30 38 38 CSR spends as 20 a % of Average 20 Net Profits during 1.57 1.96 2.14 10 19 three immediately 0 preceding FYs 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Contribution to Pension Funds Contribution to Provident & Other Funds SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 4905 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS CREATING ENDURING INSTITUTIONS CII-ITC CENTRE in engaging with policy makers to create an OF EXCELLENCE environment that encourages the adoption of sustainable business practices. The Centre FOR SUSTAINABLE is a consulting partner in several policy DEVELOPMENT The ‘CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development’, set up by ITC jointly with the apex national chamber Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in 2006, continues its endeavours to promote sustainable business practices amongst corporates across the country. During the year, the Centre trained and raised awareness of over 2,000 business managers on various sustainability issues. It has expanded its gamut of activities to meet the core objectives of creating awareness, promoting thought leadership and building capacity amongst Indian enterprises in their quest for sustainable growth and business solutions. The 6th Sustainability Summit: ‘Sustainability Solutions, 2011’, attracted over 350 participants representing experts from industry, government and civil society from India and several countries across the world and over 25 exhibitors participated in the first-ever Sustainability Exhibition. The ‘CII-ITC Sustainability Awards’, instituted to recognise excellence in sustainability performance, have honoured a large number of leading Indian companies and provided encouragement to many others. It is heartening that the number of aspirants for the Award is steadily increasing year on year. The Centre is today playing a major role 50 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE The Centre is today playing a major role in engaging with policy makers to create an environment that encourages the adoption of sustainable business practices interventions such as Green Guidelines national heritage. It is a unique institution for Public Procurement, Low Carbon recognised for being the finest repository Expert Group of the Planning Commission, of Hindustani Classical Music. With a National Innovation Council, Ministry of commitment that has remained consistent Corporate Affairs on CSR Policy, National for over 35 years, ITC SRA is the world’s Awards for Prevention of Pollution, Rajiv first and only professionally managed Gandhi Environment Awards for Clean modern Gurukul, blending modern day Technology and Technology and Finance research methods with the purity of the age Committee under the Montreal Protocol. It is old Guru-Shishya tradition. ITC SRA has a also represented on the Board of the Central mission of preservation and propagation of Pollution Control Board and other bodies. Hindustani Classical Music. With a galaxy of During the year, the Centre introduced 9 pre-eminent Gurus and 50 scholars today, three new service lines in the areas of from 20, three years ago, the Academy is Social Responsibility based on ISO 26000, currently engaged in carrying the message Green House Gas Emissions Inventories of Hindustani Classical Music across our and Verification based on ISO 14064 and country from the metros to rural India. business model innovation. It is the only Recent forays into neighbouring Bangladesh certified trainer for sustainability assurance have brought home another dimension of professionals in South-East and South Asia. the shared sub-continental heritage. ITC SANGEET RESEARCH OTHER INFRASTRUCTURE ACADEMY INITIATIVES The ITC Sangeet Research Academy (ITC Information on e-Choupals (rural digital SRA) is a true embodiment of sustained network), watershed development etc. is corporate commitment to a priceless detailed elsewhere in the Report. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 5105 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Climate Change and Sustainable Development Water Management Stewardship Recycling and Waste Management Significant Air Emissions Material Sustainability in ITC’s Businesses CLIMATE CHANGE AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Holistic Triple Bottom Line approach Enhanced use of renewable energy Establishment of green buildings Reduction of specific energy consumption Alignment with the National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC) Natural Resource Augmentation through afforestation and soil & moisture conservation programmes Carbon Positive for the 7th year in a row 54 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE In line with the Government of India’s National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC) we have adopted strategies to address climate change related impacts and have developed mitigation and adaptation plans E conomic progress and long term Work towards minimising waste business sustainability are today generation, maximising reuse & recycling threatened by the real and adverse and using external post consumer waste consequences of global warming as raw material in our Units. and accelerated climate change. ITC has 3. Creating Sustainable Livelihoods and responded to the challenges emerging from promoting sustainable agricultural the threat of global warming by aligning practices. corporate strategy with national priorities. Accordingly in line with the Government of India’s National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC) we have adopted strategies to address climate change related impacts and developed mitigation and adaptation plans. Our approach has been to integrate these plans with our business strategies. OUR STRATEGIES INCLUDE 1. Identify and evaluate climate change risks for each business. 2. Reduce the environmental impact of our processes, products and services and work towards creating a positive environmental footprint. Adopt a low carbon growth path through reduction in specific energy consumption and enhancing use of renewable energy sources. Enlarge our carbon positive footprint through increased carbon sequestration by expanding forestry projects in wastelands. Reduce specific water consumption and augmenting rainwater harvesting activities both on-site and off-site at watershed catchments areas. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 55 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS B ased on our assessment through also threatens to push millions of marginal comprehensive studies to identify farmers over the brink, thus increasing the and evaluate the climate change vulnerability of those who are dependent on risks for all our businesses, agriculture for their livelihoods. ITC continues individual strategies for mitigation and to pursue a Triple Bottom Line approach adaptation have been worked out. that contributes to the creation of economic, environmental and social capital. Our water conservation, watershed AGRICULTURE development and rainwater harvesting ITC continues to projects not only improve the sustainability of pursue a Triple Bottom Since ITC is largely dependent on agricultural our agri-related businesses, but also create inputs, possible disruption in agricultural Line approach that sustainable livelihoods for large number contributes to the patterns & yields is a significant potential of marginal farmers. Our R&D specialists, risk. Besides the direct impacts of climate creation of economic, in collaboration with expert study groups environmental and change, water availability is the single largest are consistently evaluating agricultural risk that we foresee. A decline in agricultural social capital productivity/adaptation issues related to output due to changed weather patterns and climate change and support is provided to higher temperatures not only impacts ITC but farmers through in house extension services. 56 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE BUILT ENVIRONMENT Establishment of Green buildings is one of the relevant responses to these environmental Our businesses and Units are also exposed challenges. ITC was the pioneer in the green to the physical risks associated with the buildings movement, which commenced impact of climate change. We have 2 large with the construction of the ITC Green manufacturing facilities in coastal areas. Centre at Gurgaon, which in 2004 was the Protection of our assets in these coastal largest LEED platinum rated office space in areas has been reinforced in anticipation of the world. increased severity of storms and cyclones, which are likely to occur. While all new During the recertification carried out in 2012, buildings have been constructed in line the ITC Green Centre was identified as the with the requisite factors of safety, existing highest rated green building in the World with buildings and infrastructure were reinforced platinum certification. All new construction wherever required. This initiative was taken by ITC now incorporates validated green up in a phased manner and has been attributes and efforts are underway to completed. have existing buildings and factories also During the Disruption in road and rail traffic by such meet these validated green norms. In this recertification carried extreme events may also affect the output of year, the Cigarette factories at Bengaluru out in 2012, the individual Units, which has been addressed and Saharanpur have also received LEED ITC Green Centre by appropriate contingency and insurance platinum rating from the Indian Green was identified as plans. Higher surface temperatures Building Council and all ITC premium the highest rated (increased air conditioning costs) and green building in the luxury hotels are now LEED certified green disruption in water supplies are other World with platinum buildings with platinum rating. certification anticipated risks. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 5705 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS MINIMISING CARBON INTENSITY AND ADOPTING A LOW CARBON GROWTH PATH I TC continues to enlarge its positive sources of energy in itc (2011-12) carbon footprint through enhanced energy conservation, use of renewable energy sources and expanding carbon sequestration through large scale Social and Farm Forestry Programmes. SOURCES OF ENERGY 12,356 TJ 641 TJ 8,133 TJ In 2011-12, ITC Units consumed 21,130 Terra (58.5%) (3.0%) (38.5%) Joules (TJ) of energy, which is 6.3% lower than energy directly energy purchased energy from from fossil fuels from state utilities renewable sources the energy utilised in the previous year (22,554 TJ in 2010-11), in spite of significant growth in almost all businesses. This is attributed to renewable energy utilisation in itc the multitude of energy conservation projects implemented across ITC Units. 9000 40 38.5 In 2011-12, 8133.3 TJ of the total energy 35.3 8133 consumed was from renewable sources 8000 which is an increase of 2.2% over the previous 30.9 7957 32 30.6 year (7957.2 TJ in 2010-11). Improved 7000 utilisation of carbon neutral fuels such as 26.3 6622 biofuels in the Paperboards and Specialty 24.1 24 Papers Business and the commissioning of 6000 5909 13.8 MW wind power projects in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, contributed to increased 5000 16 utilisation of renewable energy, even though the renewable energy contribution from the 4000 above wind power projects has only been 3571 for part of the year. 3437 08 3000 2000 0 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Total renewable energy (TJ) Percentage of total energy 58 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Improved utilisation of carbon neutral fuels such as biofuels in the Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business and the commissioning of 13.8 MW wind power projects in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, contributed to increased utilisation of renewable energy RENEWABLE ENERGY ENERGY CONSUMPTION SOURCES IN ITC COMPRISE WITHIN ITC ACROSS THE FOLLOWING: BUSINESSES (2011-12) Black liquor waste from pulping process in the Bhadrachalam Paperboards Unit. Paper & Paperboards 19009.9TJ 90% 6.3% less energy utilised Waste wood biomass from chipping than the previous operations. Hotels 505.8TJ 2.4% year Locally sourced chip/sawdust and deoiled bran as boiler fuel in Kovai. Leaf 463.6TJ 2.2% 38.5% energy consumed Wind energy farms for Packaging & from renewable Printing, Cigarettes and Hotels Businesses. sources Cigarettes 462.9TJ 2.2% Solar thermal systems for preheating boiler feed water and canteen hot water in a number of our Units. Foods & Personal 350.0TJ 1.7% 2.2% Care Products increase of renewable energy utilisation over Packaging 250.2TJ 1.2% the previous year Others* 87.8TJ 0.4% TJ Terra Joules * Others include ITC Infotech, ITC R&D Centre and large offices ** Total Energy 21,130TJ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 59 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS specific energy consumption (gj/tonnes): bhadrachalam 40 38.4 38.3* 37.7 37.4 35 34.5 33.2 32.1 30.2 30 A focused approach on energy 25 conservation through rigorous third party audits and implementation of the recommendations 20 resulted in substantial improvement in 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 specific energy *Due to installation of additional pulping facility performance PROGRESS IN REDUCTION The Cigarettes Business in 2011-12 utilised OF SPECIFIC ENERGY 5.28 GJ of energy per million cigarettes (equivalent) compared to 6.5 GJ per million CONSUMPTION IN ITC’S cigarettes in 2010-11, a reduction of 18.8% BUSINESSES over the previous year. The cigarette manufacturing Unit of ITC at Pune reduced Paper & A focused approach on energy conservation its specific energy consumption from 4.92 Paperboards through rigorous third party audits and to 3.29 GJ per million cigarettes (equivalent), Business implementation of the recommendations resulted in substantial improvement in specific energy performance. a reduction of 33.1% over the previous year. The largest cigarette manufacturing 12% & 3.8% Unit of ITC at Bengaluru also reduced its reduction by In the Paperboards and Specialty Papers specific energy consumption from 9.59 to bhadrachalam unit & tribeni specialty Business, the three factories, Bhadrachalam, 6.75 GJ per million cigarettes (equivalent), papers unit Tribeni and Kovai together accounted for a reduction of 29.6% over the previous 89.7% of total energy consumption for ITC. year. Both these are comparable with ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers international benchmarks on specific energy Cigarettes Business has been rated as the most energy consumption for cigarettes business. Business efficient in the Indian Paper and Paperboard business sector, according to the Centre There has been a substantial improvement in the specific energy consumption at the 33.1% & for Science and Environment, New Delhi (Challenge of the New Balance, CSE, 2010). Soap and Shampoo Units at Manpura of 29.6% the Personal Care Products Business and reduction by pune In 2011-12, the Paper & Paperboards Unit the Snacks Units of the Foods Business in unit & bengaluru at Bhadrachalam significantly reduced its Haridwar and Pune, as illustrated below: unit specific energy consumption by 12% over the last year, as illustrated above. This is 2010-11 2011-12 PERCENTAGE BUSINESS UNIT PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT a noteworthy achievement as this Unit (GJ/Tonnes) (GJ/Tonnes) alone accounts for 71% of total energy consumption in ITC. Tribeni Specialty Papers Personal Care Manpura Shampoo 175.63* 115.18* 34.4 Unit also reduced the energy used per tonne of paper by 3.8 % over the last year. Personal Care Manpura Soap 2.23 1.30 41.6 Foods Haridwar Snacks 5.19 4.33 16.6 Foods Pune Snacks 8.83 6.73 23.8 60 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE *GJ/KL In the Hotels Business, significant ITC has registered several Clean improvements in specific energy Development Mechanism (CDM) projects consumption have been achieved by ITC with UNFCCC (United Nations Framework Gardenia (28%) and ITC Windsor (17.4%). Convention on Climate Change) under the Kyoto Protocol. In addition, a number of The Leaf Threshing Unit in Anaparti also projects are in various stages of registration reduced its specific energy consumption by with the CDM Board or in the voluntary 17.5% over the previous year. carbon markets. These projects besides Other Units which performed remarkably in reducing greenhouse gas emissions improving specific energy consumption over have also helped ITC offset some of the the previous year are: investments made towards reducing specific Cigarette Unit at Kolkata 8.6% energy consumption and enhancement of ITC: A Cast Coating Unit at Bollaram 8.7% the renewable energy portfolio through the sale of carbon credits. ‘CARBON Packaging & Printing Unit at Tiruvottiyur 13.3% In addition, we are well positioned to POSITIVE Additional data on energy conservation leverage other opportunities that lie in India specific schemes which are on the anvil, COMPANY’ measures implemented by ITC units are available at www.itcportal.com under Report such as Perform, Achieve and Trade (PAT) or Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) 7th YEAR and Accounts 2012. promoted by the Government of India. IN A ROW ENLARGING ITC’S CARBON Forestry Programmes have also provided 56.2 POSITIVE FOOTPRINT million person-days of employment todate for small and marginal farmers. In 2011-12, ITC’s operations (manufacturing co2 sequestered & freight) generated total CO2 emissions of in kilotonnes 1,564 Kilotonnes (2,046 Kilotonnes in 201011). The reduction in energy consumption and associated CO2 emissions primarily 2011-2012 reflects energy efficiency measures taken 4380 and revisions in computation of calorific co2 released value of fuel which the organisation has (manufacturing & 2010-2011 4011* adopted in order to conform to the ISO freight) in 14064 standard. The reduction in emissions kilotonnes is also due to the increased contribution from renewable energy sources. The total 2009-2010 emissions, estimated in accordance with 2011-2012 4785 1564 the GRI-G3 reporting framework, include 1,157 Kilotonnes of CO2 emissions arising 2010-2011 2008-2009 from use of direct energy (Scope 1), 160 3695 2046 Kilotonnes from purchased electricity (Scope 2) and 247 Kilotonnes emitted due 2007-2008 to transportation of materials and products 2009-2010 2638 (Scope 3). 1709 2006-2007 ITC’s Social and Farm Forestry Initiatives 2008-2009 2025 added more than 11,000 hectares of 1572 plantations during 2011-12. Total plantations 2005-2006 as on March 31, 2012, now stand at over 2007-2008 1244 125,000 hectares. The Social and Farm 1352 2004-2005 Forestry Initiatives have not only contributed 906 2006-2007 2003-2004 to sustainable source of raw material for the 1143 311 Paperboards Business, but has also helped 2005-2006 sequester additional 4,380 Kilotonnes of 1202 *Dip in CO2 sequestration rate caused by reduced CO2 in this year, thus consolidating ITC’s 2004-2005 productivity of Eucalyptus plantations due to status as a ‘Carbon Positive Company’ for 1058 infestation in some areas and lesser incremental 2003-2004 addition of plantation area compared to 2009-10. the seventh year in a row. The Social and Farm 1013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 61 WATER MANAGEMENT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Ensuring lower specific water consumption through water conservation measures Sustained efforts to ensure zero effluent discharge by treating and recycling waste water Integrated Watershed Management Programmes and on-site rain water harvesting Water Positive for 10 years in a row 62 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE W ater remains a serious concern 1. WATER CONSERVATION globally. With the phenomenon of climate change further Water audits, benchmarking and use of aggravating water availability leading practices to achieve lowest possible ITC’s approach to challenges, India is faced with a difficult and specific water consumption (water per unit Water Management turbulent water future. of product). are: Water Conservation, Zero Not only are there serious supply threats Effluent Discharge and to our major snow fed rivers such as the 2. ZERO EFFLUENT Water Availability Ganga and Brahmaputra as a result of DISCHARGE the glacial melt, but there is also the direct Treating and progressing to achieve recycling threat of reduced agricultural outputs due to of all wastewater. disruptions in monsoon patterns. Agriculture accounts for around 90% of 3. WATER POSITIVE total water consumption in India and the challenges as a result of water stress are FOOTPRINT aggravated by the huge inequalities in Enhance our water positive footprint through geographical distribution as well as by the rainwater harvesting, both within our own fact that the entire monsoon rainfall occurs Units and across different watershed areas. around a 12-week period. Given these challenges, ITC is committed 4. WATER AVAILABILITY to conserve and manage this precious natural resource. ITC’s approach to Water Ensure supply of treated waste water of Management is as follows: satisfactory quality to neighbouring farmer communities during the non-monsoon period so as to enable agriculture during the dry season. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 63 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS WATER CONSERVATION I n 2011-12, ITC units withdrew 29.02 This year, of the total fresh water withdrawal million Kilolitres (KL) of freshwater, (29.36 by ITC, the Paperboards & Specialty Paper million KL in 2010-11), a reduction of mills at Bhadrachalam, Kovai & Tribeni alone nearly 1.2% over the previous year, accounted for 91.8% of the total fresh water despite significant growth in almost all withdrawal by ITC. businesses. This was made possible only by focused efforts by all Units through water audits, benchmarking and adoption of leading practices to achieve the lowest possible specific water consumption (water required per unit of production). WATER SOURCES Of the 29.02 million KL of fresh water, 80.4% of water was sourced from river water, 17.2% from ground water sources and only 2.4% from municipal and other water sources. sources of water in itc (2011-12) 2.40% 17.20% 80.40% Sourced from river water Sourced from ground water Municipal and other sources 64 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE At Bhadrachalam Unit where the production volumes have increased by more than three times between 1998-99 and 2011-12, the fresh water intake of the mill has increased by only 13% during the same period BHADRACHALAM UNIT freshwater intake was 48.2 Kilolitre per tonne of product, a significant reduction of 4.5% India’s largest integrated paper and over the last year (50.5 KL/tonne in 2010-11). paperboards mill, accounted for 75% of It is worth mentioning that this surpasses the total fresh water intake in ITC. While the proposed benchmark standard of 63 the production volumes have increased by more than three times between 1998-99 KL/tonne as set by the National Productivity Council (NPC), for large scale integrated pulp 4.5% and 2011-12, the fresh water intake of the mill has increased by only 13% during the and paper mills. (Reference: Final Report on Development of Guidelines for Water Reduction same period. in specific conservation in Pulp and Paper Sector by freshwater intake In 2011-12, the Bhadrachalam Unit’s NPC, New Delhi, March 2006). over the last year at our bhadrachalam unit normalised production versus fresh water intake comparison of bhadrachalam unit 350 300 310 300 290 253 250 201 212 200 188 160 150 145 147 149 148 135 130 119 115 113 107 109 100100 106 105 99 102 102 100 98 94 50 00 1998-99 1999-00 2000-01 2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Total production Total fresh water intake Base year, 1998-99, taken as 100 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 6505 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS TRIBENI UNIT other units which achieved significant reduction in specific freshwater intake The Tribeni mill manufactures specialty over the last year: paper, which is a water intensive process. 11.5% 12.8% 12.9% The unit has implemented various water conservation measures, resulting in the reduction of specific freshwater intake per cigarette unit at cast coating unit leaf threshing tonne of product by over 55% during the kidderpore at bollaram unit at anaparti reporting period, in comparison to 1998-99. 15.9% 18.4% 22.3% packaging & itc kakatiya itc rajputana printing units at tiruvottiyur specific fresh water intake in tribeni mill (kl/tonne) 350 300 259 250 233 226 213 200 178 150 128 124 120 117 116 55.2% 107 105 106 100 99 50 Reduction in specific fresh 00 water intake over 199819992000200120022003200420052006200720082009201020111998-99 in tribeni unit 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 KOVAI UNIT The specific freshwater intake (KL/tonne) specific fresh water in Kovai Unit was 20.8% lower than the intake in kovai (kl/tonne) specific fresh water intake during 2006-07. This specific freshwater intake of 16.65 KL/ tonne is better than the proposed benchmark 2011-12 standard of 19 KL/tonne by NPC, New Delhi 16.65 in 2006 for this category of Paper Mill. 2010-11 ITC’s Soap Unit at Manpura of 13.97 Personal Care Products Business and 2009-10 the Snacks Units of the Foods Business 13.10 at Haridwar and Pune have also achieved 2008-09 substantial savings in freshwater intake per 15.31 tonne of product as illustrated below: 2007-08 17.31 2010-11 2011-12 % IMPROVEMENT BUSINESS UNIT PRODUCT (Lt/Kg) (Lt/Kg) 2006-07 Personal 21.01 Care Manpura Soap 1.40 0.86 38.7 Products Foods Haridwar Snacks 5.90 4.37 26.0 20.8% Reduction in specific fresh water intake Foods Pune Snacks 11.69 6.76 42.2 over 2006-07 in kovai unit 66 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE EFFLUENT DISCHARGE We are committed to achieving zero effluent discharge through treating and recycling all the wastewater and harvesting all rainwater incident on our properties. This not only reduces fresh water intake but also maximises groundwater recharge, reduces run off etc. Many ITC units have already achieved the goal of zero effluent discharge. For example this year, the following units recycled all their treated effluents in-house and achieved zero effluent discharge status: Cigarette Factories at Bengaluru, Saharanpur & Pune, Leaf Processing Units at Anaparti & Chirala, Packaging & Printing Unit at Tiruvottiyur, Research Centres at Bengaluru & Rajahmundry, Paperboards Units at Kovai and Bollaram, Personal Care Soap Unit at Manpura, and ITC Green Centre at Gurgaon. All our Units, apart from meeting the effluent norms set by the Regulatory Bodies, have defined internal norms, more stringent than statutory limits to maximise reuse and recycling. In addition, we have started using more environment friendly DEWATS wastewater techniques that are chemical free and require negligible energy inputs, through the Centre for Science & Environment, Auroville. These have been presently installed at our SNPL Simra factory and housing colony at Nepal and in the new Cigarette Unit at Pune with several other installations in the pipeline. Among the ITC businesses, the Paperboards and Specialty Paper business is confronted with the most serious challenges in effluent quality and quantity. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 6705 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Bhadrachalam, Tribeni and Kovai Units are already well within norms (100 KL/tonne) of specific treated effluent discharge, as defined by Corporate Responsibility for Environmental Protection (CREP), a voluntary charter by the Ministry of Environment & Forests and Central Pollution Control Board. In 2011-12, the two Paper & Paperboard These three Units are already well within mills, Bhadrachalam and Tribeni accounted norms (100 KL/tonne) of specific treated for 98% of total wastewater discharged effluent discharge, as defined by Corporate outside the Unit premises in ITC. The Responsibility for Environmental Protection Kovai wastepaper based Paperboards Unit (CREP), a voluntary charter by the Ministry of recycled/reused the entire treated effluents Environment & Forests and Central Pollution within the Unit premises for irrigation Control Board. purposes this year. The treated effluent quality is far better than the stipulated standards, as depicted below: specific treated effluent discharge: in itc paperboards & specialty paper units treated effluent (kl/tonne) quality: annual 100* average (2011-12) itc 80 paperboards & specialty 74.4 72.5 71.1 paper units 70 68.5 63.9 63.7 60 59.1 59.6 63.0 300 50 48.0 250 44.9 45.0 250 40 30 200 20 166 150 10 11.3 9.3 8.1 6.9 131 118 0 0.0 0.0 100 100 Bhadrachalam Tribeni Kovai 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 58 * As per CREP norms 50 40 30 21 12 08 08 The National Productivity Council’s (NPC) 98% 0 BOD COD TSS report on ‘Proposed Standard for Pulp and Paper Industries in India’ recommends a bhadrachalam Bhadrachalam Tribeni benchmark standard of 50 KL/tonne for and tribeni units accounted for 98% Kovai National Standard Limits Integrated Pulp and Paper industry, which is of total wastewater applicable for our Bhadrachalam Unit. The discharged outside BOD COD TSS current level of 45 KL/tonne at Bhadrachalam the unit premises in Biochemical Chemical Total itc Oxygen Demand Oxygen Demand Suspended Solids is again better than the above proposed benchmark. All units in mg/l and figures rounded off to nearest digit 68 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Similarly, the above report suggests a benchmark standard of 15m3/tonne for wastepaper based pulp and paper mills. Kovai Unit, which is included in this category, did not discharge any treated effluent outside its premises, this year. In the current year, Absorbable Organic Halides (AOX), (applicable only to Bhadrachalam Unit) level was a mere 0.0006 Kg/tonne of product which is well within national and international benchmark figures as depicted below: specific aox levels in bhadrachalam unit (kg/tonne) 0.012 0.0110 0.010 0.0083 0.008 0.0074 0.006 0.0051 0.004 0.0024 0.002 0.0006 00 2006200720082009201020112007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 units in kg/tonne Indian Paper/Paperboard mills 0.46-0.8 European Paper Industries 0.029 World Bank Standard 0.25 * Average as per Comprehensive Industry Document for Large Scale Paper Mills, study conducted by Central Pulp and Paper Research Institute, 2007 # CEPI (Confederation of European Paper Industries), Sustainability Report 2011 ** World Bank Guideline for New Paper Mills (2007) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 6905 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS ENLARGING A WATER POSITIVE FOOTPRINT ITC: WATER T he continued focus on rainwater As on March 31, 2012, ITC’s Watershed harvesting both in the Company Projects covering nearly 90,000 Hectares of POSITIVE premises and socially relevant watershed areas has enlarged our land, support the Water Positive status of the Company for the 10th year in a row. The total FOR TEN water positive footprint. rainwater harvesting potential so far created by the Company is over two times the net CONSECUTIVE water consumption by our operations. YEARS WATER BALANCE AT ITC 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Fresh water intake 24.10 22.48 24.98 25.58 25.79 27.46 32.72 29.96 29.36 29.02 Treated effluents discharged 14.64 14.04 19.55 20.96 19.58 18.92 24.52 23.41 22.21 22.80 Percentage of treated effluent utilised for irrigation by nearby ** ** 86.90 86.80 80.50 79.40 72.30 84.80 60.70 68.50 farming community Net water consumption 9.49 8.44 5.43 4.62 6.21 8.54 8.20 6.55 7.15 6.22 RWH potential created 0.24 0.39 0.34 0.61 0.47 0.42 0.50 0.42 0.92 0.67 within ITC units RWH potential created through watershed projects 12.50 15.67 16.52 18.99 23.12 25.42 19.43 20.18 18.97 20.38 (cumulative for that year) Total RWH potential created 19.89* 21.05* (for the year) 12.74 16.06 16.86 19.60 23.59 25.84 19.93* 20.60* * ‘RWH potential’ figures account for silt deposits in various watershed structures. The adjustments are based on actual sample measurements & the extent of silt deposit depends on the age & location of a structure ** Not available All figures in Million KL, except percentage 70 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE RECYCLING AND WASTE MANAGEMENT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Resource conservation 100% recycling Creating Wealth out of Waste – use of post consumer waste as raw material SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 71 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS T 2. SEGREGATION AT SOURCE he issue of waste management has assumed critical importance for the country today given the All ITC Units are required to ensure that ever-increasing population, higher wastes are segregated at source in All ITC Units are consumption levels and inadequate accordance with company-defined required to ensure that infrastructure guidelines. This ensures maximum wastes are reuse/recycling of wastes. For example, segregated at source Often considered to be only an urban it is ensured that paper waste is not in accordance with phenomenon, waste management seriously contaminated with wet waste which would company-defined threatens the quality of life throughout the render it unrecoverable. guidelines. This country. ensures maximum Across the country, heaps of unattended reuse/recycling of wastes. For example, waste foraged by cattle and rag-pickers 3. TOWARDS 100% RECYCLING it is ensured that alike, have become an integral part of today’s life, both in urban as well as in rural areas. Each category of waste is individually paper waste is not This is largely responsible for a number of addressed and tracked to ensure reuse contaminated with serious public health concerns, in addition where possible, if not, recycling. This ensures wet waste which to crucial issues like land and groundwater that almost no waste from our businesses would render it contamination. lands up in municipal or private landfills. unrecoverable In alignment with ITC’s commitment to reduce its environmental impact and to create a positive environmental footprint, we 4. CREATING A POSITIVE have implemented the following measures ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT in waste management to achieve a positive waste recycling footprint: Increase in consumption of externally generated wastepaper as a source of fibre instead of virgin fibre. Apart from the 1. RESOURCE CONSERVATION direct environmental benefits of reduced consumption of power, water and chemicals, Reduce waste generation through constant this also brings about the additional monitoring of specific waste generation data public benefit of encouraging better waste at all ITC units. management. RESOURCE CONSERVATION I n 2011-12, ITC Units generated 663,796 There has been a substantial improvement tonnes of wastes, most of which was in the specific waste generation at the Soap generated by our Paperboards & Units of the Personal Care Products Business Specialty Papers Division (90.7%). This at Manpura and Haridwar as has been with 4% increase over the last year is due to higher the Snacks Units of the Foods Business in production volumes in almost all businesses Haridwar and Pune, as illustrated in the table and increased pulp production (replacing on the following page. imported pulp) in the Bhadrachalam Paper and Paperboards Unit. units, with significant reduction in In 2011-12, Cigarette Units at Bengaluru specific waste generation in 2011-12, are as & Saharanpur achieved a reduction of 4% listed below: and 11% respectively, in waste generation per million cigarettes (equivalent) over the previous year. The Simra Unit of Surya Nepal 32.8% 32.2% 27.1% 23.0% 7.5% itc itc itc leaf paperboards Limited also reduced waste per million maratha kakatiya maurya threshing & specialty cigarettes (equivalent) by 19.2% over the unit at paper unit last year. anaparti at tribeni 72 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 2010-11 2011-12 BUSINESS UNIT PRODUCT (Kg/Tonne) (Kg/Tonne) % IMPROVEMENT Foods Haridwar Snacks 221.7 141.2 36.3 Foods Pune Snacks 224.2 150.8 32.7 Personal Manpura Soap 42.9 32.0 25.4 Care Personal Haridwar Soap 66.9 52.4 21.7 Care business-wise breakup of wastes generated in itc (2011-12) 90.7% 3.72% Paperboards & Specialty Papers 2.23% Packaging & Printing 1.78% Leaf Tobacco 1.12% Hotels 1.08% Cigarettes Foods Personal Care Products 0.26% Large Offices 0.02% SEGREGATION OF WASTE All Units have established systems/ procedures to verify the authorisations/ Of the total waste generated, only 3.6% licenses of the hazardous waste recyclers by weight is hazardous waste as per the and monitor performance of third party mandate of Indian statutes. In 2011-12, 99% recyclers to ensure that they are in of these hazardous wastes were recycled as detailed below and the balance 1% compliance with legal regulations and norms. Corporate EHS verifies compliance 99% of the hazardous disposed/stored completely in accordance in each of the units, once a year. wastes were with applicable statutes. recycled in 2011-12 HAZARDOUS WASTE ITEM QUANTITY (TONNES) DISPOSAL Sludge from effluent treatment plant of 23,202 To authorised agencies for making paperboards, trays, etc. Paperboards and Specialty Papers factories 76 Authorised Landfill Empty containers of hazardous chemicals 420 Decontaminated and returned to original suppliers Used oil 127 Recycled through authorised recyclers Used batteries 77 Returned to original suppliers 53 Recycled Spent solvents/ink/ink sludge/adhesives 152 Incinerated or sent to authorised landfills/stored within the Unit Biomedical waste 2 Incinerated/Autoclaved SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 7305 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS TOWARDS 100% RECYCLING S ince generation of waste cannot to enhanced pulp production to substitute be completely eliminated due imported pulp over the previous year. to limitations in processes or However, this is better than the performance technology, ITC Businesses/Units of all other integrated mills in India. According are mandated to recycle all (100%) wastes. to the Centre for Science and Environment This not only conserves precious natural Report, ‘All About Paper’ (2004), similar mills resources and energy but also prevents generated 1,200 kg of solid waste per tonne wastes from reaching landfills, with all its of paper. attendant problems like health hazards, In 2011-12, ITC generated 277,069 tonnes increase in GHG emissions, soil and ground of fly ash, (41.7% of total waste in ITC). This water contamination, etc. is 3.9% less than the previous year, due to Recycling also creates significant better utilisation of carbon neutral fuel such employment opportunities. as biomass thus reducing coal consumption. In line with our commitment to consolidate our waste recycling positive status, many of WASTE DESTINATION our Units, are already progressing towards zero waste discharge. The graph below depicts the final destinations of total wastes: The following Units reused/recycled entire wastes (more than 99%) generated total waste and their out of their operations: destination (2011-12) Cigarette factories at Munger, Bengaluru, 3.9% Saharanpur, Kolkata and Pune, Paperboards & Specialty Papers Units at Bhadrachalam, and Tribeni, Personal Care Business Units at less fly ash than REUSED/RECYCLED Haridwar and Manpura Foods Business Unit the previous year (277,069 tonnes) 6,62,978 at Pune, the ITC Green Centre at Gurgaon, Surya Nepal’s Cigarette factory at Simra and Hotels – ITC Maurya, ITC Maratha, ITC 99.9% Grand Central, ITC Windsor, ITC Mughal, wastes were ON SITE STORAGE ITC Gardenia, ITC Kakatiya, ITC Sonar, recycled at TOTAL WASTE bhadrachalam in 6,63,796 304 My Fortune, Chennai, ITC Rajputana and 2011-12 WelcomHotel Sheraton New Delhi. Reuse/Recycle includes 6931 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 tonnes of wastes INCINERATION AND composted. All LANDFILL above Units are in Tonnes. 514 Total waste (tonnes) 352,970 490,180 578,865 638,405 663,796 We have ensured recycling of 99.9% of Waste recycled (tonnes) 349,264 484,287 577,766 637,452 662,978 waste generated, although the total quantity of waste has increased by 4%. % Recycled 98.90% 98.80% 99.80% 99.80% 99.90% ITC’s Unit at Bhadrachalam which is India’s largest integrated Paper & Paperboards Un-recycled waste (tonnes) 3,706 5,893 1,099 953 818 mill, accounted for 77% of the total wastes generated in ITC. What is noteworthy is that External wastes used as this Unit recycled 99.9% wastes in 2011-12. 163,245 125,337 125,931 119,002 115,414 raw materials (tonnes) This Unit at Bhadrachalam generated 1127 kg of waste per tonne of paper/paperboard Waste recycling footprint (%)* 145 124 122 119 117 in 2011-12; an increase of close to 1% over last year (1116 kg/tonne in 2010-11), due * Waste Recycling footprint (%): (Waste recycled + external waste used as raw material) X 100 / Total waste generated in ITC 74 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE progress on waste recycling 700 100.0 99.8 99.8 99.9 90.0 98.9 98.8 600 93.1 663 80.0 80.7 638 500 78.7 70.0 579 490 60.0 400 50.0 300 315 353 304 40.0 281 200 30.0 20.0 100 10.0 0 0.0 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Waste generated in Kilotonnes Percentage recycling WASTE USED AS RAW MATERIALS ITC’s Kovai Paperboards Unit, continued ITC not only recycled almost all the solid to use post-consumer wastepaper for the waste generated by its Units, but also entire production and our Bhadrachalam procured and recycled 1,15,414 tonnes of Unit also utilised 26,471 tonnes of postwaste paper this year, resulting in yet another consumer waste paper as raw material. positive environmental footprint. creating wealth out of waste (wow) ITC’s WOW initiative not only ITC and the other materials are creates awareness among the sold to recycling industries. public about the advantages of Segregated dry waste can the “Reduce-Reuse-Recycle” save almost 40% of municipal process, protecting the garbage handling costs, which environment, improving civic can be utilised to improve civic amenities, public health and amenities. hygiene but also generates What started in a small way cost-effective raw materials for the paper, plastics, metal and with households has now spread to schools, government ITC: SOLID glass industries. offices, Corporates and other WASTE To emphasise the importance of source segregation, ITC institutions. In 2007, the WOW initiative with an average RECYCLING provides special bags to accumulate dry wastes like monthly collection of 100 MT, spread itself across South India POSITIVE paper, plastic and metals and and in 2011-12, 26,000 tonnes FOR 5 arranges periodic collection through outsourced agencies. of waste was collected through this initiative. YEARS IN A The waste paper is used by ROW SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 7505 SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Cleaner fuels Monitoring combustion efficiencies to achieve lower specific emissions Investments in state-ofthe-art pollution control equipment 76 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE I TC continued to invest in reducing air emission levels through adoption of cleaner technologies/fuels, monitoring of combustion efficiencies and investment in state-of-the-art pollution control equipment such as plasma filters, electrostatic precipitators etc. All our Units monitor significant air emission parameters such as Particulate Matter (PM), Nitrogen Oxides (NOX) and Sulphur Dioxide (SO2) on a regular basis, to ensure compliance with internal norms that are more stringent than regulatory requirements. In 2011-12, the total significant air emissions included 701 tonnes of Particulate Matter (PM), 732 tonnes of NOX and 841 tonnes of SO2 emissions (In 2010-11, PM: 765, NOX: 874 and SO2: 1133 tonnes). The decrease in the total emissions over the last year is due to reduced use of internally generated energy from fossil fuels in ITC and better utilisation of energy from renewable sources. In 2011-12, Particulate Matter emissions from Bhadrachalam were 1 kg per BDMT (Bone-Dry Metric Tonne) of production, an improvement of 24.2% over the previous year (1.32 kg/BDMT in 2010-11). As per the report by Centre for Science & Environment, In 2011-12, the specific NOX emission large-scale Indian mills typically emit 3.8 kg/ in Bhadrachalam was better than the BDMT (Source: ‘All About Paper – The life standards stipulated in European countries, cycle of Indian Pulp and Paper Industry’, as illustrated below: Green Rating project, 2004). NOx (Kg/tonne) BHADRACHALAM 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 0.43 0.69 0.60 0.58 0.46 All our Units monitor significant air emission Standards parameters such as Sweden 1.2-2.4 Particulate Matter EU 1.0-1.8 (PM), Nitrogen Oxides (NOX) and Sulphur EU-BAT* 1.0-1.5 Dioxide (SO2) on a Reported Values regular basis CEPI** 0.85 Sources – 1. Comprehensive Industry Document for Large Scale Pulp & Paper Mills, study done by CPPRI, published by CPCB, 2007 *EU-BAT:EU Norm Best Available technology 2. ** CEPI – Confederation of European paper Industries, Sustainability Report 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 77 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS The Bhadrachalam Unit is also continuously progressing towards achieving international standards on specific SO2 emission levels, as given below: SO2 (Kg/tonne) BHADRACHALAM 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 0.50 0.84 0.79 0.74 0.61 Standards Sweden 0.5-1.4 EU 0.1-0.5 EU-BAT* 0.2-0.4 Reported Values CEPI** 0.24 Sources – 1. Comprehensive Industry Document for Large Scale Pulp & Paper Mills, study done by CPPRI, published by CPCB, 2007 *EU-BAT:EU Norm Best Available technology 2. ** CEPI – Confederation of European paper Industries, Sustainability Report 2011 In addition to the above parameters, our Unit at Bhadrachalam also monitors Hydrogen Sulphide. The average measured value for the year 2011-12 was 2.96 mg/Nm3, much lower than the regulatory norm of 10mg/ Nm3. All other Units are also making concerted efforts to reduce specific emission levels. Significant reduction in specific emission levels in some of the Units in ITC along with the percentage improvement over the previous year has been depicted below: BUSINESS LOCATION % IMPROVEMENT IN UNIT SPECIFIC EMISSIONS PM NOx SO2 FoodsPune 44.5 21.3 46.4 Snacks Personal CareHaridwar 23.1 17.0 92.8 Soap Unit Personal CareManpura 72.3 82.5 99.5 Soap Unit Leaf Threshing Chirala 29.7 28.9 44.3 Unit Packaging & Printing Haridwar 14.2 37.6 36.0 Unit Cast Coating Bolaram 22.7 15.3 23.8 Unit ITC Mumbai 21.6 24.4 22.1 Maratha ITC Agra 68.7 29.5 57.9 Mughal Cigarettes Bengaluru 30.9 72.1 78.6 Unit 78 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE OZONE DEPLETING spill control and preventive maintenance SUBSTANCES (ODS) have been instituted to avoid any incidence of uncontrolled spills or leakage. The ITC had developed and implemented an effectiveness of these measures is checked All the new/ ODS phase out plan in accordance with the on a regular basis. expansion projects Government of India’s ODS Rules, 2000, have been We also continuously evaluate the feasibility undertaken after formulated to comply with the Montreal of substituting hazardous chemicals with Protocol, 1987 which regulates/bans due Environmental less or non-hazardous materials. Impact Assessments the use of ozone depleting substances internationally. In 2011-12, there was no significant spill (EIA) and stakeholder of any chemicals, oils, fuels or hazardous consultations, as The salient features of ITC’s Plan on ODS wastes in any of our Units. applicable. phase out are – All newly purchased equipment to be free of Chlorofluorocarbons (CFC), Halons BIODIVERSITY and Methyl Chloroform (MCF). Our Units/operations do not have any All units to monitor and reduce significant impact on biodiversity. consumption of ODS. All the new/expansion projects have Replace all the existing equipment using been undertaken after due Environmental ODS well before the phase out stipulation. Impact Assessments (EIA) and stakeholder Recover all the ODS from the equipment consultations, as applicable. Environmental being replaced for recycling or safe Management Plans where required as per disposal. the EIA studies, are implemented along with projects. In 2011-12, the total consumption of ODS by all our Units was 152 kg of CFC-11 equivalent. BEYOND COMPLIANCE State-of-the-art processes and technologies RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT implemented in all our Units ensure OF CHEMICALS, OILS AND benchmarked performance across ITC. FUELS Environment, Occupational Health & Safety management systems in our Units conform All our Units manage chemicals, oils and to best international standards such as ISO fuels as per defined ITC norms, which take 14001/OHSAS 18001/HACCP etc and are into account all statutory requirements and certified by accredited third party agencies. international best practices. These norms are ITC had developed Besides business division wise internal taken into consideration right from the design and implemented audits and other 3rd party audits, Corporate stage and include measures for leakage/ an ODS phase EHS experts audit every unit at periodic spillage prevention, containment provisions, out plan in intervals not exceeding 18 months, to impervious flooring, leak detection system accordance with ensure compliance to statutory norms and as well as all requirements as per Material the Government of Corporate EHS requirements. Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) for hazardous India’s ODS Rules, chemicals. Safe work practices on handling There was no violation of environmental laws/ 2000 & storage, procedures for leak detection and regulations in any ITC unit during 2011-12. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 7905 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY IN ITC’S BUSINESSES All ITC Units continue to pursue efficient use paperboards for packaging. This integration of raw materials through extensive R&D and provides the Company unique opportunities waste elimination/reduction through process to establish synergy thereby minimising management. In addition, all Businesses environmental impact through optimum In 2011-12, ITC are focused on sustainable sourcing of raw utilisation of raw materials, recycling/ consumed over materials to ensure its long-term availability reuse of wastes and optimum logistics and 16,00,000 tonnes at optimum and competitive prices. transportation. This synergy, significantly, of materials, out of reduces environmental footprint of ITC which close to 94% A very significant and large proportion of products and services. of raw materials raw materials in ITC businesses are sourced are agri based and from agricultural farms and plantations. Our We have completed studies on life cycle thus renewable initiatives in developing large scale Social assessment of some of our products/ and farm forestry plantations, watershed services. Based on the outcome of these developments, empowering the marginal studies, we plan to carry out more life farmers through e-Choupals (described cycle assessment of products/services to elsewhere in this report) have helped in evaluate the environmental impacts at the ensuring raw material sustainability in ITC various life cycle stages. This would help Businesses. In 2011-12, ITC consumed over us in identifying opportunities for improving 16,00,000 tonnes of materials, out of which their environmental attributes. close to 94% of raw materials are agri based and thus renewable. ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT OF OUR PRODUCTS: ITC products can be broadly classified into the following categories: 1. FMCG (B to C) Products: Cigarettes, Foods, Personal Care Products. 2. Industrial Supplies and Exports: Paper, Paperboards, Packaging; Leaf Tobacco, etc. 3. Services: Hotels and ITC Infotech. Since ITC is vertically integrated to a large extent, it provides opportunities for successive value addition, within the system for several categories of products such as 80 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Responsible Sourcing of Wood Fiber: Wood is a major source of fibre sourced from our social and farm wastelands under the social for the paper and paperboards forestry initiatives and the balance forestry programme also directly industry. Availability of wood (9.7%) is from other sources. Fibre contributes to in-situ moisture remains a critical challenge and is for operations at the Kovai Unit conservation, ground water a serious sustainability concern, is totally sourced from recycled recharge and significant reduction especially in a country with limited waste. 100% of wood and recycled in topsoil losses caused by wind natural resources and acute fiber used by ITC’s Paperboards and water erosion. In addition, income inequities. and Specialty Papers Business is as a result of the leaf litter from of known and legal origin. Internal multi-species plantations and Approximately 59% of the R&D has produced high yielding, the promotion of leguminous total fibre requirements of site specific, disease resistant intercrops, depleted soils are ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty eucalyptus and subabul clones on constantly enriched. Papers Division is met by the the back of extensive knowledge of Organisation’s social and farm plantation management practices. forestry projects, another ITC distributed 57.44 million high 17% comes from recycled quality saplings to farmers and fibre, processed at Kovai and planted 11,000 hectares during Bhadrachalam and the balance the year. 24% is imported pulp used at Bhadrachalam and Tribeni Units. Apart from the obvious benefits 90.3% of fibre manufactured of increasing the green cover, in Bhadrachalam is from wood plantation on degradable Forest Stewardship Council Certifications Further consolidating ITC’s Triple ITC’s Paper and Paperboard Division certified wood to its operations Bottom Line performance, the can now supply FSC certified paper thereby giving options of reaching four units of ITC’s Paperboards /paperboards from all its four more certified material to the and Specialty Papers Division i.e Units with the FSC claim of ‘FSC market. This certification brings Bhadrachalam, Bollaram, Kovai and Mixed’ or ‘FSC Recycled’. FSC logo better environmental practices Tribeni, received the prestigious on products enables customers to and improves social benefits to the ‘FSC Chain of Custody’ Certification buy confidently knowing that the community around the Khammam from 2009 onwards and have been products/packaging is from legal, district of Andhra Pradesh where maintaining it. sustainable and well managed the farm plots are located. The sources organisation is planning to bring The FSC (Forest Stewardship in more areas under FSC – FM Council) is an independent, The FSC certification for ITC’s certification in the future. non-governmental; not-for-profit Paperboards and Specialty Papers organisation established to promote Units exemplifies the organisation’s the responsible management of the continued commitment to world’s forests and is recognised sustainable business practices and as the gold standard in the wood to the building of an inclusive and certification for ethical and legal secure future for both its stake sourcing. The FSC is represented in holders and the larger society. more than 107 countries around In continuation of its commitment the world, and is the most widely to expand its scope the organisation accepted and respected amongst also got about 8,028 hectares forest product certification schemes. of plantations owned by more FSC endorsement implies that than 9,000 small and marginal an organisation complies with farmers certified for FSC – Forest its principles and criteria in the Management as Group Manager. different areas of its functioning. This ensures more supply of FSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 81 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Labour Practices and Decent Work Social Investments Mission Sunehra Kal Product Responsibility LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Supporting livelihoods for over 5 million people Building a future-ready talent bank Strong focus on occupational health and safety Progressing towards zero accidents 84 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGING TALENT ENGAGEMENT Our Talent Management strategy is focused on building a ‘future-ready’ talent bank in Employees the organisation to ensure a pipeline of ITC’s robust strategy of organisation, high quality managerial talent, specialists and business leadership. This is premised Our Talent climate of professionalism and time-tested Management caring culture constitute the framework for on attraction, development and retention of high-quality talent. ITC’s talent brand strategy is focused effectively channelising corporate vitality. on building a ITC has made significant investments in “Building winning businesses. Building business leaders. Creating value for ‘future-ready’ developing talent across the organisational talent bank in the spectrum – from frontline management to India” reflects its commitment to nurturing world-class talent and providing them the organisation to business leadership, all geared to galvanise ensure a pipeline the Company to become more agile and opportunity to develop as leaders and contributors to a larger purpose. Our talent of high quality stay ahead of change. managerial talent, engagement approach is based on: Our strategic agenda of remaining globally specialists and competitive and creating engines for Attracting and nurturing quality talent business leadership sustainable growth has been powered by supported by significant investments nurturing quality talent and blending proven in learning and development, a culture skills and capabilities drawn from different of care and concern supported by parts of the ITC Group. Each business systems and processes that encourage focuses on engaging employees through engagement and involvement. communication meetings, workplace Creating a responsive, stakeholderinteractions, mentoring and suggestion centric and market focused culture that schemes, employee/manager surveys and enhances organisational capability and talent recognition programmes. vitality. We have strived to attract and retain talent through various initiatives that focus on providing personal development and LOCAL HIRING & SENIOR growth, a work culture that ensures high levels of performance, world-class learning MANAGEMENT and a conducive work environment. We recruit quality talent from premier We have further strengthened the campuses across the country through an organisational vitality and competitiveness objective and robust selection process. through various efforts including: New employees are assigned to various businesses of the Company and are Developing agility and creativity to rapidly deployed across the country. Our strategy embrace change. of organisation is based on the principle of Developing leaders from a diverse pool of distributed leadership in order to unleash talented and passionate individuals. the entrepreneurial energies of our human resources. The strategy of organisation Creating an environment where and its on-going emphasis on developing employees are inspired, engaged and and supporting distributed leadership aligned with the Company’s Vision, Mission and Core Values. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 85 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS has ensured that each of our Company’s to over 5 million people, whose livelihoods businesses are managed by a team of were substantially linked to their association competent, passionate and inspiring leaders. with the Company. Indirect employment covers the supply and distribution network, Our human resource We encourage local employment in the management systems agri-sourcing, social and farm forestry, workforce in manufacturing and hotels, and processes aim at e-Choupals, women’s empowerment depending on the availability of requisite creating a responsive, and micro-enterprises and livestock skills. In some of our Units, we also partner customer-centric development. with local Industrial Training Institutes to and market focused provide vital inputs to the management of Over 13,000 of our direct employees are culture that enhances these institutions. A large number of youth are members of various unions. Employees organisational also provided apprenticeship opportunities were aligned and involved in the capability and vitality in our manufacturing Units. implementation of significant investments in technology and process improvements aimed at enhancing productivity, quality LABOUR PRACTICES AND and delivery effectiveness. The harmonious relations at all operating Units is a reflection DECENT WORK of the Company’s approach to employee Our human resource management systems engagement focusing on a collaborative and processes aim at creating a responsive, approach and mutuality of interests. There customer-centric and market focused culture have been no disputes in ITC Units, nor has that enhances organisational capability the Company lost any workbase on account and vitality. Our unique employee value of the same during 2011-12. proposition backed by strong corporate Our remuneration philosophy recognises equity enabled sustained engagement in performance and meritocracy, whilst challenging times. being competitive and sustainable. This is During 2011-12, our full-time direct employees reflected in the total employee cost of `1265 numbered almost 31,000 of which nearly 2,278 crores during 2011-12, which represents an employees in the Leaf Tobacco business were 11% compounded annual growth over the engaged on a seasonal basis due to the very last three years. nature of the business. In addition, aproximately 11,887 employees of service providers were engaged during ATTRITION this period. Our significant operations are in The unique value proposition and the India except for one subsidiary company in integrated approach to managing human Nepal, which employed around 526 full-time resources is anchored on ITC’s Group direct employees and 290 employees of Philosophy and ITC’s HR Philosophy. This service providers. enabled significant attraction, retention and The different value chains related to our motivation of employees. The overall attrition Businesses provided indirect employment across management and non-management 86 employees for 2011-12 was 14%. Within the were revitalised to reflect the emerging management cadre*, attrition was 11%. capability requirements. In addition to core programmes, customised programmes * Management cadre consists of managers in Responsibility In 2011-12, over Levels 1 to 8 and does not include managers working with were also offered to address the needs subsidiaries of ITC Limited expressed by businesses, aimed at building 1,26,000 person-days specific capabilities at various levels of the of formal training organisation. were organised for employees at various LEARNING AND Planning for initiatives in this area begins levels. In addition, DEVELOPMENT much before the commencement of the year on-the-job learning and flows from the various Business Plans opportunities were ITC’s Learning and Development initiatives and capability requirements emerging thereof. provided to a crossare powered by a strong Learning & Business HR teams work closely with the section of employees Development Vision – ‘Build ITC’s talent and Corporate HR team in actuating the initiatives supported by inputs leadership pipeline to power our engines of for Learning and Development. Employee from peers and growth and enhance organisational capability training at the factory level is undertaken after superiors to compete, win in the market place and assessment of skill gap or after evaluation create enduring value for our shareholders of emergent technology or skill needs. The and society.’ The Capability Development process is proactive and wellstructured. Agenda flows from ITC’s Mission, ITC’s Strategic Agenda, the 3-Horizon Growth In 2011-12, over 1,26,000 person-days of Strategy and ITC’s Vision. formal training were organised for employees at various levels. In addition, on-the-job Learning and Development initiatives offered learning opportunities were provided to a during 2011-12 were aligned with this cross-section of employees supported by agenda. The on-going core programmes inputs from peers and superiors. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 87 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY I TC gives special emphasis to the Occupational Health & Safety of its employees (including that of service providers) and all visitors to its establishments. This is ensured through strict adherence to Corporate Environment, Health & Safety Guidelines, which have incorporated best international standards and practices. Corporate resources and expert third party agencies audit all ITC establishments on a periodic basis in order to verify compliance. These reports are reviewed at the Board level. TOWARDS ZERO ACCIDENT All our factories, hotels and large offices have established Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) Management systems with designated roles and responsibilities, competent EHS resources and safety infrastructure, which are under constant upgradation to comply with best international standards. In addition, strong employee involvement is encouraged through participation in suggestion schemes, celebration of EHS events etc. A continual process of risk assessment has been institutionalised across Businesses wherein risks are systematically identified and mitigation plans implemented. All new projects and major renovation jobs are reviewed and vetted at the design stage by EHS experts and engineering control measures are implemented together with the project. Pre commissioning audits are 88 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE also conducted to ensure compliance to all EHS requirements. A comprehensive incident/accident reporting system has been established in all Units. These incidents/accidents undergo a thorough investigation for identifying root causes and accordingly, corrective/ preventive measures are initiated. The findings and recommendations are also discussed in the Safety Committee meetings to ensure complete management and employee buy in. In order to disseminate the learnings from accidents, details of serious accidents, along with the root cause analysis and proposed corrective measures are communicated across the Company. This enables Units maintenance work on a compressor, and to be equipped for spearheading proactive passed away after a month of treatment. measures that can eliminate/control similar Based on detailed investigation of the situations. accident, necessary corrective action has A comprehensive been implemented in all Units, which have incident/accident similar equipments. reporting system has LOST TIME ACCIDENTS, been established in all Lost day rate, defined as the number of days Units. These incidents/ INJURY RATE AND LOST DAY lost due to accidents for every 2,00,000 accidents undergo a RATE person hours, for the year 2011-12 was 25.3 (2.23 in 2010-11). This was mainly due to the thorough investigation for identifying All these efforts have yielded satisfactory fatal accident in Tribeni, which resulted in root causes and results in safety performance during the 48,000 man-hours lost on account of fatality accordingly, corrective/ reporting period. In 2011-12, the number of (as per the Indian Standard IS: 3786-1983). preventive measures Lost Time Accidents (LTA) of ITC employees Injury rate, the frequency of injuries in initiated has been reduced to 7, which is 42% lower relation to total time worked, has been than the LTAs in the previous year, as is brought down considerably. There has been detailed below: an improvement of 60% in the injury rate as compared to 2010-11, despite significant 42% lower lta than lost time accidents (lta) growth in all Businesses. This reflects a previous year consistent decline in the injury rate as has 2011-12 2010-11 07 12 2005-06 2004-05 16 37 7lta been illustrated below. 60% 2009-10 23 2003-04 27 happened improvement in 2008-09 15 2002-03 35 during injury rate (ir) the injury rate as 2011-12 compared to 2010-11 2007-08 20 2001-02 33 2011-12 0.02 2005-06 0.09 2006-07 14 2010-11 0.05 2004-05 0.21 LTA An accident where the injured does not return to work in the next scheduled shift 2009-10 0.09 2003-04 0.17 0.06 0.20 0.02 2008-09 2002-03 In ITC, Lost Time Accident (LTA) is defined 2007-08 0.09 2001-02 0.22 injury as an accident where the injured is not able 2006-07 0.08 rate for to come back to work for the next scheduled 2011-12 shift. This definition is more stringent than the IR LTA per every 200,000 person-hours worked ‘Reportable Accident’ as per the Factories Act, 1948, which is defined as an accident where an injured person is unable to resume duty within 48 hours after the accident. There was however 1 very unfortunate fatal accident reported from the Specialty Papers Unit of Tribeni in 2011-12, wherein a skilled employee was seriously injured during SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 8905 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS ZERO ACCIDENT UNITS preventive medical Many Units at ITC attained the goal of ‘zero examination accidents’ through effective implementation of safety management systems and 2011-12 12,812 adoption of state-of-the-art technologies. 2010-11 12,430 The following Units have achieved zero lost 2009-10 10,801 time accidents in 2011-12: 2008-09 11,510 Cigarette factories at Kidderpore, Pune 2007-08 9,752 and Saharanpur 2006-07 8,006 Leaf Threshing Units at Anaparti & Chirala 2005-06 2004-05 8,135 7,718 12,812 Packaging & Printing Units at Haridwar, preventive medical Tiruvottiyur & Munger 2003-04 5,996 examination 2002-03 4,556 conducted during Paperboards and Specialty Papers Units 2011-12 2001-02 4,593 at Bollaram & Kovai Foods Unit at Haridwar illness and there were no occupation Personal Care Products Units at Haridwar related illnesses reported from Units. & Manpura Research Centres at Bengaluru & HIV/AIDS Rajahmundry We remained committed to various ITC Infotech’s Bengaluru Office Complex programmes and interventions introduced ITC Green Centre, Gurgaon in response to the serious threat posed by HIV/AIDS. During 2011-12, we conducted ITC Head Quarters, Kolkata 122 awareness programmes for the ITC Grand Central, ITC Kakatiya, ITC employees and communities around our All Units maintain Rajputana, ITC Maratha, ITC Mughal, ITC Units. The interventions covered a total a conducive work Sonar & ITC Windsor of 6,649 people of which 5,532 were environment meeting our employees while the remaining were Indian/International My Fortune & WelcomHotel Sheraton standards on hygiene, members of the local community. In New Delhi lighting, ventilation addition we also organised counseling Fortune Resort Bay Island Hotel, Port sessions at various locations covering a and effective controls Blair total of 1,482 people, of which 904 were on noise and dust our employees. Surya Nepal’s Unit at Simra OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH A healthy workforce is an important contributor to our competitiveness and sustainability. All Units maintain a conducive work environment meeting Indian/International standards on hygiene, lighting, ventilation and effective controls on noise and dust. All Units are provided with occupational health centres with adequate medical staff to monitor occupational health and provide immediate relief, when required. In addition, at least 2% of total employees in each Unit are trained to provide first aid. In 2011-12, 12,812 employees underwent preventive medical examinations, to identify symptoms of any occupational 90 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE HUMAN RIGHTS SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS D uring 2011-12, nearly 55% of our nationally and internationally, we recognise total capex cash flow of `2409 our responsibility to proactively encourage crores was incurred on machinery high levels of ‘Human Rights’ standards in and technology, sourced from our supply chain. reputed global suppliers/vendors who Our approach to managing human rights follow internationally accepted norms and in the following distinct categories is standards on Human Rights. Approximately described below: ` 967 Crores were invested on new factories, hotels and modernisations. Our major businesses are vertically integrated across several Divisions that All large contracts in ITC, for the construction follow ITC policies. of hotels, factories, and significant upgrades, included environment, health, safety and We procure inputs for the Company’s human rights’ clauses covering decent agri-based businesses entirely from place of work, and beyond compliance state controlled trading platforms and labour practices. the open market. In 2011-12 large projects such as We position our managers at all significant construction of the Packaging & Printing ‘outsourced’ manufacturing facilities factory at Haridwar, the master facility of (Cigarettes, Personal Care, Branded the lifestyle retailing business at Manesar, Apparels and Packaged Foods) to ITC Hotels at Chennai and Kolkata and ensure high standards of product quality modernisation of the Cigarette factories and adherence to ITC’s guidelines on at Kolkata are in progress. The Green Leaf EHS and labour practices. Government Threshing Plant at Mysore and the Cigarette officials also routinely inspect these units factory at Pune have been completed to ensure relevant labour and factory acts, during the reporting period. All these were which, inter alia, provide for the necessary managed and supervised by ITC managers, EHS and labour practices standards. who also ensured proper implementation of The execution of ITC’s human rights Human Rights compliance. policies is obligatory for all service All large contracts providers operating within our in ITC, for the Systems have been established to ensure establishments. construction of compliance of our Policies and Standards, hotels, factories, and through rigorous audits by Corporate During 2011-12, the total number of service significant upgrades, Internal Audit and Corporate EHS. providers was 6,311 of which 1,570 operated included environment, within the Company’s premises and 4,741 health, safety and worked off-site. 98% of contracts on-site and human rights’clauses HUMAN RIGHTS: SUPPLY 95% of contracts off-site, included important covering decent place CHAIN clauses on Human Rights, environment, of work, and beyond health and safety. No contracts were cancelled compliance labour As a large and multi-product enterprise during the year as a result of non-compliance practices whose products are benchmarked with ITC’s human rights clauses. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 9105 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS PREVENTION OF DISCRIMINATION AT THE WORK PLACE During 2011-12, no incident of discrimination in any of the ITC units was reported either to the concerned units or statutory authorities. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION During 2011-12, no incidents of violation of freedom of association were reported either to the concerned units or statutory authorities. Within ITC’s operations, there are no areas where the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining is at risk. PROHIBITING CHILD LABOUR AND PREVENTING FORCED LABOUR AT WORK PLACE During 2011-12, no incidents of child or forced labour were reported either to the the strategic supervision of the Company, concerned units or statutory authorities. consists of 4 Executive Directors (including the Chairman) and 12 Non-Executive Directors as on March 31, 2012. The NonOur approach to DIVERSITY AND EQUAL Executive Directors come from different human resource OPPORTUNITY fields, thereby ensuring multi-dimensional is premised on perspectives in setting the strategic agenda. the fundamental We believe that every individual brings a The strategic management of the Company belief of fostering different and unique set of perspectives and rests with the Corporate Management meritocracy in the capabilities to the team. A discriminationCommittee comprising full time Executive organisation, which free workplace for employees provides the Directors and 7 members drawn from senior promotes diversity environment in which diverse talents can management representing diverse functions. and offers equality bloom and be nurtured. of opportunity to all The executive management of each business employees is vested with the Divisional Management Committee (DMC), headed by the Chief GOVERNANCE BODIES AND Executive. The DMC draws resources from DIVERSITY different functions. Each DMC is responsible for and focused on the management of its Our approach to human resource is assigned business. premised on the fundamental belief of fostering meritocracy in the organisation, which promotes diversity and offers equality of opportunity to all employees. We do EQUAL REMUNERATION not engage in or support direct or indirect discrimination in recruitment, compensation, Our compensation philosophy does not access to training, promotion, termination or differentiate on gender, caste or age. It is retirement based on caste, religion, disability, linked to responsibility levels and based on gender, age, race, colour, ancestry, marital performance. We also ensure compliance status or affiliation with a political, religious, with the Equal Remuneration Act, which union organisation or minority group. mandates every employer to pay equal remuneration to men and women employees The Board of Directors at the apex, as for the same work or work of similar nature. trustees of shareholders and responsible for 92 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE PREVENTION OF CORRUPTION AT WORKPLACE W e believe that corporations and industry issues. The Tobacco Institute of like ours have a responsibility India is a tobacco industry body, which helps to set exemplary standards of support industry norms and Government ethical behaviour, both within policies and initiatives. All our Businesses/ the organisation as well as in our external Divisions have systems relationships. We believe that unethical and procedures to identify and behaviour corrupts organisational culture and undermines shareholder value. COMPLIANCE comply with all relevant statutory All our Businesses/Divisions have systems A booklet on ITC’s Code of Conduct, requirements. There and procedures to identify and comply which also contains the policies against was no major with all relevant statutory requirements. corruption, is periodically circulated to all non-compliance with There was no major non-compliance with managers. In addition, it is posted on the laws or regulations by laws or regulations by any of our Businesses corporate intranet sites and the ITC Portal. any of our Businesses in 2011-12. The Audit Committee of the Board met ten in 2011-12. times during the year to review, interalia, the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal controls and monitored implementations, including those relating to the strengthening of the company’s risk management policies and systems. Instances of fraud involving employees or business partners were cognised for and suitable action was taken. ITC has a zero tolerance approach to corruption, resulting in immediate termination of service. PUBLIC POLICY ADVOCACY Our senior managers participated in a large number of industry fora to help contribute to debates on public policy issues related to our businesses. ITC has provided assistance to establish industry institutions – namely the Tobacco Institute of India and the CII – ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development – to promote public debate and shape policies on important national SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 93 SOCIAL INVESTMENTSMISSION SUNHERA KAL FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Strengthening rural livelihoods through: Wasteland Development through Social Forestry Soil & Moisture Conservation Programmes Livestock Development Initiatives Building skills and social infrastructure through: Primary Education, Health & Sanitation Women Empowerment & Gender Equality 94 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE I 945 hectares n pursuit of the Company’s commitment focuses on aligning and integrating with the to create larger societal value, ITC’s business value chains of the Company, and Social Investments Programme making them outcome oriented. The projects the total area continues to be driven by the needs and promoted under the Social Investments harvested by the end of the year, concerns of two important stakeholders: programme increased from 76 in the last yielding 28,451 The rural households aligned to our Agri financial year to 101 this year. Covering tonnes of raw Businesses and families residing in the over 4.37 lakh households from about 8,710 material vicinity of our factories. Out of the total, 67 villages, the projects were spread across 60 projects covered rural households in the catchments of Agri Businesses, with a focus districts in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, 40% mainly on interventions to strengthen and Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar increase in broad-base their livelihood options. The Pradesh, and West Bengal. the income per household balance 34 projects covered households in the command areas of our factories, mainly concentrating on farm and non-farm WASTELAND DEVELOPMENTlivelihoods through micro-enterprises and SOCIAL FORESTRY the creation of social capital. The Social Forestry Programme to promote pulpwood plantations in Andhra Pradesh e-CHOUPAL and energy security in Karnataka, cumulatively PERFORMANCE ITC’s e-Choupal network, which leverages ACTIVITY CUM TO DATE information technology to empower TARGET ACTUAL farmers is a rich repertoire of agri-based Coverage interventions not only addresses the core No of new villages 220 776 1,321 needs of farmers in terms of infrastructure, connectivity, price discovery and market No of new beneficiaries 496 5,319 29,741 access, but also provides a significant boost Plantation Area (Ha) 4,780 4,375 24,195 to farm productivity through extension Saplings Planted (Lakhs) 138 317 1,228 services and research based agri-inputs. Agro-forestry Area (Ha) 187 330 330 Initiatives like the ‘Choupal Pradarshan Khet’ bring suitable agricultural best practices to covered a total of 24,195 hectares in 1,321 farmers and have demonstrated significant villages impacting nearly 30,000 poor productivity gains. These interventions households. Apart from increasing biohave helped transform village communities mass cover, these initiatives have a salutary The projects into vibrant economic organisations, effect on agricultural production by promoted by enhancing incomes and co-creating preventing soil erosion and recharging under the Social markets. ITC’s e-Choupals serve 40,000 groundwater, meeting the energy and fodder Investments villages and 4 million farmers, making it the needs of households, and also becoming a programme world’s largest rural digital infrastructure. sustainable base of raw material for our increased from 76 Paperboards and Paper Business. Energy in the last financial plantations were promoted in four districts of year to 101 this SOCIAL INVESTMENT Karnataka Chamrajnagar, Mysore, Hassan year, covering PROGRAMME and Mandya. Considering that this is a new over 4.37 lakh project area, it was encouraging to note a households in ITC’s social investment programmes are 50% increase over the previous year to 528 8,710 villages guided by the company’s CSR policy, which hectares in 2011-12. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 95 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS The introduction of the agro-forestry ppp-sources model was a significant milestone that 56% was achieved during the year, along with 27% the successful completion of the Forest 17% Stewardship Council – Forest Management (FSC-FM) Certification audit. The audit was conducted in November 2011 by a team appointed by the Rainforest Alliance, the MGNREGA nodal agency for the FSC certification. The NABARD auditors visited the field sites to see the IWDP*/IWMP # plantations, interacted with the beneficiaries *Integrated Watershed Development Programme and also saw the watershed interventions. # Integrated Watershed Management Programme Another important development during the year was the piloting of a biodiversity SOIL AND MOISTURE conservation project in Khammam district CONSERVATION under which about 50,000 seedlings of native tree species were planted and a The Soil and Moisture Conservation plot for in-situ conservation of biodiversity Programme, designed to assist farmers developed. This plot is spread across 2.75 in identified moisture-stressed districts, hectares and has a floral population of 35 increased by another 24,992 ha. 442 water different species. harvesting structures were created during the year 2011-12. Currently the total area The total area harvested by the end of the year covered under the watershed programme was 945 ha, yielding 28,451 tonnes of raw cumulatively stands at 89,491 hectares. material, all of which was supplied to ITC’s Paperboards & Speciality Papers business. Our project in Sehore (Madhya Pradesh) A significant development was the increase was at the vanguard of a welcome and of nearly 40% in the income per household encouraging development. It was included and per hectare as compared to the previous in the list of 47 best sites by the Rajiv Gandhi years. This was a result of increase in yields Mission for Watershed Management, per hectare between the two years – from Government of Madhya Pradesh, The Soil and Moisture 23 tonnes/ha to 30 tonnes/ha as a result for exposure visits by all concerned Conservation of the productivity enhancement measures government staff of the IWMP projects Programme, designed to introduced last year. being implemented by the government. assist farmers in identified PERFORMANCE moisture-stressed ACTIVITY Most of the watershed programmes are now 2011-12 districts, currently covers Area (Ha) 945 being implemented in partnership either with nearly 90,000 hectares NABARD or various state governments. Farmers (No) 988 Some of the highlights of the partnership Volume supplied to PSPD (Ton) 28,451 programmes include: Total Income (Rs Lakh) Repayment to committee/NGO 625 7 Two new MoUs were signed with the 90,000 hectares Government of Rajasthan for promoting covered under Earnings/Household 63,249 sustainable livelihoods through itc’s watershed development Earnings/Hectare 66,144 watershed development in the districts of programme PERFORMANCE (2011-12) ACTIVITY TARGET ACTUAL CUM TO DATE 442 water harvesting Water-Harvesting structures were Minor Structures (No) 404 224 2,207 created in 2011-12 Major Structures (No) 234 218 1,464 Total Structures 638 442 3,671 Watershed Area Area Treated (Ha) 26,846 18,231 57,400 Critical Irrigation Area (Ha) 8,949 6,761 32,091 Total Watershed Area 35,795 24,992 89,491 Direct Beneficiaries (No) 16,301 23,433 88,697 Employment mandays (lakhs) 10.74 7.67 26.04 96 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Agri extension services as well as agri inputs were provided to nearly 4,000 farmers during the year Bundi and Pratapgarh under MGNREGA. IMPROVED AGRICULTURAL It has been planned to treat 10,000 hectares for soil moisture conservation PRACTICES over a period of 5 years. With this, the The total number of group wells and total area for watershed development sprinkler systems promoted todate under under the PPP projects now stands at the programme stands at 497 and 770 1.23 lakh hectares. respectively. 6 new Agri-business Centres Work on the PPP projects with the state (ABCs) were introduced in the tobacco tracts governments has been progressing well. of Andhra Pradesh, taking the total to 33. By the close of the financial year, the PPP These centres provided extension services projects cumulatively covered nearly and agri-inputs to nearly 4,000 farmers. In 14,000 hectares (18% of the 5 year target) addition to these ongoing activities, there in the three states where government was special focus on two new initiatives programmes are being implemented. during the year. Direct recharge of defunct wells was initiated, with coverage of 61 wells Under the NABARD partnership projects, by the end of the year. In order to ensure a more than 12,000 hectares have been methodical and systematic dissemination of covered to date, forming 36% of the total improved agricultural practices, 37 farmer target. schools with 918 farmer students promoted Conforming to the priority of creating demonstration plots on improved varieties capacities of the PRIs, training and best agronomical practices. It was programmes were organised for Gram observed that the focused interventions in Panchayat members, Gramsevaks and sustainable agricultural practices through VDC members. These were done in Farmer Field Schools lead to noticeable the project districts of Maharashtra on increase in average yields. The cost of MGNREGS, Panchayati Raj Institutions, cultivation also decreased significantly and the roles and responsibilities of by using locally sourced material and different stakeholders. technologies. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 9705 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS INTEGRATED ANIMAL total handling capacity created was 14,000 HUSBANDRY PROGRAMME lpd. Backward linkages for dairy inputs, particularly cattle feed, was strengthened The programme for genetic improvement during the year, with the quantity of cattle of cattle through artificial insemination to feed supplied to farmers increasing produce high-yielding crossbred progenies significantly during the year. has been given special emphasis because As a result of all these inputs, procurement it reaches out to the most impoverished, of milk was encouraging during the year. and has the potential to enable them to Starting with 102 litres from 31 farmers in live with social and economic dignity. 83 July 2011, the average collection per month new Cattle Development Centres (CDCs) increased to 9,400 lpd in March 2012, with about 1,300 farmers pouring milk on a regular basis. The total milk handled during PERFORMANCE CUM TO ACTIVITY 2011-12 the year was nearly 12 lakh litres. DATE TARGET ACTUAL CDC 110 83 293 Centres (No) Breed Improvement monthly milk handling (litres) No of AIs (lakhs) 2.69 2.32 8.07 350,000 No of Pregnancies 1.10 1.02 3.53 300,000 (lakhs) No of Calfing 250,000 (lakhs) 0.93 0.67 2.18 Vaccination & 200,000 Health (lakhs) 0.56 1.04 5.53 150,000 100,000 were established during the year, taking the total to 293 centres covering more than 50,000 8,200 villages, resulting in 2.32 lakh artificial inseminations during the year. ITC’s first 00 PPP project in livestock development for Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar 10 CDCs was sanctioned by NABARD for 3,360 18,932 51,855 66,851 96,853 161,761 199,637 287,320 290,585 Hoshangabad district (Madhya Pradesh). Taking the next step in the development of a viable livestock economy, dairy development in Munger was a major focus area this year. Farmers from 60 villages were mobilised for milk procurement on 3 milk routes. The process of establishing a robust procurement infrastructure was initiated with the installation of 3 Bulk Milk Chillers (BMC) along with one storage tank. The distribution of cattle development centres by states AP : 35 KRNTK : 20 BIHAR : 39 UP : 71 MAHA : 71 MP : 57 98 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE BUILDING SKILLS AND SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE AROUND OUR FACTORIES F or the households around our units, the challenge is that of providing the necessary social infrastructure to enable a decent quality of life. Thus these projects aim at creating sustainable livelihoods through community development for our second group of stakeholders communities in the command areas of our factories. WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT The Women’s Empowerment Programme covered over 16,000 women through 1,380 self-help groups (SHG) with total savings of `285 lakhs. Cumulatively, more than 39,000 women were gainfully employed either through micro-enterprises, or were assisted with loans to pursue income-generating activities. More than 39,000 women were gainfully employed either through micro-enterprises, or were assisted with loans to pursue income -generating activities SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 9905 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS 19,000 Agarbatti production through SHGs saw Over 19,000 new students were covered significant scale-up during the year. 349 through Supplementary Learning Centres metric tonnes of raw agarbatti for scenting and Anganwadis. Of these, 952 first new students were was produced during the year from the units generation learners were mainstreamed into covred during the established in Munger (Bihar) and Hardoi formal schools. 919 youth benefited this year 2011-12 (Uttar Pradesh). The scenting unit in Munger year from the skill development initiative. supplied 293 million sticks worth `314 lakhs To improve the health and sanitation to the Agarbatti business. The activity conditions in villages around the provides supplementary incomes to more Bhadrachalam, Kovai and Chirala units, than 2,000 women. 275 toilets were constructed. These toilets are constructed in a radius of 10 kms of the factory. All these initiatives were undertaken PRIMARY EDUCATION AND on a cost sharing basis. HEALTH AND SANITATION PERFORMANCE CUM TO ACTIVITY 2011-12 DATE A strong foundation in primary education TARGET ACTUAL and skill building for the children in the Primary Education community is a major step towards ensuring Govt. Schools Infra Support (No) 130 177 918 improvements in the HDI indices for the Children Covered (Lakhs) 0.22 0.19 2.66 community as a whole. The initiative’s focus is to minimise drop-outs and ensure Vocational Training that every child is in school and learning. It No. of Students (New) 830 919 3,245 aims at enriching the process of learning. Placements (No of Students) 209 237 It also enhances the learning environment Health & Sanitation by providing infrastructural support to the Sanitary Toilets (No) 350 275 3,495 government schools. Health Camps 10 334 651 100 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 101 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS CUSTOMER SAFETY OUR PRIME CONCERN O ur uncompromising commitment and the remaining Units are progressing fast in providing world-class products towards achieving this certification. and services to satisfy customers All the products in our Education & Stationery on a consistent basis is supported Products Business use approved nonby concern for the safety of our consumers/ hazardous materials e.g. ECF (Elemental customers. Chlorine Free) paper, ink, dyes etc. Since New product creation in our Cigarettes the primary consumers of these products Business involves consideration of are children, stringent process quality global developments and is supported control measures are in place to ensure safe by comprehensive research and testing products. facilities at ITC Research & Development Centre, where laboratories conform to ISO/IEC 17025 and are certified by NABL (National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration.) We use proprietary software for regular monitoring and review of stringent product specifications of all the raw materials. The manufacturing units have state-of-the-art facilities, cutting edge technology and international quality management systems, which are constantly reviewed and upgraded. With the objective of preserving customer health and safety, the Foods Business ensures adherence to highest levels of quality, safety and hygiene standards in manufacturing processes and in the supply chain. The Business operates predominantly on a model of outsourced manufacturing. The quality performance of each manufacturer is monitored on a daily basis. All the Units of the Foods Division owned by ITC have already been Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) certified. Majority of the outsourced manufacturing units have also achieved this certification 102 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE In our Agarbatti Business IFRA (International policies are implemented and standards Fragrance Resource Association, continually improved upon. Geneva) approved chemicals are used Our Paperboards & Specialty Papers in the fragrances for the manufacture of Business is the pioneering manufacturer Mangaldeep Agarbattis. The laid down of Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) pulp in processes in manufacturing are designed to India, which ensures the levels of dioxins ensure product safety and consistency. and furans in the pulp to be less than 1 PPT In our Personal Care Products Business, (Parts Per Trillion). The global migration test products have been created through is conducted periodically on all food grade extensive research and consumer paper and paperboards for compliance engagement. The products have been with the US FDA standards and to adhere developed in the state-of-the art R&D to prescribed limits for presence of heavy centre in Bengaluru, by our team of highly metals. All manufacturing ingredients other skilled professionals over the last several than those sourced internally, are procured years. The formulations use internationally from reputed international suppliers and recognised safe ingredients and are must conform to US FDA standards as subjected to the highest standards of well as BFR recommendation No. 36. safety and performance. The manufacturing We ensure that the components of food facilities adopt stringent hygiene standards, allergens listed in the EC directive 2003/89/ benchmarked manufacturing practices and EC and the US FDA Act are not used in robust quality systems. any of the virgin grade boards and papers. The Bollaram Unit, manufacturing food In our Information Technology Business, grade board for direct food contact, is ‘third quality of the software is assured through party’ certified in accordance with BRC/ well-defined QMS following SEI – CMM Our Paperboards IoP (British Retail Consortium/Institute of framework and certified by ISO 9001& Specialty Packaging) standards. Pira, a renowned 2000 IT guidelines. We ensure the Papers Business testing and consultancy firm, now certifies security of the software by using standard is the pioneering our ‘Indobarr’ and ‘Cyber Propac’ brands to software packages from reputed specialist manufacturer of be compliant with German BFR standards organisations. Effective access control Elemental Chlorine for Food Packaging. and asset management mechanisms are Free (ECF) pulp in India, certified under ISO 27001 frameworks. In our Safety Matches Business, all products which ensures the conform to the specified standards as per BIS. levels of dioxins and In our Hotels Business, policies are in place In addition, all match sticks in our products furans in the pulp to be to ensure the highest standards of customer are specially carborised to prevent after glow less than 1 PPT (Parts health, security and safety. Effective thereby enhancing consumer safety. Per Trillion) measures are taken to ensure that these SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 10305 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Our Packaging & Printing Business business operations strive to comply with uses only safe/approved materials/films every relevant law of the nation. Gradually and paperboards from either our own increasing social pressure on tobacco often Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business leads to public debates on its consumption. or other approved suppliers. The Chennai Stringent quality standards/systems are unit is the first in India to achieve IQRS established to respond to queries/concerns (International Quality Rating System) Level 8 and are made known to all stakeholders. (Certified by DNV) followed by Munger Unit. Our Cigarette Business fully complies In the Agri Business, products are sold with the applicable laws and regulations or exported entirely as per customer concerning Product Labeling. specifications and requirements. Products All our Businesses comply with all statutes on in Choupal Saagars and Choupal Fresh labeling and product information and have are sourced from reputed companies as put in place systems to ensure compliance per statutory norms. In addition, fruits and including review before the launch of any vegetables in Choupal Fresh are sourced new category. Our Consumer Goods from farmers and mandis. Stringent process Businesses including branded packaged control and quality inspection norms are in place to ensure the quality of all products. foods, personal care products, lifestyle As an organisation retailing, safety matches and others comply which upholds In the Leaf Tobacco Business the fully with the Standards of Weights and and makes products are manufactured as per Measures Act and Packaged Commodity extraordinary efforts customer specifications. The customers Rules. to ensure legitimacy, in this business are large domestic and Our Paperboards & Specialty Papers transparency and international cigarette manufacturers and Business, Packaging and Printing as well as good governance, ITC’s tobacco merchants. We ensure that the our Agri-Business comply with all productbusiness operations specifications are meticulously complied labelling requirements and follow internal strive to comply with with. Hygiene and Infestation Management quality procedures as per agreed customer every relevant law of Systems to control infestation are in place. specifications. Our Leaf Tobacco Business the nation Our Agri Extension Services are designed and Foods Business ensure ‘Product to ensure Seed Integrity, Pesticide Residue Traceability’ in the supply chain from farm to Level monitoring and Non Tobacco Related the customer. Matter (NTRM) elimination to promote Product Hygiene standards. Several additional measures to eliminate NTRM across the value chain were implemented during the year. Both Anaparti and Chirala GLTs have been certified to ISO 9001, IQRS Level 7 and other accredited third party certifications. With a view to provide the highest standards of customer satisfaction, health and safety in our Lifestyle Retailing business, prior to manufacture, inputs are tested for conformance in our in-house state-ofthe-art R&D centre, accredited with NABL and certified to international standards. Product quality is monitored through an internal rating system (PQRS) along with an external AQL norm followed internationally for apparel. PRODUCT INFORMATION & LABELLING As an organisation which upholds and makes extraordinary efforts to ensure legitimacy, transparency and good governance, ITC’s 104 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE MARKETING COMPLIANCE CONCERNING COMMUNICATIONS PROVISION AND USE OF All our businesses/divisions have wellPRODUCTS AND SERVICES We have standard established systems, procedures and operating procedures All our businesses/divisions have wellto ensure that review mechanisms to identify and comply established systems, procedures and with the laws and regulations concerning all marketing review mechanisms to identify and comply communications marketing communication. In addition, we with the laws and regulations concerning have a dedicated consumer response cell in are responsible our products and services. communication order to answer any queries on the product. We continued to comply with all applicable done in accordance We have standard operating procedures to statutes during 2011-12. with voluntary ensure that all marketing communications codes adopted by are responsible communication done in each Business and accordance with voluntary codes adopted applicable statutes by each Business and applicable statutes. These are vetted by the internal legal team and compliance is ensured by the internal audit department. Marketing and Advertising Communications of all our businesses are subjected to stringent internal checks by the Legal Department. Our Consumer Goods Businesses adhere to voluntary and legal codes of conduct and voluntarily follow the ASCI (Advertising Standards Council of India) Code for all marketing communications. In our Hotel Business, marketing communication is governed by Self Regulation and guided by Indian Society of Advertisers (ISA) Rules and guidelines. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 10505 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS GRI Indicators Index GRI G3 GRI G3 Indicator Description UNGC COP Element Page/Level of Indicators Reporting and Explanation Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker Statement of 04 of the organisation: relevance of sustainability Continuing Support. to the organisation and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and 07 opportunities Organisational Profile * 2.1 Name of the organisation 16 2.2 Primary brands, products and services 16 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation 16 2.4 Location of Organisation's Headquarters 31 2.5 Number of countries where the 31 organisation operates 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 16 2.7 Markets served 16 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation 16-25, 46, 86 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 31 regarding the size, structure and ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 26 Report Parameters * Report Profile 3.1 Reporting Period 31 3.2 Date of most recent previous Report 31 3.3 Reporting cycle 31 3.4 Contact Point for questions regarding the 31 Report or its contents Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining Report content 31, 40-43 3.6 Boundary of the Report 32 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary 31 of the Report * There is no COP requirement Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported 106 GRI INDICATORS INDEX GRI G3 GRI G3 Indicator Description UNGC COP Element Page/Level of Indicators Reporting and Explanation 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, 31, We are including leased/ outsourced operations and other entities the sustainability performance of all Units under ITC and the Units where ITC has a majority stake. Although the sustainability performance of outsourced Units is not material from the overall ITC context, we plan to expand the boundary of reporting to include significant outsourced operations in future. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of 31 calculations including assumptions and techniques 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-instatement 31 of information provided in the earlier Reports 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting period 31 3.12 GRI Content index 106 3.13 Assurance 128 Governance, Commitments and Engagement Governance Actions Taken to Implement Principles 1-10 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation 35 4.2 The Chair of the highest Governance body 37 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive members 37 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees 38 to provide recommendations 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of 37 highest governance body and the organisation's performance 4.6 Process for the highest governance body to ensure 38 conflicts of interest are avoided 4.7 Qualifications and expertise of the members of 37 the highest governance body 4.8 Statements of mission or values, codes of 118 conduct and principles 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for 40 overseeing the management of economic, environmental, and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance 37 body's own performance Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 The precautionary approach or principle Actions Taken to 38 Implement Principle 7 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, Actions Taken to Implement 4 and social charters, principles Principles 1-10 4.13 Memberships in associations 126 Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups Sharing the COP with the 40 Company’s Stakeholders 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of Stakeholders 40 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including 40 frequency of engagement 4.17 Key topics and concerns and how the organisation 40-43 has responded to those * There is no COP requirement Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 107 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS GRI G3 GRI G3 Indicator Description UNGC COP Element Page/Level of Indicators Reporting and Explanation Economic Disclosure on Management Approach Actions Taken to Implement 113 Principles 1, 4, 6 and 7 Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee * 46 compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Actions Taken to Implement 56 opportunities for the organisation's activities due Principle 7 to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan obligations * 49 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from * 48 government Market Presence EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of * 48 operation EC7 Procedure for local hiring, and proportion of Actions Taken and 48 senior management hired from the local Outcomes from community at locations of significant operation Implementing Principle 6 Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for * 50 public benefit through commercial, in kind, or pro bono engagement Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach Actions Taken to Implement 113 Principles 7, 8 and 9 Transport is not identified as a separate aspect. The emissions are covered under Scope 3 which is progressively expanded. Traffic management forms part of the local management plan of each Business Unit. Where necessary third party expert studies are carried out to arrive at acceptable solutions. Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Outcomes from Implementing 80 Principle 8 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Outcomes from Implementing 80 input materials Principles 8 and 9 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary Outcomes from Implementing 58 energy source Principle 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 58 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Outcomes from Implementing 60 improvement Principles 8 and 9 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Outcomes from Implementing 64 Principle 8 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Outcomes from Implementing 64 recycled and reused Principles 8 and 9 * There is no COP requirement Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported 108 GRI INDICATORS INDEX GRI G3 GRI G3 Indicator Description UNGC COP Element Page/Level of Indicators Reporting and Explanation Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed Outcomes from Implementing 79 in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of Principle 8 high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, 79 products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Outcomes from Implementing 61 emissions by weight Principle 8 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas 61 emissions by weight EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 79 EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions 77 by type and weight EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 67 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 72 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 79 Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Actions Taken to Implement 80 products and services, and extent of impact Principles 7, 8 and 9 Mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Outcomes from Implementing 81, We are progressing materials that are reclaimed by category Principles 8 and 9 in the implementation of a system to capture this information for reporting in 2014. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and Outcomes from Implementing 79 total number of non-monetary sanctions Principle 8 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Social Labour Practices and Decent Work Actions Taken to Implement 114 Principles 1, 3 and 6 Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region * 86 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by Outcomes from Implementing 86, We have age group, gender and region Principle 6 embarked on the improvement of data reporting systems/procedures which will enable us to report on this in the year 2013. Labour/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Outcomes from Implementing 86 bargaining agreements Principles 1 and 3 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational Outcomes from Implementing 120 changes, including whether it is specified in Principle 3 collective agreements Occupational Health & Safety LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days Outcomes from 88, We have and absenteeism, and number of work-related Implementing Principle 1 implemented data reporting systems to collate this information and data would be ready for reporting in 2013. * There is no COP requirement Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 109 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS GRI G3 GRI G3 Indicator Description UNGC COP Element Page/Level of Indicators Reporting and Explanation LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention and Actions Taken to Implement 90 risk-control programmes in place to assist Principle 1 workforce members, their families or community members regarding serious diseases Training & Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee, by employee category * 87, We have implemented data reporting systems to collate this information and data would be ready for reporting in 2013. Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Outcomes from Implementing 92 breakdown of employees per category Principles 1 and 6 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by 92 employee category Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach Actions Taken to Implement 115 123 Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 Security is part of a Unit’s management responsibility, which in turn is bound by Company policies, the compliance to which are internally audited. Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant Outcomes from Implementing 91 investment agreements that include human Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and Actions Taken and Outcomes 91 contractors that have undergone screening on from Implementing human rights and actions taken Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 Non-Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Actions Taken and Outcomes 92 actions taken from Implementing Principles 1, 2 and 6 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise Actions Taken to Implement 92 freedom of association and collective bargaining Principles 1, 2 and 3 may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Child Labour HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for Actions Taken to Implement 92 incidents of child labour, and measures taken to Principles 1, 2 and 5 contribute to the elimination of child labour Forced and Compulsory Labour HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for Actions Taken to Implement 92 incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and Principles 1, 2 and 4 measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour Society Disclosure on Management Approach Actions Taken to Implement 116 Principles 10 We comply with all applicable statutes, which cover all aspects of anticompetitive behaviour. These are audited by internal audit teams for compliance. * There is no COP requirement Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported 110 GRI INDICATORS INDEX GRI G3 GRI G3 Indicator Description UNGC COP Element Page/Level of Indicators Reporting and Explanation Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programmes and practices that assess and manage the impacts * 95 of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units Outcomes from 93 analysed for risks related to corruption Implementing Principle 10 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation's 93 anti-corruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of Actions Taken to Implement 93 corruption Principle 10 Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public Actions Taken to Implement 93 policy development and lobbying Principles 1-10 Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for * 93 non-compliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach Actions Taken to Implement 117 Principles 1 and 8 Systems and procedures are in place for the Businesses, where this aspect is material such as ITC Infotech and ITC Hotels, where compliance to written policies are audited regularly. Customer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety Actions Taken and Outcomes 102, We have initiated impacts of products and services are assessed for from Implementing life cycle assessment improvement, and percentage of significant Principle 1 studies for certain products and services categories subject product categories to to such procedures enable us to report in 2015. Products and Services labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required Actions Taken and Outcomes 104 by procedures, and percentage of significant from Implementing products and services subject to such Principle 8 information requirements Marketing Communications PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing * 105, We have standard operating communications, including advertising, procedures which promotion, and sponsorship ensure that all marketing communications are responsible communication, done in accordance with the Advertising Standards Council of India requirements and applicable statutes. These are vetted by the internal legal team. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations * 105 concerning the provision and use of products and services * There is no COP requirement Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 111 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS GRI-G3: Food Processing Sector Supplement (FPSS) GRI-G3 GRI-G3 FPSS Indicator Description Page/Level of Reporting and FPSS Explanation Indicator Sourcing Disclosure on Management Approach As per our current policy, we do not use Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs). FP1 Percentage of purchased volume from suppliers We are implementing an integrated compliant with company's sourcing policy. sustainability data management system to collate such data all across businesses. FP2 Percentage of purchased volume which is verified We are implementing an integrated as being in accordance with credible, internationally sustainability data management recognised responsible production standards, system to collate such data all broken down by standard. across businesses. Labour Practices and Decent Work FP3 Percentage of working time lost due to industrial 86 disputes, strikes and/or lock-outs, by country. FP4 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs Initiatives underway from the and practices (in-kind contributions, volunteer packaged Foods Business: initiatives, knowledge transfer, partnerships and (i) products with additional nutrients product development) that promote healthy lifestyles; and forification aimed towards the prevention of chronic disease; access to healthy, ‘Bottom of the Pyramid’ consumers nutritious and affordable food; and improved welfare Biscuits/Wheat flour by early 2014 for communities in need. (ii) Reduction of sodium in snacks products by December 2013. (iii) Working on products of safe consumption for population with metabolic disorders; plan will be finalised by April 2014. Product Responsibility FP5 Percentage of production volume manufactured in 102 sites certified by an independent third party according to internationally recognised food safety management system standards. FP6 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer Eliminate Transfats in all packaged products, by product category, that are lowered in food products by 2015. Reduction saturated fat, trans fats, sodium and sugars. of sodium in snacks products by December 2013. Working on products of safe consumption for population with metabolic disorders; plan will be finalised by April 2014. FP7 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer Products will be introduced in products, by product category sold, that contain the next financial year. increased fiber, vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals or functional food additives. FP8 Policies and practices on communication to We are developing a policy in this consumers about ingredients and nutritional regard to be put in place information beyond legal requirements. in this financial year. Animal Welfare Not applicable as it is not a material aspect Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported 112 GRI INDICATORS INDEX ANNEXURES MANAGEMENT APPROACH ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE section of the Report and Accounts 2012 (available on www.itcportal.com) for a Policy The Company’s commitment detailed discussion on the Company’s market in the area of economic performance is standing in each of the business segments, encapsulated in its Vision statement, which as well as the business environment, is to ‘Sustain ITC’s position as one of India’s opportunities, key challenges, etc. pertaining most valuable corporations through worldto each of the Company’s businesses class performance, creating growing value (available on www.itcportal.com). for the Indian economy and the Company’s stakeholders’. ITC’s Mission is ‘to enhance the wealth generating capability of the enterprise in a globalising environment delivering superior ENVIRONMENTAL and sustainable stakeholder value’. PERFORMANCE The Company’s strategy is to ensure that ITC strives to maximise natural resources each of its businesses is world-class and usage efficiencies across its operations internationally competitive in the Indian and also endeavours to create positive global market in the first instance and environmental externalities. This is achieved progressively in the offshore global markets. by appropriate mechanisms such as framing requisite policies, systems that verify ITC, as a premier ‘Indian’ enterprise, compliance and a work environment that consciously exercises the strategic fosters innovation. choice of contributing to and securing the competitiveness of the entire value chain of Focus areas The Company focuses on the which it is a part. This philosophy has shaped following aspects in its drive to continuously the Company’s approach to business into ‘a improve environmental performance. commitment beyond the market’. M  oving beyond Statutory compliance – Goals and Performance At the enterprise with respect to emissions, effluents and level the Company’s goals include waste.  ustaining ITC’s position as one of India’s S A  low carbon growth path – reduce specific most valuable corporations. energy consumption, increase contribution from renewable energy sources and  chieving leadership in each of the A increase carbon sequestration. business segments within a reasonable time frame.  aximise water usage efficiencies and M rainwater harvesting  chieving a Return on Capital Employed A (ROCE) in excess of the Company’s cost M  inimise waste generation, achieve 100% of capital, at all times. waste recycling and use external waste as raw material, where possible. Please refer to the ‘Report of the Directors and Management Discussion and Analysis’ Responsibility It is the overall responsibility SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 113 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS of the Divisional/Strategic Business Unit green buildings by construction of the (SBU) Chief Executives, through the ITC Green Centre at Gurgaon, which in members of their Divisional Management 2004 was the largest platinum rated LEED Committees, General Managers and Unit certified building in the world. All premium Heads, to ensure implementation of Policies luxury hotels of ITC are LEED Platinum and Corporate Standards on Environmental certified, making it the greenest hotel chain Performance, including institution of various in the world. All new construction by ITC committees and designating specific now incorporate validated green attributes responsibilities. and efforts are underway to have existing buildings and factories also meet validated The Corporate EHS Department is green norms. responsible for reviewing and updating Corporate Standards on Environmental Our Agri-Businesses accounts for a issues, verifying compliance and providing significant part of our turnover and these guidance and support as required. can be affected by disruptions in rainfall patterns as are anticipated due to climate Management Quantified targets and change. The impact will be felt not only by objectives are defined for each business the agri commodity business but several unit, to ensure progress on all applicable other businesses like Cigarettes, Foods, environmental aspects, progress against Paperboards, which are critically dependent which is reviewed through annual corporate on agri-supply chains for raw material. and third party audits. Performance of each Accordingly, the impact will be across a business unit is reviewed at the Central significant part of the supply chain. Management Committee level, which is the apex management body for the organisation. Of all the approaches that address the complex inter-relationships between natural Awards The large number of awards resources and their impact on agricultural and certifications listed in this Report are a productivity, the integrated watershed testimony to ITC’s commitment and progress development approach has emerged as the towards creating positive environmental most successful strategy. ITC has adopted externalities. this approach as the basis of its own Context ITC businesses have internalised model. Reflecting its commitment to the good environmental practices and no Triple Bottom Line, ITC’s model converges instances of statutory infringements have its social and environmental goals with the been recorded across all businesses. demands of its supply chains. Progress has also been recorded on key aspects such as reduction in net carbon intensity (increase in turnover and profits and further increase in renewable energy LABOUR PRACTICES AND contribution sequestration over emissions), DECENTWORKENVIRONMENT increase in rainwater harvesting potential, Policy ITC is committed to employee reduced specific water consumption created engagement that upholds individual and improved waste recycling. dignity and respects human rights. ITC’s ITC will endeavour to extend these learnings employment practices are premised on down the supply chain where we believe attracting and retaining talent based only that significant opportunity to influence and on merit. Its capability development agenda change, exists. ensures the deepening and enhancement of skills of all its employees through customised ITC understands that it is exposed to risks training and development inputs. All ITC related to climate change. Protection of our employees operate in a work environment assets in coastal areas has been reinforced that is benchmarked internationally for the in anticipation of increased severity of storms quality of its safety and health standards. and cyclones, which may occur. Disruption in road and rail traffic by such extreme events Responsibility It is the overall responsibility may also affect individual unit’s output, of the Divisional Chief Executives, through which has been taken care of by appropriate the members of their Divisional Management contingency and insurance plans. Higher Committees, Human Resources and EHS surface temperatures (increased air Functions, to ensure that employment and conditioning costs) and disruption in water EHS practices in all units are in accordance supplies are other anticipated risks. ITC has with the policy outlined above and to ensure started a conscious movement towards total compliance with all statutory provisions 114 ANNEXURES governing labour practices and decent attraction and retention of talent is superior work. Specific responsibilities are assigned to other companies in the comparative to different individuals based on the roles sample. being performed by them. Enable employees to perform to their fullest The Corporate Human Resources and EHS potential to add value to the enterprise, functions are responsible for reviewing and nation and themselves. updating standards and guidelines on labour Enhance the Company’s employee value and EHS policies, employment practices, proposition so that ITC retains its position as and for providing guidance and support to an employer of choice. all concerned. Endeavour to eliminate accidents and Management The Company leadership injuries both on-site and off-site. ‘walking the talk’ and a relentless focus on implementing the policy underline the Awards A number of awards for Company’s approach to employment excellence in Human Resources and EHS practices and creating a decent work management and practices bear testimony environment. to ITC’s commitment to Human Resource Development and EHS and to best-in-class The Human Resources and EHS functions employment practices. of each business are the primary custodians of ITC’s labour and EHS policies and Context High standards of employment employment practices, the implementation and EHS practices enhance the Company’s of which is reviewed periodically at the unit performance, help in the attraction and and the divisional levels. The Corporate retention of quality talent, and enhance the Human Resources and EHS functions equity of the Company as a responsible provide specialist services to assist in the employer. implementation and monitoring of the same. The multi-layered and multi-dimensional audit framework of the Company also helps HUMAN RIGHTS in monitoring compliance with laid down policies and statutory regulations. Policy ITC is committed to conducting business in a manner that reflects its high Training & Awareness The policy is ethical standards. It expects its employees shared with employees and potential and business partners to subscribe and employees through training programmes, adhere to this philosophy, which honours all communication sessions, the Company local laws and upholds the spirit of human portal, intranet sites and pre-placement rights as enshrined in existing international presentations. Managers from HR, EHS standards such as the Universal Declaration and Engineering departments are provided and the Fundamental Human Rights regular training for effective implementation Conventions of the ILO. The Corporate of these policies. Management Committee of the Company Monitoring & Follow-up The HR and EHS has approved policies covering crucial resources of the Divisions regularly monitor human rights areas. ITC’s Human Rights progress to ensure proper implementation of policies extend to all its operating sites. these policies, while the Unit Heads and the Responsibility It is the overall responsibility Divisional Management Committees followof the Divisional Chief Executives, through up periodically to ensure full compliance. the members of their Divisional Management The Corporate EHS Department undertakes Committees, General Managers and regular audits of the units. Unit Heads, to ensure implementation of Objectives The primary objective is to these policies on human rights, including nurture a culture of meritocracy amongst a designating individuals for specific committed and enthusiastic workforce from responsibilities with respect to their Division. diverse backgrounds. In the pursuit of this Corporate Human Resources is responsible objective, the following goals have been set for reviewing and updating standards on for the next five years social policies, and for providing guidance All ITC’s units, which are already ‘beyond and support to all concerned. compliance’ in all areas related to labour Management The Human Rights policies practices, will continue to be so. approved by the CMC provide guidelines Ensure that the Company’s record of for the implementation of these policies SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 115 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS and their periodic review. Corporate HR provides specialist services to assist in Striding a wider canvas in the interest of implementation and monitoring. the nation, ITC is committed to ensuring the preservation of India’s unique cultural Training & Awareness Employees are heritage through various initiatives to provided with training on the Company’s promote, encourage and keep cultural Human Rights policies at Induction traditions alive. Programmes. The policies are available on the Company’s website and intranet portals. With such a diverse and critical social agenda, all ITC employees have the Monitoring & Follow-up The HR resources obligation to display high levels of integrity of the Divisions ensure periodic follow-up to and ethical behavior. ensure implementation. The Internal Audit function of the Company is charged with the Responsibility It is the overall responsibility responsibility of ensuring compliance. of the Corporate Management Committee to ensure that its investments in the social Objective The Company’s primary sector are an integral part of the Company’s objectives in the area of Human Rights corporate strategy. Division-level initiatives performance and the goals for the next five respond to local needs and are monitored years are to ensure that by the Divisional Management Committees All ITC’s operational units are and will remain and implemented through their local units fully compliant with the Company’s Human in conjunction with the Corporate Human Rights policies, premised on a zero tolerance Resources Department. guiding principle towards such violations. The Corporate Management Committee All investment decisions will integrate and the Divisional Management Committees Human Rights considerations into the are responsible for reviewing and updating decision-making process. Corporate Standards on social and cultural development, and updating standards and All ITC’s business partners will follow and guidelines for work in these areas as well adhere to the Human Rights policies that the as for providing guidance and support to all Company upholds. concerned. Context High standards on Human Rights Management The Corporate Management enhance the Company’s reputation and Committee is the primary custodian of build its brand equity, thus helping it achieve ITC’s social initiatives. Implementation is the goal of operational excellence. It gives reviewed periodically at the Unit, Divisional ITC’s business partners, customers and and the CMC levels. A dedicated team in the other strategic stakeholders the confidence Corporate Human Resources Department of dealing with a value-driven Company. provides specialist services to assist in It is a crucial value proposition that is offered implementation and monitoring of projects. to potential employees to attract and retain The Units are responsible for responding to talent and motivate employees to give specific needs spelt out by local communities their best. and implementation is monitored by the Divisional Management Committees. In discharging social responsibility projects, SOCIETY all applicable rules and regulations are complied with. Policy As a large Indian enterprise, ITC is uniquely positioned to contribute to Training & Awareness Employees public policy, which it does through active engaged in social development initiatives participation in a number of fora. Its size are given regular training both to enhance their domain knowledge and improve also enables it to influence the process of management skills. Society is made development and contribute to sustainable aware of these projects and programmes growth in the areas in which it operates, through the circulation of a brochure called thereby helping to transform the lives of a ‘Transforming Lives and Landscapes’. large number of people and communities. ITC’s objective of making a positive Monitoring & Follow-up Regular contribution to the society where it operates monitoring and followup is undertaken by is served by aligning its own operations Corporate Human Resources. External with interventions and initiatives aimed at accounting firms undertake quarterly creating sustainable livelihoods through financial audits. External audit firms and the farm and non-farm based activities. Internal Audit function of the Company carry 116 ANNEXURES out system audits regularly. with ozone bleaching in the Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business allows us, Objective The primary focus of ITC’s for example, to offer complete food grade Social Development Initiatives is to create packaging solutions, while having hotels, sustainable sources of farm and off-farm factories and offices comply with Green livelihoods and to improve the social Building Standards and the International infrastructure especially in areas where it Safety Standards allows us to offer a green impacts women and children. and safe environment for all our customers In pursuit of these objectives, the following and employees. ITC continues its efforts goals have been set for the next five years on these aspects to achieve continual Bring atleast 1,00,000 hectares under soil improvements in standards. and moisture conservation practices. Product and Service Labeling – All ITC Transform atleast 1,50,000 hectares of products and services are in complete compliance with relevant statutory wastelands into productive and revenuerequirements addressing these issues. An generating assets for the poor. elaborate system of checks and measures Create atleast 25,000 women are in place to ensure that no violations entrepreneurs with a sustainable source occur. of supplementary incomes. Compliance – All ITC businesses have Improve the genetic stock of atleast well-established systems and procedures to 5,00,000 cattle through artificial ensure compliance with statutory and internal insemination practices. requirements, concerning issues such as Provide supplementary education support Customer Health & Safety, Product & Service services to at least 3,00,000 children. labeling, marketing communications and Customer privacy. International Quality Rating In its endeavour to preserve India’s cultural System (IQRS) for Business Excellence, which and artistic heritage, ITC will also continue rates key processes against international to ensure that its initiatives in the areas of benchmarks, has already been introduced in preservation and promotion of Indian music, a number of businesses. In addition, various art and theatre are strengthened. other quality improvement tools such as ‘Six Context A high level of community Sigma’ initiatives have been integrated with involvement creates long term enduring the Quality Management Systems, to further partnerships that contribute to creating a strengthen compliance. In addition, there is stable environment for its operations. ITC’s a rigorous system of internal audits to ensure commitment that extends beyond the market compliance. enhances the Company’s credibility in the Goals & Performance ITC continuously minds of stakeholders and policy makers. endeavours to provide its consumers ITC’s focus on Social Development and products and services that are benchmarked on preserving India’s heritage is also a key to international quality standards. Individual element of its employee value proposition business performance on ‘Product which helps in the attraction and retention Responsibility’ is described elsewhere in the of quality talent. Report. Context – All ITC products and services aspire to be best in class for their respective RESPONSIBILITY FOR categories. These aspirations are backed PRODUCTS AND by extensive R&D efforts spearheaded SERVICES by the in-house R&D resources. Aspects influencing Health & Safety are factored in Management Approach – ITC ensures at the product / service design stage. ITC that all products and services offered to anticipates that social pressures towards the consumer are in full compliance with all responsible use of tobacco will increase applicable national standards and aspires to and ITC remains fully committed to support achieve best in class international standards this concern. The growing trend towards on environmental impacts, health and voluntary disclosures points to an era of safety. Measures such as migration from increasingly well informed consumers, which solvent based inks to water based inks we think will create additional opportunities in the Packaging and Printing Business for products & services with authenticated and replacing chlorine bleaching process sustainability attributes. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 117 POLICIES AND GUIDELINES VISION, MISSION AND ourselves as individuals and teams. We will CORE VALUES simultaneously respect and value people and uphold humanness and human dignity. We acknowledge that every individual brings different perspectives and capabilities to the ITC’S VISION team and that a strong team is founded on a variety of perspectives. Sustain ITC’s position as one of India’s most valuable corporations through world-class We want individuals to dream, value performance, creating growing value for differences, create and experiment in pursuit the Indian economy and the Company’s of opportunities and achieve leadership stakeholders. through teamwork. ExcellenceWe do what is right, do it well and win. We will strive for excellence in ITC’S MISSION whatever we do. To enhance the wealth generating capability InnovationWe will constantly pursue newer of the enterprise in a globalising environment, and better processes, products, services delivering superior and sustainable and management practices. stakeholder value. Nation OrientationWe are aware of our responsibility to generate economic value for the Nation. In pursuit of our goals, we ITC’S CORE VALUES will make no compromise in complying with applicable laws and regulations at all levels. ITC’s Core Values are aimed at developing a customer-focussed, high-performance Corporate Governance PolicyITC organisation which creates values for all its defines Corporate Governance as a stakeholders. systemic process by which companies are directed and controlled to enhance their TrusteeshipAs professional managers, we wealth-generating capacity. Since large are conscious that ITC has been given to corporations employ a vast quantum of us in ‘trust’ by all our stakeholders. We will societal resources, ITC believes that the actualise stakeholder value and interest on a governance process should ensure that long-term sustainable basis. these resources are utilised in a manner that Customer FocusWe are always customermeets stakeholders’ aspirations and societal focussed and will deliver what the customer expectations. This belief is reflected in the needs in terms of value, quality and Company’s deep commitment to contribute satisfaction. to the ‘Triple Bottom Line’, namely, the development, nurture and regeneration Respect for PeopleWe are result oriented, of the nation’s economic, social and setting high performance standards for environmental capital. 118 ANNEXURES ITC’s Corporate Governance structure, report the same to the Head of Corporate systems and processes are based on two Human Resources. The Code is available on core principles the Company’s corporate website. Management must have the executive freedom to drive the enterprise forward without undue restraints; and ITC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PREVENTION OF INSIDER This freedom of management should be exercised within a framework of effective TRADING accountability. ITC has a Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading (‘ITC Code’) in the securities ITC believes that any meaningful policy on of the Company. The ITC Code, inter alia, Corporate Governance must empower the prohibits purchase/sale of securities of the executive management of the Company. Company by directors and employees while At the same time, Governance must create in possession of unpublished price sensitive a mechanism of checks and balances to information in relation to the Company. The ensure that the decision-making powers ITC Code is available on the Company’s vested in the executive management are corporate website. used with care and responsibility to meet stakeholders’ aspirations and societal expectations. ITC’S EHS POLICY From this definition and core principles of Corporate Governance emerge the ITC’s Mission is to sustain and enhance the cornerstones of ITC’s governance wealth-generating capacity of its portfolio philosophy, namely, trusteeship, of businesses in a progressively globalising transparency, empowerment & accountability, environment. As one of India’s premier control and ethical corporate citizenship. ITC corporations employing a vast quantum believes that the practice of each of these of societal resources, ITC seeks to fulfil a creates the right corporate culture that fulfills larger role by enlarging its contribution to the the true purpose of Corporate Governance. society of which it is a part. The trusteeship role related to social and environmental The Policy Document that sets out resources, aligned to the pursuit of economic the structure, policies and practices of objectives, is the cornerstone of ITC’s governance is available on the Company’s Environment, Health and Safety philosophy. corporate website www.itcportal.com under ITC’s EHS philosophy cognises for the the section ‘Our Values’. twin needs of conservation and creation of productive resources. In the multi-business context of ITC, ITC CODE OF CONDUCT Corporate Strategies are designed to The ITC Code of Conduct, as adopted create enduring value for the nation and by the Board of Directors, is applicable the shareholder, through leadership in each to Directors, senior management and business and the attainment of world-class employees of the Company. This Code is competitive capabilities across the value derived from three interlinked fundamental chain. The objective of leadership extends principles, viz. good corporate governance, to all facets of business operations including good corporate citizenship and exemplary Environment, Health and Safety. personal conduct. The Code covers ITC’s ITC is, therefore, committed to conducting commitment to sustainable development, its operations with due regard for the concern for occupational health, safety environment, and providing a safe and and environment, a gender friendly healthy workplace for each employee. workplace, transparency and auditability, Various international and national awards legal compliance, and the philosophy of and accreditations stand testimony to leading by personal example. Any instance ITC’s commitment to EHS. Such external of non-adherence to the Code or any other recognition further reinforces the need observed unethical behaviour on the part to direct the collective endeavour of the of those covered under the Code is to be Company’s employees at all levels towards brought to the attention of the immediate sustaining and continuously improving reporting authority, who in turn, should standards of Environment, Health and Safety SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 119 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS in a bid to attain and exceed benchmarked Management Committees, General standards, whether regulatory or otherwise. Managers and Unit Heads, to ensure implementation of this Policy and Corporate In particular, it is ITC’s EHS policyStandards on EHS, including formation To contribute to sustainable development of various committees and designating through the establishment and individuals for specific responsibilities in implementation of environment standards respect of their Division/SBU. that are scientifically tested and meet the The Corporate EHS Department is requirement of relevant laws, regulations responsible for reviewing and updating and codes of practice. Corporate Standards on EHS, and for To take account of environment, providing guidance and support to all occupational health and safety in concerned. planning and decision-making. To provide appropriate training and disseminate information to enable SIGNIFICANT CHANGES all employees to accept individual PolicyAll major changes in operations, responsibility for Environment, Health involving work processes, manning norms and Safety, implement best practices, and other productivity linked issues are and work in partnership to create a implemented after discussions with the culture of continuous improvement. employees and the recognised unions at each location. To instil a sense of duty in every employee towards personal safety, as well as that ImplementationBusiness plans are shared of others who may be affected by the with employees at all units through a series employee’s actions. of communication meetings, and through the intranet portals. Unionised employees To provide and maintain facilities, at the concerned units are informed of all equipment, operations and working major changes well in advance through their conditions which are safe for employees, representatives. visitors and contractors at the Company’s premises. The responsibility for the implementation of the policy rests with the Unit’s Human To ensure safe handling, storage, use and Resources Department in the case of disposal of all substances and materials unionised employees and with the concerned that are classified as hazardous to health Divisional Management Committees for and environment. other employees. To reduce waste, conserve energy, and The employees are given enough time to promote recycling of materials wherever consider the implications of change and an possible. opportunity to discuss their apprehensions, if any, with the management. The Policy is To institute and implement a system actualised through consultative meetings of regular EHS audit in order to with representatives of employees, assure compliance with laid down culminating in joint minutes/agreements. policy, benchmarked standards, and requirements of laws, regulations and Monitoring & AuditingCompliance with applicable codes of practice. the Policy is regularly monitored by the Unit Head. To proactively share information with business partners towards inculcating world-class EHS standards across the value chain of which ITC is a part. Policy on Social Investments/ Corporate Social All employees of ITC are expected to adhere Responsibility (CSR) to and comply with the EHS Policy and Corporate Standards on EHS. PhilosophyInspired by a vision to serve a larger national purpose and abide with the ITC’s EHS Policy extends to all sites of the strong value of Trusteeship, ITC has crafted Company. It will be the overall responsibility innovative business models to create of the Divisional/SBU Chief Executives, larger societal capital while simultaneously through the members of their Divisional delivering long term shareholder value. This 120 ANNEXURES overarching aspiration to create meaningful To contribute to sustainable development societal value is manifest in ITC’s strategy in areas of strategic interest through to enhance the competitiveness of value initiatives designed in a manner that chains of which it is a part. It is therefore a addresses the challenges faced by the conscious strategy to design and implement Indian society especially in rural India. Social Investments/CSR programmes in the context of ITC’s businesses, by To collaborate with communities and enriching value chains that encompass the institutions to contribute to the national most disadvantaged sections of society, mission of eradicating poverty and especially those residing in rural India, hunger, especially in rural areas, through through economic empowerment based on agricultural research and knowledge grass-roots capacity building. sharing, superior farm and agri-extension practices, soil and moisture conservation Recognising that business enterprises are and watershed management, economic organs of society and draw on conservation and development of societal resources, it is ITC’s belief that a forest resources, empowering women company’s performance must be measured economically, supplementing primary by its Triple Bottom Line contribution to education and participating in rural building economic, social and environmental capacity building programmes and such capital. ITC is therefore committed to other initiatives. creating larger ‘stakeholder value’ by aligning its performance to these Triple Bottom Line To align the Company’s operations objectives. As an Indian enterprise, ITC with the national objective of inclusive believes that this approach can unleash growth and employment generation by strong drivers of growth to make it more leveraging the Company’s diversified inclusive and equitable for even the most portfolio, manufacturing bases, supply marginalised sections of society, through chains and distribution channels, to the creation of sustainable livelihoods, and infuse an appropriate mix of capital and to ensure long-term business sustainability technology to further social business and competitiveness. initiatives such as e-choupal, animal husbandry, agarbatti rolling etc. and PreambleIt is the Company’s intent to support organisations / institutions make a positive difference to society. It engaged in building linkages with local, recognises that it cannot do it all; so that regional and urban communities and if there are choices to be made, bias will markets. be towards doing fewer projects with greater impact and focusing initiatives on To sustain and continuously improve communities in which the Company lives standards of Environment, Health and and operates. Safety through the collective endeavour PolicyIt is ITC’s policy : of the Company and its employees at all levels towards attaining world To pursue a corporate strategy that class standards and support other enables realisation of the twin goals of programmes and initiatives, internal or shareholder value enhancement and external, for the prevention of illness societal value creation in a mutually and combating of diseases as may be reinforcing and synergistic manner. considered appropriate from time to time. To align and integrate Social Investments/ To encourage the development of human CSR programmes with the business capital of the Nation by expanding human value chains of the Company and make capabilities through skills development, them outcome oriented. To support vocational training etc. and promote creation of onand off-farm sustainable excellence in identified cultural fields. livelihood sources thereby empowering Implementation stakeholder communities to conserve and manage their resources. The plans will be formulated in line with the strategic direction provided by the To implement Social Investments/CSR Board Committee on Sustainability. programmes primarily in the economic vicinity of the Company’s operations The programmes will, where appropriate, with a view to ensuring the long term be developed in consultation with direct sustainability of such interventions. stakeholders in order to ensure a bottomSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 121 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS up planning approach. ITC will also ii) Impact analysis of mature projects (more endeavour to create multi-stakeholder than 3 years old) by third parties. partnerships with NGOs, governments etc. for a larger development impact. POLICY ON HIV/AIDS The Corporate Management Committee PolicyThe Company’s policy on HIV/ (CMC) and Divisional Chief Executives AIDS with regard to its employees will, at a may, from time to time, suggest additional minimum, comply with all relevant Central areas of social intervention in line with the and State legislations and the Company will overall objectives of the Company and its implement all policies and directives of the Divisions. Government regarding HIV/AIDS whenever The programmes may be implemented issued. directly by the Company under the The Company will provide to all its employees supervision of the Management sensitive, accurate and the latest information Committee for Social Investments/ about risk reduction strategies in their Divisional Management Committees personal lives, with the objective of reducing (DMCs), or through Trusts, Foundations the stigma of HIV/AIDS, encouraging safe etc. behaviour and improving understanding of The Strategy of Organisation for treatment. The Company is committed to addressing the various dimensions of providing a safe and healthy workplace to all CSR will be reviewed from time to time its employees. It is the Company’s objective and cleared with the CMC. that employees will have access to health services to prevent and manage HIV/AIDS. Monitoring & Audit The Company will not discriminate against The Board, through its Committee on any employee infected by HIV/AIDS with Sustainability and the CMC, is the primary regard to promotions, training and other custodian of ITC’s Social Investments / CSR privileges and benefits as applicable to programme. The CMC is responsible for all employees. All HIV positive employees its overall implementation, monitoring and will be allowed to continue to work in their review. Regular performance reviews are jobs unless (a) medical conditions interfere undertaken by the Management Committee with the specific job being done, in which for Social Investments / DMCs together with case reasonable alternative working the Social Investments team of Corporate arrangements will be made; or (b) the Human Resources (CHR) and other employee is incapacitated to perform his/her stakeholder functions. duties and is declared medically unfit by a Measures to monitor and assess progress medical doctor, in which case the employee include the following: will be assisted to rehabilitate himself/herself outside the Company. Monthly report-backs of expenditure against budgets and review thereof The Company will not make pre-employment (including where applicable progress HIV/AIDS screening mandatory as part of review against milestones) in accordance its fitness-to-work assessment. Screening with applicable processes under of this kind refers to direct methods (HIV Corporate Governance, in instances of testing), indirect methods (assessment of one time expenditure and in respect of risk behaviour), and questions about HIV activities executed by the Company and tests already taken. HIV/AIDS test will not its Divisions. be part of the annual health check-up unless specifically requested for by an employee. Quarterly and annual reports on impact indicators provided by the project Voluntary testing for HIV/AIDS, when implementing partners supplemented by: requested for by the employee, will be carried out by private or community health services Quarterly and annual audits by accounting and not at the workplace. There will be no firms appointed by the Company to obligation on the part of the employees to monitor financial performance and a inform the Company about their clinical status systems audit to ensure that laid down in relation to HIV/AIDS. Information on clinical procedures are followed. Financial and diagnosis of an employees’ status in terms systems audits of selected projects by of his/her HIV/AIDS status, if advised to the ITC’s Internal Audit. Company, will be kept strictly confidential. 122 ANNEXURES ImplementationThis policy is publicly PREVENTION OF available throughout the Company and clearly communicated to all employees in DISCRIMINATION AT a manner in which it can be understood WORKPLACE through induction programmes, policy PolicyITC’s approach to its human manuals and intranet portals. resources is premised on the fundamental belief of fostering meritocracy in the The responsibility for the implementation organisation, which promotes diversity of the policy rests with the Unit Human and offers equality of opportunity to all Resources Departments. A report is provided employees. ITC does not engage in or to the Divisional Head on such programmes. support direct or indirect discrimination Monitoring & AuditingCompliance with in recruitment, compensation, access to the Policy is regularly monitored by the Unit training, promotion, termination or retirement Head. based on caste, religion, disability, gender, age, race, colour, ancestry, marital status or affiliation with a political, religious, or union HUMAN RIGHTS organisation or a minority group. CONSIDERATION IN ImplementationThe policy is SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS communicated to all employees through induction programmes, policy manuals and PolicyITC’s commitment to human rights intranet portals. The custodian of this policy extends to all its significant investment is the Divisional Chief Executive or the SBU decisions in order to ensure integration Head of each Business. of statutory compliance, environmental, occupational health and safety, human The speedy resolution of formal complaints rights and progressive labour policies into is premised on the freedom of employees business decision-making processes. to approach higher officials in case the issue is not settled at the level of his/her ImplementationThe custodian of this immediate superior. The salient features policy is the Divisional Chief Executive/SBU of the issue and steps taken towards its Head of the concerned Business. resolution are minuted. For the unionised Monitoring & AuditingThe Internal Audit employees, compliance with the policy is function of ITC conducts periodic checks ensured through a robust grievance handling to ensure that such clauses form part of procedure and the presence of a union that investment contracts signed during the is expected to bring violations to the notice audit period. of the Unit HR Head. Monitoring & AuditingThe accountability for the application of this policy rests HUMAN RIGHTS with the Unit Head who reviews antiCONSIDERATION discriminatory complaints annually or on a case-by-case basis. The HR department ACROSS THE SUPPLY CHAIN of the Division/SBU reports annually on PolicyITC endeavours to ensure that all its incidents of discrimination, if any, to the service providers/vendors incorporate high SBU Head or the Divisional Chief Executive. standards of human rights, safety, health, Corporate Human Resources conducts labour practices and environment in their non-discrimination reviews annually on a operations as practiced by the Company. sample basis with Unit Heads and through on-site assessments. ImplementationThe responsibility for implementation of this policy rests with the Divisional Chief Executive/SBU Head of the concerned Business. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION Monitoring & AuditingThe Internal Audit PolicyITC respects the employees’ right function of ITC conducts periodic audits to organise themselves into interest groups, to ensure that such clauses form part of independent from supervision by the the investment contracts signed during the management. In keeping with the spirit of audit period. this policy, employees are not discriminated against for exercising this right. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 123 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS ImplementationThe policy is The unit provides an annual report on all communicated to all employees through reported, if any, incidents of child or forced induction programmes, policy manuals labour to the functional head. and intranet portals. The custodian of this Monitoring & AuditingCorporate Internal policy is the HR Head of each operational Audit and EHS departments undertake audit unit who reports directly to the Unit Head on and assessment annually. Corporate Human such issues. The employees are informed of Resources undertakes random checks of these rights by the unions who solicit their records annually. support to represent them formally before the management. Monitoring & AuditingEach ITC Unit has appropriate systems to ensure compliance PREVENTION OF with the Policy and statutory provisions, CORRUPTION AT including means for filing of grievances, WORKPLACE collective bargaining agreements and PolicyAll employees of ITC have the minutes of worker meetings. The HR obligation to conduct themselves in an department of the concerned Unit submits honest and ethical manner and act in the best annual reports to the functional head in interest of the Company at all times. They cases of identified incidents of violation are expected to demonstrate exemplary of freedom of association and collective personal conduct. All employees of ITC bargaining. Divisional and Corporate HR must avoid situations in which their personal regularly monitor compliance with the Policy. interest could conflict with the interest of the Corporate HR compiles these on a halfCompany. Conflict, if any, must be disclosed yearly basis and reports to the Corporate to the higher management for guidance and Management Committee. action. All employees must ensure that their actions in the conduct of business are totally transparent. PROHIBITION OF CHILD AND ImplementationThe strong corporate FORCED LABOUR governance process of the Company PolicyITC does not employ any person creates the environment for the formulation below the age of eighteen years at the of robust internal systems and procedures workplace. ITC prohibits the use of forced in a structured manner for the conduct of or compulsory labour at all its units. No the Company’s Business. An effective policy employee is made to work against his/her for prevention of corruption is actualised will or work as bonded/forced labour, or through appropriate policies, systems and subject to corporal punishment or coercion processes such as the delegated authority of any type related to work. structure as per Corporate Governance policies, segregation of duties, tiered ImplementationThis policy is publicly approval mechanisms, the involvement of available throughout the Company and more than one manager in key decisions clearly communicated to all employees in and maintenance of supporting records. a manner in which it can be understood through induction programmes, policy All ITC managers are provided with adequate manuals and intranet portals. The workers training inputs to be aware of the systems are informed of these rights by the trade and procedures and to ensure compliance. unions active at each unit. The custodian of this policy is the Corporate The implementation of the policy is the Management Committee, the Divisional responsibility of the Unit’s HR Department Chief Executives/SBU Heads and Heads and the security staff who do not permit of departments. A core responsibility of minors to enter the factory as workers. the DMCs is to put in place appropriate Employment contracts and other records, control and risk management mechanisms documenting all relevant details of the to ensure that businesses are conducted employees, including age, are maintained at as per the Governance Policy and the all units and are open to verification by any Company’s Code of Professional Conduct. authorised personnel or relevant statutory The Divisional Chief Executives/SBU Heads body. provide confirmation of compliance with the laid down systems and procedures. 124 ANNEXURES Monitoring & AuditingThe Company remains committed to ensuring an effective internal control environment that provides assurance on potential risks. ITC’s well-established and robust internal audit processes continuously monitor the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control environment across the Company. Weaknesses or noncompliance, if any, are identified during the audit process for rectification, thereby providing crucial inputs for continuous improvements in the systems and procedures. Significant issues, if any, are brought to the notice of the Audit Committee together with the progress made for resolution. Confirmations given by the businesses to the Board are independently verified by Internal Audit as per the directions of the Audit Committee. e-WASTE MANAGEMENT ObjectiveITC’s achievements across all three dimensions of the ‘Triple Bottom Line’ economic, social and environmental is well known and recognised globally. Being a pioneer in environmentally sustainable operations (e.g Carbon and Water positive , Solid Waste Recycling positive), we need to meet demanding standards of responsible waste management in all aspects of our operations. ITC’s approach on e-waste is to comply fully with Government of India’s directives as enunciated in the e-Waste (Management and Handling) Rules 2011. An internal audit process by Corporate EHS ensures compliance. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 125 MEMBERSHIPS AND AFFILIATIONS – 2012 Agricultural & Processed Foods Export Coffee Exporters Association Development Authority Coimbatore Management Association All India Food Processors Association Coimbatore Productivity Council All India Management Association Confederation of Indian Industry All India Rice Exporters Association Eastern India Shippers Association All India Spices Exporters Forum Ecotourism Society of India Andhra Chamber of Commerce Employers’ Association of Northern India Apparel Export Promotion Council Experience India Society Asian Packaging Federation Export Inspection Council of India Associated Chambers of Commerce & Federation of Andhra Pradesh Chambers Industry of Commerce and Industry Associated Chambers of Commerce and Federation of Biscuits Manufacturers Industry of Uttar Pradesh Association of India Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Federation of Hotels & Restaurants Commerce Association of India Bangalore Management Association Federation of Indian Export Organisations Bihar Chamber of Commerce Federation of Indian Chambers of Bihar Industries Association Commerce and Industry Bihar State Productivity Council Federation of Industries and Commerce of Bombay Chamber of Commerce and North Eastern Region Industry Federation of Jharkhand Chambers of Bombay Management Association Commerce & Industry Bureau of Indian Standards Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce & Industry Chhattisgarh Chamber of Commerce & Industries Federation of Madhya Pradesh Chambers of Commerce & Industry Central Food Technology Research Institute Gujarat Chamber of Commerce & Industry Chemicals & Plastics Export Council of Guwahati Management Association India Hotel Association of India Coal Consumers Association International Market Assessment India Cochin Chamber of Commerce & Industry Limited Coffee Board Indian Association of Tour Operators Indian Chamber of Commerce Calcutta 126 ANNEXURES Indian Chamber of Commerce and Paper Film and Foil Converters Association Industry, Coimbatore PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry Indian Coffee Trade Association Protein Food and Nutrition Development Indian Confectionery Manufacturers Association of India Association Retailers Association of India Indian Green Building Council Seafood Exporters Association of India Indian Institute of Packaging Snack Foods Association Indian Merchants’ Chamber Solvent Extractors Association of India Indian Oil & Produce Exporters Association Soyabean Processors Association of India Indian Paper Manufacturers Association Spice Board Indian Printing Packaging and Allied Tamil Nadu Electricity Consumers Machinery Manufacturers Association Association Indian Pulp & Paper Technical Association Technical Association of the Pulp and Indian Spices & Foodstuff Exporters Paper Industry Association The All India Association of Industries Indian Society of Advertising The Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Indian Soap & Toiletries Makers’ Industry Association The Central Organisation for Oil Industry Indian Tobacco Association and Trade Indian Wind Power Association The Clothing Manufacturers Association of Indo American Chamber of Commerce India Indo Australian Chamber of Commerce The Energy and Research Institute Indo German Chamber of Commerce The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India Industrial Waste Management Association The United Planters’ Association of Institute of Directors Southern India International Chamber of Commerce The Utkal Chamber of Commerce & International Life Science Institute Industry International Packaging Group The Visakhapatnam Chamber of Karnataka Planters Association Commerce & Industry Kerala Management Association Travel Agents Association of India Leatherhead Food International, UK US Food and Drug Administration Madras Chamber of Commerce & Industry U.S. Green Building Council Madras Management Association West Bengal State Productivity Council Madras Printers and Lithographers Western UP Chamber of Commerce & Association Industry Maharashtra Economic Development World Travel & Tourism Council India Council Initiative Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industry World Wide Fund Global Forest and & Agriculture Trade Network Marine Products Export Development Authority Multi Commodity Exchange of India Limited Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce National Council of Applied Economic Research National Safety Council Oil Technologists’ Association of India Pacific Asia Travel Association SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 127 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT FROM ERNST & YOUNG The Management and Board of Directors ITC Limited Virginia House Kolkata 700071, India. INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT ITC Limited (the “Company”) has requested Ernst & Young Pvt. Ltd. (EY) to provide an independent assurance on its Sustainability Report 2012 (the “Report”) which covers its sustainability performance from 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012. The Company’s management is responsible for the content of the report, identification of the key issues, engagement with stakeholders and its presentation. EY’s responsibility is to provide assurance on the report content, as described in the scope of assurance. Our responsibility in performing our assurance activities is to the management of the Company only, and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed with the Company. We do not therefore accept or assume any responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or organisation. ASSURANCE STANDARD The assurance engagement was planned and performed in accordance with International Federation of Accountants’ International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000). Our evidence-gathering procedures have been designed to obtain a reasonable level of assurance (as set out in ISAE 3000) on which we base our conclusions. SCOPE OF ASSURANCE AND METHODOLOGY The scope of our work for this assurance is limited to review of information related to specific environment and social performance for the period of 1st April 2011 to 31st March 2012, in 9 selected representative units from various businesses of the Company and Head office, Kolkata, which are material to the Company’s Triple Bottom Line performance, as mentioned below: ITD ( Tobacco Division) – Saharanpur & Kidderpore FBD ( Foods Division ) – Pune (Snacks) Hotels – ITC Maratha, Mumbai & ITC Sonar, Kolkata PPD (Printing and Packaging Division) – Tiruvottiyur PSPD (Paperboards and Specialty Papers Division) – Bhadrachalam & Bollarum ILTD ( Leaf Tobacco Division) Chirala 128 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT FROM ERNST & YOUNG EY’s multidisciplinary team of professionals visited the Company’s representative units in order to review and validate the data and information presented in the report, on core and additional G3 indicators listed below: EN 1 Materials used by weight or volume EN 3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source EN 4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source EN 10 Percentage and volume of total water recycled and reused EN 16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by weight EN 19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight EN 20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight EN 21 Total water discharge by quality and destination EN 22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method LA 1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region LA 4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements LA7 Safety performance (Fatality, reportable injury and man-days lost) LA 10 Average training manhours per employee by category HR 2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken SO 1 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating and exiting The nature and scope of our work was based on our professional judgment and we have performed procedures deemed necessary to provide a basis for our conclusions. The approach to the assurance exercise included interaction with key personnel to identify the processes in place to capture sustainability performance data and information as per GRI 2006 (GRI-G3) guidelines. The team conducted review and verification of data collection process, measurement methodology and general review of the logic of inclusion/omission of necessary information/data to: Review of major anomaly within the report as well as between the report and source data/information; Verification of the transcription of data internally verified by the Company ; Execution of audit trail of selected data streams and information to determine the level of accuracy in collection, transcription and aggregation processes followed; Review of the reliability of the information, assessing related controls and their operating effectiveness; Review of the Company’s plans, policies and practices, pertaining to their social, environmental and sustainable development: LIMITATIONS OF OUR ENGAGEMENT The assurance scope excludes: Aspects of the Report other than those mentioned above; Data and information outside the defined reporting period (1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012); The Company’s statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim or future intention and national or global socio-economic and environmental aspects; Data and information on economic and financial performance of the Company, which, we are informed, are from the Company’s audited financial records. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 129 CONCLUSION On the basis of our procedures aimed at obtaining reasonable assurance, we conclude that in our opinion the Company has presented, in a fairly balanced, accurate, complete and transparent manner, the information on environmental and social parameters pertaining to the GRI indicators on material consumption, energy, water consumption and discharge, GHG emissions, wastes, safety performance and social programmes. OBSERVATIONS The Company continued to demonstrate its commitment to key sustainability issues through its actions on carbon sequestration, waste recycling, creating rainwater harvesting potential and creating sustainable livelihoods. The Company’s carbon positive status is based on improvements in specific energy consumption, increasing share of energy from renewable resources and sequestration of CO2 emissions through social and farm forestry initiatives. The water positive status is based on reduction of specific water consumption and creation of rainwater harvesting structures with an evaluated rainwater harvesting potential. Solid waste recycling positive status of the Company is by recycling of wastes generated out of their operations and external wastes used as raw material. Ernst & Young Private Limited Sudipta Das Partner 19th September, 2012 Kolkata 130 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT FROM ERNST & YOUNG Application Level A+ Standard Disclosure G3 Performance G3 Management Indicators & Sectors G3 Profile Disclosures Approach Disclosures Supplement Performance Indicators Output Output Output Reported on Management Approach Responded on each 1.1 1.2 disclosed for each core G3 indicator 2.1 2.10 Indicator category with due regard to 3.1 3.13 Materiality Principle by 4.1 4.17 either a) reporting on the indicator, or b) explaining the reason for its omission Report Externally Assured by Ernst & Young For any feedback/suggestions write to us at ccd@itc.in SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 131 Educating over 3,00,000 children Greening over 1,38,000 hectares Irrigating over 98,000 hectares of dryland Figures in this section are as on October 2012
