New eyes for industry Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 TAMRON CSR Report 2012 0B Message from the President First of all, I wish to express our deep sympathy to those who suffered from the Great East Japan Earthquake and the tsunami and pray for the early recovery of the affected areas. Putting Lessons Learned from Disasters to Good Use Looking back on 2011, the year obliged us to muse on risks from natural disasters at home and abroad such as earthquakes and floods. Soon after the Great East Japan Earthquake, immediately after checking on the safety of our premises and employees, we decided to send commodities as well as relief and condolence money to people who suffered from the disaster. As a manufacturer of photographic lenses, we also continued to work on supporting people living in the afflicted areas. Our actions included cosponsoring photographic exhibitions held to convey the devastation of the afflicted areas and plight of people living there, and extending preferential repair services to our lens users. As part of our business continuity plan, we immediately launched a special project to ensure smooth materials procurement and logistics. We put the lessons we learned from the disaster in Japan to good use during the floods in Thailand. We will continue to reflect these lessons in our business in order to strengthen our crisis management system. Recognizing Anew the Importance of Our Corporate Philosophy: “Contributing to Society by Creating New Eyes for Industry” Morio Ono Throughout our company history, we have worked hard to develop and deliver quality President & CEO optical products, guided by our corporate philosophy of“Contributing to Society by Tamron Co.,Ltd Creating New Eyes for Industry”. We continue to pursue high quality to meet our goal and provide products that satisfy our customers. The A005 tele-zoom lens1 we launched in 2011, commanding our advanced technologies including our proprietary ultrasonic motor and special high quality optical glass materials, is one example of such eyes. Our new zoom lens won many awards. We must focus on environmental concerns while pursuing quality and performance. Our pursuit of environmentally friendly designs including the use of recycled materials, downsizing and weight saving enabled us to reduce the gross weight of products we sold in 2011 by 13% . We also know the importance of improving our after-sales service system in order to continue to present value for our customers. Providing robust products is the first and foremost condition but prompt repair services must be provided for when they are necessary. We currently complete repair services to our domestic customers for consumer products within seven days including delivery. We will work to provide the same afterservices to customers abroad. The number of people who participate in our annual photographic contest encourages us. The continuous growth of the population enjoying photography tells us that our efforts to contribute to photographic culture are helping. We will continue to work hard in order to be a reliable manufacturer of quality optical products that meet customer expectations. Management Always Values Employees At Tamron we contribute to society while responding to customer needs as we implement corporate management that always highly values our employees. In 2011, to save electricity after the March 11 disaster, we prohibited overtime work as a general rule. We are confident that changes in understanding a better work-life balance will become a driving force behind the Tamron of tomorrow. Participation in the United Nations Global Compact2 In 2007, Tamron joined the Global Compact of the United Nations3. Since then, we have continued to support the ten principles of the Global Compact initiative that serves as the basic code of conduct for all global companies. Strengthening our consciousness of human rights is particularly important when we deploy our business operations around the globe. We have therefore included the ten principles in our Codes of Conduct and have been focusing on education in our organization following the ten principles. In compiling this CSR Report, we focused on communicating with our stakeholders. We would greatly appreciate your comments and suggestions for how we can further improve our CSR management. （1）Please refer to page 7 for additional product information. （2）Please refer to page 3 for additional information on the UN Global Compact. 1 TAMRON CSR Report 2012 Tamron's CSR Management For Enhancing Corporate Value Twelve Themes for Enhancing CSR Management Tamron's CSR management is conducted under our basic We have established twelve themes for being a company corporate philosophy of contributing to the economy, society acknowledged by stakeholders. Through addressing these and environment by supplying customers with quality products themes, we are discharging compliance responsibility, economic that serve as eyes for industry. Our basic corporate philosophy responsibility, and responsibility to contribute to social issues. advocates performing all of our primary business operations The themes of compliance, corporate governance and risk based on The Action Declarations, defining the stance the Management are essential for conducting sound business company should take toward stakeholders divided into five operations while discharging compliance and economic categories, and The Action Codes, showing how all Tamron responsibility. employees should act while dialoguing with our stakeholders. The remaining themes are occupational safety, employment and human resources, human rights, information security and private 《Perspectives from Stakeholders Divided into Five Categories》 information protection. We will continue to address these themes to discharge our social responsibility while working on quality improvement, product quality and safety, resource-saving From the customer perspective designs, environmental protection and more. We will continue to report on our activities for proper disclosure. We will work to continue to be a company our customers select as a reliable supplier1. From the From the society perspective employee perspective （1）This is one of our corporate themes. From the business From the shareholder/ partner perspective investor perspective All ﬁve perspectives interlink with our environment. Power to be Corporate Value The Action Declarations of Tamron selected Responsibility to Contribute to ●From the customer perspective Recognizing that customer satisfaction is of the highest Information disclosure importance, we will contribute to society by supplying safe, Social high-quality original products and services. Contribution Environment ●From the employee perspective In order to become self-reliant, each employee at Tamron Quality Products/ Employment/ Safety works with a spirit of challenging diﬃculties, maintains good Social and Environmental Issues Human Resources communications with fellow workers for creating a lively work Occupational environment, and strives to yield the best possible results at all Safety & Health Private Information times while observing the laws and regulations. Protection Each and every employee at Tamron respects human rights to Information Security support a good society as a good corporate citizen. Human Rights ●From the shareholders/investor perspective All of us working at Tamron strive to enhance Tamron s corporate Risk Management value through faithful management, maintain good Co m p lia n c e communications with our stakeholders, and work on enhancing Society Environment stakeholder conﬁdence to be a company worthy of stable investments. C o r p o r a t e Go ve r n a n c e ●From the business partner perspective Economy All of us working at Tamron observe the laws and regulations, aiming to establish relationships that ensure receiving a supply of quality materials and services from our Economic Responsibility partners through trans parent transactions, working to grow and contribute to society together with our partners. Twelve Themes for Enhancing CSR Management ●From the society perspective Maintaining good communications with local communities, we will strive to contribute to their growth while upholding their tradition and culture as a good corporate citizen. We will observe the laws and regulations, aiming at earning CSR Committee conﬁdence from society as a good corporate citizen. We will be up against all social anti-society forces and Our CSR Committee meets monthly to closely watch the progress organizations that pose threats to the public order and safety of of activities for pursuing the twelve themes. The committee is our civil society. an organization under the direct command of our president. We will work hard in NGO and NPO projects to establish a good society. Representatives from all divisions at the headoffice and factories at home and abroad meet monthly through videoconferencing. TAMRON CSR Report 2012 2 Participation in the UN Global Compact Tamron operates around the world, including a production base in China and subsidiary sales companies in Europe and America. Agreeing to the Global Compact（GC） , the international initiative proposed by the United Nations to support the Ten Principles related to human rights, labor, environmental protection and preventing corruption, Tamron became a supporter of the initiative in August 2007. The Ten GC Principles became pillars for establishing our CSR promotion structure. We will continue to For further details on the initiative, please visit the United conduct our business following The Ten Principles, fulfilling our social Nation website at responsibility. WEB http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ ● COP Report（Communication on Progress） The following table describes our accomplishments and work at Tamron during 2011 in line with the Ten Principles. Actions Taken, Relevant Principle Tamron’ s Policies Accomplishments in 2011 page ① Business should support and espec ttheprotection of We advocated support of basic human rights in P2 Human Rights internationally proclaimed human our Action Declarations. Established and adopted rights Human Rights Protection & Labor Standard Management We declared respect for human rights and Regulations at our domestic ② Business should ensure that they abolishment of discrimination in our Compliance bases and Chinese factory. are not complicit in human rights P11,12 Regulations. abuses Periodically provided opportunities ③ Business should uphold the We declared respecting the right of our to discuss labor-management issues freedom of association and the employees to organize (in our labor organization at times including joint management P12 effective recognition of the right memorandum). council meetings and annual plan to collective bargaining rollout meetings. We stipulated the importance of complying ④ Business should support the with labor-related laws and regulations and elimination of all forms of forced Provided our employees with maintaining a proper work environment for our and compulsory labour opportunities to learn more employees (in our Compliance Regulations). P11〜13, Labour about the 12 CSR Themes 15 We declared that we do not use child labor. including human rights and ⑤ Business should support the (We do not employ any workers under age 15, labor issues. effective abolition of child labour which is stipulated in our employment rules.) Achieved challenged person ⑥ Business should support the W  e declared our targets for employing physically employment and female elimination of discrimination challenged persons and our policy to increase manager promotion rate P11,12 in respect of employment and the ratio of female managers in order to realize a targets. occupation diversified work place. Ratio of taking newbornbaby care leave: 100% We declared our policy in our consolidated ⑦ Business should support a management policy to prevent environmental Incidences connected to preca utionary approach to deterioration through work such as the following: environment contamination: environmental challenges (1)Reducing CO2 emissions. Zero (2)Reducing industrial waste. Incidences connected to (3)Finding alternative materials to harmful leakage of harmful chemical Environment chemical substances. substances: Zero (4)Keeping biodiversity intact. P14 ～ 18 ⑧ Business Should undertake We declared our policy to clearly establish Reduced CO2 emissions by initiatives to promote greater our environment objectives and targets for the 7% , compared to 2009 in environmental responsibility following: sales units (emissions per (1)Reducing CO2 emissions net sales) ⑨ Business should encourage (2)Reducing industrial waste emissions to Achieved targets, except for the development and diffusion ultimately achieve zero emissions waste plastic reduction at of environmentally friendly (3)Promoting environmentally-friendly designs headquarters technologies ⑩ Businesses should work Anti-Corruption We declared our policy to regulate acts of The Compliance Promotion against corruption in all its endowment and political donations and Committee held workshops forms,including extortion and P13 terminate ties with anti-social forces in our for employees to learn more bribery Compliance Regulations and Action Declarations. about compliance. 3 TAMRON CSR Report 2012 Table of Contents Message from the President……………………………………………… 1 Relationships with Employees…………………………………………… 11 Tamron’ s CSR Management……………………………………………… 2 Relationships with Shareholders and Investors……………………… 13 Participation in the UN Global Compact……………………………… 3 Relationships with the Environment…………………………………… 14 Table of Contents, Company Outline… ……………………………… 4 Environmental Objectives and Targets Achieved… ……………… 16 Feature Article：Learning Lessons from the Great East Reducing CO₂ Emissions and Energy Consumption… ………… 17 Japan Earthquake… ……………………………………………………… 5 Reducing Waste and Water Consumption…………………………… 18 Management System… …………………………………………………… 6 Relationships with Society……………………………………………… 19 Relationships with Customers…………………………………………… 7 Activities at Subsidiary Companies Overseas… …………………… 21 Relationships with Business Partners… ……………………………… 10 Independent Third Party Opinion… …………………………………… 22 Editorial Policy 1. This report is issued to inform our customers, employees, shareholders, investors, business partners, communities and other bodies (local communities, public bodies,NGOs and NPOs being our stakeholders) about Tamron’ s work and progress on environmental conservation and social responsibility. 2. This report covers the whole Tamron group including Tamron Co., Ltd and Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd. and subsidiary sales companies overseas (except for some environmental data). 3. The guidelines referred to are the Environmental Report Guidelines (2007 Version),Greenhouse Effect Gas Assessment & Reporting Manual (Ver. 2.4 2009) *and Environmental Accounting Guidelines (2005), issued by the Ministry for the Environment. *As for emission coefficients, Ver. 2.4 (2009) was applied. 4. The needs for disclosing information to stakeholders were determined in accordance with GRI Sustainability Report Guidelines and referring to ISO 26000: 2010 Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility. 5. We strive to disclose information from the perspective of stakeholders by referring to the warranty processes in AA1000 Warranty Standards. 6. About the front cover design We tried to express how our company works with lenses to contribute to the earth, the environment and harmony with people. Company Outline Trade Name: Tamron Co., Ltd. Employees Consolidated: 6,005 Head Office: 1385 Hasunuma, Minuma-ku, （excluding 406 temporary employees） Saitama City, Saitama Prefecture, Japan Total Sales Consolidated: 58,507 billion yen（2011） Tel: +81-48-694-9111 Stock Exchange: 1st Section, Tokyo Stock Exchange Founded: November 1, 1950 Domestic Factories: Hirosaki, Namioka, Owani Established: October 27, 1952 Affiliated Companies: The United States, Germany, Capital Amount: 6.923 billion yen France, Hong Kong, China（Shanghai, Foshan） Representative Director: Morio Ono Head Office （Saitama） Summary of Business 《Net Sales》 （billion yen） 682 Net Sales Consolidated 700 625 600 566 585 Industrial-use 498 500 optics 14.0% 400 300 200 Optical 100 components 0 18.1% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 By-Category Sales Composition （2011 consolidated） 《Numbers of Employees》 （person） Consolidated employees temporary employees 8,000 355 7,000 406 572 450 6,000 470 5,000 Photographic lenses 67.9% 4,000 7,198 6,005 3,000 5,571 5,472 5,064 2,000 1,000 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 TAMRON CSR Report 2012 4 F E AT U R E Learning Lessons from the Feature Article Great East Japan Earthquake We at Tamron wish to express our deep sympathy to those who suffered from the Great East Japan Earthquake and the tsunami and pray for the early recovery of the affected areas. Based on many lessons we learned from the disastrous experience, we are working hard to continue our business operations and discharge our social responsibility. Actions Taken Immediately After the Disaster For Improving our Business Continuity Plan Immediately after the earthquake and tsunami, we checked on Problems arose from the earthquake disaster. Our Business the safety of our employees and security of our premises. We Continuity Plan (BCP) contained some ambiguous parts because extended support to those facing difficulties in returning home the actions for some initial responses immediately after a major while working on prevention of the second disaster. earthquake and actions thereafter for recovery and continuation Since the physical damage at our head office and three factories of business operations were mixed. We reviewed our BCP, in Aomori was comparatively small, limited time was required issuing the Earthquake Initial Response Manual to clarify actions to restore our business operations. At our head office in Omiya, to take immediately after a major earthquake, while also issuing however, some employees found it difficult to return home while a new BCP version to ensure smooth recovery work. In the new supplies stocked for people living in the neighboring areas of our BCP that has been fundamentally reexamined, related divisions company were insufficient. In preparation for planned blackouts, are narrowed down more than before, and action assignments we immediately procured emergency generators to secure a and countermeasures are expressed more clearly to establish power supply for our systems. To be prepared for the anticipated effective implementation plans for speedier recovery. We collapse of our supply chain, we immediately launched a crossreviewed our emergency communication network as well as the sectional project, working on securing a network for logistics emergency framework and the state of the emergency stockpile. including finding alternative procurement sources. As part of our We are working on familiarizing all employees about these efforts to reduce electrical power consumption, we shifted some changes, in order to strengthen our risk management system and holidays in May and June to August while basically prohibiting be prepared for major disasters that may happen in the future. overtime work. 《Workflow During a Major Earthquake》 Establishing prearranged Closing Emergency Headquarters Emergency Headquarters Normal business Initial response based Recovery work Normal business operations Earthquake on Tamron Earthquake based on BCP operations (Proactive program) occurrence Response Manual (Postmortem routine) Support Actions Extended to Affected Areas We started to take support actions immediately after the earthquake. At first, we sent essential commodities of life to our OEM customers who have production bases in the Tohoku Establishing (East Japan) district. Then, our head office donated 20 million prearranged yen through the Japanese Red Cross Society, while our three Emergency factories in Aomori donated 5 million yen to the disasterHeadquarters affected prefectures through Aomori Prefecture. We collected contributions from domestic employees as well as employees working at group companies abroad. As a photographic lens maker, we co-sponsored a photographic exhibition UNICEF held at the United Nations’Visitor Center for reporting the devastation of the affected areas to people all over the world. Furthermore, to extend our support to the users of our products in the affected areas, we provided repair services at half the regular repair charges. We will continue to work on helping the disaster-hit areas and people living there, making the most of the characteristics we have as a lens maker. Poster for“Children and the 2011 Japan Earthquake and Tsunami – UNICEF at Work” , a photographic exhibition held at the UN Visitor Center 5 TAMRON CSR Report 2012 Management System We strive to enhance our product and service quality while reducing environmental loads through our consolidated management system. Also, we avoid various management risks based upon our risk management system. Integrated Management System Triple Audit Systems for Surveillance and Finding Problems In 2010, we obtained unified certification applicable to the We annually audit the implementation of the integrated Tamron Group including our overseas production base of management system at the Omiya Head Office and the three Tamron Optical（Foshan） , in addition to all our domestic sites: Aomori factories to check the effectiveness of the system Head Office, Hirosaki Factory, Namioka Factory and Owani and continually improve it, which are our internal quality and Factory. Our management system has completely integrated ISO environment audits. From the auditing, internal auditors found 9001（quality）and ISO 14001（environment） . We will continue some nonconformity cases and suggested improvements at the to produce high quality products that are safe and satisfy our Omiya Head Office and three Aomori factories. In addition to the customers, while paying attention to the environment, under our internal audit, the Omiya Head Office and three Aomori factories integrated management system. audit each other to check their systems and manufacturing processes. We periodically audit with contracted external audit organizations to maintain certifications while continually improving the integrated management system at Tamron. As a Integrated Management Policies result of external audits implemented in 2011, the effectiveness of our policy management processes adopted at our domestic As a member of the optical industry of the world, we will continue to manufacture products meeting customer sites was assessed at level-4 on the whole on a scale of one to satisfaction and our goal of being Tamron Contributing five, while the effectiveness of processes used at our production to Society by Creating Eyes for Industry, while paying base in China was rated at level-4. Points at issue as results of attention to environmental conservation. the triple audit systems have been promptly improved, and we 1.We will supply our customers with high quality and reliable are working on further improvements by deploying activities products by using our originality, ingenuity and technology, horizontally among our group companies. pursuing sustainable growth with profits arising out of delighting and satisfying our customers. Risk Management 2.In running our business, we will comply with all related laws, standards and treaties at home and abroad, respecting the requests and demands postulated by our customers and the In January 2008, we assessed all risks in our business operations local community. and established our risk management policies. Since then, 3.We will work on preventing environmental contamination we have been operating our risk management framework through reducing CO₂, waste emissions and harmful under the ten themes of compliance, corporate governance, chemicals while seeking alternatives and keeping biodiversity information disclosure, labor safety and sanitation, employment, intact. human resources, human rights, social contribution, information 4.We will continue to work on improving the effectiveness of security, private information protection, environment and quality our integrated management system. assurance. 5.To achieve this management policy, we will specifically set up our objectives and targets, periodically evaluating our achievement level. Tamron’ s Risk Management Policy 6.To enhance recognizing the importance of our integrated management, we will maintain good communications while At Tamron, recognizing all possible risks that may affect providing sufficient education and training to all people our business, we are committed to all possible damage working for Tamron. prevention in order to minimize damage to the economy, 7.W e will closely cooperate with society in all countries our society and our environment. In emergencies, and regions where we work and disclose information we work to minimize damage and promptly recover as necessary on our quality assurance and environment by acting responsibly, providing continuous services conservation. to our customers for continuing growth. We aim for December 7, 2009 safety and ease of mind for all stakeholders including Morio Ono, President & CEO our employees, shareholders, customers and business partners. We will continue to provide opportunities for learning about risk management to all employees so that they may work on risk management from a CSR 《Consolidated Management》 perspective built on properly recognizing the importance of the policy and their missions. Representative （Prosldent） September 30, 2009 Quality/ Morio Ono, Representative Director & President（CEO） Environment Committee Consolidated Administration Manager Secretarial Oﬃce （CSR Promotion Board） For Responding to Acute Emergency Aomori Consolidated Omiya Consolidated Administration Manager Tamron Optical（Foshan） At our head office in Omiya, three factories in Aomori and TOF Administration Manager （representing consolidated administration Consolidated Administration managers of three Aomori factories） in China, evacuation and fire extinguishing drills are conducted Secretarial Oﬃce Secretarial Oﬃce Secretarial Oﬃce every year with all employees participating as part of our risk （CSR Promotion Board） （Operation Promotion Section） （ISO Promotion Board） management program. All employees and executives participate. Specialty Committee (Including sub-committees) We held a fire and evacuation drill in 2011 for all employees with the assistance of the fire department of Saitama City. Our employees learned about initial stage fire fighting and using fire Hirosaki Namioka Owani Tamron Optical Omiya Head Oﬃce extinguishers. Factory Factory Factory （Foshan）Co., Ltd. We also held an initial stage drill for earthquakes, using the ※ Integrated internal auditors are working at our all sites, while integrated management government's preliminary earthquake flash announcement promotion committee members are fulfilling their missions at all domestic sites. program. TAMRON CSR Report 2012 6 Relationships with Customers Tamron is committed to contributing to society by supplying customers with safe, unique and quality products and services, putting the highest priority on satisfying customers,dealers and OEM customers. Major accomplishments in 2011 Tasks for 2012 We worked on improving product quality and performance. Creating unique products customers appreciate We worked on global deployment of our after-service systems. Further improvement of our after-service systems Tamron Products Familiar to Everybody We make eyes for industry by commanding advanced optical technologies we have created For contributing to photographic and obtained over many years. culture and imaging technologies We contribute to the propagation and development of photographic culture and imaging technologies. For protecting security ・Lenses for DSLR cameras For supporting ・Lens units for video cameras industry ・Lens units for Compact digital cameras. Contributing to our economy, We support factory automation For contributing to safety and security in society and environment and quality enhancement. everyday life, we make lens units. with eyes for industry ・Surveillance cameras (including IR cameras), ・Industrial lenses. ・Security cameras ・Vehicle built-in lenses. Tamron Products Highly Acclaimed by Experts In developing interchangeable lenses for DSLR (Digital Single Ⅱ VC PZD (Model B008) high-power zoom lens, we worked on Reflex) cameras, we have been stressing high-power zoom lenses downsizing, successfully reducing its cubic measurement by 24% that enable photographers to respond to varied photographic and weight by 20% by improving its VC (vibration compensation) opportunities, from wide-angle to telephoto, with just one mechanism. We also successfully reduced the AF driving noise lens. In developing the SP 70-300mm F/4.5-5.6 Di VC USD while realizing smoother focusing by improving the AF drive (Model A005) tele-zoom lens launched in 2011, we pursued motor. These two zoom lenses were highly acclaimed by experts the ultimate optical quality by employing high-class special as follows. optical glass materials. In designing the 18-270mm F/3.5-6.3 Di 《Awards Granted》 Model Awards Gr ant ed by EISA Award – European Zoom Lens of the Year 2010-2011 The European Imaging & Sound Association (Europe) A005 TIPA Award 2011 Best Entry-Level Lens Technical Image Press Association (Europe) 26th CAPA Lens Grand Prize Gakken Publishing, CAPA (camera magazine), Japan Kakaku.com Product Award 2010, Silver Prize, Lens Sector Kakaku.com, Inc. (Japan) EISA Award – European Zoom Lens of the Year 2011-2012 The European Imaging & Sound Association (Europe) Camera Grand Prix 2011 – Lens Grand Prize Camera Journal Press Club (Japan) B008 Digital Camera Grand Prix 2011 Summer, Gold Prize Ongen Publishing Co., Ltd. (Japan) (Integrated Factors), Technical Award Kakaku.com Product Award 2011, Silver Prize, Lens Sector Kakaku.com, Inc. (Japan) 7 TAMRON CSR Report 2012 Relationships with Customers Evaluation by Dealers and OEM Customer Continuing Improvement and Global Deployment of Efficient After-service through We conduct a Customer Satisfaction Survey annually by asking our OEM customers and dealers handling products under our own Effectively Using Customer Feedback brand for their assistance. In 2011, this survey showed that we improved our customer satisfaction concerning delivery capability To reflect customer feedback and suggestions on product by 0.2 points to 5.2 points and price by 0.2 points to 4.3 points. development and service improvement, we newly created our The improvement was primarily possible due to the combined Customer Service Office in January 2011. The office works on efforts by all related divisions including marketing and sales. obtaining customer feedback via telephone, mail and exhibitions. However, we lost 0.3 points to fall to 4.6 points for development The office also plans to launch, in 2012, a new service that enables capability and 0.2 points to fall to 4.6 points for quality. Some our users to obtain information on new products and events by dealers wanted us to work on shortening development lead-time registering products purchased with either the registration cards further while other customers commented that they could rely on included or at our website. us to provide quality products. Also, aiming at establishing a framework capable of completing For items where our customer satisfaction ratings were below repairs within three days on a global basis by 2012, we worked 4 points, we immediately took corrective actions. In 2012 and on globally completing all repairs within five days in 2011. We beyond, we will carefully review the feedback and suggestions achieved the goal for 97.5% of our repairs, based on the number from our customers to take proper measures for improvements. of repairs, b the numbers of technicians at our own repair shops at home and abroad, upgrading technician skills and establishing a new section for administering repair parts preparation. In 2012, we will continue to work on improving our customer service systems, aiming at completing all repairs within three days on a global basis. 《Results of Customer Satisfaction Survey》 2009 2010 2011 Overall 6 “Eternity at a Moment” Handling repairs 5 Delivery ━ Photographic Exhibition as Tamron 60th 4 Anniversary Project 3 2 We celebrated our 60th anniversary in November 2011. Response to 1 As an important event to celebrate the anniversary, we Price complaints held“Eternity at a Moment” , a photographic exhibition 0 introducing pictures 60 professional photographers took. To hold this exhibition, we asked 60 famous Japanese professional photographers to capture“Eternity at a Quality Moment”with the 18-270mm F/3.5-6.3 Di Ⅱ VC PZD Communications (Model B008), our 60 th anniversary model for DSLR cameras. Pictures taken were exhibited at 3331 Arts Chiyoda, a gallery in Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, from October 5 Technical capability Development strength through 11. About 6,000 people visited the exhibition, and we logged many accesses to our special page at our 1.Greatly dissatisfied 2.Dissatisfied 3.Slightly dissatisfied website from people in 135 countries and regions in the 4.Slighly satisfied 5.Satisfied 6.Greatly satisfied world. Development Technical Response to Handling Overall Delivery Price Communications strength capability Quality complaints repairs 2009 4.6 4.9 4.0 5.1 4.7 4.7 4.5 4.5 4.4 2010 4.8 4.8 4.1 5.3 4.9 4.9 4.8 4.8 5.0 2011 4.8 5.2 4.3 5.2 4.6 4.8 4.6 4.9 5.0 Photo exhibition TAMRON CSR Report 2012 8 Relationships with Customers Contribution to Enhancing Surveillance/ Security Camera Performance Quality Enhancement through MAP In direct response to the growing demand for lenses capable Tamron works hard on enhancing product and service quality of supporting surveillance and security cameras equipped with to provide greater customer satisfaction. Our goal is that each image sensors with pixel counts over one million 1 for higher employee performs his/her own job, always thinking of his/her definition, we developed the M13VG288IR, a vari-focal lens2 that next process to unite the minds of employees6. supports mega-pixel cameras and is capable of working in the We have been promoting MAP as part of our quality near infrared region3. With conventional lenses, image quality enhancement program. MAP stands for maekohtei, meaning inevitably deteriorates in the near infrared range compared to pre-processes, atokohtei, meaning post-processes and PDCA the visible light range4. The M13VG288IR maintains high optical (Plan-Do-Check-Action). Each employee should always think of performance from the visible light range to the near infrared the next process when performing his/her job, for eventually range, even allowing surveillance at night without image quality enhancing the quality of all products and services. We promote deterioration. We will continue to work on developing newer MAP, working on current problems, by using seven tools and better next-generation lenses for security and surveillance, essential for QC (characteristic diagrams, Pareto diagrams, check to contribute to the needs of society. sheets, graphs, dispersion diagrams, histograms and control charts) in accordance with the QC scenario (deciding the theme – grasping the current status – cause analysis – establishing countermeasures – implementation – effect evaluation – standardization – wrapping up and defining future tasks). In 2011, our factory in Namioka organized eight small QC circles (small groups of workers) for the above processes to deploy MAP activities and establish conditions for enhancing production efficiency and product quality and reducing scratches, dents, dusts and dirt on lens elements. In 2012 and beyond, we will continue to work on improving the quality of our products and services through MAP activities. M13VG288IR (1)Camera equipped with an image sensor with pixel counts over one million (The standard pixel count is about 0.4 million) (2)Lens capable of changing focal lengths for different angles of view (3)Light invisible to human eyes. When a surveillance camera lens and a lens, both capable of handling light in the near infrared range, are combined, A scene of MAP work at Namioka around the clock surveillance is possible without changing lenses. Factory (4)Light visible to human eyes (6)“Uniting the minds of employees”is a phrase from the statement of our president in the beginning of 2011. Our president stressed the importance Interacting with Businesses in Different Fields of uniting the minds of employees working at preand post-processes for improving the quality of our products and services. As part of our programs to interact with businesses in different fields, our factory in Namioka welcomed seven inter-business engineer interns for four days in 2011. The interns were Tamron’s DfE (Designs for Environment) participating in the advanced course of the Medical System Development Meister School 5 jointly organized by Aomori To continue to develop products with designs friendly to the Prefecture and Hirosaki University. They worked on reducing environment, Tamron enacted product assessment regulations scratches, dents and other damage on lens elements by grinding based on the DfE philosophy several years ago. There are nine and polishing together with our engineers. Our engineers at factors to consider in assessing designs; achievement objectives the factory in Namioka found the program meaningful as some are established based on important factors among the nine improvement suggestions were made on aspects they usually factors. In 2011, we reduced the overall weight of all products overlooked due to the different perspectives of engineers developed by 13% and overall cubic capacity by 12% 7. Products working in different fields. with designs acknowledged as DfE designs wear the Tamron Eco Label and are reported on our website. (5)T he Medical System Development Meister School is operated mainly by Hirosaki Factory as a project financed by the Ministry of Education, Culture, (7)Compared with conventional products and on a production basis in 2011 Sports, Science and Technology. The project uses classroom lectures and fieldwork at businesses in Aomori to foster young engineers capable of WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/envi/top/index.html planning and developing practical medical systems. Tamron Eco Label Design： The label symbolizes an eye gently looking at our economy, society and environment. The eyebrow symbolizes a flowing stream of air and water, On-site seminar A scene of an accomplishment the pupil the green in the earth, and the tree in the pupil our work for the announcement meeting three R’s of reduce, reuse and recycle. 9 TAMRON CSR Report 2012 Relationships with Business Partners Tamron respects human rights, ensures compliance with laws and regulations, and establishes good relationships with business partners to grow and contribute to society together. Major accomplishments in 2011 Tasks for 2012 Held seminars on CSR procurement and compliance with Investigation of means to ensure compliance with CSR the REACH Initiative procurement Provided opportunities to learn more about procurement Expanding the scope of substances to be controlled to and related laws ensure compliance with the REACH Initiative Business Partner Accreditation System For Maintaining Product & Environment Quality Since 2008, we have asked all suppliers and business partners We have been closely watching for harmful chemical substances to follow the Tamron Codes of Conduct that includes prohibiting to prevent using them in our products. We use a system to check child and forced labor and ensuring compliance with CSR substances regulated by the RoHS Initiative of the EU based on procurement. In 2009 we also asked all suppliers to assess their environment data obtained from our suppliers2. In 2011, we adherence to the codes. In 2010 we introduced our work for continued to internally implement analytical work with advanced ensuring labor safety, sanitation, human rights protection and equipment including ICP-AES (Inductivity Coupled Plasma Atomic information security to all our business partners. Emission Spectrometry) and GC-MS (Gas Chromatography Mass For maintenance and protection of product and environment Spectrometry) to deliver safe products to our customers. quality 1, we conducted a survey to check the work of our In addition, we asked all our suppliers to ensure compliance suppliers through on-site audits and document examination with our environment quality assurance system, and conducted based on our assessment standards. We accredited suppliers document examinations and periodical on-site audits at domestic based on the survey results, asking them to work on improving sites and overseas subsidiaries. We completed the audits and their systems to pursue product and environment quality. examinations as planned in 2011, recommended improvements In 2012 and beyond, we plan to check the work of our suppliers as necessary and asked for adherence to our standards. for social issues including human rights protection. (1) “Maintenance and protection of environment quality”as used in this report mean regulating the use of harmful chemical substances in products our (2)Such data and documents as the certificate of non-use of harmful chemical suppliers deliver to us to below the threshold level stated in our standards. substances, ICP analytical data and MSDS 《Procedures to Select Suppliers》 Seminars to Learn More about CSR Request suppliers follow Tamron Supplier Codes of Procurement and the REACH Initiative Conduct covering aspects including labor safety, sanitation, environment protection, administration During the two-month period from December 2011 to January systems and ethical management in addition to this year, we held seminars for all suppliers at home and abroad promoting environment quality assurance to learn more about CSR procurement and additional means to ensure compliance with the REACH Initiative. We examined problematic labor issues that arose globally in recent years in Submission of reports by candidate business partners relation with CSR procurement, emphasizing the importance of describing results of voluntary evaluation of work to paying attention to economic, social and environment issues follow the Tamron Supplier Codes of Conduct throughout our supply chain. Also, since 2008, our company has worked on establishing a Product quality, environment quality and system to comply with the EU REACH Initiative as part of our Periodical evaluation NG environment quality assurance program. To respond to customer process audits, documentary examination requests for information disclosure based on the Initiative, we OK continued to collect data on chemical substances included in our products. Simultaneously, we asked all our suppliers to submit Appointment as selected business partners reports of chemical substances used in their products and materials they supply to us. At the seminars held in 2011, we reexplained the outlines of the REACH Initiative and introduced our revised format to state information on substances subject to the Implementation of CSR management by Initiative, asking our suppliers to give us accurate information. business partners following the Tamron We will continue to work together with our suppliers on CSR Supplier Codes of Conduct procurement and adhering to the REACH Initiative for assuring product and environment quality. Internal Education on CSR While asking our suppliers to work on CSR, we held internal CSR seminars for all employees as well as workshops for our employees in charge of procurement operations to learn more about CSR. In 2010, we held seminars and workshops on fair transactions (the Subcontractor Protection Law), risk management and chemical substance management. And in 2011, we held seminars to learn about our CSR 12 Themes including human right protection, labor safety and sanitation. Seminar held at TOF, China TAMRON CSR Report 2012 10 Relationships with Employees Tamron fosters self-disciplined employees with the spirit of rising to the challenge of creating new ideas in a climate emphasizing ethics. Tamron strives to create a safe work environment that encourages work,based on fair evaluations, respect for human rights and mutual understanding. Major accomplishments in 2011 Tasks for 2012 Continued to work on strengthening educational programs for Continuing efforts to create a healthy work environment, both engineers mentally and physically Continued efforts to create a comfortable work environment Human resource development through seminars For Strengthening Educational Programs for Young Engineers To quickly respond to customers who always require increasing quality of products and services, we have implemented professional training courses for young engineers. In 2011, we continued to focus on them, providing opportunities for the engineers to enhance their engineering capabilities. We divided our seminars into three categories of in-house seminars, inhouse on-site workshops and external seminars/workshops, preparing 17 different courses for young and middle-career engineers. Compared with seminars held in 2010, we increased the number of practical seminars answering immediate needs by four courses to a total of 17 courses. Fundamental technology seminar 《Seminars & Workshops Held in 2011 for Engineers》 Seminar Name Target Period Content Fundamental Fundamental knowledge as Tamron engineers (optics, technology Engineers with work experience under Technology 2 hours/6 times development, mechanical design, electronics, product disassembly, CAE, 5 years Seminar metal mold fabrication, quality administration and cost accounting 1 Metal Mold Engineers with work experience under Fabrication 1 hour/4 times Designing easier to fabricate metal molds 5 years Seminar On-site Seminars New graduates hired in 2011 for On-site seminars at related workplaces (production sites) at Related 4 to 6 months engineering fields expected to have close relationships in actual jobs Workplaces 2 Measuring Engineers with work experience under 2 weeks, in Fundamental knowledge on measurement methods, analysis and Technology 5 years total principles (using measuring tools) Seminar Quality Knowledge on quality assurance methods such as FMEA and Engineering Engineers 2 days SQC Seminar 3 Problem Engineers with work experience Basic knowledge of problem solution techniques and Solution 2 days between 5 and 10 years implementation Workshops For Creating a Safe and Comfortable Work Environment Tamron works hard to ensure safety and enhance the similar cases. In addition, to be prepared for worse cases, we psychological and physical health of employees and create a continued to hold seminars including emergency treatment comfortable work environment. seminars on cardiopulmonary resuscitation. In 2011, recognizing the importance of administrating For mental health issues, we continued to hold seminars so that occupational safety, we enacted Labor Safety & Sanitation employees may learn more about mental health care. In 2011, Regulations, organized the Tamron Labor Safety & Sanitation a total of 109 employees participated in the seminars. They Committee and started patrolling employee work sites with learned about the means for performing self-analysis and selfadministrators to help prevent labor accidents. As a result, we care measures. We will continue to support the mental health of reduced the number of occupational accidents from five cases to our employees through consultation with contracted industrial three and the number of accidents when commuting increased physicians and interviews with staff of personnel departments so from five to three. Since the numbers of minor traffic accidents that our employees may prevent emotional disorders. during commuting by bicycle and minor external injuries at production points were large, we implemented route cause analysis on each case and called employee attention to prevent 11 TAMRON CSR Report 2012 R e l a t i o n s h i p s w i th E m p l o y ees Relationships with Employees at Tamron For Maintaining Life-Work Balance Optical (Foshan) Interest in good life-work balance has been growing internationally. Tamron Optical (Foshan) (TOF), our main production base in China, In Japan, the problem of the declining birthrate and growing elderly continued to work on creating a comfortable work environment. population has been rapidly increasing. Firms must work hard to support employees who take maternity leave or live with elders to care for. Under this social situation, Tamron has been working on improving support for employees for Efforts to Develop Human Resources good work-life balance. TOF continued to hold seminars and workshops for upgrading employee skills, including business base training courses for newly hired employees and management training seminars. TOF particularly focused on management training. In 2011, Overtime-free Work Days management training seminars were held twelve times in total to train 219 employees. Up to 2010, we specified all Mondays and Wednesdays as overtime-free days, recommending all employees, except for those who must work overtime at jobs such as equipment maintenance, leave at closing time. In 2011, as part of our scheme to support the energy saving campaign of the Japanese government after the disaster in March, we specified all weekdays as overtime-free days. To those who must inevitably work overtime, we permitted working in the early morning instead to avoid using electricity during peak hours. As a result of this approach, we considerably reduced gross overtime compared to 2010. Many employees say that they realized increased efficiency by starting work early Employees participated in management training seminar in the morning. We plan to continue the current system for the time being. For Creating Safe Work Environment The number of industrial accidents at TOF in 2011 was three. In order to enhance safety awareness among our employees and remind them of our important administrative points for preventing accidents at work and ensuring safety and sanitation, Employee Interview we posted them in our Safe Work Environment Newspaper (issued 12 times so far). We also implemented safety patrols on regular basis. Mechanical Design Section For Creating A Safe Work Environment Design & Engineering Dept. #1 Imaging Products Business Unit TOF also worked hard on creating a safe work environment Atsushi Shimane while letting its employees feel at home, under the slogan of Employees First . Feedback boxes are installed for obtaining employee feedback and improving communications between labor and management. Every month, the management reviews Previously, I customarily used a substantial part of my feedback and suggestions submitted by employees, posting regular work hours for meetings with colleagues at other replies on the company bulletin boards. Also, TOF holds a party related divisions and responding to inquiries from other every month to celebrate the birthdays of employees born in that month as part of its recreation program. departments, engaging in my main job of designing at The management at TOF will continue to work hard on night during overtime work hours. After breaking myself improving the work environment by assuring appropriate labor of the habit, I realized that I could concentrate on my conditions for employees so that they may maintain good lifedesign work, feeling refreshed, by starting to work early work balance. in morning. Besides, commuting became much easier for me as I use trains before rush hour. I was also able to spend my time after getting home and before going to bed more freely. My operating effectiveness has been increased. The life style of starting to work early in the morning and leaving at closing time is better for me. TOF cycling club picnic TAMRON CSR Report 2012 12 Relationships with Shareholders and Investors We strive to enhance the corporate value of our company by pursuing faithful management and maintaining communications with our stakeholders including shareholders and investors. Major accomplishments in 2011 Tasks for 2012 Held briefing sessions to inform shareholders and Continued efforts for implanting through governance investors Worked on implanting thorough governance Corporate Governance Communications with Shareholders and Investors １．Basic Policy We continued to disclose information at appropriate times and in We at Tamron have constantly pursued fair and transparent compliance with related laws and regulations, while paying due management under our management philosophy since the attention to fairness. We are working to ensure sound management foundation of the company and in line with our brand message, and transparency, and to obtain understanding and credence of Contributing to Society by Creating Eyes of Industry , respecting all stakeholders. As part of our IR2 work, we held explanatory the rights and equality of our shareholders and working hard on meetings on our financial statements during 2010 at the end of the maintaining good relationships with all stakeholders. second quarter and the fiscal year for institutional investors and securities analysts, in addition to individual interviews with them ２．Outlines of Structure for Ensuring Corporate Governance from time to time. Tamron is a company with a board of auditors. We have twelve We also simultaneously post our financial statements, press directors and four auditors, including three external auditors. releases and other information on our website in Japanese and English whenever possible to keep our shareholders and investors (1)Board of Directors informed. We are working hard to eliminate information disclosure Meetings of the board of directors are held twice a month in imparity. principle, attended by all directors and auditors, for reviewing the In addition to briefing sessions held regularly for domestic individual execution of duties by the directors and deciding on important investors as before, Tamron participated in a conference held for issues as set forth in the basic policy of the company and related international investors in 2011 for the first time. We will continue to laws and regulations. work on maintaining good communications with our shareholders and investors at home and abroad through sufficient IR activities. (2)Board of Auditors The board of auditors audits the processes of decision making by the board of directors and the execution of duties of directors by attending the board of director meetings and checking the documents presenting their decisions. The board of auditors meets monthly in principle. (3)Executive Officer System Tamron introduced an executive officer system over ten years ago. Directors focus on management decisions, working with strategies on a midto long-term basis as well as ideas for evolving new business, while executive officers flexibly carry out daily business. (4)Internal Control through Committee Meetings IR conference held overseas (Vice president Kono) We regularly hold monthly business discussion meetings (MAC meetings) attended by all directors, full-time corporate auditors (1)IR stands for investor relations and means providing shareholders and and executive officers to discuss management issues and respond investors with information such as financial standing that is necessary for to the fast changing management environment. investors to make investing decisions. WEB IR サイト http://www.tamron.co.jp/investors/top/index.html 3.Outlines of Structure for Corporate Governance General Meeting of Shareholders For Ensuring Compliance Election/dismissal Election/dismissal Election/dismissal Accounting Auditor Accounting Auditor At Tamron, a meeting of the Compliance Promotion Committee Coordination Audit Audit organized under our Compliance Committee is held monthly, Coordination attended by representatives from Tamron departments to Coordination promote compliance on a company-wide basis. In 2011, we Board of Directors also held workshops for learning more about our compliance action guidelines and related laws and regulations in performing CSR Promotion Board President Internal Audit Board our business operations, including the export control law. We CSR Committee Management Meeting（MAC） will continue to work hard on promoting compliance as a group Internal audid including subsidiaries overseas. Compliance Committee Executive Oﬃcers Each department/Subsidiaries 13 TAMRON CSR Report 2012 Relationships with the Environment We pay attention to protecting the environment in deploying our business operations, working to be a company pursuing harmony with the environment. Major accomplishments in 2011 Tasks for 2012 Implemented measures to reduce CO₂ emissions Implementing CO₂ emissions reduction measures on Monitored water consumption for finding measures to a company-wide basis to achieve our group target save water consumption further including TOF in China Environmental Loads Products are designed, prototypes made and metal molds and cleaning lens elements, generating polluted sludge and fabricated at the Omiya head office. In Japan, we also operate waste liquid containing melt chemicals. Our factories in Owani our Namioka Factory for manufacturing lens elements, Owani and Foshan also generate plastic runner materials 1 while Factory for injection-molding plastic components and Hirosaki manufacturing plastic components used in peripheral lens parts, Factory for assembling final products. We also operate Tamron in addition to waste liquid. Optical（Foshan）in China as our manufacturing base abroad. We emit CO₂ as we mainly use trucks for transporting materials, The factory in China is an integrated factory performing all parts and products between factories. In 2011, we reduced our operations ranging from component production to assembly. energy consumption volume for gasoline and diesel oil used for We use electricity, heavy oil, kerosene and other energy sources transportation and our CO₂ emissions by 20 % , by more for developing, designing and manufacturing, emitting CO₂. Our efficiently using trucks compared to 2010. factories in Namioka and Foshan use much water for polishing (1)Materials left in portions equivalent to paths to route resin for making plastic components INP U T Scope of INPUT Items： Omiya head oﬃce（including Tokyo / Energy Water Transportation energy 2 Osaka sales oﬃces） , three factories in Electric power 63,008,000kWh Clean water 724,000㎥ Diesel oil 276kℓ Aomori,Tamron Optical （Foshan） , China （excluding Tamron Optical Crude oil 231kℓ Sewage water 128,000㎥ Gasoline 64kℓ （Foshan） as for waste entrusted for Kerosene oil 15kℓ intermediate treatment） Total 852,000㎥ Total 340kℓ Diesel oil 53kℓ Gasoline 2kℓ Raw/auxiliary materials (2)The energy consumption data for transportation cover energy used by LPG 2000㎥ Metal（brass, aluminum） trucks for transporting parts and ﬁnal Natural gas 108000㎥ products and commercial vehicles Glass connecting ﬁve sales oﬃces in Japan. Total 570,009,000GJ Plastic The Tamron Optical（Foshan） , China Chemicals（drugs, solvents, cleaners） data covers company cars only. Paper Gas（nitrogen, oxygen, argon） Copy paper 20t Electrical components Sites covered: 97% Cardboard （based on the total number of employees） Manufacturing raw materials/ Development, design and Transportation between factories and delivery to stores Customers parts at suppliers production at Tamron （logistics/business vehicles） OUTPUT We report amount of waste which was entrusted for intermediate treatment in CO2 Emissions Recycled CO2 Emissions during Transportation2 Tamron Optical（Foshan） , China below Electric power 32,344t-CO2 Paper 27t Diesel oil 724t-CO2 for reference. Crude oil 627t-CO2 Cardboard 44t Gasoline 148t-CO2 Tamron Optical（Foshan）,China（estimated amount） Kerosene oil 37t-CO2 Metal 46t Industrial waste 517t Total 872t-CO2 Diesel oil 112t-CO2 Plastic 103t General waste 745t Gasoline 4t-CO2 Grinding sludge 11t Total 1,262t LPG 14t-CO2 Waste ﬂuid 146t Natural gas 226t-CO2 Others 75t Total 33,364t-CO2 Total 452t Reference Guideline： Waste entrusted for intermediate treatment Products Greenhouse Eﬀect Gas Calculation/ Industrial waste 374t Total 2,734t Reporting Manual（Ver. 2.4）issued General waste 93t by The Ministry for the Environment Total 467t TAMRON CSR Report 2012 14 Relationships with the Environment Compliance Education & Training Tamron regularly checks compliance with laws and regulations We periodically hold CSR seminars including a course on related to quality assurance and environmental protection in environmental management. order to ensure the compliance of the entire group. Major issues and compliance at Tamron are as shown in the table below. In Japan, we reported on the energy consumption and actions taken to reduce consumption as a specific business entity under Environmental Management Education the Revised Energy Saving Law. Also, we continued to inquire into chemical substances contained in parts and materials our In 2011, as part of our environmental management educational suppliers deliver to us. We confirmed that the SVHC (substances program, we held a seminar for our employees to learn more of very high concern) content was below the standard threshold about biodiversity over the Internet. In total, about 1,000 level requiring special reports. employees from our domestic sites, TOF in China and overseas sales subsidiaries participated in the seminar. We also provided 《Compliance at Respective Sites》 opportunities to learn more about waste sorting, energy saving ○：Satisfactory △：Insufficient ―：Not regulated（Not applicable） and green procurement to the members of our integrated management promotion committee. The committee members Head office Aomori Factories Foshan3 undertake the role of conveying what they have learned to their Energy saving（revised law） ○ ○ ― colleagues in their work places and promoting energy saving CO₂ emissions reduction ○ ○ ― including efficiently using air-conditioning. Chemical substance management1 ○ ○ ○ Air ○ ○ ○ Education on Environmental Management System Water quality ○2 ○ ○ Soil ○ ○ ○ Our company deploys business operations based on our Noise ○ ○ ○ integrated management system that conforms to ISO 9001 and Vibration ○ ○ ○ 14001. In 2011, we held seminars and workshops prepared for Odor ○ ○ ○ different areas such as sales/marketing, design, procurement and Occupational safety ○ ○ ○ production so that employees may recognize ISO requirements (1)Laws related to managing and investigating chemical substances apply to domestic sites; imposed on them and followed the PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Action) international directives including RoHS and REACH apply to the entire group. cycle for improvements. Employees engaging in procurement (2)Values exceeded standard values at some points of measurement, but our measures operations learned more about CSR procurement, thought about securely prevented contamination diffusion outside our facilities. (3)Compliance with related laws and regulations enforced in China as well as international improvements necessary for upgrading their current practices, regulations such as the RoHS and REACH initiatives and exchanged opinions among participants. Environmental Accounting Education on CSR The outlines of our environmental accounting were as follows （unit : thousand yen） In addition to seminars on the Ten Principles of the UN Global Environmental cost Compact and the UN Millennium Development Goals, we Economic Environmental Category Main work Page invested Expense effect conservation effect worked on educating our employees on global issues by Pollution ・Modified ductwork to prevent introducing, for example, the International Days specified by the water leakage (Namioka) Ensuring environmental prevention 900 7,543 ・Inspected and repaired facilities ― Standards P18 UN on our company bulletin boards under the title of“What day cost and equipment as necessary is it today?” ・Installed individual air-conditioning Earth systems and introduced heat ・Preventing harmful To respond to social needs through our own business operations, shield film on window panes of chemical substances Cost environment 42,039 our building (Omiya) 22,229 ・Installed new chemical substance 15,005 use in products P10 we held seminars for learning about identifying stakeholders as with in conservation ・Reducing energy P17 business cost analytical equipment (Omiya) consumption well as recognizing stakeholder expectations and tasks imposed area ・Installed private power generators (Namioka) on us. Employees participating in the seminars discuss the means Resource 0 16,838 Reducing and recycling waste Enhancing waste 223 recycling ratio P18 necessary to respond to the expectations of our stakeholders cycling cost in small groups. We will continue to work on strengthening our Subtotal 42,939 46,610 15,228 CSR educational programs so that our employees may engage in Upstream and Implementing audits their daily jobs while thinking about relationships with society. 0 2,548 Green procurement ― P10 downstream costs at business partners’ ・Maintenance and operation of Achieving envir on Management environmental management 0 38,371 systems ― mental objectives and P16 activity cost targets ・Environmental education Enhancing product R&D cost 0 146,097 Efforts for DfE ― performance through DfE P9 Reducing disposed of Social activity cost 0 555 Cleaning neighboring areas ― garbage ― Cost to prevent Contamination accident 0 0 ― ― P15 Environmental damage free Total 42,939 234,181 15,228 ＊Scope of Environmental Accounting Period: From January 1 through December 31, 2011 Premises covered: Omiya headquarters（including sales offices in Tokyo and Osaka）and three Aomori factories. ＊Labor costs are calculated based on the average wage. ＊The economic effect in comparison with Earth environment conservation costs is calculated by comparing power consumption figures in 2009 and 2010, while the economic effect in comparisonwith resource recycling costs is represented by a gain from metal waste sales. ＊Depreciation allowance is not calculated as an expense. CSR Seminar 15 TAMRON CSR Report 2012 Environmental Objectives and Targets Achieved The 4th mid-range environmental management program continued in 2011. We worked hard on achieving our objectives and targets for the year. Environmental Objectives & Targets Achieved in 2011 In 2011, we focused on reducing CO₂ emissions as the most energy saving measures for our production facilities. important environmental objective of the Tamron group, As for environmental loads other than CO₂ emissions, our work managing reduction in terms of the basic sales unit. Our sites established their own reduction targets as their operations objective for 2011 was reducing CO₂ emissions by 10 % . We and products differ. Sites other than the head office in Omiya achieved our CO₂ emissions target in terms of absolute volume, achieved their targets. The head office in Omiya failed to achieve but our reduction stood at 7% due to our total sales being below its waste plastic reduction target. our original target. The flooding in Thailand and appreciation of For reducing industrial waste, our Waste Reduction Promotion the yen reduced our sales. Sub-committee established and managed our reduction target. The CO₂ emission reduction target for 2012, during our threeOur Integrative Design/Manufacturing Engineering Promotion year mid-range plan, was 15 % , but we have realigned the Sub-committee, a cross-section organization to vertically manage target to 5 % . We prioritized thorough management of the operations from design to manufacturing, established and total CO₂ emission volume while pursuing production efficiency managed our target for promoting DfE designs. enhancement, given the total in-house production volume of TOF in China is expected to increase. We will continue to work on For organizational structure, please refer to page 6 enhancing our production efficiency while introducing additional (Consolidated Management System). 《CO₂ Reduction Targets Achieved and Three-year Plan》 2010 2011 Target in 2012 Reduction target compared to 2009 （In terms of basic unit per net -5% -10% -5% sales） Actual -6% -7% Achievement A B 《Environmental targets Achieved in 2011》 Targets Targets in 2011 Results in 2011 Achievment 3% reduction of metal scrap and waste Head Office Metal scrap reduction rate：22% A plastic compared to 2010 （3D Techno Center） Waste plastic growth rate：7% B (waste at time of mold fabrication) Hirosaki Factory Waste plastic reduction rate：32% A Reducing 1% reduction from the emissions volume industrial waste Namioka Factory Reduction rate A in 2010（in absolute value） Owani Factory Waste plastic reduction rate：14% A 2% reduction from the emissions volume TOF in China Reduction rate A in 2010（per net sales unit） Zero industrial Head Office Continuation of zero emissions inal disposition rate：０％ A waste emissions2 TOF in China Continuation of zero emissions final disposition：0t A Pronouncement of Eco-label products: July 2011 ・ales of Tamron Eco-Label products Promotion of DfE designs: Reduced gross weight Promotion of ・Promotion of DfE All sites by 13% and gross cubic volume by 12% compared A DfE3 ・No environmental contamination accito 2011 (conventional products), on a total unit dents production basis Preventing enviThree Aomori No environmental contamination accironmental conEnvironmental contamination accidents: Zero A factories dents tamination 《Targets for 2012》 Total CO₂ emissions（t-CO₂） (1)Basic unit per sales: Targets Targets in 2011 Consolidated sales（million yen） 3% reduction of metal scrap compared to 2010 (2)Definition of zero emissions: The volume of waste evenHead Office 3% reduction of waste plastic compared to 2011 tually sent to simple reclamation disposition becomes Reducing industrial （3D Techno Center） (Waste at time of mold fabrication) 2% or less of the total volume of industrial waste (i.e., waste 2.5% reduction from the emissions volume recycling ratio of 98% or more). TOF in China in 2011（per net sales unit） (3)Work to pursue light weight, compactness and the use ・Promotion of DfE of recycled materials in line with our product assessPromotion of DfE All sites ・No environmental contamination acciment regulations dents (4)For further information on Tamron Eco-label Products, please visit Each site continued to work on zero emissions and preventing environment contamination. http://www.tamron.co.jp/envi/top/index.html TAMRON CSR Report 2012 16 Reducing CO₂ Emissions and Energy Consumption Tamron strives to reduce CO₂ emissions and water consumption at factories based on our integrated management. By-source CO₂ Emissions Our Response to Government Request to Reduce Power Consumption Looking at sources of CO₂ emissions from the Omiya head office, In summer 2011, the Japanese government requested all three Aomori factories and Tamron Optical（Foshan）in China, business entities and households to reduce electric power electric power accounts for 97% , crude oil 2% and natural consumption by 15 % during peak hours compared to 2010 to gas/kerosene/diesel oil/LPG/gasoline 1 % altogether. Reducing cope with the anticipated power shortage after the Great East power consumption is the key to reduce CO₂ emissions. Japan Earthquake. Our Omiya head office and Namioka Factory, receiving electric power supply from the Tokyo Electric Power Co. and Tohoku Electric Power Co., worked on reducing power consumption with the following measures: Electric power Crude oil Natural gas Kerosene Diesel oil LPG Gasoline Measures to reduce energy ❶C  hanges in labor scheduling (working on more Sundays in May and Kerosene 0.1% June and extending summer vacation in July August Diesel oil 0.3% Natural gas LPG ❷ S hifting to night work (process stages and operations consuming large 0.7% 0.04% amounts of power) Gasoline 0.01% ❸ S hifting to holidays (operations consuming large amounts of power) (Omiya head office) Crude oil ❹ Overtime-free campaign 1.9% ❺A  dditional measures to reduce power consumption at manufacturing facilities (for example, by managing compressor operations and Electric power reducing standby power of processing machines) 96.9% ❻T  horough administration of air-conditioning (regulating preset temperatures to over 28 degrees C, allowing the use of air-conditioning at offices only within the time frame from 8 to 17 o’clock) ❼ Reducing lighting ❽ Unplugging computers and other devices when not in use For Reducing Electric Power Consumption In addition, at our factory in Namioka, we operated private power generators during peak power consumption hours. We The ratio of electric power consumption at our domestic also tried to make our employees more conscious of saving sites and Tamron Optical (Foshan) (TOF) is about 3:7. Out power by updating them on our power consumption. total electric power consumption including TOF has been These measures enabled us to reduce power consumption at increasing during the past five years. Our total consumption the head office in Omiya in July-September 2011 by 14% and 10% at in 2011 increased 2 % compared to 2010. Consumption at our our factory in Namioka. Power consumption during peak hours in domestic sites declined as there was no new installation of big the same period declined 36% at the head office and 8% at the equipment. The slight decrease in domestic production and Namioka Factory, compared to the same period a year earlier. work to save energy contributed. Power consumption at TOF in In 2012, we will continue to work on saving energy at all our China increased due mainly to the installation of a new metal sites. processing line in 2010 and the increase of the total production volume by 24 % . TOF plans to reduce power consumption further in 2012 through enhancing production efficiency while improving facilities. CO₂ Emissions Accompanying electric power consumption, CO₂ emissions Head Office Hirosaki Namioka Owani Foshan from our three factories in Aomori and Tamron Optical (Foshan) （thousand kWh） have been increasing during the five past years. Our total CO₂ 70,000 61,899 63,008 emissions in 2011 increased by 3% compared to 2011. 59,907 58,317 60,000 Head Office Hirosaki Namioka Owani Foshan Basic Unit 50,000 46,270 （t-CO₂) t-CO₂/ 40,000 35,000 32,537 33,364 sales （million yen） 26,168 38,416 38,924 43,181 45,241 30,507 29,997 30,000 30,000 0.57 0.57 0.60 0.48 0.61 1,987 25,000 23,697 0.50 20,000 1,818 1,316 1,255 1,118 10,974 12,012 10,870 10,028 9,481 20,000 0.37 0.40 10,000 20,555 21,947 24,212 25,413 1,255 1,500 1,224 1,315 1,283 6,055 5,992 5,983 6,120 5,885 15,000 14,690 0.30 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 10,000 919 0.20 842 620 593 535 5,001 5,501 5,013 4,639 4,447 5,000 0.10 987 987 891 1,012 968 2,177 2,035 2,036 2,081 2,001 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 17 TAMRON CSR Report 2012 Reducing Waste and Water Consumption We are working on reducing waste by enhancing production efficiency and improving business operations. Work to Reduce Waste Water Consumption The total volume of industrial waste from our domestic The total water consumption volume of our group has been business operations has been declining over the past five rising, following the output growth. In the first half of 2011, we years accompanying the decline of our domestic production investigated the causes for the increases. As a result, defects in volume. The total decreased by 5% in 2011 compared to 20101. ductwork and pumping facilities were found at the head office in Industrial waste from our factory in Hirosaki decreased by 14% Omiya and the Namioka factory. The repair work was completed in 2011 compared to 2010. The factory in Hirosaki recalls plastic by June. However, the total volume of our water consumption packages used for delivering products from TOF in China to increased by 18 % in 2011. We will continue to manage water domestic OEM customers. In 2011, the total volume of recalled consumption at TOF in China where much water is consumed plastic packages decreased. following the installation of additional lens processing facilities. We will also closely monitor water consumption at other sites monthly so we may promptly act when signs of increases are shown, while evaluating the effects of repair work in 2011. Head Office Hirosaki Namioka Owani Recycling ratio (domestic data) Head Oﬃce Hirosaki Namioka Owani Foshan Basic Unit （ t） 700 598 100% 623 852 98.8 99.8 99.9 99.2 600 （thousand ㎥） Basic Unit thousand ㎥ / 123 800 sales 722 （million yen） 500 155 95% 418 700 12.7 14.6 14 394 374 636 400 600 549 12 88 70 525 10.7 333 318 69 300 90% 500 11.0 10 8.3 200 232 210 199 400 8 134 342 456 386 546 671 100 85% 300 6 83.8 85 61 74 64 0 33 40 37 40 42 200 1 0.6 0.4 0.4 0.4 4 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 100 169 166 149 161 165 2 7 6 7 6 8 6 9 6 9 7 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 General Waste from Business Operations The total volume of general waste from our domestic business operations has been declining for the past five years. The 2011 decline was 21 % of general waste in 20101. Looking at sites, waste from the Namioka factory slightly increased, but waste from other two domestic sites declined. Waste from the Hirosaki Interview with Manager in Charge of factory declined by 35 % . The same as industrial waste, the volume Environment Management at TOF of cardboard boxes used for transporting products has been declining. Head Office Hirosaki Namioka Owani Recycling ratio (domestic data) Deputy Section Manager, General （ t） Affairs Dept. 200 100% Zhou Zhibin 166 159 91.3 5 89.2 150 4 At TOF, in line with our environmental objectives, we 90% 50 110 118 improved our infrastructure in 2011 to reduce our 68 4 4 93 electric power consumption and increase our efficiency 16 14 100 82.7 80% 76.6 4 in using compressed air. At the same time, we launched 78.0 15 an internal campaign for saving energy. Compared to 50 53 78 60 71 46 70% 2010, our power consumption in terms of basic unit per net processing charge decreased by 15% . For waste, we 34 33 30 29 28 established our Industrial Waste Sorting Standard and 0 re-used cardboard boxes for packing parts. As a result, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 we reduced industrial waste by 3 % compared to 2010 in terms of basic unit per net sales. In 2012, we will (1)TOF in China has been measuring industrial waste since 2008, but we are focusing on data consistency because of the difficulties of obtaining data continue to work on reducing waste and saving energy. on some products. We therefore report the waste reduction from domestic production sites. The estimated volume of industrial waste from TOF in 2011 is reported on page 14. TAMRON CSR Report 2012 18 Relationships with Society To grow together with society and continue to be supported and patronized, Tamron also works to support social events and cultural activities so photography and imaging culture can develop and evolve. Major accomplishments in 2011 Tasks for 2012 Continued photo contests and educational programs for Continuing participation in local events for social elementary school children contribution Provided financial support to local welfare event promoters For Growing Together with Local Communities Class for Children Social Contributions at Three Aomori Factories Tamron employees contribute to the local communities where Our factories in Aomori continued to clean neighboring areas our business sites are. regularly during the period from April through November when Since 2008, we have continued to have classes to arouse the ground is snow-free. The trash collected by the three Aomori elementary school children’s interest in science including classes factories weighed 78.2 kg. The campaign to collect pull-top for learning about global warming. In 2011, we held such classes caps that the three Aomori factories started in 2005 was also once at an elementary school and in four community halls continued. In 2011, the three Aomori factories donated pull in Omiya. Children in double the number of our original plan tops weighing 33 kg to the Social Welfare Council of Owani applied for in both cases. In total, 141 children participated Town for supporting its welfare projects. Our Hirosaki Factory in our educational classes. Since 2008, 1,456 children have also continued to offer its compound as a practice field for local participated in our educational classes. children’ s soccer teams to contribute to society. Our employees work out the educational programs and four to five employees serve as a lecture team. We always think the most about whether the children can enjoy and learn.Children found science interesting by observing how the nature of soap Support to Cookie Bazaar bubbles changes depending upon differences in chemical substances and making paper dragonflies. We are pleased to We donated to Cookie Bazaar 2011 held in November 2011 by know from our questionnaires after classes that our classes Hands-On, an NPO, while inserting an ad in its flier for notifying were enjoyable. We will continue to contribute to our local many more people of the event. The event was held to promote communities by having similar classes for school children to the sale of cookies physically challenged persons make. We learn more about science. supported the event financially as encouraging the self-help of physically challenged persons is meaningful. Car-free Day/Eco Life Day (Head Office) In 2008, we introduced our own program to suggest our employees refrain from using their cars for commuting on the third Friday of every month as a car-free day and establishing Interview with Elementary School Teacher specific week days in summer and winter as eco-life days1. In 2011, as a result of the car-free day campaign, we reduced CO₂ equivalent to 11 tons2 and CO₂ equivalent to 2 tons with Kishimachi Elementary School, the eco-life day campaign. The total number of people who Saitama City participated in the eco-life day campaign in summer and winter Tetsushi Yamaguchi of 2011 grew 48% to 1,951 including families of our employees. (1)E co-life day is a campaign held by Saitama Prefecture to suggest checking airChildren love to blow soup conditioning settings, switching off unnecessary lamps and reducing water consumption bubbles. Children at our school at offices and households. (2)We obtained this figure by assuming that the average distance driven by our 168 were excited to learn how to employees commuting by car is 30 km round trip with an average fuel consumption of make giant soap bubbles. The 12km per liter. (3)The volume of reduction of CO₂ emissions on car-free and eco-life days（11 tons）is teacher from Tamron did a great equal to the gross volume of CO₂ emitted from a typical household during a period of job with the class. Our children two years and three months. certainly took interest in the class. Providing question and answer time for the children Plastic Bottle Collection was also good to enable them to think independently. Preparing time for questions and answers would We have continued to collect empty plastic bottles for donating have made the class even better. One regular class in the money received from selling them for procuring polio elementary school is 45 minutes. The Tamron class was vaccine. The total volume of plastic bottles we donated since interesting to me as a teacher as I found the idea useful 2008 was equivalent to polio vaccinations for 431 children. to enrich our educational programs. We will continue to collect plastic bottles to protect children in developing countries from polio. 19 TAMRON CSR Report 2012 Relationships with Society Contributing to Developing Photographic Culture Tamron constantly works on contributing to developing photographic culture. We work in this direction by developing interchangeable lenses enabling photographers to capture precious moments and holding photographic exhibitions. The 4th Railroad Scenery Photo Contest We hosted the Railroad Scenery Photo Contest again in 2009 to contribute to revitalizing our local community and developing photographic culture as a company with our head office in Omiya, a city known as The Railroad Town. We held a photo exhibition and showed the award winning photos at Omiya Sogo Department Store, working together with Saitama City, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Saitama City and the Educational Commission of Saitama City to make the exhibition an event rooted in the local community. The 4th Railroad Scenery Photo Contest we held in 2011 was open to all from photo enthusiasts to photographers in general. We received 5,708 works altogether, up 17 % from 2010, from photographers ranging from entry-level to advanced amateurs and railroad photo enthusiasts. Grand Prize（For students; Saitama City Education Board Superintendent Prize） WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/special/train2011/result.html “J.U.M.P.”by Tsubasa Karaki “I captured this moment, imaging a scene jumping into the sunset” . (At Shimonada Station, JR Yosan Line) Grand Prize（For adults; Saitama City Mayor Prize） “Glow of Sunset”by Minoru Iwamoto “I tried to express the glow of sunset by capturing a bullet Humorous Photo Contest Award train clothed in the evening “My father and younger sister”by Noa Kurihara glow, in low-key, to control contrast between red and “My younger sister was sleeping on my father’s shoulder. She was so cute, looking like a turtle”. (On a river terrace along the railroad black” . between Oyahama and Nagatoro, Chichibu Line) 8th Macro Lens Photo Contest For popularizing macro lenses further, we made our 8th Macro Lens Photo Contest (2011) open to all photographers without restricting manufacturers, accepting pictures as long as they were macro pictures. The contest was open to enthusiasts of nature photography of insects and plants and to those who love photography in general. Also, we accepted entries via the Internet for the first time in 2011. A wide array of photographers entered the contest. We received 7,040 works, up 60 % from 4,408 in 2010, including macro shots finely capturing nature as well as warm pet shots and pictures of kids. We will hold photo contests in 2012 and beyond to continue to appeal to as many people as possible with the attraction of photography. Grand Prize（Macro Lens Photo Contest） “Winter nymph”by Nobuko Ikeda WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/special/macrocon2011/result.html TAMRON CSR Report 2012 20 Activities at Subsidiary Companies Overseas Tamron's subsidiaries abroad continued to work to strengthen their relationships with their communities in the year marking Tamron's 60th anniversary. Tamron Europe GmbH (TEG) Tamron Optical (Shanghai) Germany emphasizes the principles of environment protection. In We continued to support the National Modern Photography 2002, Germany decided to prohibit building new atomic power Contest that had been held first time in April 2010 and enjoyed stations and close existing ones step-by-step through legislative popularity among photographers. During the period of five changes. A fixed system for purchasing generated electric power months from launching the project to the entry deadline, we was introduced ahead of other European countries in order to received inquiries from a number of college and university encourage wide use of solar energy. TEG installed 344 solar students. The total number of works submitted from students panels on the roof of our building when expanding the building of 557 colleges and universities in 180 towns and cities across in February 2011 to reduce CO₂ emissions. China reached 19,306. An awards ceremony was held at Lu Though electricity generation per day on average over a year is Hsun Art School, a distinguished art institute in Shanghai. In 197 kWh, per-day average power generation in the six-month addition, to help students learn more about photography, we period from April through September reaches 265 kWh. Our held photographic workshops on that opportunity. power generation from February through December reached We also exhibited award winning works at universities in 61,400 kWh, which we sold to a power company. The power Chungking and Zhengzhou. Students and teachers welcomed generated from our solar panels in 2011 was equal to reducing the events, which ran for one week at each school. The number 35 tons of CO₂ when converted to CO₂ emissions1. of visitors to one of the events on the first day exceeded 150. We at TEG will continue to work on realizing a low-carbon and We will continue to support stimulating interest in photography environmentally friendly society. among young people and develop photographic culture in China. (1)We used the following calculation format: 61,400 kWh (gross volume of power) x 0.563 kg/KWh (emission coefficient) = 34.568 kg CO₂ Solar panels on the TEG roof A photographic seminar held in Shanghai Tamron USA (TUS) In 2011, Tamron USA started a new campaign for sorting trash. We installed recycle bins dedicated for PET bottles, aluminum cans and steel cans, besides the ordinary trash boxes in our lunchroom. The idea of sorting trash is not yet very popular in the United States. Accepting a proposal from two of our employees, Christine and Cathy, who called for action within our daily lives, we started the campaign.“We are glad to know that we can contribute to society even a little through this. We hope that interest in recycling increases further among our colleagues on an individual basis as well, learning a lesson from A photo exhibition the campaign” , say Christine and Cathy. 21 TAMRON CSR Report 2012 Independent Third-Party Opinion 【Current Position】 【Committees】 Professor, Faculty of Engineering, Toyama Prefectural University Senior Exploratory committee on management and operation of national parks Counselor, Policy Making, Toyama City (Ministry for the Environment) in 2006, an explanatory committee on JapanASEAN environmental action plans in conjunction with public transportation 【Academic Background】 (Land, Infrastructure and Transportation Ministry) in 2009, a verification Graduated from the Department of Management, Faculty of Commerce, Chuo committee for establishing objective systems for evaluating scenic spots University in 1989, and visited 80 countries of the world as a journalist. working on reducing environmental loads (Land, Infrastructure and Majored in and completed his master’s in comprehensive policy at the Transportation Ministry) in 2009. Comprehensive Policy Study Course, Graduate School of Chuo University, and started to work as a bench scientist at the Political Measure & Culture 【Areas of Specialization】 Comprehensive Research Lab of Chuo University in 1999. Environmental management, CSR, environmental policy, environmental Associate professor at the Research & Development Organization, Chuo education, sustainable tourism University, in 2001. Professor in charge of a new course at the Graduate School, Faculty of 【Scientific Papers】 Engineering, Chuo University in 2006. Environment Management in Patagonia, Inc. of the United States, Research In current position since 2009. Also a professor at The Open University of of Business Administration Prioritizing the Natural Environment & Human Life Japan. (Journal of the Academy of Environment Management), 2001 【Academic Societies】 Environmental Education & Environmental Management – Study of Sequential Environmental Education from School to In-house Seminars at Businesses Senior General Member of Sustainable Management Forum of Japan, (Journal of the Academy of Environment Management), 2003 (Paper received an academic member of Japan Association for Human & Environmental Environmental Management Academy’s Distinguished Research Work Award) Noriyasu Kunori, Symbiosis, The Japanese Society of Environmental Education, Japan Institute of Tourism Research, The Japanese Society for Quality Control, Japan Society Education of Sustainable Business Management (Journal of the Academy of Doctor of Engineering of Civil Engineering, The Institute of Life Cycle Assessment Japan, Japan Environment Management), 2007 Logistic Society, Public Policy Study Association Japan Japan Association Development of Eco-tourism, Sustainable Sightseeing (Journal of Japan for Communication, Information & Society, Corporate Environment CSR Tourism Research Association), 2009 Association and Society of Environmental Science Japan Steady Business Administration and CSR Governance Establishing Global CSR and Supply Chain Management Is the Prime Task In December 2007, Tamron asked me to serve as the facilitator of its 1 st Stakeholder Dialogue, so this visit to Tamron was Tamron must continue to work hard on many tasks, including my second. We encountered major social changes like the environmental management. Tamron Optical (Foshan) Ltd has Lehman Shock and the Great East Japan Earthquake, but a key position as Tamron’s biggest manufacturing base, but Tamron continued to grow with its core business, the lens its water consumption and CO₂ emissions have been rising in business including photographic interchangeable lenses, by proportion to its output growth. Countermeasures accompanying steadily cultivating its core competency. New products Tamron structural changes such as introducing a new environmental developed have been favorably received in the global market. management system of material flow-cost accounting under ISO Tamron has also deployed positive marketing operations at 1051 issued in 2011 will become necessary. home and abroad. Tamron has pursued innovation in customer Concerning society, Tamron’s positive support of the United services, working to create a global repair service system Nation’s Global Compact Program shows its serious desire capable of completing all repairs within three days. In short, to become a real global company. Also, the international the company has been steadily moving forward as a global community demands pursuing supply chain sustainability. company. Tamron has been pursuing CSR procurement, which I highly While deploying positive marketing operations in those ways, value. Tamron will need to continue to work hard on additional Tamron is pursuing CSR governance and environmental quality measures to consider the environmental and society through preservation by holding up 12 modern CSR themes to enhance its supply chain for pursuing sustainability. Tamron will have to its corporate value, specifically identifying its stakeholders and share information with its business partners and suppliers and announcing its action declarations. My understanding from work on creating a sustainable program and a shared platform those aspects was that its CSR management system is securely throughout its supply chain. In working on this new challenge, established. I therefore tried to ascertain if its action declarations Tamron will have to refer to the items stated in ISO 26000 were actually functioning as declared. issued in 2010. I have understood from my visit at this time and from this report Tamron is entering an era to establish and implement that the company has been improving its divisions, factories programs essential to be a global company, changing from the and subsidiaries overseas by utilizing ISO 14001 concerning conventional stance of pursing tasks within its own reach. the environment. I was given an opportunity to observe actual worksites of metal mold fabrication. I was impressed by the paperless 3D digital designing system for DfE designs and semiautomated operations of the company. Generation of metal scraps is actually reduced by 22% . Editors’Postscript Editors at Head Office In compiling this report, we tried to report our accomplishments, focusing on communications with our stakeholders. While allocating a page for reporting our work after the Great East Japan Earthquake and adding illustrations and pictures, we limited the number of pages and tried to make this report easier to read by using universal fonts. We will continue to work on social issues including CO₂ emissions on a global basis, listening to independent third parties. We would greatly appreciate your comments and suggestions for how we can further improve our CSR reports. Editors at Three Aomori factories Editors at Tamron Optical（Foshan） TAMRON CSR Report 2012 22 TAMRON CO., LTD. CSR Implementation & Administration Board 1385 Hasunuma, Minuma-ku, Saitama-city, Saitama 337-8556 TEL:（048）-684-9190 FAX:（048）-684-9472 E-mail: e-report@tamron.co.jp URL: http://www.tamron.co.jp 0A TAMRON CSR Report 2012
