Period covered by this Communication on Progress (COP) From: October 12, 2011 To: October 12, 2012 October 12, 2012 H.E. Ban Ki-­‐moon Secretary-­‐General United Nations New York, NY 10017 Dear Mr. Secretary-­‐General, I am writing to you to express Rubicon Global’s continued support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-­‐corruption. In 2011, we committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-­‐to-­‐day operations of our company and I am proud to report that we have and will continue to do so. Our first Communication on Progress describes our efforts to support the ten principles this year and our goals for the coming year. Highlights this year include Rubicon Global’s B Corporation certification and the approval of our Clinton Global Initiative Commitment to Action. We will continue to support the efforts of the United Nations and look to it for guidance and thought leadership. Sincerely yours, Lane Moore Executive Chairman, Rubicon Global Rubicon Global | 5901-­‐A Peachtree Dunwoody Road, Suite 125 | Atlanta, Georgia 30328 | (678) 906-­‐2601 | www.RubiconGlobal.com Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals In the summer of 2012, Rubicon Global hired a Chief Administrative Officer. The role of the Chief Administrative Officer is to lead the efforts of the company’s human resources and legal teams. Throughout the remainder of 2012 and early 2013, the Chief Administrative Officer will be reviewing and developing company-­‐ wide human resources goals and policies. In April 2012, Rubicon Global completed its B Impact Assessment and became a Certified B Corporation. Rubicon Global joins a league of corporations that believe business is the most powerful way to create change. As a Certified B Corporation, Rubicon Global must publicly report on its social and environmental performance using established third-party standards. The B Impact Assessment measures across governance, workers, community and the environment. Rubicon Global’s B Impact Assessment score will be reviewed every two years. To view Rubicon Global's 2012 B Impact Assessment, please visit www.BCorporation.net/RubiconGlobal. Implementation Current human resource policies and policies with Rubicon Global’s vendors will be under review during the remainder of 2012 and the beginning of 2013. On Rubicon Global’s next United Nations Communication on Progress, the company will report back on policies established, company-­‐wide training developed and consultation held with stakeholders. Measurement of outcomes Rubicon Global uses third party assessments like the B Impact Assessment to measure its performance and identify gaps. In addition, Rubicon Global is working with outside human resources consultants to ensure the proper policies and measurement tools are in place. Rubicon Global | 5901-­‐A Peachtree Dunwoody Road, Suite 125 | Atlanta, Georgia 30328 | (678) 906-­‐2601 | www.RubiconGlobal.com Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Rubicon Global adheres to the laws set forth by the U.S. Department of Labor and the Georgia Department of Labor. During the remainder of 2012 and in early 2013, the human resources team, led by the Chief Administrative Officer, will be reviewing current policies, assessing risks and setting goals in this area. Implementation Rubicon Global is consulting with key stakeholders during the remainder of 2012 and early 2013 to review current policies, assess risks and set goals related to labor rights. Measurement of outcomes On Rubicon Global’s next United Nations Communication on Progress the company will report back on policies established, company-­‐wide training developed and consultation held with stakeholders. Rubicon Global uses third party assessments like the B Impact Assessment to measure its performance and identify gaps. In the area of workers (which includes job creation, compensation, benefits/training, worker ownership and work environment), Rubicon Global scored a passing score of 59.2%. In the area of community (which includes community products/services, suppliers/distributors, local involvement, diversity, civic engagement/giving), Rubicon Global received a passing score of 41.1%. In 2013, Rubicon Global will work to improve both of these areas on the B Impact Assessment. To view Rubicon Global's 2012 B Impact Assessment, please visit www.BCorporation.net/RubiconGlobal. Rubicon Global | 5901-­‐A Peachtree Dunwoody Road, Suite 125 | Atlanta, Georgia 30328 | (678) 906-­‐2601 | www.RubiconGlobal.com Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Rubicon Global has a clear vision for helping North America’s top brands reduce their environmental impact and protect our communities. The company’s business model is built on sustainability, efficiency, transparency and responsibility. Rubicon Global utilizes innovative solutions in order to help companies improve the way they do business and turn waste into a resource. Rubicon Global’s mission is to keep as much material as possible out of landfills and find new or existing recycling solutions for waste materials. Rubicon Global partners with its clients to come up with innovative alternatives for their waste stream, with minimizing costs and achieving the goal of zero-­‐waste as primary objectives. Rubicon Global’s goal is to divert 100% of its customers’ waste streams to truly sustainable alternatives by 2022. Implementation Rubicon Global’s environmental efforts: • Rubicon Global works with customers to reduce the amount of waste sent to landfills and reduce each company’s environmental footprint. • Each Rubicon Global employee participates in a sustainability training session led by the Director of Corporate and Social Responsibility during the orientation process. • Rubicon Global is a member of the Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) which assembles a community of global leaders to create solutions to the world’s Rubicon Global | 5901-­‐A Peachtree Dunwoody Road, Suite 125 | Atlanta, Georgia 30328 | (678) 906-­‐2601 | www.RubiconGlobal.com biggest challenges. CGI members have made more than 2,100 Commitments to Action, which are improving the lives of 400 million people in over 180 countries. The total value of these commitments is estimated to be $69.2 billion. CGI commitments address social, economic and environmental issues around the world. Rubicon Global currently has a commitment underway for 2013-­‐2015. Rubicon Global's commitment will help over 4,000 small businesses in the United States reduce the amount of waste they send to landfills. To read more about Rubicon Global’s CGI commitment, please visit http://www.clintonglobalinitiative.org/commitments/commitments_search .asp?id=765040. • Rubicon Global believes in equipping the next generation with tools to build sustainable businesses. Rubicon Global joined the board of the Initiative for Global Environmental Leadership (IGEL) program at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania to create an academic partnership focused on market driven approaches to sustainability. Wharton, America’s oldest business school, is known for its cutting edge approach to sustainability. Rubicon Global’s Executive Chairman is proud to serve on the IGEL Corporate Advisory Board and support the school’s mission to develop and disseminate business solutions to sustainability on a global scale through future leaders and public outreach. • The Basel Action Network (BAN) is the leading global source of information and advocacy on toxic trade and international hazardous waste treaties. BAN was created out of the United Nations treaty signed at the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal. The convention was initiated in response to numerous international scandals regarding hazardous waste trafficking that began to occur in the late 1980s. As a BAN e-­‐Stewards Enterprise, Rubicon Global is committed to working with certified e-­‐Stewards recyclers whenever possible and supporting fair and just recycling practices. • Rubicon Global is a member of the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC), a non-­‐profit organization dedicated to sustainable building design and Rubicon Global | 5901-­‐A Peachtree Dunwoody Road, Suite 125 | Atlanta, Georgia 30328 | (678) 906-­‐2601 | www.RubiconGlobal.com developers of the LEED rating system. LEED experts at Rubicon Global work with customers to earn maximum credits and earn green building certification. • Rubicon Global is a member of Enactus (formerly Students in Free Enterprise (SIFE)), an international non-­‐profit seeking to create a better, more sustainable world through the positive power of business. This organization works with leaders in business and higher education to mobilize university students to make a difference in their communities while developing the skills to become socially responsible business leaders. Participating students form teams on their campus and apply business concepts to develop outreach projects that improve the quality of life and standard of living for those in need. Measurement of outcomes Rubicon Global uses third party assessments like the B Impact Assessment to measure its performance and identify gaps. In the area of the environment (which includes environmental products/services, land/office/plant, inputs, outputs and suppliers/transportation), Rubicon Global scored 79.8% making this an area of excellence. To view Rubicon Global's 2012 B Impact Assessment, please visit www.BCorporation.net/RubiconGlobal. On Rubicon Global’s next United Nations Communication on Progress, the company will report back the success of its environmental initiatives and goals for the future. Rubicon Global | 5901-­‐A Peachtree Dunwoody Road, Suite 125 | Atlanta, Georgia 30328 | (678) 906-­‐2601 | www.RubiconGlobal.com Anti-­‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals During the remainder of 2012 and in early 2013, the executive leadership team, led by the Chairman will be reviewing current policies, assessing risks and setting goals in the area of anti-­‐corruption. Implementation Rubicon Global is consulting with key stakeholders during the remainder of 2012 and early 2013 to review current policies, assess risks and set goals related to anti-­‐corruption. Measurement of outcomes Rubicon Global uses third party assessments like the B Impact Assessment to measure its performance and identify gaps. In the area of governance (which includes corporate accountability and transparency), Rubicon Global scored 80.3% making this an area of excellence in the company’s B Impact Assessment score. On Rubicon Global’s next United Nations Communication on Progress, the company will report back on policies established, company-­‐wide training developed and consultation held with stakeholders. Rubicon Global | 5901-­‐A Peachtree Dunwoody Road, Suite 125 | Atlanta, Georgia 30328 | (678) 906-­‐2601 | www.RubiconGlobal.com
