SSI AND SOCIETY 2011 GOALS, ACTIONS AND RESULTS OF SSI’S WORK ON SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Indhold A world of a difference .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 About SSI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 R&D. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Modern biotech enterprise. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Social responsibility work. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Goals and actions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Employees and working environment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Environmental protection and energy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 Human rights. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 Anti-corruption.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 STATENS SERUM INSTITUT . SSI AND SOCIETY . 2011 2 A world of a difference In 2010, SSI joined the UN Global Compact and undertook to follow its ten principles covering human rights, employee rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption and the guidelines and obligations. Consequently, in December 2011, we reported on our social responsibility or CSR work in our first Communication of Progress (COP). This CSR report is therefore the second if its kind. The report is submitted in connection with SSI’s Annual Report 2011 and therefore also includes SSI’s CSR report in accordance with Section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act. This year, the sections in the annual report on knowledge, environmental issues and employees have been integrated in the CSR report as there are obvious synergies and overlaps between these areas and SSI’s social responsibility activities. In the longer term, we will also integrate our environmental accounting in this report, leaving SSI’s annual report with a more financial focus. To reflect its wider scope, we have decided to call the report “SSI and society”, as we focus on SSI’s interaction with the rest of society. This includes SSI as a prevention and control organization in relation to outbreaks of infectious diseases and biological terror. It also applies to SSI as one of Denmark’s largest research institutions in the health sector and as a supplier of e.g. vaccines and diagnostic services that make a difference to millions of people’s general health in Denmark and worldwide. With its approx. 1,300 employees and large, complex production, SSI also has an impact on its surroundings, and as such naturally proper working conditions must be ensured for its employees. We take this challenge seriously and recognize that it also contributes towards making SSI a lively and dynamic workplace. Our social responsibility work therefore extends naturally from our efforts to remain an attractive workplace that makes a significant difference to its surroundings. For example, when we set up research projects in Africa and reflect on ethics in relation to research projects and the development of new products. I am therefore pleased to invite you to read the various sections in this report, which illustrate the diversity of SSI’s tasks and how we actively involve members of local communities on a global scale. Happy reading. Nils Strandberg Pedersen Executive Director, CEO STATENS SERUM INSTITUT . SSI AND SOCIETY . 2011 3 About SSI Statens Serum Institut is a state-owned enterprise under the Ministry of Health and Prevention. For 110 years, SSI’s main task has been to ensure prevention and control of infectious diseases, including monitoring activities and the function of being Denmark’s national laboratory. Our tasks have continuously been expanded, and today the Institute is an international research, production and service enterprise with approximately 1,300 employees. The combination of SSI as a prevention and control organization as well as a modern biotechnological enterprise provides synergies that strengthen both prevention and control, and our business transactions. Our knowledge base is broader and our flexibility greater – both when new and unexpected threats occur and when safeguarding our research and strategic development work. SSI has an annual revenue of almost DKK 1.4bn, of which a considerable part is generated by exports. SSI is managed by a Management Board by 2012 comprising seven directors, one of whom is the CEO, as well as the Institute Council. The Danish Ministry of the Interior and Health Statens Serum Institut Diagnostic Media Epidemiology Diagnostics Vaccines and Reagents, etc. • Surveillance • Development and • Production of • Ensuring the supply performance of childhood vaccines and special develop• Epidemic investigation Prevention specialized diagnosis ment of reagents, and control of • Advice • Ensuring the supply sera etc. for diagnoinfectious of other vaccines etc. stics • Research • Laboratory baseddiseases surveilance • Biological safety • Research into new preparedness vaccines • Advice • Sales of quality• Exports of vaccines • Sales to the Danish assured diagnostics and other biological health sector and the to the health sector products food industry etc. Commercial activities • License • Exports agreements • Contract work • Contract work National prevention and control of infectious diseases in a globalized world It is believed that infectious diseases are contributory causes for one third of all deaths worldwide, and the infection situation is far from stable. Right now we are challenged particularly by globalization, with increasing trade in food and travelling resulting in more and increasingly serious food-borne infections that are challenging our knowledge on the spread and nature of bacteria and viruses. Problems with resistant bacteria are also threatening public health and therapeutic strategies. STATENS SERUM INSTITUT . SSI AND SOCIETY . 2011 4 SSI’s task is to ensure research-based prevention and control that can handle current infection threats and anticipate and prevent new threats. The core areas of our prevention and control of infectious diseases are: • Epidemiology: Monitoring, investigating and advising on the area of infectious diseases • Specialized diagnosis: Developing and performing specialized diagnosis of infectious and congenital diseases. • Biopreparedness and biosecurity: Operational preparedness against biological terrorism and biosecurity tasks for authorities • Vaccine supply: Ensuring the supply of vaccines, etc. through production or procurement. Outbreaks of measles and worrying development in the number of resistant bacteria In 2011, SSI activated its prevention and control of infectious diseases several times. In 2011, we saw the largest outbreak of measles in Denmark in the past 15 years, which shows that far too many children, young people and young adults have not been vaccinated. Another problem relates to changes in the disease that causes meningococcal disease, a serious infectious disease that can often develop into meningitis or blood poisoning. In 2011, more incidents of the type C disease than type B, that has been the most common to date, were registered. We have an effective vaccine against the type C meningitis as opposed to the type B disease. SSI is following developments closely. SSI was also involved in tracking several food-borne infections, of which the most serious was the large outbreak of VTEC that spread throughout Europe, and which was caused by contaminated fenugreek sprouts. Concern over the development of resistant bacteria continues, and in 2011 we registered yet another increase in the number of resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). We also saw increased occurrences of the Klepsiella bacteria in patients with blood poisoning. Klepsiella infections can still be treated in Denmark, but many patients with Klepsiella bacteria that are also resistant to carbapenem have been registered. Carbapenem is an antibiotic often used as the last resort for treating infections with Klepsiella bacteria. You can find a more detailed description of SSI’s activities in 2011 within prevention and control of infectious diseases in SSI’s Annual Report 2011. STATENS SERUM INSTITUT . SSI AND SOCIETY . 2011 5 R&D SSI is one of Denmark’s largest research institutions in the health sector. High-quality research forms the basis of SSI’s prevention and control activities and enables the launch of new products and services. The synergies between our research, prevention and control of infectious diseases and the commercialization of our knowledge are therefore what make SSI a unique enterprise. Vaccines and adjuvants Research Diagnostics and Prevention and control diagnostic products of infectious diseases SSI’s ambitious objective is reflected in the considerable amount of its revenue that is spent on research and development. SSI’s research funds stem from external Danish sources to a large extent, e.g. the Novo Nordisk Foundation and The Lundbeck Foundation, as well as international foundations such as the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. In 2011, R&D represented 19.9% of the revenue, which is in line with previous years. SSI also pursues an active patenting policy and submits 2-4 new patent applications every year. Table 1: R&D in the period 2007-2011 in DKKm/% of revenue 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Funded by SSI 129.3/11.5 177.7/12.5 147.5/9.2 162.6/10.8 162.3/11.5 Government-funded 28.0/2.5 28.3/2.0 30.0/1.9 25.5/1.7 25.5/1.8 Publicly and privately funded 86.1/7.6 99.2/7.0 109.2/6.8 109.8/7.3 92.3/6.6 Total 243.4/21.6 305.2/21.5 286.7/17.9 297.9/19.9 280.1/19.9 SSI’s research is prioritized as follows: • Infectious diseases and resistance to antibiotics • Vaccinology • Congenital diseases including genetic and biochemical markers for tracing diseases and their development • Epidemiological research to map causal relations STATENS SERUM INSTITUT . SSI AND SOCIETY . 2011 6 An excellent research year In the summer of 2011, SSI contributed actively during a major outbreak of food-borne infection (VTEC) in Europe. SSI’s research demonstrated that the bacteria were a particularly aggressive variant, which is important for measures taken to combat the infection. SSI also began clinical trials of a new TB vaccine in 2011. Animal tests have shown that the vaccine not only prevents, but also wipes out any existing infection. Tuberculosis is one of the deadliest diseases in the world with nearly two million deaths each year, primarily in the developing world. SSI’s TB research was recognized in 2011 when Peter Lawætz Andersen, Head of Research, was awarded the Novo Nordisk Prize 2011. The Novo Nordisk Foundation marked the occasion by holding a two-day conference on tuberculosis vaccines attended by leading TB researchers from all over the world. A record-high number of publications SSI’s research results can also be measured by the number and level of scientific articles published. A list of the world’s leading research institutions in the health sector published by Scimango (http:// www.scimagoir.com/) placed SSI as no. 126 out of approximately 3000 of the largest research institutions in the world and no. three in Denmark. In figures: SSI published 374 articles in 2011, with 94% published in international journals. SSI is an important player in the Danish educational system. In 2011, a total of 42 graduate theses, 23 PhD theses and two medical doctoral theses were submitted. See Table 2. Table 2: Scientific publications, 2007-2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Publications, number* 324 328 326 349 374 In international journals, % 93 94 96 96 94 Principal author from SSI, % 45 47 51 45 42 PhD theses 14 14 14 27 23 Medical doctoral theses 1 1 2 0 2 Graduate theses, etc. 23 31 36 29 42 * These figures do not include lectures, conference papers, newspaper articles, teaching materials, PhD theses and medical doctoral theses, etc. The quality of the scientific articles can also be measured by the so-called impact factor. This factor reflects the scientific quality of a journal and is applied to rank the scientific journals. Table 3 shows that in 2011, SSI had an impact factor of 5.62, which is the highest so far. STATENS SERUM INSTITUT . SSI AND SOCIETY . 2011 7 Table 3. Impact factor analysis Area of activity Impact factor, feb. 2012 Number of publications with impact factor, Feb. 2021 Infectious diseases 4.38 106 Hospital hygiene and antibiotic resistance 4.56 39 Congenital diseases and protein research 5.34 66 Vaccine research 4.78 40 Epidemiological research 8.33 83 All areas 5.62 334 ”Preventing high child mortality is top priority” Taking responsibility for major social challenges is inherent in SSI’s justification and tradition. However, SSI’s responsibility reaches much further than the Danish society with a significant focus on “forgotten and overlooked” diseases such as tuberculosis, malaria and HIV, which threaten mainly developing countries. For example, SSI is in charge of a major health research project in Guinea-Bissau, West Africa. The project, called Bandim, is financed primarily by external funds via Danida, the EU, the Danish National Research Foundation, and the Novo Nordisk Foundation. Christine Stabell Benn, MD and researcher on the Bandim project for many years, explains: ”Our research and involvement in Guinea-Bissau is first and foremost about preventing the high child mortality in the area. Registering the population and following various health interventions clearly illustrates what is and what is not effective. For example, our research resulted in the withdrawal from the WHO vaccination program of a new vaccine against measles, as we could demonstrate that the vaccine led to increased mortality.” The registering of the population in the area has meant that the project returns valuable research results and health statistics to the population. In addition, the participants are offered free health consultations and essential medicine. So far, the project has educated 12 local graduates (MAs) and six local PhDs. Several of them have attended training courses at SSI. On the domestic front, the research results also benefit Danish society. In 2011, Christine Stabell Benn received a major grant from the Danish National Research Foundation to set up a new research center called CVIVA (Research Center for Vitamins and Vaccines). The research center is to carry on extending the knowledge already acquired on the immune system and the general resistance of vaccines. For example, a trial will show whether Danish newborn babies will benefit from receiving a TB vaccination. STATENS SERUM INSTITUT . SSI AND SOCIETY . 2011 8 Modern biotech enterprise SSI is a modern biotech enterprise that every year develops new diagnostic services and products in the form of analyses, kits and other diagnostic media and reagents. SSI is also a vaccine producer and develops new vaccines and adjuvants that are sold to the Danish health service and abroad. SSI performs more than 500,000 laboratory analyses for the rest of the health service. The hallmarks of SSI’s services are high quality, application of modern technology and extensive service. We are also proud of contributing to fast and unambiguous diagnostic identifications that are crucial for therapeutic options or preventive measures concerning individual patients. An SSI vaccine may be vital for eliminating polio worldwide Polio has been eliminated in Denmark for more than 30 years, but is still a problem in a few countries. In most cases, a polio virus infection involves mild symptoms, but it can also result in meningitis, paralysis and death. Since 1988, WHO’s goal has been to eradicate the disease, which can be achieved effectively through vaccination. The result of the campaign is that polio currently only exists endemic in four countries. Polio occurs only in humans, which is a prerequisite for eradicating the disease. However, in the past few years, the development has stalled, and recently WHO raised a new alarm as the disease has once again begun to spread. WHO is therefore expected to look at alternative means of eradicating the disease. The vaccine typically used for vaccination against polio is a live but inactivated vaccine often referred to as the OPV vaccine, as it is administered orally. Regrettably, in rare cases the OPV vaccine can trigger a polio outbreak. That cannot happen with the inactivated polio vaccine (IPV). In 2010, WHO prequalified SSI’s inactivated polio vaccine, which means that in future, the vaccine will be considered when UN organizations purchase vaccines. The vaccine has a major disadvantage, however, as it is relatively expensive. SSI has therefore launched a research project to study the possibility of reducing the quantity of active substances by using vaccine adjuvants. For example, SSI is having one adjuvant, CAF, clinically tested to determine the potential for achieving a full vaccination effect with smaller doses. We therefore expect our inactivated polio vaccine to be a decisive weapon in the continued battle to completely eradicate polio. We also expect the vaccine to play a part after the eradication as a fast and efficient means of overcoming any sporadic outbreaks. STATENS SERUM INSTITUT . SSI AND SOCIETY . 2011 9 The main business areas are shown in table 4: Table 4: Statens Serum Institut business areas Diagnostics Vaccines Diagnostic Media Contract work and Reagents, etc. Services • Quality-assured • Production, pro• Development, • Services from diagnostic analycurement and production and research to ses within microsale of vaccines sales of in vitro products biology, biocheat home and diagnostic media mistry, genetics, abroad. and reagents for immunology and • Combined vacclinical microbioprenatal and cines and mono logy, veterinary neonatal diagnocomponents diagnostics, food stics control as well as environmental and hygiene control Products • Almost 600 dif• IPV (polio) • Substrates and • Quality control ferent diagno• BCG reagents • Filling and comstic analyses (tuberculosis) • Antisera and pletion • Diphtheria antibodies • Preparation of • Tetanus • Sampling mateactive ingredi• aP pertussis rial ents • Various combi• Indicators for • Quality Control ned vaccines sterilization conand registration trol • Diagnostic kits Strategic focus • Implementation • New combined • In-vitro • With its expanof the latest vaccines and diagnostics ded production technologies vaccines against • Diagnostic kits capacity, SSI • Research on tuberculosis, based on modern also offers to genetic markers malaria, Chlamytechnologies produce active and introduction dia and HIV ingredients for to molecular • Adjuvant system biopharmaceubiology methods to improve imticals on a large • Introduction of mune response scale new, innovative • Improved diaganalyses nosis of tuberculosis Key figures, 2011 in DKKm Revenue 352 781 119 Not separately Exports 22 290 57 disclosed. STATENS SERUM INSTITUT . SSI AND SOCIETY . 2011 10 Social responsibility work SSI’s social responsibility work was formalized in 2008 following a management decision to integrate social responsibility in the Institute’s activities: It was natural for SSI to combine its core tasks of controlling infectious diseases with developing its modern and ethics-based enterprise. In December 2010, SSI joined the UN Global Compact and its ten principles within human rights, employee rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Joining the UN Global Compact is an obvious opportunity for SSI to formalize its social responsibility work, and to ensure the required prioritization and focus. A task force, comprising key employees from e.g. HR, Procurement, Environment, Health and Safety, and QA, is responsible for actually implementing SSI’s social responsibility strategy, which includes drawing up, coordinating and following up on the annual action plans. The team is led by the head of Corporate Affairs, who reports to the Management Board. Corporate Affairs staff members act as project owners and secretaries. In accordance with the guidelines and obligations following from joining the UN Global Compact, SSI submitted its first CSR report in the Communication of Progress, COP, in December 2011. The report covers SSI’s first year after joining the UN Global Compact, i.e. from December 2010 to December 2011. We have decided to submit our report in connection with SSI’s Annual Report to achieve better synergies between the two communication platforms in future. Consequently, this report covers 2011. SSI’s social responsibility strategy The core of SSI’s social responsibility work concerns uniting our traditional tasks with social, healthrelated problems and the challenges we face as a modern enterprise with a world market production. SSI acknowledges the complexity and the challenges inherent in modern biotechnology research, development and production. We also believe that our strengths e.g. within environmental, health and safety areas strengthen the value chain around which our research and production have been built. Our social responsibility work also prompts us to focus on new challenges and risks. STATENS SERUM INSTITUT . SSI AND SOCIETY . 2011 11 In the light of the above, SSI has worked with the following action areas in 2011: Business development Supply code of conduct AntiEmployees corruption Environmental protection and energy SSI strengths STATENS SERUM INSTITUT . SSI AND SOCIETY . 2011 12 Goals and actions Employees and working environment SSI is a large workplace with diverse activities and employees – everyone from unskilled workers to internationally recognized researchers, each contributing to SSI’s operation and development. SSI constantly seeks to create a stimulating working environment in which our employees experience wide-ranging independence and can enjoy good in-house career opportunities. Employee satisfaction – including a good physical and mental working environment – is essential both for retaining existing employees and creating an efficient and productive workplace. Workforce reductions In the past 18 months, for financial reasons SSI has had to implement two major redundancy rounds. As shown in Table 5, from 2010 to 2011, SSI has had to make just under 150 employees redundant. And at year-end 2011, new redundancies were notified that were effected in January 2012. Table 5: Head count Number of employees at SSI, 2007-2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number 1,339 1,442 1,425 1,493 1352 Full-time equivalents 1,198 1,257 1,340 1,411 1280 It is important to SSI that employees are dismissed in a manner that is as dignified and decent as possible. Managers, shop stewards and HR consultants are thoroughly briefed and psychologists are made available to employees if required. Employees who are given notice are offered competence development and coaching. SSI also focuses on its remaining employees. Proper management communication and a focus on wellbeing are important. Job satisfaction survey In 2011, SSI carried out a job satisfaction survey that was based, as previously, on questionnaires followed up by interviews in the departments. SSI has its own team of facilitators who help to ensure constructive and forward-looking dialog on well-being in every department. In 2011, members of the facilitator team were again frequently asked to participate in the follow-up meetings, where the most important subjects for the individual departments were discussed and dealt with to secure forwardlooking efforts to achieve our employees’ well-being. The survey involved 1,337 employees, 1,100 of them completed the questionnaire in full, representing a highly satisfactory return rate of 82%. STATENS SERUM INSTITUT . SSI AND SOCIETY . 2011 13 Competence development In 2011, SSI also focused on competence development. We SSI’ s have had continued success with our project for dyslexic tato team o r f employees, whose reading and writing competencies cons s helps facilie on w tructive nsure have been strengthened through individual teaching and use of IT facilities. e dep ll-being dialog artm In 2011, we made great efforts to identify and ent. in every describe opportunities for unskilled employees to obtain certificates for their specialist skills through a merits agreement. New concept for employee appraisal interviews (EAI) In 2011, SSI developed and tested a new concept for employee appraisal interviews. Our ambition was to create a new and up-to-date concept that will support all EAIs at SSI. The goal is simultaneously to support our employees’ needs to further develop and broaden their competencies as well as SSI’s need to continuously upgrade employees’ skills to develop SSI as a workplace and commercial enterprise. The EAI concept was developed based on input from employees as well as managers. Throughout the process we have focused on integrating EAIs in our current strategy work and create coherence between the interviews and day-to-day work by following up on actual agreements concluded by employees and managers at these interviews. We tried the new concept in a few selected departments in 2011, and will implement it throughout SSI in 2012. Communication skills training In the fall of 2011, we were able to offer exclusive SSI communications training to our employees planned and tailored specifically for SSI employees in collaboration with Reflekt/Mixerpulten – an expert on communications. The SSI communications training is open to anyone at SSI who has to communicate SSI’s expertise to others – in-house as well as externally. The objective of the training is to give SSI managers and employees a method for working and communicating in a more strategic and targeted manner on an everyday level. l o y ees 6 e mp red 1 1 , 2 a tailo 0 In 2 pleted tions com munica com se r cou STATENS SERUM INSTITUT . SSI AND SOCIETY . 2011 14 Employee health and safety As a production enterprise, SSI has a particular obligation to secure a good working environment and to minimize the health and safety risks involved in its production. Table 6 shows that our industrial injury frequency fell considerably in 2011. We believe that the reduced number of injuries is due to our employees’ increased awareness of how to avoid situations that may lead to accidents. Table 6: Industrial injury frequency, 2007-2011 Number of injuries per million working hours Number of notified industrial injuries 20 15 10 5 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Ergonomics and fitness training SSI offers new employees advice on ergonomics. The goal is for all our employees to have a working life with minimal physical inconvenience. In 2011, 10% of SSI’s employees attended our preventive fitness training. In that connection, SSI has also decided to offer relevant employees and departments preventive fitness training during working hours. In addition, almost 200 employees received advice on how to optimize their working postures. STATENS SERUM INSTITUT . SSI AND SOCIETY . 2011 15 Re-adjusted hormone analyses improve health, safety and the environment improve while patients receive higher diagnostic value Every year, patients are treated for abnormal sex-hormone levels. The sex hormones testosterone and oestradiol control a number of important body functions, and a changed hormone balance may result in reduced fertility and serious diseases. Currently, many hormone analyses are performed locally, but SSI has maintained these analyses as they are difficult to perform and make heavy demands on workplace health and safety. Measuring very low levels in woman and children was particularly challenging as this was previously only possible by using large quantities of organic solvents and radioactive substances. The laboratory work was characterized by repetitive and monotonous movements for laboratory technicians. Targeted efforts by SSI’s Clinical Biochemistry and Immunology Department resulted in a re-adjustment and automation of these analyses, which previously had a heavy environmental impact. Today, as patients’ hormone levels can be determined faster and more precisely, doctors have better opportunities to diagnose and treat a number of diseases. The working environment has also improved significantly for the laboratory technicians, and no organic solvents are emitted to the atmosphere. As an added bonus, the department’s CO2 emissions are considerably lower now that less energy is required to heat up the intake of outside air to balance the ventilation of the many fume cupboards at the department Campaign to reduce the use of carcinogenic substances In 2011, the Institute’s health, safety and environment unit contacted all departments that use carcinogenic substances. The aim was to reduce the use of carcinogenic substances. In some places, these hazardous substances form part of analyses and procedures and cannot be substituted. However, in other contexts, technological developments will allow for future use of other less hazardous substances. All use was analyzed and assessed and the efforts resulted in the discontinued use of Uranyl acetate, Hydroquinon, Nickle Chloride, Chloroform and Formaldehyde in many departments. STATENS SERUM INSTITUT . SSI AND SOCIETY . 2011 16 Environmental protection and energy SSI wishes to be among the most environmentally conscious enterprises in the biotech industry. We therefore focus clearly on continuously reducing the impact of SSI’s activities on both the climate and environment. The major environmental and climate impacts of SSI’s activities include solid waste as well as direct and indirect emission of greenhouse gases from our energy consumption. In order to reduce our impact on the climate and environment, we wish to motivate our employees to adopt energy-efficient behavior and work in accordance with SSI’s energy and environmental policy. SSI makes annual investments in new energy-saving and environmental-protection measures – especially in connection with reconstructions, expansions and changes to SSI’s activities and products. As part of our environmental control, we are working on establishing a certified energy and environmental management system that will be regularly maintained. In 2011, SSI focused on two main areas within energy and environmental protection: • Energy savings – heating and water • Waste sorting Reduced energy and water consumption For the second consecutive year, our consumption of energy and water fell. In the period 2006-2011, SSI worked hard to meet the Government’s goal to achieve energy efficiency improvements of 10% in state institutions. We succeeded by achieving overall savings of 10.3%. In 2011, one of our energysaving initiatives was to install a flue gas cooler that moves heat from the flu to the central heating system rather than emitting it to the atmosphere. Table 7: Selected environmental data 2007-2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Energy (GWh) 36 39 40 39 37 Water (m3) 90.202 93.912 82.100 79.450 67.696 Waste (tonnes) 642 668 699 639 689 Heavy rainfall generates extraordinarily high waste volume In 2011, the volume of waste grew rapidly as a lot of equipment had to be scrapped that was damaged by flooding during the heavy rainfall in the summer. In 2011, the volume of clinical high-risk waste was reduced by 11%, which far exceeded our reduction target of 5% from 2010 to 2011. We achieved the reduction by sorting more plastics and cardboard for reuse In 2011, we aimed to increase the amount of reusable waste by a minimum of 35% of all waste produced at SSI. That target was also met with a considerable increase in plastics and cardboard fractions in particular. The total amount of reusable plastics increased from approximately two tonnes in 2010 to 18 tonnes in 2011. STATENS SERUM INSTITUT . SSI AND SOCIETY . 2011 17 SSI’s grassroots waste sorters Plastics recycling is an outstanding success due primarily to two fiery souls at SSI. In 2010, a laboratory technician approached SSI’s Environment and Safety section (E&S) to ask about reusing the relatively large volume of hard plastics that were sent for incineration from many SSI laboratories on a daily basis. E&S immediately contacted a number of firms that receive SSI’s other types of waste. Unfortunately, they all replied that the volume was too small and the plastics varied so much that it would not be profitable for them to receive and treat SSI’s plastics waste. We passed the disheartening message on to the laboratory technician, Tune Øst-Jacobsen, who was not satisfied with the reply. There had to be a firm that would accept our plastics! On his own initiative, Tune contacted his professional networks to find out how their respective companies handled their plastics. This led him to the Environmental Protection Agency’s website on reuse of plastics including lists of approved recipients. We contacted a company called Returplast.dk which was happy to receive SSI’s plastics irrespective of volume and composition. With a recipient on hand, Peter Riise, who is responsible for cleaning and waste at SSI, could begin spreading the word that plastics should be sorted and sent for recycling. As a result of Tune’s and Peter’s great efforts and involvement, SSI now sends approx. 18 tonnes of plastics for recycling every year and thereby earns between DKK 300-400/tonne instead of paying approx. DKK 700/tonne for incineration. STATENS SERUM INSTITUT . SSI AND SOCIETY . 2011 18 Human rights SSI wishes to influence its suppliers and partners to act responsibly within human rights, employee rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption in accordance with SSI’s corporate social responsibility policy. We aim to involve suppliers and partners in making SSI’s activities sustainable, which includes ensuring fair treatment, minimizing any negative impacts on the environment and contributing positively to accomplishing social tasks. In 2011, SSI started to draw up a Supply Code of Conduct that will make social responsibility demands on our suppliers. We have decided to work with the code of ethics that exists for the pharmaceuticals industry and that addresses the special challenges facing this industry. For example, ethics in connection with experimental use of animals and clinical trials. We also wish to gain experience with this kind of supply chain management before potentially drawing up our own code. STATENS SERUM INSTITUT . SSI AND SOCIETY . 2011 19 Can you screen yourself to enjoy a better life? Modern technology and research in the form of screening diagnostics enable healthy individuals to obtain information about future illnesses. SSI works in this area, e.g. as the authority responsible for the Danish neonatal screening program (screening of newborn babies for rare, congenital disorders) and quality assurance of the prenatal diagnostic initiatives offered to pregnant women in Denmark. SSI also researches into the development of biochemical and genetic markers used for diagnosing and treating chronic diseases, including heart diseases, cancer and Alzheimer’s disease. It is important to SSI that research goes hand in hand with the ethical debate and developments in this area. Information about serious congenital diseases may have major consequences for healthy people, their parents or the healthcare personnel that have to handle and make decisions based on such information. Also, the diagnostics are not always 100% true or unambiguous, which involves a risk of diagnosing healthy people as being ill. Michael Christiansen, Head of Research at SSI’s Clinical Biochemistry and Immunology Department, says: ”At SSI, we start with the ethical reflections. Modern health research involves so many biochemical complications that may have many individual and social consequences that you must include ethics throughout the entire research project. We believe that we deliver a better result and basis for decisions to those who make decisions on health intervention. We are also proud to contribute to the necessary public debate.” With government funds we have been able to call in an MA in bioethics to assist with the department’s tasks. The department’s work on e.g. pregnancy complications such as retarded physical growth and spontaneous abortions, as well as “sudden death” among psychiatric patients has therefore been qualified with ethical reflections. STATENS SERUM INSTITUT . SSI AND SOCIETY . 2011 20 Anti-corruption SSI condemns any kind of corruption and bribery, both in connection with trading and in our employees’ daily work. In 2011, we carried out a mandatory anti-corruption course for selected employees, including key employees in commercial areas, procurement and the Legal Department. The course was held in collaboration with a lawyer and was tailored to suit employees who frequently or occasionally conclude commercial agreements in countries where there is a potential or customary risk of corruption. The course introduced employees to Danish legislation, including sanctions, as well as new and more severe legislation in e.g. the USA and Great Britain. It also focused on trading with e.g. Eastern Europe and Russia. A written zero tolerance anti-corruption policy was also drafted, including internal guidelines and fact sheets on e.g. legislation. This work will continue in 2012. ” SSI condemns any kind of corruption and bribery, both in connection with trading and in our employees’ daily work. ” STATENS SERUM INSTITUT . SSI AND SOCIETY . 2011 21 Statens Serum Institut T +45 3268 3268 5 Artillerivej F +45 3268 3868 DK-2300 Copenhagen @ serum@ssi.dk Denmark w ssi.dk Statens Serum Institut . 1st edition . April 2012
