2012 United Nation Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 1 How is SIVECO Romania applying the 10 Principles of the United Nations Organization? SIVECO Romania – Message of the CEO HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2 2 Businesses make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labor. PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility PRINCIPLE 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION 3 PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. How will we publicize the 10 Principles? SIVECO Romania Message of the CEO 2012 is the third year when we are publishing the Communication on Progress Report regarding the implementation of the 10 principles of the United Nations Organization. Our company has as vital principles transparency, correctness and respect for the job well done. This way we are honoring our commitments taken to our customers, shareholders, employees and partners, towards the community in which we are living and working. The report refers to the activity developed in the period of March 1st, 2011 – March 1st, 2012. The year 2011 has been extremely successful in terms of evolution of the projects for introducing IT, even though the overall economic climate has been relatively difficult. Our entire team – which numbers over 1,200 specialists – have been involved better than ever and has proved that serious work and the wish to build significant projects are the only arguments that matter. We are proud that through the work we are doing we are reducing the digital gap and modernizing states. United Nation Global Compact „Communication on progress-COP” Report represents the manner in which we are proving that we have made important and sustainable steps towards the respect of the employees and of the environment. We are contributing to the development and expansion of modern technologies, we support through real projects anti-discrimination towards hiring and employment, and we strongly disapprove corruption practices. For 20 years now we are working to bring change, innovation and progress. 4 Our Report will be available on the United Nation Global Compact network, but also on our website www.siveco.ro. We are delighted to share our experience with you. Irina Socol, President and CEO of SIVECO Romania PRINCIPLE 1 Human Rights Companies should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. COMPANY POLICY We are abiding by the internal and international legislation in terms of respect of human rights. The values we are supporting are concern for customers, employees, partners and shareholders, the very good quality of products and services provided, and the responsibility for the communities we are active in. We are developing and applying the internal procedures dedicated to the management and employees regarding the respect of human rights, the quality standards, the norms for work safety, integrity and responsibility towards the environment. These procedures are periodically updated by the Quality Assurance department. ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE LAST YEAR  We have consistently informed the employees (monthly) and whenever necessary through internal communications on the company’s activity, according to the internal communication procedure – we have sent over 20 internal information/ newsletters.  All employees have been trained and checked on the measures of labor protection and the way in which they should be applied. A fire drill has been organized regarding the way of the employees’ evacuation in case of fire at the work place. (see GRI Indicators HR8) 5  In the period of March 2011-March 2012 the following internal procedures have been updated:  P-QS-07-01-Management of the Recruitment Process;  P-QS-07-02-Management of the Training Process;  P-QS-07-03-Career Development Planning;  P-QS-07-04-Personnel Leave;  P-QS-08-02-Internal communication;  AD-01-Employee Handbook PRINCIPLE 2 Human Rights Businesses make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. COMPANY POLICY For our company the employees are the most precious asset. At the same time, through a performing management, the employees are guaranteed and ensured effectively labor right. Our company is ensuring that neither employee is privileged or subject to discrimination because of his/her race, nationality, ethnic background, language, religion, social category or his/ her sexual orientation. Our employees have the right to equal pay for work, to an equitable and satisfying remuneration, the right to join a trade unions and to affiliate to trade union, access to healthcare, to social security and social services. Our shareholders, suppliers, partners and collaborators respect the human rights. We encourage integrity and honesty in the relationship among employees. SIVECO Romania has adhered to several global alliances of good practices in business, whose standards and ethical principles it takes on: United Nations Global Compact, under the aegis of United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and Partnership 6 Partnering Initiative against Corruption (PACI), under the aegis of World Economic Forum. ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE LAST YEAR  In order to ensure maximal transparency to the company’s activity, at the beginning of the year 2011 and 2012, respectively, we have made public to the employees and the public opinion, expressly, financial results for previous year and the development strategy for the following year.  In February 2012, we have drafted the project on the Company’s Code of ethics and have provided it for internal discussion.  We have taken part in building houses for some less favored Roma families in the Bălţeşti Prahova county, within a program carried out in partnership with the Habitat for Humanity Association Romania.  In December 2011, SIVECO employees have donated gifts for the Elderly Home “Sfântul Nectarie” in Bucharest. . PRINCIPLE 3 LABOR STANDARDS Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. COMPANY POLICY The employees of our company have the freedom to join any trade union, at their choice. All employees are free to be part of any association or nongovernmental foundation. Every employee can negotiate his/her salary. In conformity to the legislative provisions, the employees of SIVECO Romania have expressed their will to be represented at the bargaining of the clauses of the Collective 7 Labor Contract by employees chosen through the vote of at least half of their total number. These promote and defend the employee’s interests in the relation with the employer and the duration of their mandate is of 2 years. ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE LAST YEAR The representatives of employees have monitored employees’ rights, have promoted the employees’ interests as regards the salary, labor conditions, labor time and resting time, as well as health and work security. (see GRI G3 indicators LA4, LA5, HR5) PRINCIPLE 4 LABOR STANDARDS The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. COMPANY POLICY Any form of forced and compulsory labor is excluded in our company. In the individual labor contract is stated the duration of the work day as being 8 hours, the right of workers of paid holiday, as well as to other holidays (maternity leave, vacation for special events) and right to trainings. Every employee receives more than the minimum gross wage per economy according to the job offer and to the individual CDP (Career Development Plan) where each employee sets with his/her hierarchical supervisor which are the KPI (Key performance indicators). Also, any employee is free to resign his/her position at any time. ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE LAST YEAR  We have encouraged the professional development plan. In 2011 there have been organized 647 course sessions and internal and external certifications with a number of some 857 participants – graduates in total amount of 500,000 Euro (see GRI indicators LA 10). 8  All employees have benefited from the annual medical checkout and from private medical insurance and have been invited for flu vaccination (see GRI indicators LA8).  All employees have benefited from the free transport possibilities to the company’s premises and back home. (see GRI indicators LA3)  All employees have benefited from meal tickets on a monthly basis. (see GRI indicators LA3)  On the occasion of special days (birthdays, anniversary of 3, 5, 10 or 15 years work experience within the company) the employees have received symbolic gifts. Also, teambuilding trips have been organized in order to increase the team’s cohesion. (see GRI indicators LA3)  In 2011, a year marked by the global economic recession, the employees of SIVECO Romania have benefited from all the additional rewards due to their good performance and their years with the company. (see GRI indicators LA3) PRINCIPLE 5 LABOR STANDARDS The effective abolition of child labor COMPANY POLICY We support the abolition of child labor and any initiative aiming at protecting the children’s health and interests. ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE LAST YEAR  We did not hire persons under the age of 18.  In support of talented and deserving children we have organized the VIII edition of the champion competition, an intensive program for IT preparation; in 2011, 2,000 pupils have enlisted for this competition.  A part of our colleagues have participated in a demonstrative football match along with intellectually impaired children. Thus, we have supported the approach of 9 social integration of the disabled persons, initiated by the Special Olympics organization.  At the end of 2011 we have offered on behalf of our company employees gifts to the children from the Center for Abandoned Children no.5 in Periş, Ilfov county.  We have collected 125 forms from our employees for donating 2% of their annual income tax towards 23 organizations, many of them supporting programs for helping children in need (see GRI indicator HR6). 1. Children’s Heart Association 2. Salve Romania Association 3. Child Heart Foundation, Galati 4. Emergency Hospital Foundation 5. PAVEL Association (children ailing with cancer) 6. Association Hope for you 7. Clinic Clowns 8. Pro School and Family Association 9. Secherezade Foundation 10. Theodora Georgescu Foundation 11. CRED Foundation – Romanian-Swiss Center for the development of the health system 12. Foundation for Alternative Education Methods 13. Roman-Catholic Parish Saint Francisc de Assisi 14. Monastery St.Gheorghe, Tiganesti commune, Prahova 15. Association Initiatives for Europe 16. Romanian Association for Cancer Prevention 17. Brebina Parish 18. SMURD 19. “All sails up” Association 20. My dear Bucharest Association 21. Association Group Initiative for Animals 22. Romanian Alpine Club 23. Viltotesti Parish, Viisoara Commune, Vaslui county 10 PRINCIPLE 6 LABOR STANDARDS The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation COMPANY POLICY Our company is encouraging equal opportunities. Neither employee is subject to any form of discrimination based on gender, age, race, or religion. Any form of physical or verbal harassment is strictly forbidden In our company there is a balanced ratio of management positions, in conformity to the European Union requirements regarding elimination of stereotypes on the labor market. ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE LAST YEAR  We have reviewed the Employee Manual  We have drafted the Code of Ethics through which we are forbidding discrimination at the work place, intimidation and any form of harassment  We have organized an internship program attended by 25 students, who were given the possibility to apply the theoretical knowledge acquired during the faculty and to use this experience in the future. One of the participants in the program Summer Days was hired by SIVECO.  The number of female employees in management positions (top and middle management) out of the total employees has reached 30. PRINCIPLE 7 ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. COMPANY POLICY 11 As leader of the software market, our company undertakes the responsibility towards environment, promoting the good practices in this field. Our IT solutions lead to reducing costs, to the better use of materials and human resources, to diminishing the actions with negative impact on the environment. ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE LAST YEAR  We encourage internal and external communication via email, to the detriment of paper. In 2010, the employees have received over 20 such information (newsletter, specific actions etc);  We have continued to apply the employees’ mobility plan. In 2011 were carried out 4,000 trips to and back from office. We have thus contributed to reducing the toxic agents in the atmosphere and to ensuring a civilized transport for the employees. (see GRI Indicators EN18). PRINCIPLE 8 ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility COMPANY POLICY We wish a sustainable development, both as regards the economic-financial performances, and the social and environment performances. We appreciate that long term development can be based only on a strategy where the financial and market objectives are compatible with the expectations of the main cointerested groups. ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE LAST YEAR  We have made investments in low energy consumption devices: computers, servers, displays, lighting, electric appliances.  Some of our colleagues have partaken in the action Let’s do it Romania, the 12 waste collection campaign.  The cable network and the air-conditioning systems installed have been revised (see GRI indicators EN 30). PRINCIPLE 9 ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies COMPANY POLICY The specialists of our company imposed themselves as promoters of „Green Economy” principles, proposing ecological IT solutions. The SIVECO Romania solutions for waste management, of documents and workflows management, or of transport management allow for the rational use of resources necessary to any organization, paper, fuel and energy etc. We are interested to have equipments with low energy consumption: computers, servers, displays, peripherals, lighting, electric appliances. The cable network and the air-conditioning systems installed at our company’s premises allow for increasing the efficiency of the energy consumption. ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE LAST YEAR  The specific materials and utilities’ consumption has been monitored and optimized, while losses have been reduced.  We have joined the campaign Earth Hour in March 2011 and we have turned the light off for one hour on our premises. This way, we have supported the international campaign “Turn off the light! With you we’ll be a billion”, a warning signal for protecting resources.  We have collected 1,000 kg paper, 1,000 kg plastic, 8,000 kg a mix of household waste. (See indicators SR 34, 53, 56) 13 PRINCIPLE 10 FIGHTING CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including bribery and extortion. COMPANY POLICY Our company fights against any forms of corruption including bribery, political influence, external pressure or extortion. All of these are clearly defined in the Anticorruption Manual of the company, brought to the attention of the employees. In 2006, we have joined to the Partnership against Corruption Initiative. PACI is based on a set of principles of corporate citizenship defined by the World Economic Forum in collaboration with Transparency International and the Basel Institute on Governance. ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE LAST YEAR  We have participated in the 16th reunion of the PACI working groups, held in Geneva, in November 2011 and we have disseminated within our organization the information and commitments undertaken in this meeting al global level.  We have reviewed and extended the company’s anti-corruption manual. Results: No action of corruption, violation of human rights, discrimination, no legal action in court for non-compliance with the country’s laws. How will we publicize this information? 14 The 10 Principles will be made available to employees, suppliers, shareholders, massmedia, as well as to the large audience on our website www.siveco.ro The annual Social Responsibility Report 2012 will indicate our commitment in support of the UN Global Pact. SIVECO Romania Victoria Park 73-81, Bucureşti-Ploieşti Drive, District 1, Building C4, postal code 013685, Bucharest, Romania Tel: + 4021 302 3300 Fax: 021 302 3391 www.siveco.ro 15
