Redefining flow control Annual Report and Accounts 2011 about Rotork... We are a flow control company. Our products are operated worldwide and in markets where the flow of gasses, liquids or powders needs to be controlled across the industrial landscape. When you turn on a tap or switch on a light, turn on a kettle or put fuel in your car, a flow control product is being used somewhere in the process of delivering that service. We are the only UK listed company with a global presence that is dedicated to this and nothing else. Rotork p.l.c. Rotork Management Board  Controls Fluid Systems  Gears Instruments Rotork Controls specialises Rotork’s Fluid Systems Rotork Gears provides the Rotork Instruments is a in electrically-operated division focuses widest range of gearboxes newly established division actuators and control on designing and for the valve industry in the which will include a range systems for the valve and manufacturing the world’s world. They are used with of products targeted at the damper control market. widest range of pneumatic actuators and as direct wider flow control market. and hydraulic actuators and valve operators. control systems. Site Services HIGHLIGHTS Financial GROUP n REVENUE (£m) n OPERATING PROFIT* (£m) About Rotork IFC +17.7% +16.6% Highlights 01 Global Opportunities 02 Chairman’s Statement 04 500 125 115.9 447.8 BUSINESS REVIEW 400 100 Operational Review 07 Rotork Controls 14 300 75 Rotork Fluid Systems 16 Rotork Gears 18 200 50 Financial Review 21 Key Performance Indicators 24 100 25 Statement of Principal Risks and Uncertainties 26 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility 28 GOVERNANCE Rotork Management Board 35 n PROFIT BEFORE TAX* (£m) n BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE* (p) Board of Directors 36 +17.0% +17.5% 96.2 Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Report of the Directors 38 43 50 125 116.5 100 100 80 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditor’s Report 53 75 60 Consolidated Income Statement 54 Consolidated Statement of 50 40 Comprehensive Income 54 Consolidated Balance Sheet 55 25 20 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 56 0 0 Consolidated Statement of 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Cash Flows 57 * Adjusted before the amortisation of acquired intangible assets. Notes to the Group Financial Statements 58 Rotork Company Balance Sheet 94 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 95 Operational INFORMATION n Completion of six acquisitions Ten Year Trading History 101 Share Register Information 102 Corporate Directory 103 n Creation of Rotork Instruments division n Opened new facilities in Houston and Shanghai n Increase in Research & Development activity n Continued investment in people and infrastructure ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 01 GLOBAL OPPORTUNITIES Global Revenue (£m) Americas Europe RoW Total Revenue 2011 125.4 174.2 148.2 447.8 Revenue 2010 110.5 145.9 124.2 380.6 Rotork is the only UK listed company committed to developing, selling and supporting the best flow control products to rapidly growing markets across the globe. Rotork currently has over 2,500 employees in 31 countries. NORTH AMERICA Within this complex and LATIN AMERICA sophisticated market we have The acquisition at the beginning six manufacturing plants and of the year of our sales and eight distribution and marketing service agent in Mexico has locations. During 2011 we enhanced our geographic KEY opened a new sales and service coverage in Latin America. Manufacturing Plant and facility in Houston and acquired We now have direct presence Customer Service Centre two companies, Fairchild and in Mexico, Brazil and Venezuela K-Tork. The acquisition of and have plans to open another Customer Service Centre Fairchild will further develop office in Brazil in 2012. We also our strategy in the flow control have a strong network of agents market and K-Tork enables us across the region providing total to strengthen our presence in coverage of this growing and the power and water markets. varied market. 02 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 UK Currently there are three manufacturing INFORMATION 101 103 plants which support both the UK and worldwide operations. 2012 will see the EUROPE development of a new facility in Bath and Rotork has a well established presence in continental the relocation of the Leeds business to a Europe with six manufacturing locations across the larger facility. The restructure of the sales region, supported by nine direct customer service and service organisation within the newly centres. During the year we expanded our factory in created Rotork UK will see improved focus Italy and made two acquisitions: Centork in Spain and on driving this market. In 2011, we acquired our long-standing agent in Norway, VVA. In 2012, we Prokits, a manufacturer of valve adaptor kits plan to open an office in St Petersburg and expand and accessories. our Moscow and Bilbao sales and service centres. ASIA Rotork has traditionally been strong throughout Asia with China being the largest market for Rotork’s electric valve actuators and India being AUSTRALIA AND important to Rotork’s strategy. NEW ZEALAND MIDDLE EAST During 2011 we opened a new This region is supported AFRICA Oil & gas revenue has driven factory in India and expanded by seven customer support During 2012 we plan to open high levels of investment our factory in China. The year centres, five in Australia an office in Bloemfontein, in the region. In 2011, we ahead will see us open two and two in New Zealand. In South Africa. Africa is a opened a new sales office new offices in China, one in 2012 Rotork Australia will be diverse market that has in Jebel Ali and in 2012 we India and expand our offices combined as one legal entity, significant project development will expand into a full service in Indonesia and Singapore. which will allow the business programmes. Investment in the centre. These will complement These investments will to develop all of the available power industry and oil & gas is our other offices and service strengthen our presence and markets. One key market supported through our direct centres in the region to provide allow us to be equipped for for Rotork is the Australian presence, local agents and comprehensive support to local the forecasted growth in this Coalbed Methane and LNG distributors. customers. region. Plants. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 03 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT I am pleased to report another year of strong growth for Rotork, with our order intake, revenue and profit all at record levels. During the year we completed six acquisitions and announced the formation of a new division, Rotork Instruments. Rotork Instruments will provide a platform for our expansion into the wider flow control market. While economic uncertainty affected activity levels in some countries in which we operate, the continued broadening of our geographic spread and end-market exposure limited the overall impact on the Group. In addition to our increased spend on Financial Highlights acquisitions, which amounted to £64.2m Revenue of £447.8m was 17.7% higher in the year, we continued to invest in our than the previous year, with organic growth facilities and people in the locations and on a constant currency basis of 15.9%. sectors where we see growth opportunities. Adjusted profit before tax* increased by Investment in product development was also 17.0% to £116.5m resulting in a return higher in the year at £5.8m, an increase of on sales on this basis of 26.0%, similar to 35% on 2010. This investment will result in the prior year. In aggregate, acquisitions an increased number of product launches reported a lower return on sales than the in 2012, including the next generation of Group average, so when taken with a our IQ actuator range. We aim to extend our modest currency headwind, return on sales industry leadership position and consolidate restated on an organic constant currency Rotork’s reputation for world-class basis was 26.3%, slightly above 2010. innovation. Cash generation from operations was good and after returning £49.5m to shareholders Roger Lockwood Chairman The Rotork brand continues to strengthen in dividends and spending £64.2m on and customers who demand high quality acquisitions, we finished the year with products and services recognise that net cash of £48.5m. “ Rotork  Instruments Rotork provides a superior solution to their automation needs, improving the reliability Board composition will provide a and operation of their plant. The Board supports Lord Davies’ recent report regarding Women on Boards and platform for our Our continued success is due to the dedication of our people, whether in has a stated aim that 25% of its nonexecutive directors will be women by the expansion into the customer facing, operational or support roles. Their hard work has allowed Rotork end of 2012. We have always believed that good corporate governance stems from wider flow control to capitalise on the available opportunities and continue to provide excellent customer a quality Board which has a wide range of experience and skills. We are actively market ” service. recruiting a suitable member of the Board using our established formal appointment process. The successful candidate will bring the necessary level of expertise, 23.0 n DIVIDEND HISTORY (p) Core Dividend 11.5 Additional Dividend 11.5 37.25 9.3 32.5 11.6 28.4 26.0 21.7 15.1 5.9 18.2 14.8 15.8 13.0 13.9 10.9 12.2 12.2 3.7 4.3 8.0 9.3 1992 1993 1994 4.8 1995 5.4 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 04 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 questioning and debate and provide the Dividend required level of support to the executive team. The Board recommends a final dividend of 22.75p per share which, taken together “ …we continue with the 2011 interim dividend, gives a to invest in our Board performance payment of 37.25p per share (2010: For a number of years we have appointed 32.50p), representing a 14.6% increase. facilities and people… ” external consultants to conduct This dividend will be payable on 21 May an independent appraisal of Board 2012 to shareholders on the register on effectiveness and this year we repeated 13 April 2012. the process. Overall, the feedback from the review was positive and, having outlook been discussed by the Board, this Rotork is well positioned in growth markets has led to a number of changes. The and the execution of our long-term strategy primary changes are: increasing the of expanding into the wider flow control membership of the Management Board market will provide further opportunities for to cover Human Resources and Business growth. This year will see the introduction Development roles; altering the format of several new products and we will also of Board meetings to allow more time continue to look for suitable acquisition for debate and discussion; and providing targets. greater opportunities for non-executive directors to participate in discussion of We continue to invest in our infrastructure, the Group’s strategic direction. It is clear product development and sales coverage that the breadth of experience and skills to support the growth projections of the represented on the Board is an important business. Whilst mindful of the uncertain factor in the Board’s effectiveness. The economic environment, the indications open and inclusive discussions we enjoy we are receiving from our customers ensure consideration is given to all points are positive. The markets that we serve, of view. Overall, I remain satisfied that the combined with our extensive product composition of the Board enables it to portfolio, international presence and fulfill its expected role. The non-executive end-market exposure, provide the Board directors also reviewed my performance as with confidence of achieving further Chairman and provided feedback via the progress in the coming year. senior independent director. Corporate Governance The Board sets the tone for the way in which Rotork operates and we remain committed to running the business in a responsible way. The Board considers current performance, strategy and Roger Lockwood Chairman acquisitions, risk management, the internal 27 February 2012 control framework and the other aspects of corporate governance throughout the year. * References to adjusted profit throughout this document are defined as the IFRS profit, whether profit before tax Some of the discussions involve the wider or operating profit, with the amortisation of acquired n TOTAL SHAREHOLDER Rotork Management Board. The executive intangibles added back. RETURN management are then able to disseminate the values and standards of the Board throughout the Group and ensure these are 280 271 embedded at all levels. 248 240 In response to the UK Corporate 200 Governance Code 2010, all directors 160 156 stood for re-election at the last Annual 120 119 General Meeting and we intend to 101 continue this practice in the future. 80 40 0 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Rotork p.l.c. FTSE Industrial Engineering Sector Rebased to 100 at 1 January 2007 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 05 Pioneering Innovation Rotork is at the forefront of creating the latest innovative applications for its customers and fully committed to delivering the best in flow control solutions. Innovation is embedded in Rotork’s culture and all employees are encouraged to bring new ideas, both in terms of product and service offering to the customer. Any innovation adopted goes through rigorous testing; some are tested for thousands of hours before they are available to customers. 06 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 OPERATIONAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 Our strategy for growth and value creation for our shareholders continues to deliver positive results. The momentum we experienced in 2010 continued into 2011, with each division achieving record results. The focus on developing our international sales channels, expanding our product portfolio and carefully managing our cost base provides a strong platform for further growth. We are a global company with 19 domestic growth in countries such as manufacturing sites, 104 offices, direct Australia, China and India. Overall, Europe, employees in 31 countries, and sales Asia and the Americas all posted results channels in 89 countries. Our customers higher than the prior year. Revenue was demand first-class after-sales support and strong at £447.8m, 17.7% up on the prior our dedicated teams around the world are year. Adjusted profit before tax* margin equipped to provide the local support they was 26.0%, fractionally below the 26.2% require. achieved last year, but with the impact of acquisitions and currency reversed the This year we established a new division, adjusted margin was 26.3%. Rotork Instruments, to strengthen our presence in the wider flow control market. The creation of a new division reflects the The acquisition of Fairchild Industrial wider market ambitions of the Group in flow Products Company (Fairchild) is the first control, an area identified by the Board step in developing another Rotork division during our strategy discussions as having Peter France Chief Executive with market leading products. significant growth potential. The acquisition of Fairchild provides a strong foundation Rotork has a strong brand identity, on which Rotork Instruments can build international presence and technical a product portfolio and access new endcapabilities that support our objective of markets as well as strengthening our providing our customers with high quality, presence in existing markets. Fairchild will technically advanced, innovative products also continue as a supplier to other parts and services. of the Group and we will look to capitalise on this opportunity. HIGHLIGHTS I am pleased to report another successful In addition to Fairchild, we completed a year. Customer orders were weighted further five acquisitions in the year: towards the end of 2011, and with • Rotork Servo Controles de Mexico S.A. the receipt of our largest ever order in de C.V. (RSCM) and Valco Valves & December, a £8.9m pipeline project in Automation AS, (VVA), based in Mexico Mexico, the fourth quarter was particularly and Norway respectively, strengthened strong. Overall, order intake for the year our geographic coverage with their strong was £461.8m, up 20.9% compared sales and service organisations. Both of with 2010. Removing the contribution these new sales offices will focus mainly from acquisitions and a small currency on Rotork Controls and Rotork Fluid headwind, order intake was 18.1% ahead Systems products; of the prior year. • Controls International Inc (K-Tork) a company based in the USA and Centork Rotork offices benefit from both local Valve Control S.L. (Centork) in Spain, business and international projects where provides product as well as sales the orders are often placed through channels to Rotork Fluid System and valvemakers in their area. This means Rotork Controls respectively; that our offices in mature markets can • Prokits Limited (Prokits), a UK based still experience significant growth due to valve adaption company, will be export activity. This was evident during the integrated into the Rotork Gears year with strong export-led performances business. from countries such as the UK, USA, Korea and Italy. There was also strong ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 07 OPERATIONAL REVIEW continued Our growth strategy is focused on both results. The development of RSS is a key organic and acquisition-led growth. The part of our Group strategy and this year acquisitions completed in 2011 are there has been progress on a number of all aligned with our acquisition criteria fronts. In terms of geographic coverage, we of expanding the product portfolio, have either opened new service workshops strengthening or entering a new geography or expanded them in six locations around and strengthening or entering a new the world. The acquisitions in Mexico and market. Integration of the new companies Norway were important to RSS, as both is going to plan and all of them are former agents were responsible for servicing contributing to the Group in-line with the and maintaining the large installed base of acquisition case. actuators in their countries. Bringing this capability in-house will allow us to promote To support the continued organic growth the full range of RSS activities and leverage of the Group, we have also been investing this closer relationship to generate new in the infrastructure of the business. The sales for the full range of Rotork products. most significant investments include a new factory in Chennai, India, that will be We measure RSS performance against a operational by April 2012 and a new facility number of key metrics to assess the rate very close to the existing Bath site that of growth. The best measure of growth is will provide room for expansion. In January the number of service engineers we employ, 2011, we also inaugurated an additional which has grown a further 18% in the year. plant in China for our Gears business. Over the last three years, service engineer numbers have risen 44% whilst consistently ROTORK INSTRUMENTS high utilisation levels have been maintained. This newly formed division will ultimately Our actuators are often required to work contain a range of products which address in arduous environments and customers the wider flow control market. Many of demand a high level of certainty that they Controls the products are sold into the same endmarkets as actuators and are often used will operate when required. To this end we provide preventative maintenance contracts n G lobal growth particularly as part of the actuator control system but for our customers and during the year in emerging markets they are also used in areas not associated we have seen the number of actuators directly with actuation. We will retain our under contract grow to 86,000 units, an n A cquisition of Centork focus on high quality, high accuracy, high increase of 21%. This still represents a very n F aster growth of process specification products, rather than on the small proportion of the installed base and control product range commoditised end of this market where provides us with a substantial opportunity margins are generally lower. as we continue to grow our capability. Fairchild, which manufactures precision STRATEGY Fluid Systems pneumatic and electro-pneumatic control products, was acquired in November. Rotork’s vision is to be the leader in our targeted segments of the global flow n S trong second half margins Fairchild’s customers are spread across control market. The targeted segments n Investment in Lucca many end-markets, with the largest being comprise the traditional electric, fluid oil & gas. Other important markets include power and manual valve actuation devices and Houston facilities tyre manufacture, automation, paper, used to control the flow of liquids, gases n Acquisition of K-Tork chemicals and a wide variety of industrial and powders. These are addressed by our applications. The 2011 divisional revenue Controls, Fluid Systems and Gears divisions. of £1.4m and adjusted operating profit* of In addition, the broader instrumentation, £0.4m represent the six weeks of trading diagnostics and feedback devices used in Gears post acquisition. For the twelve months to December 2011, Fairchild’s revenue was pressure control and flow measurement form the targeted segments for Rotork’s n R ecord sales and profit £15.1m with an adjusted operating profit* new Instruments division. n G ood growth in Russia, of £4.8m, giving an operating margin of China and India markets 31.6%. The lead times for sales in Fairchild To maintain a market leading position, are far shorter than the other divisions and we aim to provide high quality, technically n C ompleted expansion the £1m order book at the end of the year advanced, innovative products and a of China factory is at a typical level. superior level of service that supports our customers’ activities around the world. Our ROTORK SITE SERVICES global network of offices and manufacturing Rotork Site Services (RSS) is our after-sales sites expands each year and ensures that and support activity which operates mainly support is local to the customer. within the Controls and Fluid Systems We operate an asset-light business model, divisions. It is embedded within the divisions with most of our manufacturing sites and as such is reported within the divisions’ purchasing components in a finished form 08 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 VISION Global Strategy MISSION OBJECTIVES FINANCIAL Processes and Strategies common across all divisions GROUP SALES & GROUP GROUP INFORMATION RISK FINANCE HR CSR LEGAL MARKETING R&D OPERATIONS SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT CONTROLS FLUID SYSTEMS GEARS INSTRUMENTS • Sales • Sales • Sales • Sales • Product Development • Product Development • Product Development • Product Development • Manufacturing & Facilities • Manufacturing & Facilities • Manufacturing & Facilities • Manufacturing & Facilities • Procurement • Procurement • Procurement • Procurement • Acquisitions • Acquisitions • Acquisitions • Acquisitions • Finance • Finance • Finance • Finance • RSS • RSS • RSS • RSS and then assembling to order. We seek 1. Sales growth 2. Product development to deliver strong return on capital, quality The drive for organic growth requires 2012 will see the fruition of a number of margins and consistent year on year growth subsidiaries to sell all the products available developments with new product launches in revenues and profit, which combined with to them and target all end-markets within from each division. the asset-light model delivers strong cash their geographies. We will also achieve generation. This cash is used to fund the growth by opening new sales offices in 2011 growth of the business, both organic and targeted markets. Growth of Rotork Innovation Design by acquisition, and to fund consistent core and Engineering Centre (RIDEC), dividend growth. 2011 expansion of the Rotork Process Expanding customisation capabilities Control (RPC) ranges, investment To provide short-term focus, we agree an in Houston, restructuring of US sales in products for the nuclear power annual set of key objectives. This year offices and Australian business, industry and other projects that will there is a new objective specifically to increase number of salespeople benefit Rotork in 2012 and beyond, address the establishment and growth of around the world and strengthen led to spend increasing 35% in the the new division, Rotork Instruments. The our management team. year. main achievements for 2011 and headline objectives for 2012 are shown below in 2012 2012 respect of each of the objectives: New sales offices in Brazil, Russia, Product launches will take place India, South Africa, Indonesia and through the year in line with the China with expansion of service product roadmap established for capabilities in other offices. The sales each division. Development continues and service organisation in the UK will on other areas, some of which also be re-organised into a single unit is focused on recently acquired under one General Manager. businesses. We will continue to build our resources in RIDEC and invest in engineering expertise during the year. * Adjusted profit is defined as the IFRS profit, whether profit before tax or operating profit, with the amortisation of acquired intangibles added back. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 09 OPERATIONAL REVIEW continued 3. Acquisitions 6. Procurement These are a core part of our growth strategy Rotork’s outsourced manufacturing model and 2011 was a record year in terms means that material costs are the most of the number and value of acquisitions significant component of direct costs. We completed. We will continue to seek have always sought to control these costs suitable opportunities in 2012. We require and wherever possible leverage our global an acquisition to bring Rotork either a new presence to source materials. product, a new geographical market or a new market sector. Often the target will 2011 satisfy two or even three of these criteria. We continued to increase our sourcing The size of the acquisitions we are prepared team and delivered positive results to undertake is limited by opportunity, rather against a background of increasing than by our financial capacity, but we retain raw material costs. A number of new a rigorous and disciplined approach to suppliers from North America, Europe acquisition pricing. and the Far East came on stream during the year. 2011 2012 Six acquisitions including Fairchild for a total consideration of £64.2m. Continue to look for opportunities to take costs out of our products 2012 through sourcing or product Continue to look at acquisitions which development, including a focus on satisfy Rotork’s objectives. recently acquired businesses. Teams based in each of our factories will 4. New division lead the process and we will add to Fairchild has been established as the first our sourcing capability. company within the new Rotork Instruments division. This division will contain business 7. Development of RSS and products which sit outside the narrow We continue to invest in more service definition of actuators and gearboxes but engineers and facilities to ensure we are within the wider flow control market. provide the level of local support our customers have come to expect. 2011 2011 Acquisition of Fairchild and creation of the new division. Increased the number of service engineers by 18%, invested in the 2012 service workshops in six locations, Seek opportunities to grow the four of which are new facilities, and new division, both organically acquired the businesses in Mexico within Fairchild and through further and Norway which already had acquisitions. established service operations. 2012 5. Manufacturing and facilities Rotork has invested in a number of factories New RSS Director will take up post, and sales offices to develop world-class continue to expand the service team facilities from which to work. The investment and establish new workshops where programme will continue into 2012. there is customer demand. 2011 8. IT New factory in Chennai, expansion of Develop a global system for the sales Shanghai factory, new Houston sales and service offices. and service facility and a new office in 2011 the Middle East. Design and development of the system 2012 K-Tork Pneumatic Vane Actuator is nearing completion but due to the Complete the new Chennai factory, expanded scope of the development develop the new facility in Bath and we will now go-live in the first half of relocate the Leeds-based business. 2012. Open six new sales and service 2012 offices. Finalise the development and begin rollout. 10 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 9. Nuclear customer service. Understanding and Expand our nuclear-certified product offering abiding by Rotork’s Ethics and Values is in all divisions and ensure we are able to central to providing outstanding service participate in this type of power generation and these core values will ensure each project as fully as we do in others. individual acts at all times with integrity, honesty and fairness towards others. We 2011 invest in our people to ensure they receive Continued development of all our the necessary training to reach their full products to be used in nuclear potential, with a view to promoting from applications as well as work to gain within. Our Employee Satisfaction Survey the necessary certifications. provides feedback on our success in training and developing our people. 2012 Continue to work with the contractors Research & Development in the nuclear industry to ensure our During 2011 we completed the products meet their needs in terms development of our next generation, multiof specification and certification and turn electric actuator. The product will be are available in time for the upcoming launched in the second quarter of 2012 and projects that are expected in the will be the successor to the current flagship future. IQ series. This replacement product will introduce a number of new features that will 10. Corporate Social Responsibility help us to retain a market leading position. Our objectives for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) are monitored by Within the Process Controls product line-up four separate committees covering health we have extended the capability of the & safety, environment, ethics and social CVA series through the introduction of a issues. Our approach in these areas is to larger linear unit and development is now communicate best practice throughout underway of a larger quarter-turn version the Group, training those responsible and, that will complete the current family. Further where appropriate, verifying adoption in development of the complementary Compact each subsidiary. Modulating Actuator (CMA) series was undertaken during the year and this product Research & Development Lab, 2011 family is also due to be introduced to the Rotork Gears, Leeds market in the second quarter of 2012. Health & safety audit scores improved in the year but the associated KPI During the year, the Fluid Systems division (Accident Frequency Rate) was established an R&D team and a test slightly higher than the previous capability within our Leeds facility. The year. Our environmental KPI, waste test facility will serve the needs of both recycling, showed a significant the Gears and Fluid Systems divisions. improvement in the year. The The new R&D team will be focused on ethics committee supervised the the development of our Skilmatic range communication and training of the of electro-hydraulic actuators. Elsewhere provisions of the UK Bribery Act to within the Fluid Systems division we have directors and managers worldwide. begun development of a range of rotary Our employees gave their time and nuclear actuators qualified to the latest energy to support a wide variety of standard. These actuators are based upon good causes around the world. our successful CP and GH series and 2012 will complement the electric, multi-turn, nuclear qualified designs currently under Continue to communicate best development within the Controls division. practice to all locations and The design team in Lucca is undertaking provide the necessary training to development of a second generation of support local teams. Encourage our gas over oil actuators that are optimised for employees to continue in their efforts IQT and CVA actuator on new gas international markets and should herald a for our global charity, WaterAid, and dehydration units in Transylvanian number of productivity improvements. The other local charities. Romania design of this range has also been facilitated by our increased investment in 3D CAD tools. People are key to delivering our strategy. We train and develop our people, ensuring The Gears division has had another that they understand the Group’s objectives successful year with the introduction of the and the importance of delivering exceptional declutchable ILGD family and the FB series ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 11 OPERATIONAL REVIEW continued of small manual operators. The division has I am pleased to welcome two new members a strong pipeline of product introductions of the Rotork Management Board, Mark scheduled for 2012 and in common with Williams, Global HR Director and Pamela the other divisions is actively working on a Bingham, Group Business Development nuclear qualified range of products. Director. I am looking forward to working with both of them in achieving the strategic RIDEC, the Group’s centralised development aims of the Group. I am also pleased to resource based in Chennai, India, has welcome Phil Burness to the company. continued to grow during 2011 and was Phil will be responsible for the Rotork Site engaged in joint developments with all Services business and replaces Grant Wood, divisions. We are planning to double its size who was appointed Divisional Managing during 2012 following the move to the new Director for Rotork Controls in March 2011. building which will also include a dedicated test facility. During the year we welcomed 370 people into the Rotork family and we now have During the year the Group has also begun a 2,500 staff in 31 countries. 209 people project to evaluate computer based Product joined Rotork as part of the six acquisitions Lifecycle Management tools that together that we completed and 161 were recruited with our other CAD investments should due to growth in our existing locations. It is bring improvements in efficiency and aid a privilege for me to have visited so many both cross-divisional and multi-site working. offices during the year and to have met such a dedicated team of people. I was very proud OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE to open our new factory in India and see the Our commitment to product excellence reaction from staff as they received a guided and exceeding customer expectations is tour of the new building. It is down to the hard a fundamental part of Rotork’s strategy. A work and dedication of our staff that we are quality-driven focus is embedded in all our able to report record results and I would like business processes, from procurement and to thank everyone for what they do every day vendor approval, through to manufacture to make this such a great company. and delivery, and extends into our site service activities. All Rotork manufacturing sites CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY are required to adopt Rotork systems and We see Corporate Social Responsibility working practices and to maintain a quality (CSR) as an area which needs to be management system registered to ISO 9001. embedded in all aspects of our business and should be continually improved. To Our matrix management structure allows achieve this Rotork has one main CSR us to disseminate best practice between Committee and four Sub-Committees who our businesses and foster a culture of each focus on one of the following areas: continuous improvement at all levels, which health & safety, the environment, ethics is reviewed in regular quality audits. KPIs or social issues. More information about allow us to target, monitor and improve our the progress that is being made and new performance and instil an approach that is initiatives taken are set out in pages 28 focused on the customer. to 34. Techniques such as six sigma and lean During 2011 we continued to measure manufacturing principles are used extensively our impact on the environment and and allow us to leverage world-class the data gathered includes energy and standards and place ourselves at the leading water consumption, waste generation edge of product quality and performance. and recycling and business travel. We encourage open communication with OUR PEOPLE employees, customers, suppliers and At the end of November we completed other stakeholders in order to continually our annual Employee Satisfaction Survey. develop the business and achieve our Although 188 more people completed the CSR objectives. The workshop in Norway, busy motorising survey, the response rate fell to 73% from valves with IQ actuators for the Oseberg last year’s 78%. The overall satisfaction score We have continued to develop our offshore platform project of 3.5 has remained at a similar high level charitable work with the Group and for a number of years despite improvements employees, contributing £179,000 to being seen in a number of areas. We have global charities. WaterAid has continued to used the same questionnaire now for several be our main Global Charity with £109,000 years and feel that it is time to review the list donated during 2011. of questions and reinvigorate the process for the 2012 survey. 12 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 Designing INFORMATION 101 103 in Quality Customers trust Rotork to deliver high quality flow control products that meet their specific requirements. Rotork makes sure that every product that is manufactured is well designed, built and tested before it is installed on a customer site. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 13 OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTROLS Rotork Controls had an excellent year, reporting record revenue and operating profit, with double-digit growth in both. We also achieved record adjusted operating margins of 33.1%. The growth was broad based, with our offices in each region – the Americas, the Far East and Europe – all making progress in aggregate. We have continued to invest in our sales channels and have benefited from increased activity in a number of our end-markets. Downstream and midstream project activity As well as increased acquisition activity we in the oil & gas sector was particularly strong continue to invest in product development. and in certain countries we benefited from We have significantly grown our engineering increased investment in infrastructure, resource and the Rotork Innovation and mainly power generation and water Design and Engineering Centre (RIDEC), in treatment plants. We continued to make India, is now operational and contributing to progress with our Rotork Process Controls our development programme. The increased (RPC) products and the growth of these investment will benefit the business in 2012 actuators, which include the CVA, exceeded and beyond as new products are introduced. the growth rate for the division as a whole. This year has also seen investment in a Divisional revenue grew 14.2% in the year to number of our sites around the world, £278.0m and with order intake increasing the most significant of which was the by 17.4%, the year end order book grew redevelopment of our factory in Chennai, by 6.4%. Removing the contribution from India. The new factory, which is now Grant Wood MD Rotork Controls acquisitions and restating this year at 2010 nearing completion, will house a larger exchange rates, revenue growth was 13.8% manufacturing area two and a half times and order intake growth 15.9%. Currency larger than the one it replaces. It will provide “ A s well as increased was a modest headwind for the division, principally driven by the weaker average improved office facilities and bring RIDEC together with the factory. This will provide acquisition activity US dollar rate in 2011, offset by a slight tailwind from the euro and other currencies. our business in India with a world-class facility to support its growth for years to we continue to Adjusted operating profit increased 16.9% in the year to £92.1m, which represents come and follows a similar investment made last year in Bangalore. invest in product a 33.1% margin compared with 32.4% in 2010. Cost pressures arising from The Far East region grew the fastest, development ” commodity price increases during the year were successfully mitigated, with material with Korea delivering the highest growth, followed by India and China, and Japan costs remaining a near-constant proportion bouncing back from a slow 2010. Our of sales compared with the prior year. At Korean office benefited from a series of oil the same time, labour and overheads costs & gas orders destined for the Middle East, increased at a lower rate than revenue which were won by Korean Engineering and growth. Procurement Contractors (EPCs) although the valves were supplied from a number Three of this year’s acquisitions benefited of other countries. In China, our factory in the division, albeit their contributions to Shanghai raised its output once again in profit in the year were modest. Centork response to a very active Chinese power brings a new actuator range which will market. Power also remains the largest allow us to better target certain segments market for us in India and with our new of the electric actuator market, whilst the factory in Bangalore operational for the acquisitions in both Norway and Mexico full year we were able to respond to rising enhance our geographic coverage. Both demand. Africa was the only business in these countries already have a large the region not to deliver growth in the year installed base of Rotork actuators and and this was only after a particularly strong the acquisitions provide an opportunity to 2010. strengthen our direct relationship with the end-users and grow our after-market service In 2010 we restructured the USA domestic offering through Rotork Site Services (RSS). operation by creating regional branch 14 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 offices. This brought benefits in the year and based around Houston placed a number of Business we were able to deliver record results. In the export orders, and in Latin America oil & gas Americas, domestic US spending on oil & activity was ahead of the prior year. gas, transportation and storage projects was positive and resulted in a good performance at FlowQuip, based in Oklahoma, whilst Activity in Europe followed a similar pattern to 2010 with our offices in Russia and the Opportunities new projects in the municipal water sector Netherlands growing the fastest. The major n Delivery of R&D projects supported the overall results. The new power focus was on oil & gas pipelines, refinery n Launch of IQ3 generation market remained slow. However, upgrades and oil and LPG terminals in maintenance and repair spend still provided Russia. Tank storage projects continued to n Opening of new offices a steady workload for the RSS teams in the underpin demand from the Netherlands. municipal and power markets. The EPCs n Expanded workshop facilities n REVENUE (£m) +14.2% 280 278.0 210 140 70 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 n ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT (£m) +16.9% 100 92.1 75 50 25 0 Rotork IQ actuator installations at Vopak 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Phase 8 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 15 OPERATIONAL REVIEW FLUID SYSTEMS This year Rotork Fluid Systems (RFS) was once again the fastest growing division, with particularly strong trading in the second half of the year. Acquisitions have played a significant part in the growth of the division over the last ten years and this year we completed the purchase of K-Tork in Dallas, USA, which brought a new product range and increased the exposure of RFS to the power and water markets. The acquisition of the businesses in Norway higher. Annual revenue grew 24.1% to a and Mexico also contributed to the results record £132.6m, with the second half of of the division. More importantly, they £79.6m being 49.9% higher than the first increase the future opportunities for RFS as half of the year. Revenue is often greater we continue to grow our global aftermarket in the second half year in RFS but this year offering. The acquisition of Rotork Mexico saw a higher than usual increase driven and the development of our own service purely by customer delivery requirements. team in Mexico were instrumental in Removing the benefit of acquisitions and winning the largest ever single order for restating revenue at 2010 exchange rates, Rotork in December. The project is to revenue growth would have been 20.4%. supply the complete actuator solution for Adjusted operating profit was a record at 47 pipelines in Mexico, with deliveries £17.1m, 14.5% higher than the prior year scheduled between now and 2014. with the second half representing 71% of the full year’s profit. Adjusted operating The integration and development of these margins, which, affected by the lower Alex Busby MD Rotork Fluid Systems acquisitions, and those completed in earlier revenue, had been disappointing in the first years, remains key to our strategy. K-Tork’s half of the year at 9.2%, met the division’s products have a very good reputation and, target in the second half at 15.3%, giving “ ...we completed although predominantly focused on the US market, they are well suited to being a full year average of 12.9%. On an organic constant currency basis full year margins the expansion of sold through Rotork’s worldwide sales offices. The education process to deliver were 13.1%. the Lucca factory increased sales outside of the USA is now underway. The scope for development of Early in 2011 we completed the expansion of the Lucca factory in Italy which has in Italy which the Hiller product range remains significant, and our focus for the business in 2012 is enabled us to improve production flows and operational efficiency at the largest has enabled to deliver an enhanced and fully certified solution for the next generation of nuclear RFS site. Our new facility in Houston is also important to RFS, allowing us to handle us to improve power station projects. Development of our larger actuators and valves within our core product lines is also important, and premises in this major oil & gas centre. production flows this year we launched SI Pro, the latest Whilst acquisitions such as K-Tork and Hiller generation of electro-hydraulic actuators. are diversifying our end-market exposure, and operational These specifiable emergency shutdown RFS remains largely focused on oil & gas actuators are very much in demand in and the largest contributors to the division’s efficiency ” safety critical applications, and where revenue are located in countries with increased diagnostics are required. large oil & gas reserves or where there are concentrations of valvemakers who focus Order intake increased by 30.1% and the on oil & gas applications. The factories in order book rose 24.3%, 8.4% of which was Lucca (Italy), Rochester (USA) and Melle due to order book taken on with acquired (Germany) all made progress in the year, businesses. On an organic constant underpinned by growth in demand from currency basis, order intake was 25.0% their respective geographic markets. The 16 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 Melle factory predominantly supplies support. Singapore, Spain and Canada Business Russia, Rochester covers the Americas and reported the strongest growth amongst the Lucca sends RFS products to the rest of CoEs this year. The CoEs and other sales the world. offices offer local support to the customer Whilst some of these sales go direct from and, whilst Rotork Site Services are less developed in RFS than they are in Controls, Opportunities the factory to the valvemaker or endwe made significant progress in 2011, on n Increased product development user, the Centres of Excellence (CoE), like which we expect to build in the current providing specifiable products Houston, which offer additional services year. n K  -Tork product sales through including design and build of control packages and the mounting of actuators existing sales channels to valves, provide a more local point of n C  hina and CoE investment to benefit the business in 2012 n REVENUE (£m) +24.1% 140 132.6 105 70 35 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 n ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT (£m) +14.5% 20 17.1 15 10 5 0 RC200 actuators at Sisak Power Plant, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 south of Zagreb in Croatia ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 17 OPERATIONAL REVIEW GEARS Rotork Gears manufactures and sells manual and motorised gearboxes. We continue to increase our third party sales to the valve industry as a strategic objective and reduce our dependence on intercompany transactions. Around three quarters of revenue is now generated from sales to third party valve manufacturers. Whilst the sales to Rotork offices are often driven by project activity, the sales to valvemakers are very different in nature. The gearbox is seen as a component of Restating adjusted operating profit at the valve and with the majority of valves last year’s exchange rates reduces the still being manually operated, most require operating profit to £9.9m and the margin a gearbox to provide the mechanical to 21.5%, compared with 23.4% in 2010. advantage necessary to operate the valve. All valvemakers therefore need a supply The largest contributors to the Gears of gearboxes and although some make results were sales direct from factories in their own, our sales proposition is very the UK, the Netherlands, Italy and China. attractive. We can provide a high quality, At the start of the year the Shanghai reliable gearbox and by virtue of our scale facility in China, which shares the site with and buying power through our global Controls, was expanded and Gears moved supply chain, offer our gearboxes at a into an adjoining building. We made good better rate than internally manufactured progress this year selling to Chinese products. valvemakers rather than using this facility solely to export products. We also used David Littlejohns MD Rotork Gears Revenue in the year was £46.6m, an the new facility in Houston to establish a increase of 18.8% over 2010, order customisation centre. This allows ‘blank’ intake rose 15.6%, and our order book gearboxes to be held in stock and finished “ …order  intake increased by 8.6%, all of which set new records for Gears. The acquisition of to specific customers’ requirements and by doing this we improve delivery rose 15.6% and Prokits came too close to the end of the year to have a significant effect on the time. India is another investment area for Gears, where we now have sourcing our order book results, and the overall currency impact on revenue was negligible. Adjusted operating expertise and during the year we began to source components for other divisions increased by profit for the year was £10.3m, 12.8% higher than the prior year. There had been from here. Our manufacturing capability has also increased in India to support the 8.6%, all of which some margin pressure in the first half of the year, reducing operating margin local market. Managing the global supply chain and raw material cost pressures set new records to 21.7%. However during the second remains a priority and is a key objective half the benefit of July price increases of the division and the Group as a whole. for Gears ” and higher revenue increased margins In addition to the factories, Rotork’s to 22.6%, resulting in a full year average marketing subsidiaries around the world of 22.2%. Gears has a very different sell manual gearboxes. This is most currency exposure to the rest of the Group successful in countries which have a large and purchases a greater proportion of its domestic valve industry. We identified components in US dollars, such that, with Russia as a country with significant a weaker US dollar this year, operating potential and increased our sales through profit benefited from a currency tailwind. the year by building new relationships with 18 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 Russian valvemakers. The other growing development in Gears not only focuses Business market for Gears is Australia. Here the on the applications but also on ways of key relationship is built with valve making improvements to existing models distributors rather than the valvemaker but and reducing the costs of production. the business is again based on building a long term supply relationship. The year ahead will see further product launches that address both types of Opportunities development. n Launch of new products We have launched new products focused n H  ouston expansion providing on niche applications: fire protection customised products systems and certified water applications. During the year we have seen growth in n T arget further material cost sales of these product ranges. Product reductions n Increase Indian manufacturing n REVENUE (£m) +18.8% 60 45 46.6 30 15 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 n ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT (£m) +12.8% 12 10.3 9 6 3 0 Rotork Gears participating in the Chinese 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Gas Transportation Network ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 19 Supporting Customers The excellent reliability record of Rotork’s products is reinforced by the skill of its employees who are dedicated to specifying the right unit for each job and keeping them maintained for optimal performance and life. No matter where in the world its flow control products are being used, Rotork is devoted to delivering the highest levels of service and support. 20 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 Rotork has achieved another year of strong growth, with record order intake, revenue, profits and dividend payments. Adjusted operating profit margin remained high and increased on an organic constant currency basis. However, profit margins were lower where the results of the acquired businesses and intangible amortisation are included. Revenue grew 17.7% in the year to the charge is expected to rise to £7.1m £447.8m, increasing our ten year next year. The income statement also compound annual growth figure to includes acquisition-related costs of £0.8m, 13.7%. To establish a true like-for-like compared with £0.2m in 2010. With the comparison, the impact of acquisitions and acquisitions taking place throughout the currency should be eliminated. Currency year, the contribution to this year’s results was relatively benign, although a modest added £9.6m to revenue and £1.0m headwind. Acquisitions generated £9.6m to adjusted operating profit. Had these of revenue and reversing the impact of businesses all contributed for the whole of both of these gives growth on an organic 2011, they would have added £31.6m to constant currency basis of 15.9%. revenue and £6.1m to adjusted operating profit. Adjusted operating profit (stated before the amortisation of acquired intangibles) grew CURRENCY 16.6% to £115.9m, an adjusted operating A £2.7m revenue headwind was the result Jonathan Davis Finance Director margin of 25.9% compared with 26.1% of a 5 cent weakening of the average US in the prior year. Removing the impact of dollar rate, offset by modest strengthening currency and the part-year trading results of the euro and basket of other currencies. “ Adjusted  operating of acquisitions, adjusted operating profit grew by 16.0% and adjusted operating This was a combination of the translation of overseas companies’ results and profit margin margin increased to 26.2%. restating transactions within our businesses, as many sales are not remained high and ACQUISITIONS This year was a record for Rotork in terms denominated in the reporting currency of our operations making the sale. The increased on an of the number and value of acquisitions completed. Fairchild, acquired in November net currency impact on operating profit was a headwind of £0.4m. The mix of organic constant for £49.5m, was by far the largest, and forms the basis of the new Rotork currencies in which we source components is very different from the mix of currencies currency basis ” Instruments division. With an asset-light in which we sell, and the impact on the business model similar to Rotork’s, this different divisions also varies. With a greater acquisition generated £28.3m of goodwill proportion of US dollar denominated and £25.8m of intangible assets, which purchases, the Gears division actually together account for the majority of the benefited from the weakening US dollar, increase in capital employed during the which improved operating profit by £0.4m year. The five other acquisitions cost relative to last year. £14.7m in total. The acquired intangible assets for all this year’s acquisitions were There is an element of natural hedging from valued at £33.4m and gave rise to goodwill trading within the Group but we generate of £32.5m. surplus euros and US dollars and are net sellers of both these currencies. It is the As a result of these acquisitions the net sale of these currencies which we amortisation charge the writing down principally address through our hedging of acquired intangible assets of this and policy, covering up to 75% of trading previous years’ acquisitions rose from transactions in the next 12 months and £1.7m last year to £3.9m this year. With up to 50% between 12 and 24 months. a full year effect of this year’s acquisitions ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 21 FINANCIAL REVIEW continued n Organic business growth Organic Group business 2011 Constant at 2010 at 2010 2010 Group as currency exchange Remove exchange Group as £m reported adjustment rates acquisitions rates reported Revenue 447.8 2.7 450.5 (9.6) 440.9 380.6 Cost of sales (236.3) (2.3) (238.6) 5.9 (232.7) (199.8) Gross profit 47.2% 211.5 0.4 47.0% 211.9 (3.7) 47.2% 208.2 47.5% 180.8 Overheads (95.6) – (95.6) 2.7 92.9 (81.4) Operating profit* 25.9% 115.9 0.4 25.9% 116.3 (1.0) 26.2% 115.3 26.1% 99.4 Financial income/expenses 0.6 – 0.6 – 0.6 0.2 Profit before tax* 26.0% 116.5 0.4 25.9% 116.9 (1.0) 26.3% 115.9 26.2% 99.6 * Adjusted profit is defined as the IFRS profit, whether profit before tax or operating profit, with the amortisation of acquired intangibles added back. In order to estimate the impact of currency, hedge with forward exchange contracts, at the current exchange rates we consider the maximum cover taken is 75% of the effect of a 1 cent movement versus forecast flows. The Board receives monthly sterling. For both euro and US dollar a treasury reports which summarise the 1 cent movement now results in a Group’s foreign currency hedging position, £350,000 adjustment to profit. The growth distribution of cash balances and significant in both euro and US dollar denominated changes to banking operations. revenues saw this adjustment increase from “ Our  dividend £250,000 and £300,000 respectively last Return on capital employed year. Rotork’s asset-light manufacturing model and high profit margins have meant that policy is to grow Treasury our return on capital employed (ROCE) is the core dividends The Group operates a centralised treasury function with the actions that subsidiaries high. Basing the calculation on adjusted operating profit and taking an average generally in line can take are limited by procedures contained in the Subsidiary Treasury Policy. balance sheet position (using the opening and closing balance sheet), ROCE reduced with earnings… ” The Group Treasurer monitors compliance with this policy and is responsible for from 90.3% in 2010 to 74.1% this year. The reduction in the metric was largely overseeing all the Group’s banking caused by the acquisition of Fairchild taking relationships. place so close to the year end. The Treasury Committee, comprising the Cash generation Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Net cash at the end of the year was Legal Director, Group Financial Controller £48.5m, having reduced by £49.4m during and Group Treasurer, meet regularly to the year. Our biggest cash outflows are consider foreign currency exposure, control always tax, dividends and acquisitions. over deposits and cash management. The The aggregate spend across these headings Group uses financial instruments where increased from £67.7m in 2010 to appropriate to hedge significant currency £137.2m this year, which accounts for the transactions, principally forward and swap overall net cash outflow. Operating cash contracts. These financial instruments are generation relative to adjusted operating used to reduce volatility which might affect profit was 89.6% this year compared with the Group’s cash or income statement. 95.7% in 2010. In assessing the level of cash flows to 22 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 Working capital as a function of annual additional dividends when projected cash sales increased from 23.2% to 27.0% but requirements show we are able to. During this is affected by the timing of sales and 2011 we paid two additional dividends acquisitions. Fourth quarter revenue was which in total were a further 23.0p per 33% higher than the final quarter of 2010 share and gave a record total distribution to and working capital was still only 22.4% of shareholders of £49.5m during the year. revenue calculated from this base. Capital expenditure in the year was £10.0m as Retirement benefits expected with the factory in India, new The Group accounts for post-retirement building in Bath and new subsidiary IT benefits in accordance with IAS19, system accounting for the majority of Employee Benefits. The balance sheet the increased spend over the prior year. reflects the net deficit on these schemes at 31 December based on the market value Credit management of the assets at that date, and the valuation The Group’s credit risk is primarily of liabilities using year end AA corporate attributable to trade receivables with the bond rates. We have closed both of the risk spread over a large number of countries main defined benefit pension schemes to and customers, and with no significant new entrants; the UK scheme in 2002 and concentration of risk. Credit worthiness the US one in 2009, in order to reduce the checks are undertaken before entering risk of volatility of the Group’s liabilities. into contracts or commencing trade with new customers. The majority of our trade Following agreement of the March 2010 receivables are insured, so the authorisation actuarial valuation for the UK scheme, process operates in conjunction with the a deficit funding plan was agreed which insurer, taking advantage of their market would eliminate the shortfall by March intelligence. Where appropriate, we will use 2015. This plan included the payment of trade finance instruments such as letters of £3.3m of past deficit contributions during credit to mitigate any identified risk. 2011 and £7.3m payable in 2012. Despite these higher UK contributions, the funding Taxation level of the schemes reduced to 81% at the The Group’s effective tax rate fell this year year end compared with 85% at December from 29.0% to 28.6%. This is a blended 2010 which now equates to a £25.4m rate from the 25 countries in which we shortfall. Once again discount rates have currently pay tax and is affected by the mix reduced, driving up the current value of of where our taxable profits are generated future liabilities, which was compounded as well as changes to the tax rates within this year by income from the funds’ assets those jurisdictions. The main driver behind failing to meet expectations. The mortality the reduction in the overall rate this year assumptions were updated in 2010 to was the reduction in the UK headline tax reflect the latest data from occupational rate from 28% to 26%. 2011 was the last pension schemes and these tables are year our factory in China benefited from a again applied this year. reduced tax rate of 12.5% so we will see this rate increase in 2012 to the standard 25%. Our philosophy with tax is to operate on the basis of full disclosure and cooperation with all tax authorities and, where possible, mitigate the burden of tax within the local legislation. Dividends The directors are proposing a 15.2% increase in the final dividend to 22.75p per share. When taken together with the 14.5p interim dividend paid in September, this represents a 14.6% increase in core dividends over the prior year. This gives core dividend cover of 2.5 times, the same as 2010. Our dividend policy is to grow the core dividends generally in line with earnings and supplement core dividends with ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 23 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FINANCIAL KPIs Growth of the business, market penetration and quality of earnings are crucial target areas for Rotork and we have a number of measures of performance used throughout Rotork aimed at monitoring this. The increased level of acquisitions this year affects a number of the KPIs as previously reported. To better reflect trading performance those affected by the higher intangible amortisation charge have been revised to reflect adjusted profits, stated before intangible amortisation. The KPIs used to monitor the financial performance of the business are set out below: n SALES REVENUE n RETURN ON SALES n CASH GENERATION n RETURN ON CAPITAL GROWTH (%) (%) (%) EMPLOYED (%) 40 28 120 100 26.0 30 21 90 89.6 75 74.1 20 17.7 14 60 50 10 7 30 25 0 0 0 0 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 17.7% 26.0% 89.6% 74.1% REASON FOR CHOICE REASON FOR CHOICE REASON FOR CHOICE REASON FOR CHOICE This is reported in detail for This measure brings together This is used as a measure of Rotork has an asset-light operating segments and is a key the combined effects of performance where a target business model by design and driver in the business. These procurement costs and pricing of 85% is regarded as a base reporting this ratio internally measures enable us to track our as well as the leverage of our level of achievement. Cash helps management at Group success in specific project activity operating assets. It is also a generation is also one of the level monitor our adherence and our progress in increasing check on the quality of revenue constituent parts of the senior to this philosophy. our market share by products and growth. management reward system. region. HOW WE CALCULATE HOW WE CALCULATE HOW WE CALCULATE HOW WE CALCULATE Increase in sales revenue year Adjusted profit before tax* Cash flow from operating Adjusted operating profit* as a on year divided by the earlier year (after financing and interest) activities, before tax outflows percentage of average capital sales revenue. shown as a percentage of and the pension charge to cash employed. The definition of return sales revenue. adjustment, as a percentage of on capital employed is shown on adjusted operating profit*. page 92. COMMENTS ON RESULTS COMMENTS ON RESULTS COMMENTS ON RESULTS COMMENTS ON RESULTS We grew revenue by 17.7% Lower gross margins meant Cash generation remains Capital employed has risen despite some markets and return on sales declined with above target but the strong significantly with the acquisition geographies being flat. the acquired businesses being last quarter output resulted in of six businesses in the year dilutive in the period. On an an increase in the cash held in whilst these businesses only organic constant currency basis working capital. contributed profits for part of return on sales increased to the year. 26.3%. * Adjusted profit is profit before tax or operating profit, with the amortisation of acquired intangibles added back. 24 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 NON-FINANCIAL KPIs We monitor non-financial areas in our businesses particularly in the environmental, health & safety and quality control areas and put strong emphasis within our organisation on improving this performance. n EPS GROWTH (%) n ACCIDENT n WASTE RECYCLING n EMPLOYEE FREQUENCY RATE (%) SATISFACTION 40 0.8 80 76.0 4 3.5 30 0.6 60 3 0.46 20 17.5 0.4 40 2 10 0.2 20 1 0 0 0 0 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 17.5% 0.46 76.0% 3.5 REASON FOR CHOICE REASON FOR CHOICE REASON FOR CHOICE REASON FOR CHOICE The measurement of The safety of every individual We are committed to the The survey as a whole enables earnings per share (EPS) on our properties or on client continuous improvement of the Group to get feedback from reflects all aspects of the sites is a paramount concern. environmental performance. across the business on how we income statement including relate to our staff and what we management of the Group’s can do better. tax rate. HOW WE CALCULATE HOW WE CALCULATE HOW WE CALCULATE HOW WE CALCULATE Increase in adjusted basic EPS The formula we have used This information is collected Employees scored their (based on adjusted profit after for calculating our AFR is the through regular submissions responses directly into a tax) year on year divided by the number of reportable injuries into our main UK site in Bath. prepared survey with 1 being earlier year adjusted basic EPS. divided by the number of hours very dissatisfied and 5 being worked multiplied by 100,000. very satisfied. COMMENTS ON RESULTS COMMENTS ON RESULTS COMMENTS ON RESULTS COMMENTS ON RESULTS Adjusted basic EPS has The focus on health & safety, Even with higher output and an We had a record number of increased ahead of profit investment in training and increased number of facilities respondents this year although before tax due to a reduced the review and audit process this year, we have succeeded the response rate fell slightly effective tax rate arising from across our facilities all help in improving the percentage of to 73%. The scores relating a lower tax rate in the UK and raise awareness of safe waste recycled. to training and workplace the international mix of where working practices but despite atmosphere / environment our profits were generated. this reportable accidents rose showed the greatest slightly in the year. improvement. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 25 statement of principal risks and uncertainties The assessment and management of risk is the responsibility of the Board, and the development and execution of a comprehensive and robust system of risk management has a high priority in Rotork. This is based on an established process for the identification and management of risk, first at divisional board level, and then for the Group as a whole. Rotork works within the governance framework set out in our corporate governance statement, see page 38. The Board’s role in risk management • Testing the controls through management updating and implementing appropriate involves promoting a culture that review and internal audit; controls to manage the identified risks. emphasises integrity at all levels of business • Forming a conclusion on the effectiveness We are therefore confident that we have a operations. This includes ensuring that risk of the control environment in place. methodology for ensuring that the Group’s management is embedded within the core approach to dealing with individual risks is processes of the Group, determining the The major risks affecting the Group are first robust and timely. principal risks, (and ensuring that these identified and considered by the divisional are communicated effectively across the boards during their regular meetings. Once We identify three main risk areas: businesses) and setting the overall policies a risk has been identified it is allocated • Financial – issues that could affect the for risk management and control. to one of the directors to ensure the finances of the business both externally risk is appropriately considered and the from matters initially outside of our The Group Finance Director is responsible risk managed. Risks are categorised by control, and from the perspective of for risk management within the Group likelihood and potential impact on the internal controls and processes; and leads the development of the risk business, and once the assessment matrix • Strategic – risks that potentially could management process and the tools used. is completed by each division, the risks affect the strategic aims of the business, The Board approves appetite for risk at are then aggregated and re-evaluated in or those issues that could affect the both Group and divisional level and the relation to the Group as a whole. Identified strategic objectives that the Group is consequential actions in terms of mitigation risks are discussed, and the progress addressing; where possible and appropriate. reviewed at both Rotork Management • Operational – risks arising out of the Board and divisional board meetings operational activities of the Group relating The processes of risk management within during the year. Senior management, in to areas such as logistics, procurement, the businesses involve: association with the full Board of Directors, product development and interaction with • Identification and regular assessment meet twice a year to consider the Group commercial partners. of individual risks at both subsidiary and risk matrix and progress with mitigating divisional level; actions. The external Auditor is invited to The top 11 risks identified in the risk • Reviewing previously identified risks and attend one of the meetings each year. management process are categorised by the effectiveness of mitigation where the three main risk areas identified above appropriate; This is an ongoing process involving regular and are listed in the table below. Potential • Design of controls to mitigate identified assessment of the risks, with clear and impact and mitigation, where possible, is risks; consistent procedures for monitoring, shown for each risk identified. financial RISKS Description Potential Impact Mitigation Volatility of exchange rates. Significant fluctuations in exchange A clear treasury hedging policy rates could have an adverse impact addresses short-term risk and this on Rotork’s reported results. works together with the natural hedging provided by the geographical spread of operations, sourcing and customers. Political instability in a key end-market. Disruption of normal business activity The wide geographic spread of Rotork’s would impact our sales in that country operations and customers diminishes and might ultimately leads to loss of any the impact of any one market. assets located in that country as well. Losses arising from complex and Assuming contractual liabilities which are Rotork has policies in place for the extended scope contracts where risks not covered by insurance could expose authorisation of significant contracts. could be assumed which are beyond the Rotork to significant financial costs. Regular training is given at various levels terms covered by insurance. of the Group on Rotork policies and insurance conditions. 26 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 STRATEGIC RISKS Description Potential Impact Mitigation Competition on price as a result of Where a competitor decides to use cost Rotork already has a direct presence, in an existing competitor moving to savings to reduce their selling prices, terms of production, sales and service manufacture in a lower cost area of this could lead to a reduction in the support, in the major low cost locations. the world. general market price. Rotork might need There is a constant drive to maintain to respond to a change in market price differentiation from the competition both levels whilst still maintaining the price in terms of the quality of our products premium currently enjoyed for some and of the service we provide. products. Not having the appropriate products, In order to be able to compete on a Development of products to meet either in terms of features or costs. project, our products must meet both required specifications is an ongoing the necessary specification and pricing activity as is the drive to take cost out of level. A failure on either count could our products to meet target pricing levels. harm our competitive position. Lower investment in Rotork’s traditional A reduction in capital or maintenance Identification of new markets market sectors. expenditure in one of Rotork’s key takes place in each location and is market sectors would result in a smaller coordinated at divisional level. This is addressable market, which in turn could supported by product development and lead to a reduction in revenue from that innovation to address new markets and sector. new applications in existing markets. Loss of technological leadership. Rotork’s reputation for innovation is Investment in Research & Development one of the elements which underline continues to grow each year across the the Group’s position in the industry. Group. Aside from specific projects, Customer perceptions of Rotork would setting aside time for innovation and be adversely affected over time if sharing ideas is an important means of competitors were seen to be taking fostering new ideas. Recruiting talented the lead in product development. engineers and then investing in their development and training supports these activities. operational RISKS Description Potential Impact Mitigation Quality and application failures in a Actuators are used in applications where Product design and development is hazardous area and/or causing an their failure could result in environmental supported by extensive life cycle and environmental impact. damage. This could lead to financial performance tests and are subject to penalties as well as the loss of a internal quality control procedures. customer and damage of reputation. Major in field product failure arising from Replacement of defective components A comprehensive set of quality control a component defect or warranty issue or complete units would give rise to a procedures operates over suppliers. which might require a product recall. direct financial cost but there would also These include supplier visits, audits and be a reputational risk. a scorecard system to measure their performance. Failure of a key supplier or tooling failure Where customer delivery expectations Dual sourcing for key components at a supplier causing disruption to are not met, this could lead to financial wherever possible with regular planned manufacturing. penalties and damage customer monitoring and replacement of tooling relationships. at all suppliers. Failure of an acquisition to deliver the Whilst growth opportunities, cost savings During the due diligence process growth or synergies anticipated, due and synergies are identified prior to and preparation of the 100 day plan, to incorrect assumptions or changing completion, these may not always be consideration is given to the composition market conditions, or failure to integrate delivered at the levels anticipated or to and skills of the management team. an acquisition to ensure compliance the timetable expected. Training and support is provided by a with Rotork’s policies and procedures. variety of Rotork personnel to ensure effective integration and communication of Rotork’s policies and procedures, whilst monitoring delivery of the financial plan. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 27 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee Chaired by the Group Chief Executive, the CSR Committee has the following sub-committees covering health & safety, the environment, ethics and social issues. ENVIRONMENTAL ETHICS HEALTH & SAFETY SOCIAL ISSUES COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Chaired by the Group Operations Chaired by the Group Chaired by the Group Operations Chaired by the Director. The Environmental Legal Director, the Director. The Health & Safety Global HR Director, Committee has responsibility for: Ethics Committee has Committee has responsibility for: the Social Issues responsibility Committee has • The Environmental Management for the development • Reviewing all accident and responsibility for: System of Group ethics incident reports • Review of all incident reports policies and • Management of Group health & • Social issue policies • Review of environment audit reports procedures. safety • HR policies • Reviewing legislative changes • Reviewing legislative change The committee uses Resource The Committee includes a qualified Futures as the Group’s Environmental health & safety professional. Consultant. The diagram above sets out the Group’s safety, the environment, ethics and social Corporate Social Responsibility structure. issues. The Chief Executive reports to the Rotork Management Board and the Board Each year Rotork summarises its Corporate of Directors on CSR matters. Social Responsibility and reports on the progress that has been made during The Committees act as a focal point for the year and highlights new initiatives further development of the subject matter “ Effective  in this area. We hope that through such disclosure we can enhance the trust people within their remit. Underlying all their work is a determination to embed the Group’s communication place in Rotork, its products and services CSR values within all its activities. and ensure we continue to attract and with all of our retain the best people throughout the These values are contained in our world, including the next generation of vision and mission statement which can stakeholders Rotork leaders. Effective communication be found at www.rotork.com in the with all of our stakeholders ensures we investors section under Our Strategy ensures we obtain obtain feedback which in turn can be used to evaluate and improve our CSR feedback which in performance. Improvements since implementation of this updated structure include a revised ethics turn can be used Rotork believes that responsible business and values statement, a reduced water consumption rate and the introduction to evaluate and is the best business. It can benefit our operational effectiveness and develop and of an annual global charity together with the launch of local charity committees at improve our CSR grow our industry leading products and services as well as build on the trust of most of our overseas subsidiaries. Rotork performance ” stakeholders. recognises that the Global Compact is a continuing commitment and is engaged We have been participants of the United in further work in environmental and Nations Global Compact since 2003 labour issues which will lead to a further and are continually striving to embed its performance improvement. principles into our everyday operations as part of our ongoing commitment to CSR. Inclusion in the FTSE4Good index further Since joining the Global Compact, we have demonstrates our strong commitment to made many improvements in a wide range CSR. FTSE4Good assesses its constituents of CSR areas. We now have a developed on environmental management, climate CSR structure including a CSR Committee change, human and labour rights, chaired by the Chief Executive with subsupply chain labour standards, corporate committees currently covering health & governance and countering bribery. We 28 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 have also taken account of the guidelines ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE on social responsibility issued by the Systems and procedures are in place to Association of British Insurers and take gather environmental performance data full account of ethical matters in business and enter the data onto a web based conduct and risk assessment processes. reporting tool. The data gathered includes energy and water consumption, waste As a global business manufacturing generation and recycling and business products used in a wide range of industries travel. In addition, all Rotork manufacturing including water, power and oil & gas, companies are required to separately report we recognise that we affect a significant usage of volatile organic compounds (VOC) number of individuals and businesses and refrigerants (HFC). globally. Through Global Compact, FTSE4Good, ISO 9000 and the other This year’s report includes performance benchmarks we use, we set an example of data from Flow-Quip and Hiller, both good, responsible and effective business. located in the USA and acquired in 2009 and 2010 respectively. The 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL acquisitions will be included in the 2012 The Group’s environmental policy report. applies to the Company and all its subsidiaries worldwide. The policy includes energy consumption commitments to the prevention of Rotork operates an assembly only pollution, compliance with all relevant legal philosophy in all but three of its business and regulatory requirements and to the units relying on specialist suppliers for continuous improvement of environmental most of its manufactured components. performance. The policy was reviewed, In all facilities energy is used for IT systems, revised and reissued in July 2011. lighting, heating and cooling. Exceptions are Rotork Gears BV (Losser), Rotork The Group environmental policy can Sweden (Falun), and Rotork Valvekits UK be found at www.rotork.com in the (Nottingham) where machine processes investors section under Corporate are in operation. In other facilities test Social Responsibility – Environment. equipment is used to ensure the product meets customer operational requirements. This test equipment can consume large In support of the above policy, Rotork’s amounts of energy for short periods of Environmental Management System, which time when in use. Bath employees raised money for is a system of procedures developed to Jeans for Genes minimise the impact of our operations on Energy consumption of electricity, gas the environment, will: and steam is established via utility invoices. • Allocate formal environmental The consumption of liquid petroleum gas responsibilities to ensure compliance (LPG) and oil is gathered via invoices. with legislation; • Support a culture of consultation with In 2011 energy consumption increased employees, key stakeholders and other 10.8% on the 2010 figure. This is due interested parties; to increased business activity, new • Provide environmental information, acquisitions and small fluctuations in guidance and training that meets best climate conditions at some facilities. practice; • Monitor, measure, audit and seek WASTE generation and recycling continuous improvement in its Waste generation includes packaging environmental performance; waste (card, wood and plastic), metal waste (ferrous and non-ferrous), hazardous • Work with external agencies and bodies materials (paint waste, oils and adhesives), to ensure continued adoption of best batteries and waste electrical electronic practice solutions in environmental equipment (WEEE). management; Cees Jacobi, Rotork BV, took part in • Communicate best practice and publish 110km hike organised by the Foundation Rotork’s environmental aspect and internal and external information detailing ‘Omloop Goeree-Overflakkee’ impact assessment completed in 2003 its aims and achievements; established that packaging waste • Foster open communication with generation was the Group’s most significant employees, customers, suppliers and environmental impact. Recycling systems other stakeholders via email and face-towere introduced to reduce this impact face discussion. in 2004; this was followed by a Group recycling key performance indicator (KPI) ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 29 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued of 62% in 2005. To support this KPI a The Group’s 2011 change in water supplier packaging policy was introduced usage measures since 2010 in 2009 to ensure suppliers only used • Water consumption increased by 15% packaging materials compatible to Rotork’s against 2010 results. recycling systems. Rotork does not operate any process that The Group’s 2011 change in consumes large amounts of water, the environmental impact measures increase is seen as a result of fluctuations since 2010 in normal usage and the inclusion of • The Group’s waste recycling performance performance data from new acquisitions. improved from 62% to 76% of the total waste produced (see page 25 for more Carbon Emissions Rotork Controls Canada raised money details). In 2012, a new KPI has been Since 2003, the Group has been for Alberta Cancer Foundation set to take into account the current measuring and disclosing their Scope 1 & performance and acquisitions with the 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG) which aim of recycling 70% of total waste comes from the use of electricity, gas, LPG, generated; oil and steam. • Waste sent to landfill fell by 6%. The Group’s Scope 1 GHG emissions derive Improved recycling and reduction in waste from the consumption of gas, LPG, oil and going to landfill reflects the Company’s through business travel and the transport commitment to reduce this impact on the of goods by Company owned vehicles. The environment. Group’s Scope 2 GHG emissions derive from the consumption of electricity and Legal compliance steam. • Waste Packaging (Producers Obligation) Regulation 2007: Rotork is a member The Group records emissions of greenhouse of the Clarity compliance scheme, gases in accordance with the Greenhouse membership number CPC0009; Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) developed jointly by the World Business Council for • Waste Electrical and Electronic Sustainable Development and the World Equipment Regulations 2006: Rotork is a Resource Institute. member of the ECONO-WEEE compliance “ Improved  recycling scheme, membership number WEE/ JD2053ZR; All Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions are calculated in accordance with the GHG and reduction in • Waste Battery and Accumulator Protocol using conversion factors published Regulations 2009: Rotork is registered by the US Environmental Protection Agency waste going to as a small battery producer, Batteries (EPA), The Department for Environment, Producer Registration Number landfill reflects BPRN01259; Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) and the International Energy Agency (IEA). All Scope the Company’s • Licensed waste carriers are used for the removal of all types of waste from 2 GHG emissions have been calculated using the relevant conversion factor for commitment to Rotork’s facilities and the waste goes to licensed treatment facilities. the territory where energy was consumed, based on the mix of coal, oil, gas, reduce this WATER hydroelectric or nuclear generation used. impact on the Water consumption has been measured Group’s 2011 Scope 1 (excluding business travel or transportation data) by the Group throughout the year to environment ” monitor water efficiency. For the majority & Scope 2 GHG Emissions of sites, water consumption derives from Whilst the Group does not operate any normal operation and sanitary use. The processes that consumes large amount of Group’s water is supplied by local utility energy, the Scope 1 increases are seen providers, except for Rotork’s facilities in as a result of increased business activity, Lucca, Italy and Chennai, India, where the fluctuations in normal usage and new water is metered and extracted direct from acquisitions. boreholes. • Scope 1 GHG emissions increased by A number of our sales offices have less 14% against 2010 results; than five employees and are situated in • Scope 2 GHG emissions increased by shared facilities where water consumption 15% against 2010 results. is not measured separately. Some landlords have assisted Rotork with measuring water consumption, however, we are still in the process of encouraging others to assist. 30 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 Group’s other Emissions Outcomes The Group’s Scope 1 & 3 GHG emissions In 2011 the Group: derive from the use of materials in the • Terminated no contracts on the grounds product, supply chain emissions, business of non-compliance with the Ethics and travel, water usage and generation of waste. Values statement or unethical behaviour; • Commenced work into assessing new and The Group is committed to reporting these existing suppliers on ethical grounds; emissions in its Carbon Disclosure Project • Commenced the development of an (CDP), starting with business travel in 2012 ethical performance survey for all and GHG emissions for the manufacture of employees regarding awareness and products on a progressive basis from 2013. training on ethics and values; Progress • Published an article on ethical issues • Scope 1 & 3 GHG emissions for business in Rotork’s internal global newsletter travel will be disclosed in the 2012 CDP One Rotork; disclosure; • Translated the Ethics and Values • The Group has commenced calculation statement into five Asian languages of GHG emissions for the manufacture including three Indian dialects to enhance of its products. understanding amongst employees and business partners; ETHICS AND VALUES • Had no claims made against it on Human Rights and Ethical unethical or humanitarian grounds; Business • Scored a FTSE4Good rating of 3.8/5 The Group is fully committed to respecting which is above the UK average. internationally proclaimed human rights under the International Declaration of Employees Human Rights and the International Labor The Group has a firm commitment to all Organisation’s standards in all its business of its employees regarding their safety and activities. Implementation of the UN Global development. The Group has an objective Compact’s principles is a demonstration of and fair recruitment process which helps this commitment. to promote equal opportunities across the Group in line with the global respect at The Group has a zero tolerance policy work and equality of opportunity policy. We on forced and child labour and through aim to give employees a voice through an this policy is contributing towards the employee forum where employees can raise effective abolition of child labour. Starting concerns to be dealt with by management. in 2011, the Group has undertaken a It is the Group’s intention to have in place review of its assessment criteria used for similar mechanisms where employees can suppliers during the procurement selection be consulted in its larger locations. process to reflect a range of ethical issues, including human rights. These new criteria The Group supports apprenticeship will be applied to all new suppliers going schemes which helps to increase access forward and over the next year will be into engineering. retrospectively applied to existing major suppliers to ensure they are in compliance. Outcomes All Rotork agents are required to comply In 2011 the Group: with the Rotork Ethics and Values • Had an employee satisfaction survey statement which, amongst other things, score of 3.5 which is equal to 2010. The guarantees a standard of human rights recent growth of the business has meant be adhered to, in accordance with Global more employees were surveyed; Compact principles. • Employed 27 apprentices; The Ethics and Value statement can • Measured its demographics by age in be found at www.rotork.com in the 2011. investors section under Corporate Social Rotork Bath sponsors Judo athlete Responsibility – Ethics and Values. Bribery and Corruption Tom Reed The Group has a zero tolerance policy on bribery and corruption worldwide, which The Group also has a whistleblowing policy applies irrespective of country or business which allows employees to make senior culture. The Group’s Ethics and Values management aware of any wrongdoing in statement published on Rotork’s website the business. It is available on Rotork’s prohibits employees offering, paying or website in the Investors section under Our soliciting bribes in any form. The Group also People. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 31 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued requires all its worldwide agents to sign up to Any deviations observed in the areas of safe this undertaking. The Group’s policy is also working practices, working conditions, or the not to make any political contributions in use of hazardous materials will be pointed cash or kind anywhere in the world. out to the supplier and immediate corrective action sought. All key suppliers are normally The Group’s whistleblowing policy gives qualified to ISO 9000 standards. employees a platform to alert senior management to any suspected bribery or Future audits will be developed to corruption. benchmark the ethical and sustainability standards of the companies within the The Bribery Act 2010 came into force in supply base. A programme is also to be April 2011. The Group has ensured that it developed to retrospectively screen current complies with the Act’s six principles globally suppliers in these areas. by reviewing its procedures and practices and by re-emphasising top level commitment Outcomes to its aims and objectives. During the year, In 2011 the Group: the Ethics Committee undertook a risk review • Had a key supplier base with over 95% to identify major risks for Rotork with respect registered to ISO 9000; to geographical, sectoral and business • Needed to take no action to rectify opportunity risks. The Chief Executive unethical behaviour by suppliers; personally briefed general managers and • Updated supplier audit and assessment senior worldwide sales managers on the methods in respect of ethical issues; Group’s zero tolerance policy. Managers also received presentations on the application • Commenced work into the development of the Bribery Act 2010 and bribery and of retrospective screening of existing corruption. Agents are required to comply major suppliers on the new ethics criteria. with the Ethics and Values statement which encompasses the Bribery Act’s obligations. health & safety The Group’s internal audit processes include Rotork aims to provide a safe working review and monitoring of potential bribery environment for all employees and visitors and corruption risks. to its sites globally. The Group’s health & safety policy, endorsed by the Chief Outcomes Executive, sets out the Group’s requirement In 2011 the Group: to ‘meet or exceed legislation and other • Had no investigations or legal proceedings requirements in the countries in which brought against it for bribery or corruption; Rotork operates’. • Trained general managers and senior sales staff, including training on how to The Group Health & Safety policy can Rotork employees from Rochester, USA effectively train their staff on the provisions be found at www.rotork.com in the supporting a human race event investors section under Corporate of the Bribery Act; Social Responsibility – Health & • Incorporated bribery and corruption audit Safety. procedures as part of its internal audit process. Effective management of our health & Further reinforcement of bribery and safety programme enables us to: corruption training will take place in 2012 • Minimise the risk of injury to our through direct engagement with staff using employees, customers and suppliers and various communication methods. damage to property; • Reduce costs associated with employee Suppliers illness, injury and loss of physical assets; The Group’s outsourced manufacturing model • Reduce the risk of legislative breaches. places a high emphasis on supplier selection A team of Rotork employees from and evaluation. The Group is committed to The Group operates a behaviour-based Rochester, USA provided voluntary work long term relationships with all members safety programme. This requires managers to support a ladies golf tournament within the supply chain. These relationships and supervisors to encourage safe working are reinforced through regular visits, audits, practices by: supplier development and a focus on risk • Promoting regular safety observations by reduction. Values such as integrity, working all staff; conditions and non-use of child labour are • Regularly asking employees for their core to our principles and we actively search suggestions for improving safety at their for the same values from our suppliers. facility; Assurance is sought from suppliers that they uphold all local laws and regulations. 32 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 • Holding employees accountable for of its companies. A schedule of audits observing these practices; is established and approved by the CSR • Providing managing safety courses for Committee. Each Rotork Company is line management; audited against a checklist which has been developed to ensure each Company meets • Regular health & safety training to Rotork exacting standards for health & employees on subjects such as manual safety. Each characteristic on the checklist handling and confined spaces. is compared against stated criteria and scored. A calculation of the overall score In all of our sites, the safety of people gives the company a rating and any and property is of paramount importance. company not achieving the baseline rating Rotork employees are engaged in activities is given limited time to improve. which include manual handling of heavy objects, mechanical lifting, operating All audits are reviewed by the Group’s machinery and driving to suppliers and Health, Safety and Environmental Officer. customers locations. In addition to working All required actions emanating from audits in the Group’s facilities, Rotork Site Service are logged on a database and monitored (RSS) engineers work on customer sites, for correct and prompt completion. which are often inherently more hazardous. To reduce the risks associated with the The results of audits, the ratings of RSS activity additional safe working the companies and the status of audit practices are in place which include: actions are reviewed by the Health & • Site surveys to establish requirements, Safety Committee. The Committee meets measurements and an assessment of quarterly and any actions required as a the potential work area; result of these reviews are recorded in the • Design assessments to identify risks, minutes of the meeting and acted upon. hazards and necessary controls to eliminate, reduce or control the risk to Outcomes a reasonable level; In 2011 the Group: • Method statements detailing the work • Had an AFR outcome of 0.46, 0.1 better that is to be done, the control and than the target of 0.56; equipment that are to be used; • The new AFR target for 2012 will be • Point of work risk assessments, before 0.47. work starts, which must also be reviewed after any period away from the work Details of the Group’s AFR over the past area; five years and how it is calculated is shown • The use of permits-to-work when working on page 25. in hazardous environments such as confined space work; Community Involvement Rotork considers it important to Bath employees took part in the Cardiff • Unannounced internal audits of RSS contribute to and engage positively in the engineers when working on a customer Bay Coast Along walk for WaterAid communities in which it operates. site. In 2011, Rotork has held and participated Three key measures are monitored across in numerous fundraising events for its the Group: accident frequency rate, lost nominated charity, WaterAid. Highlights time rate and incident frequency rate. By over the last year include: monitoring the results of these measures • All Rotork Sweden employees donated we are able to identify areas of strong cash in lieu of the annual Christmas gift performance which can then be shared from Rotork; across the Group and areas of weakness which may require additional resources • Rotork Malaysia sold t-shirts; and training. • Rotork Italy held a charity lottery and a charity football match; The Group’s second non-financial Key • A team of UK employees took part in Performance Indicator (KPI) is its Accident Coast Along, a 10km trail around Cardiff Mehbrihit Kalay drinking water from the Frequency Rate (AFR). The target for this Bay, Wales. school’s tapstand, Mai Gbitsi, Ethiopia KPI is calculated as an average of the past Photographer Credit: WaterAid / Marco Betti three year’s AFR performance, the target The Group donated £90,000 to WaterAid for 2011 was 0.56. and a further £19,000 was raised from employee fundraising. The Group will In addition to monitoring accidents, Rotork continue to support WaterAid in 2012 and undertakes health & safety audits of all sponsor its Jeldu Woreda Solar Powered ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 33 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued water project in Ethiopia, which will improve • Rotork is sponsoring Judo athlete Tom access to clean drinking water, provide Reed’s bid to be included in the Great education and promote good sanitation Britain Olympic team. practices. In addition, in 2012, Rotork is looking to set up its own global charity Rotork has forged links with local initiatives. universities, colleges and schools in a number of the locations where it operates. Rotork also believes it is important to It also sponsors students to go into higher be a good neighbour by working in the education in India in addition to sponsoring community. We regard this as part of our a school there. Rotork is the industry ongoing responsibilities as a corporate member of the Bath Education Trust, entity and seek to be regarded as a good which has as its objectives educational corporate citizen. One of the ways the advancement in local schools and the Group does this is by having local Charity promotion of community cohesion. Committees at each of its sites which The Bath Education Trust has provided donate to local charities. This empowers Rotork with an opportunity to further local employees to decide how to distribute develop local links. Staff hold sessions the funds in their local communities. During for students providing experience through 2011, £70,000 was donated by the local courses intended to develop skills such Charity Committees. For example, Rotork as negotiating, presenting, project Milwaukee, USA donated school supplies management, conducting meetings and to fill 50 rucksacks to be distributed financial management. to children from the Silver Spring Neighborhood Center, a non-profit social Rotork has a representative who is a service agency which supports Wisconsin’s member of the Industrial Advisory Board largest low-income housing development as for the Mechanical Engineering Department well as surrounding communities. of Bath University. Rotork is also a member of an initiative of the Engineering Individual employees or groups of Development Trust and sponsors a science employees also engage in community project currently being undertaken by pupils activities and the Charity Committees in the sixth form of a local Bath school. will normally match monies raised by employees who undertake charitable events personally. Highlights from 2011 include: • Employees from Rochester, USA, hosted a game of Penny Wars, a popular North American method of fundraising. All proceeds went to the American Cancer Society with the Group matching the Rotork employees ran the 10k Leeds funds; Peter France Chief Executive race to raise money for the Jane • Rotork Thailand donated cash to primary 27 February 2012 Tomlinson Appeal schools in Loey province in Thailand to enable them to host a lunch function, as well as purchase sports equipment in order to promote health and wellbeing; • Employees based in Shanghai volunteered in a local school which helps disabled children; • A Rotork Canada team took part in the CE Franklin 3 on 3 Hockey Challenge, which raised $155,000 for the Calgary Health Trust; • The Group was a main sponsor of a charity football match in Bath, UK; Rotork Controls, Inc. Rochester sponsored Bivona Child Advocacy Center 34 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 ROTORK MANAGEMENT BOARD GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 The Rotork Management Board (RMB) is the executive committee of Rotork responsible for ensuring the development, implementation and execution of Group strategy. The RMB meets bi-monthly during the year. Biographies for the following RMB members appear on page 36 Peter France Chief Executive, Jonathan Davis Finance Director, Bob Arnold President, Rotork Controls Inc, Graham Ogden Group R&D Director Grant Wood Alex Busby David Littlejohns Carlos Elvira MD Rotork Controls MD Rotork Fluid Systems MD Rotork Gears Group Sales & Marketing Grant joined Rotork in 2006 Alex joined Rotork in 1985 and David joined the engineering Director as Director of Rotork Site in 1989 he went to a company design department in 1985 and Carlos joined in 1981 as the first Services before being appointed in the same industry holding he moved to Rochester, USA in Graduate Trainee in International as Managing Director of the various management roles in 1996 as an engineer. He moved Sales. He became International Controls Division and joining Asia and Europe. He rejoined into sales before becoming Sales Manager in 1989. In the RMB in March 2011. Rotork in 2003 as Business General Manager in California. 1999 he became Controls Sales Before joining Rotork Grant Development Manager, and In 2006 he was appointed & Marketing Director and joined gained considerable experience then was Business Development Managing Director of the Gears the RMB. In January 2011, he in the utility, financial and energy Director, before becoming Division and joined the RMB. was appointed Group Sales & sectors. Managing Director of Rotork Marketing Director. Fluid Systems and joining the RMB in 2008. Alastair Spurr Stephen Jones Mark Williams Pamela Bingham Group Operations Director Group Legal Director Global HR Director Group Business Development Alastair joined Rotork in 2005 Stephen joined Rotork in 1999. Mark joined Rotork in 2007 as Director as Operations Director of the He is Group Legal Director Bath HR Manager before being Pamela joins Rotork as Group Controls Division and he was and Company Secretary and promoted to Global HR Director Business Development Director appointed Group Operations joined the RMB in 2007. He in 2009. He joined the RMB and the RMB in March 2012. Director and joined the RMB is a Solicitor and has held at the beginning of 2012. Prior She has gained a wealth of in January 2011. Before joining positions in the engineering and to joining Rotork, Mark has experience in Legal, Commercial Rotork, Alastair held positions construction industries as well held various HR positions in and Business Development within the engineering, as in private practice. the automotive manufacturing roles. Pamela has worked in construction and retail sector and transport industries. engineering, rail, renewable industries. energy and oil & gas sectors. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 35 BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors comprises of the Chairman, the three independent non-executive directors and the four executive directors. Executive Peter France Jonathan Davis Chief Executive5 Finance Director Peter was appointed as Chief Executive Jonathan joined Rotork in 2002 after of Rotork p.l.c. in 2008 and is a member holding a number of finance positions in of the Nomination Committee. He joined listed companies. He gained experience Rotork in 1989 as an Inside Sales of the Rotork business initially as Group Engineer. In 1998 he was appointed Financial Controller and then as Finance Director and General Manager at Rotork Director of the Controls Division. He was Singapore before becoming Managing appointed Group Finance Director and Director of the Fluid Systems Division and joined the Board of Rotork p.l.c. in April then Chief Operating Officer. 2010. Key Graham Ogden Bob Arnold Audit Committee n  Research & Development Director President of Rotork Controls Inc. JE Nicholas (Chairman), G Bullard, IG King Graham has been with Rotork Bob was appointed to the Rotork p.l.c. since 1985. Graham leads product Board in 2001. Prior to joining Rotork Bob 5Nomination Committee development including Rotork’s award worked in the USA as a Design Engineer in RC Lockwood (Chairman), G Bullard, winning IQ series. He was appointed the Nuclear Valve Group. He joined Rotork IG King, JE Nicholas, PI France to the Controls Divisional board in 1997 Controls Inc. in 1978 as Engineering as Research & Development Director Manager subsequently becoming Vice Remuneration Committee g  and joined the Board of Rotork p.l.c. President, Engineering. He was appointed G Bullard (Chairman), IG King, in January 2005. President of Rotork Controls Inc. in 1988 JE Nicholas and has responsibility for all Rotork’s interests in the Americas. 36 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 Non-executive Roger Lockwood Ian King Chairman5 Non-executive Director n5g Roger has been a non-executive director Ian joined the Board in February 2005 of Rotork since joining the Board in 1988 as a non-executive director. He is Chief and became non-executive Chairman in Executive of BAE Systems plc having November 1998. He is Chairman of the held other senior general management Nomination Committee. He is Chairman positions at BAE Systems and previously of Colston Engineering Services Limited at Marconi. He is a member of the and Hydro International plc and has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination previously held CEO roles in automotive Committees and is the senior and engineering businesses. independent non-executive director. John Nicholas Gary Bullard Non-executive Director n5g Non-executive Director n5g John was appointed to the Board in Gary joined the Board in June 2010 as a 2008 as a non-executive director. He non-executive director. Gary is currently a was previously Group Finance Director of member of the Executive Committee of Tate & Lyle plc and Kidde plc. He is also Logica plc in his role as President Logica a non-executive director of Mondi plc, UK. He is also Founder and CEO of Catquin, Hunting plc and Ceres Power Holdings a company which supports senior female plc and is a member of the Financial executives in furthering or diversifying Reporting Review Panel of the Financial their careers. He previously held senior Reporting Council (FRC). He is Chairman management positions, including sales of the Audit Committee and a member and marketing roles, at IBM and BT Group of the Remuneration and Nomination plc and was a non-executive director of Committees. Chloride Group plc. He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Application of the Principles of the Code and Compliance with its Provisions. This section explains how the Board and its Committees operate and function and how the principles and supporting principles in the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) were applied. Here you will also find specific disclosures and standards required within the provisions of the Code that are applicable to the accounting period applying to this Report and Accounts. Board Effectiveness and appointed to the Board. Further details are met by using the financial systems and Performance of this commitment are included in the applying the procedures, described below, The directors consider that the Board Nomination Committee report. supported by the Group’s system of internal is fully effective and functions well. The control: Chairman and the Chief Executive have Subject to the matter of the number of • Using an appropriate system of worked closely over recent years to ensure independent non-executives referred to accounting records, capable of that the best use of the time and talents of in this paragraph, which the Board is operating with reasonable accuracy the Board are applied at Board meetings. committed to rectifying during 2012, the to be in compliance with local and This has resulted in more open discussion Company considers that it complies with international financial and legal reporting and interaction by the Board rather than the provisions of the Code. The Board requirements. The basis used to spending time on verbal reporting into the does however, continue to believe that as prepare our Group financial statements Board meeting by executive management each of the non-executives are very strong is International Financial Reporting which can be achieved through written and senior individuals with experience of Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the reports. In particular, more time is now international FTSE 100 Boards, sufficient European Union. The Company financial spent on strategic discussion and through strength does in any event currently exist statements and Directors’ Remuneration the year there is a cycle of discussion and on the Board. Report are prepared in accordance with further development and refinement of applicable law and United Kingdom Group strategy. In response to Lord Davies’ Women on Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; Boards report and subsequent requests • Using IFRS to ensure a true and fair Non-executive directors constructively for public statements by FTSE 350 view of the state of affairs of the Group, challenge as well as scrutinise Chairmen on targets, the Company including our profit or loss for the period; management and business performance published a statement which can be • Applying appropriate accounting policies levels. This is done in the context of a accessed on the Company’s website under within the framework of IFRS and unitary and unified Board working together RNS announcements. The statement said ensuring these are consistently applied; for the long term success of the Company. that the Company will endeavour to achieve gender representation in line with the • Making judgments and preparing During the year under review an externally recommendations of Lord Davies’ Report estimates that are reasonable and facilitated Board performance evaluation and confirmed that it has a short term prudent; confirmed that directors are individually objective of having at least one female • Operating within the guidelines of all the satisfied with the quality of information that Board member by the end of 2012, thus disclosure advice provided by UK and they are provided with and feel they are all ensuring at least 25% of our independent international statute; able to fully contribute to Board discussion. non-executives are female. • Considering whether adoption of the going concern basis is appropriate; The Company also in February 2012 Code Compliance Statement • Maintaining robust assurance processes provided further information to Cranfield The Board comprises of the Chairman, and controls over financial reporting University, who were acting on behalf of the four executive directors and the three procedures; government, re-confirming the target for independent non-executive directors • Extending these principles to half-yearly women on the Board and providing further (B.1.1). As Rotork p.l.c. is considered a reports and other reports in the public information on the proportion of women on large company by the Code it is recognised domain. the Board, in senior executive positions and that full compliance would require one female employees in the organisation as a further independent non-executive to be The Board at least annually formally whole. appointed so that half the Board, excluding reviews the effectiveness of the Company’s the Chairman, comprises independent nonrisk management and internal control Internal Control executive directors (B.1.2). system (C.2.1). The review covers Board members recognise their responsibilities to ensure that the statutory financial, operational, compliance and Following recommendations by the risk management controls. The role of requirements to deliver balanced and Nomination Committee the Board has management is to implement and maintain understandable assessments of the decided that it is in the best interests of the internal control and risk management Company’s position are achieved. The the Company that an additional, female systems. The system of internal control is Board is satisfied that these responsibilities independent non-executive director be 38 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 designed to reduce but cannot eliminate Risk Management The Company’s Articles of Association the risks of failure to meet business A continuous process for identifying, provide that one third of the directors shall objectives. Internal control therefore can evaluating and managing the significant retire from office by rotation at each Annual only provide reasonable but not absolute risks faced by the Group continued to be General Meeting (AGM). New directors are assurance in meeting such business applied and developed during the year subject to election by shareholders at the objectives or against material misstatement under review and operated up to the date first opportunity after their appointment or loss. of approval of the Annual Report and (B.7.1). From the 2011 AGM onwards, Accounts. Details of the processes used the Board decided that all directors will be The processes that are used by the Board are explained on pages 26 and 27. subject to annual re-election. In line with to review the effectiveness of this system the Code guidance, non-executive directors of internal control include the following Following the risk identification process are normally appointed for an initial term (C.2.1): the major risks are reported into the of three years, which is then reviewed and Audit Committee and Board by the Group extended for up to a further two three year During the year the Audit Committee: Finance Director. The top 11 risks identified periods (B.7.1). On appointment directors • Monitored and reviewed the effectiveness are described on pages 26 and 27. receive a suitable and tailored induction of internal audit activities; (B.4.1). During the year non-executive • Reviewed and monitored external auditor Internal financial audits are undertaken directors were given the opportunity to independence and objectivity and the on a regular basis by a selected group attend a training seminar directed at their effectiveness of the audit process; of accountants drawn from head office role and responsibilities (B.4.2). There is a and across the divisional businesses and clear division of responsibility approved by • Considered reports from management, geographic centres. All these accountants the Board in writing between the Chairman, internal and external audit on the system participate in a training programme which RC Lockwood, and the Chief Executive, PI of internal financial control and any covers internal audit, best practice and France, that ensures that there is a balance material control weaknesses; control procedures. of power and authority between the running • Received reports on health & safety; of the Board and the executive responsible • Discussed with management the range Work will continue to further embed for the running of the Company’s business of actions taken on issues affecting the internal control and risk management (A.2.1). business that were identified by Board in the operations of the business and to members or in the internal and external further enhance and add to the relevant IG King is the current senior independent audit reports. processes. non-executive director (A.4.1). As senior independent non-executive director IG King All matters are undertaken using a rolling How the Board Operates annually arranges a meeting of the nonagenda programme which is agreed each The Board currently has eight members executive directors without the Chairman year by the Committee. comprising of the Chairman, the three present to appraise the Chairman’s independent non-executive directors and performance (B.6.3). The Board annually Additionally: four executive directors. approves a detailed timetable for each • The Board receives copies of the minutes financial year including dates for all of all Audit Committee meetings and a scheduled Board meetings, of which briefing on all Audit Committee meetings there are usually at least eight, and four by the Committee Chairman; Committee meetings. • The Board reviews the role of insurances in managing risk across the Group; n Directors’ Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings (A.1.2) • The Board regularly receives written and oral reports from management on Board Audit Remuneration Nomination all aspects of production, operations, Meeting Committee Committee Committee financial and risk management matters. No. of Meetings 10 5 3 2 Prior to the year end the full Board, RH Arnold 10 21 n/a n/a following detailed consideration by the Audit Committee, formally reviews the JM Davis 10 51 11 n/a effectiveness of the Group’s system of PI France 10 51 31 2 internal control. GM Ogden 10 21 n/a n/a G Bullard 10 5 3 2 IG King 10 5 3 2 RC Lockwood 10 51 3 1 2 JE Nicholas 10 5 3 2 1 by Invitation ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The timetable also schedules time for business over £10m and all acquisitions • Planning for the orderly succession of meetings of the Chairman and nonin ordinary course of business over £1m. new directors to the Board including executives without the Chief Executive The directors also have powers to issue identifying and nominating for the Board’s present. During the year, Board meetings and buy back the Company’s shares approval suitable candidates to fill nonare scheduled at significant sites other than conferred annually by the shareholders at executive vacancies; the Company’s headquarters in Bath. This the AGM. The decisions which are left to • Recommending to the Board the allows, in particular, non-executive directors management are all those related to the membership of Board Committees. to meet management at these sites and successful operation and management receive presentations from them. During of the Company’s business and in COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP the year under review the Board visited and development and implementation of the The Nomination Committee’s members held Board meetings at its new sales and strategy within the limits set by the Board during the year under review were service centre in Houston, Texas, USA. annually for overall operational budgets and RC Lockwood (who chairs the Committee), A visit to the new factory and RIDEC centre capital expenditure (A.1.1). IG King, JE Nicholas, G Bullard and in Chennai, India is planned for 2012. PI France. The Nomination Committee The Chairman ensures that meetings of comprises of the three independent The Chairman ensures through the non-executives without the executives directors, the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary, that the Board Agenda present are held (A.4.2). All directors Chairman. The majority of the members of and all relevant information is provided have access to the advice and services of the Nomination Committee are therefore to the Board sufficiently in advance of the Company Secretary and through him independent non-executive directors as meetings. The Chairman and Company they can request and obtain independent accepted by the Code (B.2.1). Secretary discuss the Agenda in detail professional advice at the Company’s ahead of every meeting and the Chairman expense where they judge it necessary to The Terms of Reference of the and the Chief Executive always have a discharge their responsibilities as directors Nomination Committee can be review meeting ahead of each Board (B.5.1 and B.5.2). The Company maintains accessed on the Company’s website in meeting. At Board meetings the Chairman appropriate directors’ and officers’ the Investors section under Corporate ensures that all directors are able to insurance cover (A.1.3). Governance Committees (B.2.1). make an effective contribution throughout meetings and every director is encouraged Performance Evaluation to participate and provide opinions for Activities of Nomination Committee For the year under review the Board each Agenda item. The Chairman always commissioned an externally facilitated during the Year seeks to achieve unanimous decisions Board Performance Evaluation. The During the year the Committee considered of the Board following appropriate facilitators did not have any connection with Board succession planning including the discussion of Agenda items. The Board the Company other than providing support need for additional non-executive directors. regularly considers and discusses future on previous evaluations. The evaluation strategy, following submissions on included individual discussions with each The Committee decided to recommend strategy development by management, director by the external facilitators using to the Board that it should search for a at Board meetings. The non-executive a series of questions as prompts for suitable female non-executive director, directors through constructive challenge the discussion. The main findings of the as it considers it is in the best interests and comment help develop proposals on report were circulated to the Board and of the Company to do so taking account strategy at those meetings. discussed. of the balance of skills and experience and diversity, including gender, on the The Schedule of Reserved Matters details The report contained comments on how Board and noting the added dimension a those matters specifically reserved for further improvements could be made female contribution could bring to Board Board decision. The types of decision in the processes to develop corporate discussion. The Committee is currently relate to matters which cannot, or strategy and in the resources available for actively searching for such a candidate. the Board considers should not, be mergers and acquisitions. Following the delegated to the Chief Executive and evaluation, a Group Business Development During the year under review the executive management. They include Director has been appointed to the Rotork Committee considered the report of approval of Group commercial strategy Management Board to focus on these Lord Davies entitled Women on Boards. and succession planning, approval of issues. The Company also published its aims Group annual operating and capital for the percentage of women on its expenditure budgets, recommendations Board. The announcement stated Share Capital for payment of the final proposed dividend that Rotork will endeavour to achieve Information on the Company’s share capital and decisions for interim dividends and gender representation in line with the is provided on page 50 of the Directors’ dividend policy, approval of the Annual recommendations of Lord Davies’ report. Report. Report and Accounts and announcements It added that Rotork has a short-term of final and interim results, ensuring sound objective of having at least one female Nomination Committee internal control and risk management, Board member by the end of 2012, thus Responsibilities executive director remuneration, corporate ensuring at least 25% of its independent • Reviewing regularly the composition of governance matters including Board and non-executive directors are female. The the Board and making recommendations Committee performance appraisals, Board announcement also stated that Rotork to the Board on any desired changes; and Committee membership, approval of anticipates its cooperation with numerous material contacts in the ordinary course of universities, apprentice schemes and 40 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 secondment programmes will promote The Committee operates under formal Auditors handling of key accounting gender diversity, leading to a better pipeline Terms of Reference and these are reviewed judgements; responses to questions from of appropriate female senior executives. annually. The Committee considers that it the Committee and feedback about the Rotork was commended in the Women has discharged its responsibilities as set conduct of the audit from key finance on Boards six month monitoring report out in its Terms of Reference to the extent personnel within the Company; published in October 2011 for its declared appropriate during the year. There were no • The current audit partner having target for women on the Board. changes to the Terms of Reference in the served for five years retires by rotation year under review. following the 2011 audit. After carefully During the year the Committee received considering whether to change auditors, updates from the Chief Executive on The Terms of Reference of the Audit the Committee decided to continue with management structure changes and Committee are available to view on KPMG and appoint a replacement audit executive appointments as well as Rotork’s website in the Investors partner; management succession planning and section under Corporate Governance Committees (C.3.2 and C.3.3). • The Committee having considered all talent and development programmes. relevant matters, has concluded that it is satisfied that auditor independence Audit Committee Specific matters reviewed by the and objectivity has been maintained. Main Responsibilities Committee during 2011 included: As such, the Committee does not • Reviewing the effectiveness of the consider that it would be appropriate Company’s financial reporting, internal Financial Reporting at this time to put the audit out to control policies and procedures for the • Reviewing the appropriateness of the tender but will continue to keep this identification, assessment and reporting Group’s financial statements including under review having discussed the of risk; considering significant financial reporting European Commission Green Paper • Reviewing significant financial reporting judgements made by management, and FRC proposals on Effective issues and judgements; taking into account the reports received Company Stewardship. Following these from the Group Finance Director and • Monitoring the integrity of the Company’s considerations the Committee made a the external auditors and ensuring the financial statements; recommendation which was accepted by compliance of the financial statements • Keeping the relationship with the the Board that resolutions to re-appoint with International Financial Reporting auditors under review, including the KPMG Audit plc be proposed at the 2012 Standards and UK company law; terms of engagement, fees and their AGM; • Reviewing and recommending approval independence; • Review of the representation letter; of the annual financial statements • Monitoring the role and effectiveness including the statements on corporate • A policy that formalises the arrangements of the internal audit function. governance, internal controls and risk regarding the provision of non-audit management and the half year and services provided by the auditors and COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP interim management statements; sets out the procedures for the preThe Audit Committee of the Board is approval of such services is reviewed • Reviewing and recommending the going currently comprised of three non-executive annually. All non-audit services provided concern statement. directors, JE Nicholas, IG King and by the auditors are pre-approved by G Bullard. JE Nicholas was Chairman of the either the Group Finance Director or the External Auditors Committee throughout the year. There were Committee Chairman under delegated • Reviewing the effectiveness, therefore three independent non-executive approval authorities from the Committee. independence and objectivity of the directors who were members of the Audit The breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditors and the external audit Committee at all times throughout the external auditors, including the split process. The Committee oversees year (C.3.1). The Board is satisfied that at between audit and non-audit fees, is the relationship with the external least one member of the Committee, JE included in note 8 on page 71 to the auditors including reviewing the auditor Nicholas, has recent and relevant financial financial statements; engagement letter, considering the experience having served as the Finance audit fees and the appointment of the • Consideration of the risk of KPMG, as Director of a large listed company. He is Auditor (C.3.6).The Committee makes external auditor, leaving the market; also a member of the Financial Reporting recommendations to the Board, for • Reviewing external audit findings; Review Panel of the Financial Reporting shareholder approval at the AGM; Council (FRC). The Finance Director, the • Discussing with the auditors the Chief Executive, the Chairman and the • Representatives from the Auditor, report appropriateness of accounting policies, external auditors normally attend meetings. to the Committee on their independence estimates and judgements; and objectivity and the mechanisms • Discussing the external auditors views on employed to ensure this is maintained; the control environment including fraud Activities of the Audit Committee during the year • In considering whether the audit risk management; The Committee met five times during the had been effective, the Committee • At least once during each financial year year. An annual Rolling Audit Committee considered whether the auditor had the Committee meets with the external Agenda is reviewed at each meeting and met the agreed audit plan for 2011 auditors, separately, without executive ensures that all matters within the Audit including any work undertaken to address management present. This provides Committee’s Terms of Reference are any changes in perceived risks; the an additional opportunity for an open appropriately covered. robustness and perceptiveness of the exchange of views and feedback. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Internal Control Remuneration Committee Capital Markets Day • Reviewing the effectiveness of the The work of the Remuneration Committee This was held in November 2011 in Group’s system of internal controls and is described in the Remuneration Report UBS offices in London and provided an risk management including fraud risk on pages 43 to 49. The Chairman and opportunity for shareholders and analysts management; the Chief Executive were invited to and to meet and receive presentations from the • Monitoring and reviewing the did attend all meetings but both were not Rotork Management Board including the effectiveness of internal audit in attendance when their own fees and executive directors and also to have access activities, which included: a review of remuneration respectively were considered to the Chairman and two independent the internal audit terms of reference; (D.2). non-executive directors who also attended; audits carried out; the results thereof and management’s response and the Relations with Shareholders Survey of Major Shareholders programmes and resourcing for 2011 Communication with shareholders is given During the year, the Board instructed and 2012; high priority. The Board recognises the its Corporate Advisors to contact the importance of shareholder engagement main shareholders independently of • The internal audit function is undertaken and welcomes the introduction of the UK management to confirm they were content by members of the Group’s finance Stewardship Code and fully supports the with the level of disclosure provided. Their departments who all have other distinct practice of ongoing constructive dialogue findings were reported to the Board; posts. Further detail is provided in the with institutional holders. All members of Internal Control section. The Finance the Board receive copies of all analysts’ Non-Executive Meetings Director is also Head of Internal reports of which the Company is made The Company Secretary has written Audit. This method of internal audit is aware. The Board receives non-attributable to major shareholders inviting them to reviewed annually by the Committee. comments from analyst meetings and meetings with the non-executives and to The Committee remains satisfied with shareholder meetings after both interim provide feedback on the current levels the arrangements which ensure a and final results (E.1.1) and other updates of Board contact with the Company comprehensive internal audit programme from its corporate advisers. The Chief and communication to non-executives. is undertaken across the Group; Executive reports at each Board meeting Responses indicated major shareholders • Monitoring the effectiveness of the upon his meetings with analysts, fund are satisfied with current levels of contact; risk management process, including managers and shareholders (E.1.2). an annual review of all key Group risks AGM identified and mitigating controls; Specific examples of shareholder All the directors attend the AGM and • Monitoring the effectiveness of the engagement during the year under review are available to take questions from Group’s system of internal controls are detailed below: shareholders. The Notice of AGM is including reviewing significant internal communicated to shareholders at least audit reports and findings; Full Year and Half Year Announcements 20 working days prior to the meeting. • Monitoring health and safety The Chief Executive and Group Finance At the AGM, where a vote has been taken performance data and receiving reports Director attend with the Chairman and on a show of hands, all votes are counted from the Rotork Management Board provide opportunities for meetings with and are clearly displayed on a screen member responsible for health and safety fund managers and analysts; detailing the number of votes for, against practice and procedures. and withheld in relation to resolutions and Investors Meetings copies of the proxy votes are available to Other Matters The Chief Executive and Group Finance shareholders at the end of the meeting; • A review of new regulations and Director regularly meet investors. This governance regarding the operation and year over 100 meetings in person Other shareholder information responsibilities of audit committees; have occurred with shareholders, fund Rotork’s website includes information managers and analysts. Throughout the and updates for all investors. Individual • A review of whistleblowing policies; shareholder enquiries are also addressed year, teleconferences are also arranged • A review of Group policies in place with these parties including following by the Company Secretarial Department. regarding the employment of previous the announcement of the two interim external audit staff. management statements in the first and second half of the year. Investor and analyst roadshows have been held throughout the year under review in London, Edinburgh, Norway, Boston, New York, Chicago and Toronto providing the opportunity for investors to meet the Group Finance Director and the Chief Executive; 42 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE 35 52 5 Audited Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 Remuneration Committee Role and Executive Directors’ Contracts of Non-Executive Directors Responsibilities Employment Non-executive directors are offered • The Remuneration Committee is a RH Arnold, JM Davis, PI France and GM engagement agreements of usually Committee of the Board; Ogden all have rolling service contracts with three years duration, subject to earlier a one year notice period (D.1.5). termination by either party on three • The principal role of the Committee is The most recent executive director service months’ notice, with no provision for any to determine the framework and policy contracts contain provisions which limit compensation payment on termination. for remuneration of the Chairman and payments on termination to basic salary executive directors; with employer rights to require phased The fees of the non-executive directors, • Within the agreed policy, the Committee payments. For future executive director other than the Chairman, are determined determines individual remuneration appointments, the Board’s intention will be by a Board Committee of the Chief packages for the Chairman and executive to continue to limit service contracts to one Executive and the Chairman. The fees directors, including the terms of any year on a rolling basis. of the Chairman are determined by the discretionary share schemes in which Remuneration Committee. executive directors may be invited None of the executive directors have any to participate, taking account of the external directorships with the exception level of remuneration for other Rotork of PI France who is a director of Bath Management Board members and being Education Trust for which he receives sensitive to remuneration conditions no fee. throughout the Group (B.2.2.); • Agreeing the terms and conditions to be included in service agreements for n Executive Directors’ Contracts of Employment executive directors, including termination Name of Date of Contractual payments (B.2.2.). executive service Notice period Notice period retirement director contract from Company from director date This report is presented to shareholders by the Board at the AGM for approval. RH Arnold 28/5/2002 1 year 1 year 18/8/2016 The auditor is required to report on the information concerning directors’ JM Davis 1/4/2010 1 year 1 year 8/3/2031 emoluments, long-term incentive plan and PI France 2/5/2008 1 year 1 year 6/4/2033 other share awards and pension disclosures. GM Ogden 1/1/2005 1 year 1 year 9/1/2017 The full Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee can be found on Rotork’s website, in the Investors n Non-Executive Directors section under Corporate Governance Notice period from Committees (B.2.1) Name of Date of letter Notice period non-executive non-executive of appointment from Company director Committee Membership The Remuneration Committee is currently G Bullard 16/6/2010 3 months 3 months comprised of three independent nonexecutive directors, G Bullard, IG King IG King 31/1/2011 3 months 3 months and JE Nicholas (B.2.1). G Bullard is the RC Lockwood 1/1/2011 3 months 3 months Chairman of the Committee. The Company Secretary advises the Committee and is JE Nicholas 21/2/2011 3 months 3 months secretary to the Committee. The Global Human Resources Director is invited to Remuneration Committee meetings, where executive director salary levels are set, to assist the Committee and inform them of pay awards throughout the Group. The Chairman and the Chief Executive are invited to attend the meetings of the Committee, other than when their own remuneration is considered. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 43 REMUNERATION REPORT continued n Base salary and incentive package OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Performance Element How this supports the strategy period Opportunity 2011 Performance measure Base Salary Reflects the role and the sustained Not applicable Not applicable Benchmarked against companies value of the individual in terms of of a similar size and complexity skills, experience and personal and other companies in the same contribution. industry sector. Reviewed annually from 1 January. Annual Cash Drives and rewards performance One year 125% of base For 2011, annual targets were Bonus against annual financial and salary of the Chief based on increase in profit, and operational goals which are Executive and 100% earnings per share (EPS) cash consistent with the medium to longfor other executive generation and certain nonterm strategic needs of the business. directors. financial targets. Long Term Incentivise long-term value creation Three years 100% of base One half on EPS compared with Incentive Plan (LTIP) and alignment with shareholder salary for the Chief Retail Price Index (RPI) growth. interests. Drive and reward delivery Executive and other of sustained long-term EPS and executive directors. One half on relative TSR compared total shareholder return (TSR) with a comparator group. performance. Remuneration Policy payable as cash or share awards under the pension, car and fuel, or car and fuel For the year under review, the Board annual cash bonus scheme and long-term allowance, constitute fixed pay. continued to consider that it was critical incentive plans respectively. that the Company had remuneration In recommending the level of remuneration policies that enabled it to motivate, retain Executive Remuneration for executive directors, the Committee and, when required, recruit high quality The remuneration packages of each took account of the size and nature of management. Levels of remuneration are individual director currently include basic the Company, including its international set to be sufficient to meet these objectives salary, an annual cash bonus, benefits scope, using peer group comparators but should not be excessive. There should in kind (car and fuel, or car and fuel identified using total revenue and be strong alignment with attainment of allowance, and private medical insurance market capitalisation data supplied by its performance objectives and the delivery of for employee only), membership of the independent remuneration consultant and value for shareholders. all employee Rotork Share Incentive Plan advisor PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). (SIP) or Overseas Profit-Linked Share The Committee considers it important Scheme (OPLSS), discretionary Rotork PwC’s other connections with the Company that a significant proportion of executive LTIP and the offer of participation in a are limited to the provision of actuarial directors’ potential total remuneration is Rotork Group pension scheme. Further advice for the LTIP calculations, associated dependent on attainment of demanding details of all elements of each individual LTIP accounting advice and a limited performance related (B.1.1) short and director’s remuneration package are set out amount of other corporate advice including longer term targets. This is demonstrated elsewhere in this report and summarised UK computation and other tax advice, due by the percentage of basic salary potentially above. Salary and benefits including diligence work on acquisitions and one subsidiary external audit. Base Salary n Breakdown of DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS Fixed elements of remuneration including FOR DIRECTORS IN OFFICE AT 31 December 2011 base salary are designed to be competitive but not excessive. This avoids building RH Arnold unnecessary current and future costs into 51% 4% 45% the business. JM Davis 49% 4% 44% 3% PI France 44% 5% 49% 2% GM Ogden 51% 4% 45% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% n Salary n Benefits Pension Supplement n Bonus 44 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 Executive Bonus During the year under review the bonus The scheme provides the Remuneration The executive annual cash bonus is payment for directors other than the Chief Committee with discretion to withhold focused on delivery of strategically Executive was limited to 100% of basic bonus where, in exceptional circumstances, important performance measures. These salary. The Chief Executive’s bonus was there is evidence of misstatement or include demanding financial and nonlimited to 125% of basic salary. misconduct. financial business related objectives. n 2011 BONUS PAYOUT AS PROPORTION OF MAXIMUM The bonus rewards increases in profit, in two parts. One half is based on the Annual Profit 100% Target average profit over the three immediately preceding years and the other half is based Three Year Profit Target 91% on performance against an annual profit EPS target. Growth Target 100% Cash Generation The plan additionally rewards high levels of Target 34% free cash generation and growth in EPS. Waste Recycling 100% Target The final element of bonus payable is Accident 100% based on non-financial targets where Frequency Target objectives will be set annually. 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% All Employee Share Awards to below. Free shares awarded to all three options under the scheme at an option Executive Directors 5 UK executive directors under the SIP are price of £8.11. On 6 October 2008 JM In common with all eligible employees, subject to the HMRC upper limit of £3,000 Davis was granted 1,301 shares at an UK based executive directors receive an by value. This limit also applies to option price of £7.72. These options are entitlement to ordinary shares under The RH Arnold under the OPLSS for the year all exercisable five years from grant. The Rotork Share Incentive Plan (SIP) which under review. exercise period is six months after which is approved by Her Majesty’s Revenue the options lapse. and Customs (HMRC). Under the SIP RH Arnold, in common with other eligible and Rotork Overseas Profit-Linked Share overseas employees, participates in the The only other changes in the directors’ Scheme (OPLSS) an aggregate total OPLSS. The scheme trustee is based in interests post year end relate to shares of up to 5% of profits are distributed Jersey, Channel Islands. The figure shown purchased by the UK based directors to employees each year in the form for RH Arnold relates solely to OPLSS. monthly under the SIP partnership plan to a of ordinary shares. The distribution is maximum £125 per month. calculated by reference to years of service UK based executive directors, in common and basic salary. The beneficial interests with other eligible UK employees, have the Save as disclosed on page 48, no director of the executive directors at 31 December opportunity to invest in the HMRC approved or his family had any interest in the shares included ordinary shares held under the Rotork Sharesave Scheme. PI France, GM of the Company at 31 December 2011. SIP and the OPLSS in trust as shown in Ogden, and JM Davis participate in the the table below. Details of total free share Scheme. PI France was granted 1,179 awards under the SIP and OPLSS and share options at an option price of £13.10 awards made to executive directors in on 5 October 2010. On 28 September 2011 and the prior year are set out 2007 GM Ogden was granted 2,071 share n Free SIP and OPLSS Share Awards to Executive Directors 5 Free SIP and OPLSS Share Awards Awards in Total Awards Held Executive Directors 2011 2010 2011 2010 RH Arnold 169 209 394 583 JM Davis 169 209 2,203 2,034 PI France 169 209 3,969 3,800 GM Ogden 169 209 4,149 3,980 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 45 REMUNERATION REPORT continued n Directors’ Emoluments (£000) 5 for Directors in office at 31 December 2011 Salary and Pension 2011 2010 fees Bonus Benefits* Supplement Total Total Executive directors RH Arnold¹ 222 196 17 – 435 397 JM Davis2,3 240 213 17 20 490 284 PI France2 375 417 17 41 850 755 GM Ogden 186 165 17 – 368 327 Non-executive directors G Bullard4 42 – – – 42 15 IG King 44 – – – 44 43 RC Lockwood 113 – – – 113 100 JE Nicholas 42 – – – 42 41 Total 1,264 991 68 61 2,384 1,962 1. RH Arnold is paid in US dollars. 2.  I France and JM Davis are subject to the Rotork p.l.c. Pension and Life Assurance Scheme specific salary cap. P In consideration of this limitation on their benefits under the scheme they receive a monthly cash sum equal to 22.5% and 18.0% respectively of that part of their basic salary above the scheme’s specific cap on an annualised basis. 3. JM Davis was appointed on 1 April 2010. 4. G Bullard was appointed on 25 June 2010. * Includes the cash value on allocation of SIP and OPLSS share awards as appropriate. Rotork Long Term Incentive the relevant full performance period and Rotork Long Term Incentive PlanS 5 the Company’s relative TSR against a Plan (2010) Rotork’s Long Term Incentive Plans (LTIP) comparator group of companies places it in In 2010 shareholders approved the Rotork reward the creation of shareholder value at least the 50th percentile position in the Long Term Incentive Plan (2010). Awards as a strategic priority. Performance is comparator group at the end of the relevant under the 2010 Plan are subject to a measured over a three year period using performance period. TSR measures the three-year performance period. a combination of EPS, growth and relative change in value of a share and reinvested TSR compared to a comparator group. dividends over the period of measurement. One half of the award (currently comprising The actual number of shares transferred shares to a maximum initial value of 50% In the year under review awards of 100% will be determined by the number of shares of basic salary) is subject to a relative TSR of basic salary were made to directors initially allocated, multiplied by a vesting performance condition measured against under the Rotork Long Term Incentive Plan percentage which for awards granted from a comparator group of companies. 2010 (the 2010 Plan). The maximum 2006 is 30% at the 50th percentile rising award under the 2010 Plan is 150% of to 100% at the 75th percentile with each There would be proportionate vesting for basic salary per annum. This maximum percentile position above the 50th adding performance which falls between the 50th was introduced taking account of current 2.8% to the vesting percentage. and 75th percentile TSR rankings shown market practice and the ten year life of the opposite. Prior to any vesting, however, Plan to introduce flexibility although the Under the 2000 Plan the Company’s the Committee will need to be satisfied Committee has no current plans to utilise EPS is also monitored during the relevant that the recorded TSR performance is a this increased headroom. performance period to ensure it meets a genuine reflection of the Company’s overall minimum average annual growth equal underlying financial performance. Rotork Long Term Incentive to the rise in the RPI plus 2% per annum. Plan 2000 Failure to meet this RPI plus 2% per The remaining half of the award (currently From 2000 to 2009 LTIP Awards were annum requirement will result in nil vesting. comprising shares to a maximum initial made under the Rotork LTIP (the 2000 The relative TSR against a comparator value of 50% of basic annual salary) will Plan). The 2000 Plan is a performance group performance measure was chosen be subject to an EPS growth condition share plan under which shares are as it enabled the Committee to select which will be in addition to any increase conditionally allocated to selected a comparator group considered to be in inflation over the same three year period members of senior management at the sufficiently challenging given the historic as measured by reference to the RPI. discretion of the Committee on an annual performance of the Company. A three-year basis. No shares will normally be released performance period applies to awards to participants unless they are still in the granted from 2006. The 2009 award was Group’s service following completion of the last award made to executives under the 2000 plan. 46 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 There would be proportionate vesting n Ranking of the Company’s TSR in the peer group for performance which falls between the RPI + 10% and RPI + 25% EPS growth % of award vesting targets. Below 50th percentile Nil It is the intention of the Committee, when 50th percentile 25% considering whether to make awards under the LTIP each year, to review both the size 75th percentile or above 100% of awards and the performance conditions to ensure that, at the time of an award, they are appropriate and challenging taking into account any guidelines issued by n EPS growth TARGETS organisations representing the interests of institutional shareholders or any other % of award vesting relevant guidelines issued from time to Below RPI + 10% Nil time. The maximum award permitted is 150% of basic annual salary, however there RPI + 10% 15% is currently no intention to exceed 100% of basic annual salary for any participant. RPI + 25% 100% The LTIP grant comparator group of companies applying to outstanding LTIP Awards during 2011 were as set out in n COMPARATOR GROUP OF COMPANIES FOR LTIP AWARDS IN 2011 the table opposite. Bodycote plc Morgan Crucible Company plc From the 2012 LTIP Award the Committee Brammer plc Renishaw plc has decided to replace the current TSR BSS plc1 Senior plc comparative group with a larger group Charter plc2 Smiths Group plc made up of the FTSE 250 (excluding all Cookson Group plc Spectris plc financial companies and investment trusts). Halma plc Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Vesting requirements using the FTSE 250 IMI plc TT Electronics plc as a comparator group will continue to Invensys plc Volex plc be suitably demanding. The Committee Laird plc Weir Group plc has decided to make this change as the Meggitt plc number of companies within the original TSR group was diminishing and suitable 1.  ollowing its delisting in December 2010, BSS plc was removed from the comparator group for outstanding F replacement within a narrow grouping of LTIP Awards in 2011. industrial stocks was becoming challenging. 2. F  ollowing its delisting in January 2012 Charter plc has now been removed from the comparator group for outstanding LTIP Awards. LTIP Awards still outstanding at the time of publication of this report made to executive directors are set out in the table below. n Rotork Long Term Incentive Plans 5 Share Retention Policy Outstanding The Committee recommended and the share or Share or Outstanding Board approved an executive share cash unit cash unit Share or share retention policy which supports the Awards Awards cash unit Awards accumulation of significant shareholdings made to made Awards at 31 in the Company by executive directors and 1 January during vesting in Lapsed in December other senior executives. The policy requires 2011 2011¹ 2011² 2011 2011 executive directors to achieve a minimum holding of ordinary shares in the Company RH Arnold 63,908 12,904 (15,300) (908) 60,604 equivalent to 150% of basic salary for executive directors. Executive directors are JM Davis 22,153 14,076 (3,043) (181) 33,005 required to make use of vesting LTIP shares PI France 100,668 21,994 (27,203) (1,614) 93,845 to meet this minimum target. GM Ogden 52,047 10,888 (15,217) (903) 46,815 All awards were granted on 4 March 2011. The market price of shares in the Company used to calculate the 1.  award was £17.05. 2. The 2008 LTIP Awards vested at 94.4% of Award value. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 47 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Total Shareholder Return n Total Shareholder Return A graph showing the value, on 280 271 31 December 2011, of £100 invested in 248 Rotork p.l.c. on 1 January 2007 compared 240 with the value of £100 invested in the 244 234 FTSE Industrial Engineering Sector Index is 200 shown opposite. The other points plotted 160 156 show values at intervening financial year 120 119 ends. The graph measures the Company’s 101 130 performance against other companies in 80 101 the FTSE Industrial Engineering sector by Rotork p.l.c. 69 showing the TSR on a holding of ordinary 40 shares in the Company compared with the 0 FTSE Industrial average total shareholder return of other Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Engineering Sector companies in its sector being the sector within which the Company is quoted on Rotork p.l.c. Total Return Index vs the Total Return Index of the FTSE Industrial the London Stock Exchange and which is Engineering Sector for the five preceeding financial years ending 31 December 2011 therefore considered the most appropriate (rebased as at 1 January 2007). index over the five-year period to 31 December 2011. Interests in Shares n DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES The interests of the directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company, Director 2011 2010 at 31 December 2011 are shown in the RH Arnold 19,074 18,886 table opposite. JM Davis 13,047 11,298 All interests were beneficial and include directors’ directly held and family share PI France 52,688 43,616 interests and in total represent less than GM Ogden 36,414 28,789 1% (2010: less than 1%) of voting shares of the Company. G Bullard 2,790 2,790 IG King 5,000 5,000 RC Lockwood 2,000 1,000 JE Nicholas 500 500 48 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 Pension disclosures required Increase in accrued Accumulated under the Listing Rules of the pension over the accrued pension at UK Listing Authority 5 Age at year (Note 1) 31.12.2011 (Note 2) The following table shows the executive Director 31.12.2011 £ £ directors’ entitlements earned during the year (net of inflation) and the accumulated RH Arnold 60 723 115,305 entitlement at the year end. JM Davis 45 3,042 15,237 PI France 43 1,213 48,310 GM Ogden 54 3,897 89,752 Notes: 1. The figures shown for the increase in accrued pension over the year exclude any increase for inflation. 2. The accumulated accrued pension is that which would be paid annually on retirement from normal pension age, based on service to 31 December 2011. 3. A lump sum death benefit of four times basic annual salary is payable on death in service. 4. A dependant’s pension of one-half of prospective pension is payable on death in service, and of one-half of pre-commutation pension on death in retirement. 5. Post-retirement increases are applied at the rate of increase of the RPI up to a maximum of 5% per annum, except that for pension benefits in respect of pensionable service up to 15 May 2000 the minimum inflationary increase is 4.5% per annum. 6. The pensionable salary used to calculate benefits in the defined benefit scheme for PI France and JM Davis is restricted to a scheme specific earnings cap which is currently £123,600. 7. The figures shown for RH Arnold are in respect of his membership of the Rotork Controls Inc. pension scheme and a supplemental executive retirement plan so that, in aggregate, the pension arrangements for RH Arnold will provide a pension of at least 60% of uncapped basic salary at age 65. Pension disclosures Increase in required under the accrued Transfer Transfer Directors’ Remuneration pension value of value of Increase Report Regulations 2002 5 during the accrued accrued in transfer The following table shows the executive year pension at pension at value over directors’ entitlements earned during the (Note 1) 31.12.10 31.12.11 the year year and their value at the start and end Director £ £’000 £’000 £’000 of the year. RH Arnold 6,386 1,422 1,610 188 JM Davis 3,645 158 214 56 PI France 3,541 776 934 158 GM Ogden 8,141 2,057 2,471 414 Notes: 1. The figures shown for the increase in accrued pension over the year incorporate the increase for inflation. 2. The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the relevant Technical Actuarial Standards (TASs) published by the Board for Actuarial Standards. 3. The increase in accrued pension and the increase in transfer value over the year for RH Arnold are due to movements in the US dollar relative to sterling. In US dollars, the accrued pension for RH Arnold increased from $168,344 per annum at 31 December 2010 to $179,195 per annum at 31 December 2011 and the transfer value increased from $2,198,000 at 31 December 2010 to $2,503,000 at 31 December 2011. The transfer value of accrued pension for RH Arnold reflects the benefits provided by the US scheme together with a US valuation of these benefits and is therefore not directly comparable with the transfer values for directors in the UK scheme. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 49 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors submit their report which Acquisitions Share Capital incorporates the management report On 22 February 2011 the Group acquired Details of the Company’s share capital required under the Disclosure and all the outstanding issued share capital of including rights and obligations attached Transparency Rules for listed companies Rotork Servo Controles de Mexico S.A. de to each class of share and the ordinary and the audited accounts for the year C.V., its Mexican sales and service agent shares issued during 2011 are set out in ended 31 December 2011 as set out on for £2,000,000. note 16 of the financial statements. 5p pages 54 to 100. In compiling this report, ordinary shares represent over 99.9% of the directors have consulted with the On 8 June 2011, the Group acquired Valco the Company’s total share capital and £1 management of the Group. Valves and Automation AS, its Norwegian preference shares represent less than sales and service agent from Valco Group 0.1% of the Company’s total share capital. Principal Activities AS for £1,911,000. Rotork p.l.c. is a holding company. The The Company’s Articles of Association principal activities of the Rotork Group are On 15 July 2011, the Group acquired contain customary restrictions on the the design, manufacture and support of 100% of the share capital of Centork Valve transfer of shares as applicable only in actuators, systems and related products Control S.L. (Centork) for £3,147,000. certain limited circumstances (e.g. in worldwide. Centork is a manufacturer of electric relation to transfers to a minor). Save for actuators based near San Sebastian, North those provisions there are no restrictions The Rotork Group provides a range of East Spain. on the transfer of ordinary shares in the products, systems and services within capital of the Company other than certain the global flow control markets including On 25 July 2011, the Group acquired restrictions which may be required from those for the motorisation and manual 100% of the share capital of K-Tork time to time by law, for example, insider operation of adaption to industrial valves International Inc. (K-Tork) for £6,518,000. trading law. In accordance with the Model and dampers for isolation duty and K-Tork is a manufacturer of pneumatic valve Code which forms part of the Listing Rules process control applications and other actuators based in Dallas, Texas, USA. of the Financial Services Authority (as products associated with flow and pressure adopted by the Company) certain directors control and diagnostics and gathering On 15 November 2011, the Group and employees are required to seek the of information. It does this through its acquired 100% of the share capital of prior approval of the Company to deal in its Controls, Gears, Fluid Systems and Fairchild Industrial Products Company shares. Instruments divisions. Actuated valves (Fairchild) for £49,532,000. Fairchild is a are major control elements in refineries, manufacturer of high precision pneumatic The Company is not aware of any pipelines, power stations, water distribution controls and power transmission products agreements between shareholders that systems and effluent treatment plants and for a wide range of industries, based in may result in restrictions on the transfer in all industries in which liquids or gases Winston Salem, North Carolina, USA. of securities and/or voting rights. The are transported through pipes. Company’s Articles of Association contain On 30 November 2011, the Group limited restrictions on the exercise of voting A summary of the principal subsidiaries of acquired Prokits Limited based in rights (e.g. in relation to disenfranchised the Group are set out on page 98. Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, UK for shares following the issue of a notice to £1,080,000. Prokits is a designer and shareholders under section 793 Companies The Business Review of the Group is manufacturer of valve adaptor kits and Act 2006). set out on pages 7 to 34. It provides a accessories for the valve industry. balanced and comprehensive analysis The Company’s Articles of Association may of the development and performance Dividends only be amended by special resolution at a of the business during the year under The directors recommend a final dividend of general meeting of shareholders. review and the position at the end of 22.75p per ordinary share (2010: 19.75p) the year. It includes future development for the year, payable on 21 May 2012 to The Company is not aware of any of the business and information about shareholders on the register on 13 April significant agreements to which it is party environmental matters, the Company’s 2012. An additional dividend of 11.5p was that take effect, alter or terminate upon a employees and social and community paid on 24 June 2011, an interim dividend change of control of the Company following issues. The review contains analysis using for 2011 of 14.5p per ordinary share a takeover. financial and non-financial key performance (2010: 12.75p) was paid on 23 September indicators. 2011 and a further additional dividend of Employee Share Schemes 11.5p was paid on 16 December 2011. Shares in the Company’s share schemes The principal risks and uncertainties facing all contain provisions providing voting rights the Group and the Group’s approach to to the scheme trustee. mitigating those risks are set out on pages 26 to 27. 50 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 Notification of Major Interest in Financial Instruments • Prepare the financial statements on Shares An explanation of the Group’s policies the going concern basis unless it is Since the 2010 Directors’ Report, the on the use of financial instruments and inappropriate to presume that the Company has been notified of major financial risk management objectives are Group and the Company will continue interests and voting rights (held directly contained in note 25 to the accounts. in business. and/or indirectly) by the following: Statement of Directors’ The directors are responsible for keeping Responsibility for Preparing the adequate accounting records that % of Voting are sufficient to show and explain the Annual Report and the Financial Name Rights Company’s transactions and disclose Statements AXA Investment The following statement, which should with reasonable accuracy at any time the Manager SA 5% be read in conjunction with the auditors’ financial position of the Company and Statement of Auditors’ Responsibilities, enable them to ensure that its financial Kames Capital 4% included in the audit report, is made with statements comply with the Companies Act a view to distinguishing for shareholders 2006. They have general responsibility for Norges Bank 3% the respective responsibilities of the taking such steps as are reasonably open directors and of the auditors in relation to them to safeguard the assets of the to the financial statements. Group and to prevent and detect fraud Research and Development and other irregularities. Total Group expenditure on Research and The directors are responsible for preparing Development in the year was £5,823,000 Under applicable law and regulations, the Annual Report and Accounts and the (2010: £4,319,000) further details of the directors are also responsible for Group and Company financial statements which are contained in the Business Review preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ in accordance with applicable law and on pages 11 and 12. Remuneration Report and Corporate regulations. Governance Statement that complies Donations with relevant law and regulations. Company law requires the directors to During the year the Company made prepare Group and Company financial charitable donations of £94,000 Directors Statement Pursuant to statements for each financial year. (2010: £87,000) which is part of the the Disclosure and Transparency Under company law they are required to total Group contribution of £163,000 Rules prepare the Group financial statements (2010: £144,000). Each of the directors, whose names and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted functions are listed on pages 36 and 37 There were no political donations made in confirm that, to the best of each person’s by the EU and applicable law and have the year or the prior year. knowledge and belief: elected to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with UK • The financial statements, prepared in Directors accordance with the applicable set of the Accounting Standards and applicable The names of the directors in office during accounting standards, give a true and law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting the year and their biographies and other fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Practice). details including the other significant position and profit of the Group and commitments of the Chairman are as Company; and Under company law the directors must not shown on pages 36 and 37. The interests approve the financial statements unless •The directors’ report includes a fair review of the directors in office, at the end of the they are satisfied that they give a true and of the development and performance financial year, in the shares of the Company fair view of the state of affairs of the Group of the business and the position of the are as shown in the Remuneration Report and Company and of their profit or loss for Group and Company, together with a on page 48. that period. In preparing each of the Group description of the principal risks and and Company financial statements, the uncertainties that they face. RH Arnold, JM Davis, PI France and GM directors are required to: Ogden have service agreements and details • Select suitable accounting policies and The directors are responsible for the of these are contained in the Remuneration then apply them consistently; maintenance and integrity of the corporate Report on page 43. • Make judgments and estimates that are and financial information included on reasonable and prudent; the Company’s website. Legislation in The Company’s procedure with regard • For the Group financial statements, the UK governing the preparation and to the appointment and replacement of state whether they have been prepared dissemination of financial statements may directors and those powers reserved for in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. the Board are described in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 38 to 42. the EU; • For the Company financial statements, At the AGM, all the directors currently state whether applicable UK Accounting in office being RH Arnold, G Bullard, JM Standards have been followed, subject Davis, PI France, IG King, RC Lockwood, to any material departures disclosed JE Nicholas and GM Ogden, will offer and explained in the Company financial themselves for re-election. statements; and ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 51 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Going Concern Auditors After making enquiries, the directors have Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc a reasonable expectation that the Group as auditors and to authorise the directors has adequate resources to continue in to determine their remuneration are to be operational existence for the foreseeable proposed at the forthcoming AGM. future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Annual General Meeting the financial statements. In forming The AGM of the Company will be held at this view, the directors have considered the Company’s offices at Rotork House, trading and cash flow forecasts, financial Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ on Friday 20 commitments, the significant orderbook April 2012 at 12 noon. A separate circular with customers spread across different containing the Notice of the Meeting is sent geographic areas and industries and the to shareholders with this Annual Report and significant net cash position. Accounts. For further information regarding the Company’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments and On behalf of the Board hedging activities; and its exposures to Stephen Rhys Jones credit risk and liquidity risk, see note 25. Secretary 27 February 2012 Creditor Payment Policy While there is no formal code or standard, it is Company and Group policy to settle terms of payment with creditors when agreeing the terms of each transaction and to abide by creditors’ terms of payment provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions. There are no creditors subject to special arrangements outside suppliers’ terms and conditions. The Company does not have any trade suppliers so that a creditor day payment period is not appropriate. Directors’ and Officers’ Indemnity Insurance Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Company’s Articles of Association provide for the directors and officers of the Company to be appropriately indemnified. The Company purchases and maintains insurance for the directors and officers of the Company in undertaking their duties, in accordance with section 233 Companies Act 2006. Disclosure of Information to Auditors The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information. 52 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT GOVERNANCE 35 52 TO THE MEMBERS OF ROTORK PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 We have audited the financial statements Opinion on financial statements • the parent company financial of Rotork p.l.c. for the year ended 31 In our opinion: statements and the part of the December 2011 set out on pages 54 • the financial statements give a true and Directors’ Remuneration Report to be to 100. The financial reporting framework fair view of the state of the group’s and audited are not in agreement with the that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company’s affairs as at accounting records and returns; or of the group financial statements is 31 December 2011 and of the group’s • certain disclosures of directors’ applicable law and International Financial profit for the year then ended; remuneration specified by law are Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted • the group financial statements have not made; or by the EU. The financial reporting been properly prepared in accordance • we have not received all the framework that has been applied in with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; information and explanations we the preparation of the parent company • the parent company financial require for our audit; or financial statements is applicable law and statements have been properly • a Corporate Governance Statement UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally prepared in accordance with UK has not been prepared by the company. Accepted Accounting Practice). Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; Under the Listing Rules we are required This report is made solely to the • the financial statements have been to review: company’s members, as a body, in prepared in accordance with the • the directors’ statement, set out on accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of requirements of the Companies Act page 52, in relation to going concern; the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work 2006; and, as regards the group • the part of the Corporate Governance has been undertaken so that we might financial statements, Article 4 of the Statement on page 38 relating to state to the company’s members those IAS Regulation. the company’s compliance with the matters we are required to state to them nine provisions of the UK Corporate in an auditor’s report and for no other Opinion on other matters prescribed Governance Code specified for our purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 review; and by law, we do not accept or assume In our opinion: • certain elements of the report to responsibility to anyone other than the • the part of the Directors’ Remuneration shareholders by the Board on directors’ company and the company’s members, Report to be audited has been properly remuneration. as a body, for our audit work, for this prepared in accordance with the report, or for the opinions we have formed. Companies Act 2006; and • the information given in the Directors’ Respective responsibilities of directors Report for the financial year for which and auditor the financial statements are prepared As explained more fully in the Directors’ is consistent with the financial Responsibilities Statement set out on statements; and page 51, the directors are responsible for • the information given in the Corporate the preparation of the financial statements Governance Statement set out on AC Campbell-Orde and for being satisfied that they give a pages 38 to 42 with respect to internal (Senior Statutory Auditor) true and fair view. Our responsibility is control and risk management systems to audit, and express an opinion on, the in relation to financial reporting for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, financial statements in accordance with processes and about share capital Statutory Auditor applicable law and International Standards structures is consistent with the on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those financial statements. Chartered Accountants standards require us to comply with the 100 Temple Street Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Matters on which we are required Bristol Standards for Auditors. to report by exception BS1 6AG We have nothing to report in respect of Scope of the audit of the financial the following: 27 February 2012 statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are A description of the scope of an audit of required to report to you if, in our opinion: financial statements is provided on the • adequate accounting records have not APB’s web-site at www.frc.org.uk/apb/ been kept by the parent company, or scope/private.cfm. returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 53 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT for the year ended 31 December 2011 2011 2010 Notes £000 £000 Revenue 2 447,833 380,560 Cost of sales (236,359) (199,742) Gross profit 211,474 180,818 Other income 4 194 83 Distribution costs (4,020) (3,604) Administrative expenses (95,589) (79,513) Other expenses 5 (59) (60) Adjusted operating profit 115,921 99,442 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (3,921) (1,718) Operating profit 2 112,000 97,724 Financial income 7 7,590 6,931 Financial expenses 7 (7,040) (6,800) Profit before tax 8 112,550 97,855 Income tax expense 9 (32,149) (28,334) Profit for the year 80,401 69,521 Pence Pence Basic earnings per share 17 93.0 80.5 Adjusted basic earnings per share 17 96.2 81.9 Diluted earnings per share 17 92.6 80.2 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME for the year ended 31 December 2011 2011 2010 £000 £000 Profit for the year 80,401 69,521 Other comprehensive income Foreign exchange translation differences (2,484) 1,119 Actuarial (loss) / gain in pension scheme (8,499) 1,095 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 207 674 Income and expenses recognised directly in equity (10,776) 2,888 Total comprehensive income for the year 69,625 72,409 54 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET GOVERNANCE 35 52 at 31 December 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 2011 2010 Notes £000 £000 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 10 31,954 25,780 Intangible assets 11 106,784 43,990 Deferred tax assets 12 13,244 11,480 Derivative financial instruments 22 315 – Other receivables 14 1,556 1,290 Total non-current assets 153,853 82,540 Current assets Inventories 13 62,928 48,241 Trade receivables 14 96,734 70,362 Current tax 14 988 2,398 Derivative financial instruments 22 677 918 Other receivables 14 8,461 6,684 Cash and cash equivalents 15 48,557 97,881 Total current assets 218,345 226,484 Total assets 372,198 309,024 Equity Issued equity capital 16 4,338 4,334 Share premium 7,835 7,389 Reserves 13,924 16,201 Retained earnings 198,072 175,927 Total equity 224,169 203,851 Non-current liabilities Interest bearing loans and borrowings 18 229 127 Employee benefits 19 28,142 19,752 Deferred tax liabilities 12 12,782 3,165 Provisions 20 2,218 1,968 Total non-current liabilities 43,371 25,012 Current liabilities Bank overdraft 18 38 – Interest bearing loans and borrowings 18 85 49 Trade payables 21 38,742 30,447 Employee benefits 19 9,624 8,220 Current tax 21 13,225 10,821 Derivative financial instruments 22 614 294 Other payables 21 38,360 26,334 Provisions 20 3,970 3,996 Total current liabilities 104,658 80,161 Total liabilities 148,029 105,173 Total equity and liabilities 372,198 309,024 These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2012 and were signed on its behalf by: PI France and JM Davis, Directors. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 55 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Issued Capital equity Share Translation redemption Hedging Retained capital premium reserve reserve reserve earnings Total Balance at 31 December 2009 4,330 7,033 12,981 1,642 (217) 140,402 166,171 Profit for the year – – – – – 69,521 69,521 Other comprehensive income Foreign exchange translation differences – – 1,119 – – – 1,119 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges – – – – 674 – 674 Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension plans net of tax – – – – – 1,095 1,095 Total other comprehensive income – – 1,119 – 674 1,095 2,888 Total comprehensive income – – 1,119 – 674 70,616 72,409 Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity Equity settled share-based payment transactions net of tax – – – – – 195 195 Share options exercised by employees 4 356 – – – – 360 Own ordinary shares acquired – – – – – (2,876) (2,876) Own ordinary shares awarded under share schemes – – – – – 3,506 3,506 Preference shares redeemed – – – 2 – (4) (2) Dividends – – – – – (35,912) (35,912) Balance at 31 December 2010 4,334 7,389 14,100 1,644 457 175,927 203,851 Profit for the year – – – – – 80,401 80,401 Other comprehensive income Foreign exchange translation differences – – (2,484) – – – (2,484) Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges – – – – 207 – 207 Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension plans net of tax – – – – – (8,499) (8,499) Total other comprehensive income – – (2,484) – 207 (8,499) (10,776) Total comprehensive income – – (2,484) – 207 71,902 69,625 Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity Equity settled share-based payment transactions net of tax – – – – – (196) (196) Share options exercised by employees 4 446 – – – – 450 Own ordinary shares acquired – – – – – (3,185) (3,185) Own ordinary shares awarded under share schemes – – – – – 3,158 3,158 Dividends – – – – – (49,534) (49,534) Balance at 31 December 2011 4,338 7,835 11,616 1,644 664 198,072 224,169 Detailed explanations for equity capital, translation reserve, capital redemption reserve and hedging reserve can be seen in note 16. 56 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS GOVERNANCE 35 52 for the year ended 31 December 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 2011 2011 2010 2010 Notes £000 £000 £000 £000 Cash flows from operating activities Profit for the year 80,401 69,521 Adjustments for: Amortisation of intangibles 3,921 1,718 Amortisation of development costs 732 639 Depreciation 4,479 3,972 Equity settled share–based payment expense 1,251 1,086 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (129) (12) Financial income (7,590) (6,931) Financial expenses 7,040 6,800 Income tax expense 32,149 28,334 122,254 105,127 (Increase) / decrease in inventories (11,402) 489 Increase in trade and other receivables (26,791) (14,503) Increase in trade and other payables 18,537 3,189 Difference between pension charge and cash contribution (2,929) (844) (Decrease) / increase in provisions (436) 385 Increase in other employee benefits 1,692 507 100,925 94,350 Income taxes paid (27,754) (26,186) Cash flows from operating activities 73,171 68,164 Investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment (10,143) (5,034) Development costs capitalised (1,328) (1,018) Sale of property, plant and equipment 274 154 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 3 (59,876) (5,621) Contingent consideration paid (41) – Interest received 694 483 Cash flows from investing activities (70,420) (11,036) Financing activities Issue of ordinary share capital 450 360 Purchase of ordinary share capital (3,185) (2,876) Purchase of preference shares treated as debt – (4) Interest paid (117) (88) Repayment of amounts borrowed (421) (464) Repayment of finance lease liabilities (54) (102) Dividends paid on ordinary shares (49,534) (35,912) Cash flows from financing activities (52,861) (39,086) Increase in cash and cash equivalents (50,110) 18,042 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 97,881 78,676 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 748 1,163 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 15 48,519 97,881 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 57 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 Except where indicated, values in these notes are in £000. Rotork p.l.c. is a company domiciled in England. The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2011 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’). The accounting policies contained below in note 1 and the disclosures in notes 2 to 29 all relate to the Group financial statements. The Company balance sheet can be found following note 29. As the Company has elected to continue reporting under UK GAAP, the applicable accounting policies are contained in note a, and notes b to k relate to the Company’s financial statements. 1. Accounting policies The accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently applied to the years presented, unless otherwise stated. Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Rotork p.l.c. have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU), IFRIC Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention subject to the items referred to in the derivative financial instruments accounting policy below. New accounting standards and interpretations The following amendments to standards or interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the financial year ending 31 December 2011: • IAS 24 (Revised) Related Party Disclosures • IFRIC 14 (Amendment) The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction • IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments Application of these standards and interpretations has not had a material impact on the net assets or results of the Group. Recent accounting developments The following standards and interpretations were issued but are not yet effective and have not been adopted as application was not mandatory for the year (and in some cases not yet endorsed for use in the EU): • IFRS 9 Financial Instruments • IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements • IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements • IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities • IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement • IAS 19 (amendment) Employee benefits The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will not have a material impact on the net assets or results of the Group. Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. In forming this view, the directors have considered trading and cash flow forecasts, financial commitments, the significant orderbook with customers spread across different geographic areas and industries and the significant net cash position. Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year to 31 December 2011. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date control ceases. Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains or losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. 58 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 1. Accounting policies (continued) Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates at the dates the values were determined. Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign subsidiaries are translated to sterling at rates approximating those ruling at the date of the transactions. Differences on exchange arising from the retranslation of the opening net investment in subsidiaries, and from the translation of the results of those subsidiaries at average rate, are reported as an item of other comprehensive income and accumulated in the translation reserve. Any differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity. Translation differences that arose before the date of transition to IFRS in respect of all foreign entities are not presented as a separate component. Revenue Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods or services. Revenue is shown net of value-added tax, returns, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. The Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity and when specific criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities. Revenue from the sale of valve actuators, gearboxes and flow control products is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer in accordance with the contracted shipping terms. Revenue from service work is recognised in the income statement in proportion to the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date. The stage of completion is assessed by reference to surveys of work performed. No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due, associated completion costs, the possible return of goods or continuing management involvement with the goods. Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group. For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: • the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus • the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus • the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree; less • the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the income statement. Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred. Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not re-measured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss. For acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2009, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition, including acquisition costs and the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 59 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 1. Accounting policies (continued) Business combinations (continued) In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under UK GAAP on transition to IFRS. Goodwill is stated at cost or deemed cost less any impairment losses. The carrying value of goodwill is reviewed at each balance sheet date and is allocated to cash-generating units (CGU). An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying value of an asset or its CGU exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. Intangible assets (i) Research & development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred. Development costs incurred after the point at which the commercial and technical feasibility of the product have been proven, and the decision to complete the development has been taken and resources made available, are capitalised. The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Development expenditure has an estimated useful life of five years and is written off on a straight-line basis. (ii) Other intangible assets Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group as part of a business combination are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. The useful life of each of these assets is assessed based on discussions with the management of the acquired business and takes account of the differing natures of each of the intangibles acquired. The assessed useful lives of intangibles acquired are as follows: Order backlog 6 months to 1 year Brands and trademarks 4 to 10 years Customer relationships 2 to 5 years Product design patents 5 to 8 years Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets. Property, plant and equipment Freehold land is not depreciated. Long leasehold buildings are amortised over 50 years or the expected useful life of the building where less than 50 years. Other assets are depreciated in equal annual instalments by reference to their estimated useful lives and residual values at the following annual rates: Freehold buildings 2% to 4% Short leasehold buildings period of lease Plant and equipment 10% to 33% Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation. Certain items of property that had been revalued to fair value on or prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount at the date of that revaluation. Leases Where fixed assets are financed by leasing agreements, which give rights approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased and the capital element of the leasing commitments is shown as obligations under finance leases. Assets acquired under finance leases are initially recognised at the present value of the minimum lease payments. The rentals payable are apportioned between interest, which is charged to the income statement, and liability, which reduces the outstanding obligation so as to give a constant rate of charge on the outstanding lease obligations. Costs in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease in arriving at the operating profit. 60 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 1. Accounting policies (continued) Taxation Income tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity. Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes and the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profits. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. Inventory and work in progress Inventory and work in progress is valued at the lower of cost, on a ‘first in, first out’ basis, and net realisable value. In respect of work in progress and finished goods, cost includes all production overheads and the attributable proportion of indirect overhead expenses which are required to bring inventories to their present location and condition. The net realisable value in respect of old and slow moving inventory is assessed by reference to historic usage patterns and forecast future usage. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and short-term (with an original maturity less than three months) deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand form part of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows. Equity Equity comprises issued equity capital, share premium, reserves and retained earnings. When issued equity capital is repurchased, the amount paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a change in equity. Repurchased shares are debited direct to equity and shown as a deduction from retained earnings. Provisions (i) Warranties A provision for warranties is recognised when the underlying products or services are sold. The provision is based on historical warranty cost data, known issues and management expectations of future costs. (ii) Contingent consideration The terms of an acquisition may provide that the value of the purchase consideration, which may be payable in cash at a future date, depends on uncertain future events. Where it is not possible to estimate the amounts payable with any degree of certainty, the amounts recognised in the financial statements represent a fair value estimate at the balance sheet date of the amounts expected to be paid. Employee benefits (i) Pension plans The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes and contributes to these schemes in accordance with qualified actuaries’ recommendations. In respect of all actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the Group’s obligation in respect of the plans, these are recognised in equity. Interest on pension scheme liabilities has been recognised within financing expenses and the expected return on scheme assets within financing income in the income statement. The Group also operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes. The costs for these schemes are recognised in the income statement as incurred. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 61 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 1. Accounting policies (continued) Employee benefits (continued) (ii) Share-based payment transactions The Rotork Share Option Scheme allows certain employees to acquire shares in Rotork p.l.c. This scheme is now closed and the last grant of new options took place in 2004. Details of the scheme are given in note 24. The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of the options granted is measured using a binomial model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is due only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting. The Rotork Sharesave Plan, introduced in 2004, offers certain employees the opportunity to purchase shares in Rotork p.l.c. at a discounted price compared with the market price at the time of grant. Details of the scheme are given in note 24. The fair value of the right / option is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period between grant and maturity. The right / option reaches maturity when the employee becomes unconditionally entitled. The fair value of the grant is measured using a Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the rights were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is due only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting. The Rotork Long Term Incentive Plan grants awards of shares to executive directors and senior managers. These awards may vest after a period of three years dependent upon both market and non-market performance conditions being met. Details of the grants are given in note 24. This plan gives share awards or cash awards (of equivalent value to the share awards) dependent upon the employee’s country of residence at date of grant. The fair value of the award is measured at grant date, using a Monte Carlo simulation model which takes into account the market based performance criteria, and spread over the vesting period. The fair value of the award is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity for the share settled award and a provision within employee benefits for the cash settled award. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to exclude options that do not vest as a result of non-market performance conditions not being met. In the case of the cash awards, the liability is re-measured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date and any changes in fair value recognised in the income statement, spread equally over the vesting period. (iii) Long-term service leave The Group’s net obligation in respect of long-term service leave is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. (iv) Other employee benefits In addition to the above schemes the Group offers a number of discretionary bonus schemes to employees around the world. The costs of these schemes are recognised in the income statement as incurred. This includes the Share Incentive Plan and Overseas Profit Linked Share Scheme both of which are a known liability at the year end. Derivative financial instruments The Group uses forward exchange contracts and swaps to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange risk arising from operational and financing activities. These are the only derivative financial instruments used by the Group. In accordance with its Treasury Policy, the Group does not hold or issue contracts for trading purposes. Forward exchange contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments. Forward exchange contracts are recognised initially at fair value. Where a forward exchange contract is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised liability, a firm commitment or a highly probable forecasted transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the forward contract is recognised directly in equity. Any effective cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement at the same time as the hedged transaction. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised in the income statement immediately. When a hedging instrument or hedge relationship is terminated but the hedged transaction still is expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss held in equity is recognised in the income statement immediately. 62 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 1. Accounting policies (continued) Dividends Interim dividends are recorded in the financial statements when they are paid. Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in the period which they are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Critical accounting estimates and judgements Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the next financial year are listed below: (i) Impairment of goodwill Determining whether Goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of CGUs to which Goodwill has been allocated. The value in use calculation involves an estimation of the future cash flows of CGUs and also the selection of appropriate discount rates, which involves judgement, to calculate present values. Details of the estimates and judgements in respect of the current year are in note 11. (ii) Valuation of acquired intangible assets Acquisitions may result in customer relationships, brands and trademarks, product design patents and order backlogs being recognised. These are valued using discounted cash flows and relief from royalty methods. In applying these methodologies certain key judgements and estimates are required to be made in respect of future cash flows. Details of the accounting policies are shown earlier in this note and the carrying value of the acquired intangible assets are shown in note 11. (iii) Defined benefit pension scheme liabilities Determining the value of the future defined benefit obligation requires judgement in respect of the assumptions used to calculate present values. These include future mortality, discount rate, inflation and salary increases. Management makes these judgements in consultation with an independent actuary. Details of the estimates and judgements in respect of the current year are in note 23. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 63 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 2. Operating segments The Group has chosen to organise the management and financial structure by the grouping of related products. The four identifiable operating segments where the financial and operating performance is reviewed monthly by the chief operating decision maker are as follows: Controls – the design, manufacture and sale of electric valve actuators Fluid Systems – the design, manufacture and sale of pneumatic and hydraulic valve actuators Gears – the design, manufacture and sale of gearboxes, adaption and ancillaries for the valve industry Instruments – the manufacture of high precision pneumatic controls and power transmission products for a wide range of industries Unallocated expenses comprise corporate expenses. Geographic analysis Rotork has a worldwide presence in all four operating segments through its subsidiary selling offices and through an agency network. A full list of locations can be found at www.rotork.com. Analysis by Operating segment: Fluid Controls Systems Gears Instruments Elimination Unallocated Group 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 Revenue from external customers 277,957 132,624 35,816 1,436 – – 447,833 Inter segment revenue – – 10,777 – (10,777) – – Total revenue 277,957 132,624 46,593 1,436 (10,777) – 447,833 Adjusted operating profit 92,085 17,077 10,336 394 – (3,971) 115,921 Amortisation of acquired intangibles (890) (2,277) (18) (736) – – (3,921) Operating profit 91,195 14,800 10,318 (342) – (3,971) 112,000 Net financing income 550 Income tax expense (32,149) Profit for the year 80,401 Fluid Controls Systems Gears Instruments Elimination Unallocated Group 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 Revenue from external customers 243,361 106,838 30,361 – – – 380,560 Inter segment revenue – – 8,844 – (8,844) – – Total revenue 243,361 106,838 39,205 – (8,844) – 380,560 Adjusted operating profit 78,786 14,911 9,161 – – (3,416) 99,442 Amortisation of acquired intangibles – (1,659) (59) – – – (1,718) Operating profit 78,786 13,252 9,102 – – (3,416) 97,724 Net financing income 131 Income tax expense (28,334) Profit for the year 69,521 64 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 2. Operating segments (continued) Analysis by Operating segment (continued): Fluid Controls Systems Gears Instruments Unallocated Group 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 Depreciation 3,026 1,205 229 19 – 4,479 Amortisation: Other intangibles 890 2,277 18 736 – 3,921 Development costs 732 – – – – 732 Non–cash items: equity settled share–based payments 543 205 129 – 374 1,251 Net financing income – – – – 550 550 Intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations 5,674 5,461 668 54,101 – 65,904 Capital expenditure 7,947 1,512 455 88 – 10,002 Fluid Controls Systems Gears Instruments Unallocated Group 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 Depreciation 2,634 1,124 214 – – 3,972 Amortisation: Other intangibles – 1,659 59 – – 1,718 Development costs 639 – – – – 639 Non-cash items: equity settled share-based payments 609 129 111 – 237 1,086 Net financing expense – – – – 131 131 Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination – 4,102 – – – 4,102 Capital expenditure 3,953 940 179 – – 5,072 Balance sheets are reviewed by operating subsidiary and operating segment balance sheets are not prepared, as such no further analysis of operating segments assets and liabilities are presented. Geographical analysis: Rest of Other Rest of UK Europe USA Americas World Group 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 Revenue from external customers by location of customer 25,703 148,513 87,144 38,256 148,217 447,833 Non-current assets Intangible assets 8,704 20,315 71,960 1,756 4,049 106,784 Property, plant and equipment 9,027 10,323 6,271 310 6,023 31,954 Rest of Other Rest of UK Europe USA Americas World Group 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 Revenue from external customers by location of customer 24,277 121,595 71,036 39,488 124,164 380,560 Non-current assets Intangible assets 7,248 18,621 13,564 213 4,344 43,990 Property, plant and equipment 6,423 10,618 4,363 230 4,146 25,780 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 65 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 3. Acquisitions 2011 (i) Fairchild On 15 November 2011 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Fairchild Industrial Products Company (Fairchild) for £49,532,000. Fairchild is a manufacturer of high precision pneumatic controls and power transmission products for a wide range of industries, based in Winston Salem, North Carolina, USA. The acquired business will be reported as a new division called Rotork Instruments. In the six weeks to 31 December 2011 Fairchild contributed £1,436,000 to Group revenue and £394,000 to consolidated operating profit before amortisation. The amortisation charge in the six week period from the acquired intangible assets was £736,000. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2011 the business would have contributed £15,132,000 to Group revenue and £4,777,000 to Group operating profit. It is not practicable to disclose profit before tax or profit attributable to equity shareholders as the Group manages its Treasury function on a Group basis. (ii) Other acquisitions On 25 July 2011 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of K-Tork International Inc. (K-Tork) for £6,518,000. K-Tork is a manufacturer of pneumatic valve actuators based in Dallas, Texas, USA. The acquired business will be reported within the Rotork Fluid System division. On 15 July 2011 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Centork Valve Control S.L. (Centork) for £3,147,000. Centork is a manufacturer of electric actuators based near San Sebastian in Spain. The acquired business will be reported within the Rotork Controls division. The Group also acquired 100% of the share capital of Rotork Servo Controles de Mexico S.A. de C.V. in Mexico (RSCM), Valco Valves & Automation AS in Norway (VVA), and Prokits Limited (Prokits) based in Mansfield, UK for a combined consideration of £4,991,000. RSCM and VVA were Rotork agents and the results of the acquired businesses will be reported in each of the divisions. Prokits designs and manufactures valve adaptor kits and accessories for the valve industry and will be reported as part of the Gears division. In the period from acquisition to 31 December 2011 the businesses contributed £8,170,000 to Group revenue and £563,000 to consolidated operating profit before amortisation. The amortisation charge in respect of these acquisitions during the year was £1,464,000. If these other acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2011 the businesses would have contributed £16,488,000 to Group revenue and £1,309,000 to Group operating profit. It is not practicable to disclose profit before tax or profit attributable to equity shareholders as the Group manages its Treasury function on a Group basis. 66 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 3. Acquisitions (continued) 2011 (continued) (iii) Acquisitions fair value table The six acquisitions had the following effect on the Group’s assets and liabilities. Fairchild Other acquisitions Total Book Fair Book Fair Fair value Adjustments value value Adjustments value value Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 638 – 638 668 (140) 528 1,166 Intangible assets – 25,811 25,811 – 7,545 7,545 33,356 Deferred tax assets 97 106 203 – 360 360 563 Current assets Inventory 1,821 (77) 1,744 2,745 (637) 2,108 3,852 Trade and other receivables 1,832 (26) 1,806 1,883 (148) 1,735 3,541 Cash 1,415 – 1,415 2,347 – 2,347 3,762 Current liabilities Trade and other payables (1,106) (63) (1,169) (1,701) (730) (2,431) (3,600) Warranty provision (35) (136) (171) – (198) (198) (369) Loans and other borrowings – – – (205) – (205) (205) Non-current Deferred tax liability – (9,034) (9,034) (131) (850) (981) (10,015) Loans and other borrowings – – – (411) – (411) (411) Total net assets 4,662 16,581 21,243 5,195 5,202 10,397 31,640 Goodwill 28,289 4,259 32,548 Purchase consideration 49,532 14,656 64,188 Paid in cash 49,532 14,106 63,638 Contingent consideration – 550 550 49,532 14,656 64,188 Purchase consideration 49,532 14,106 63,638 Cash held in subsidiary (1,415) (2,347) (3,762) Cash outflow on acquisition 48,117 11,759 59,876 The adjustments shown in the table above represent the alignment of accounting policies of the acquired businesses to Rotork Group policies and the fair value adjustments of the assets and liabilities at the acquisition date of each of the businesses. Goodwill has arisen on these acquisitions as a result of the value attributed to staff expertise and the assembled workforce, which did not meet the recognition criteria for an intangible asset. The intangible assets identified comprise customer relationships, brands, product design patents and acquired order books. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 67 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 3. Acquisitions (continued) 2010 On 19 May 2010 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Ralph A. Hiller Company (Hiller) for £5,453,000. Hiller is a designer and manufacturer of nuclear actuators and a distributor of related products based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA. The acquired business will be integrated into the Rotork Fluid Systems division. In the eight months to 31 December 2010 Hiller contributed £6,643,000 to Group revenue and £837,000 to consolidated operating profit before the £390,000 amortisation charge from the acquired intangible assets. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2010 the business would have contributed £10,249,000 to Group revenue and £942,000 to Group operating profit. It is not practicable to disclose profit before tax or profit attributable to equity shareholders as the Group manages its Treasury function on a Group basis. Goodwill has arisen on this acquisition as a result of the value attributed to staff expertise and the assembled workforce, which did not meet the recognition criteria for an intangible asset. The acquisition had the following effect on the Group’s assets and liabilities. Pre-acquisition carrying accounting Fair value Provisional amounts policies adjustments Fair value Property, plant and equipment 1,075 – – 1,075 Intangible assets – – 1,629 1,629 Inventories 1,085 156 – 1,241 Trade and other receivables 2,104 227 – 2,331 Trade and other payables (641) (2,023) – (2,664) Overdraft (168) – – (168) Borrowings (464) – – (464) Total net assets 2,991 (1,640) 1,629 2,980 Goodwill on acquisition 2,473 Consideration paid, settled in cash 5,453 Cash outflow on acquisition Purchase consideration settled in cash 5,453 Overdraft in subsidiary acquired 168 5,621 Accounting policy adjustments were required to align Hiller accounting policies to Rotork Group policies. Adjustments were made in respect of revenue recognition, inventory provisioning, warranty provisions and other accruals. The intangible assets identified comprise customer relationships, brand and acquired order book. 4. Other income 2011 2010 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 175 66 Other 19 17 194 83 68 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 5. Other expenses 2011 2010 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 46 54 Other 13 6 59 60 6. Personnel expenses 2011 2010 Wages and salaries (including bonus and incentive plans) 81,649 70,452 Social security costs 9,190 7,928 Pension costs (note 23) 5,003 4,603 Share-based payments (note 24) 1,251 1,848 Increase in liability for long-term service leave 40 42 97,133 84,873 A total of £1,251,000 (2010: £1,848,000) of the above share-based payments are equity settled, comprising £194,000 (2010: £154,000) for the Sharesave plan and £1,057,000 (2010: £932,000) for the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). The remaining £nil (2010: £762,000) relates to the cash LTIP. 2011 2010 Number Number During the year, the average weekly number of employees, analysed by business segment was: Controls 1,383 1,147 Fluid Systems 560 507 Gears 241 215 Instruments 8 2,192 1,869 UK 522 510 Overseas 1,670 1,359 2,192 1,869 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 69 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 7. Net financing income 2011 2010 Recognised in the income statement Interest income 746 540 Expected return on assets in the pension schemes 6,739 6,141 Foreign exchange gains 105 250 7,590 6,931 Interest expense 116 79 Interest charge on pension scheme liabilities 6,468 6,289 Foreign exchange losses 456 432 7,040 6,800 Recognised in equity Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 664 457 Fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to income statement (457) 217 Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations (2,484) 1,119 (2,277) 1,793 Recognised in: Hedging reserve 207 674 Translation reserve (2,484) 1,119 (2,277) 1,793 70 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 8. Profit before tax Profit before tax is stated after charging the following: Notes 2011 2010 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: Owned assets i 4,408 3,881 Assets held under finance lease contracts i 71 91 Amortisation: Other intangibles i 3,921 1,718 Development costs i 732 639 Inventory write downs recognised in the year i 1,230 772 Hire of plant and machinery i 957 889 Other operating lease rentals i 1,460 1,417 Research & development expenditure ii 4,495 3,300 Exchange differences realised iii 351 182 Auditors audit fees and expenses paid to: KPMG Audit Plc In respect of Company reporting 64 62 In respect of Group reporting of subsidiaries 216 196 In respect of local statutory reporting of subsidiaries 98 93 378 351 Other auditors of Group reporting subsidiaries 128 102 Total audit fees and expenses 506 453 Other fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc and its associates analysed between: Taxation 83 40 Other 60 5 143 45 In addition to the above, the Rotork Pension & Life Assurance Scheme paid KPMG LLP £nil (2010: £10,000) in respect of investment advice. These costs can be found under the following headings in the income statement: i) Both within cost of sales and administrative expenses; ii) Within administrative expenses; iii) Within financing income and expenses. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 71 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 9. Income tax expense 2011 2011 2010 2010 Current tax: UK corporation tax on profits for the year 9,737 8,645 Adjustment in respect of prior years (120) (417) 9,617 8,228 Overseas tax on profits for the year 23,086 18,787 Adjustment in respect of prior years (210) 42 22,876 18,829 Total current tax 32,493 27,057 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of other temporary differences 57 1,477 Adjustment in respect of prior years (401) (200) Total deferred tax (344) 1,277 Total tax charge for year 32,149 28,334 Effective tax rate (based on profit before tax) 28.6% 29.0% Profit before tax 112,550 97,855 Profit before tax multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 26.5% (2010: 28.0%) 29,826 27,399 Effects of: Non deductible items 863 785 Utilisation of overseas tax holidays (1,171) (1,127) Different tax rates on overseas earnings 3,362 1,852 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years (731) (575) Total tax charge for year 32,149 28,334 A tax charge of £168,000 (2010: credit £926,000) in respect of share-based payments has been recognised directly in equity in the year. The Group continues to expect its effective rate of corporation tax to be higher than the standard UK rate due to higher rates of tax in the USA, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and India. There is an unrecognised deferred tax liability for temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries. Rotork p.l.c. controls the dividend policies of its subsidiaries and subsequently the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences. It is not practical to quantify the unprovided temporary differences as acknowledged within paragraph 40 of IAS 12. 72 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 10. Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and Land and Plant and buildings equipment Total buildings equipment Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 Cost At 1 January 20,990 38,532 59,522 19,493 33,762 53,255 Exchange differences (288) (263) (551) 127 985 1,112 Additions 3,255 6,747 10,002 399 4,673 5,072 Disposals (39) (584) (623) (89) (903) (992) Acquisition through business combinations – 1,166 1,166 1,060 15 1,075 At 31 December 23,918 45,598 69,516 20,990 38,532 59,522 Depreciation At 1 January 6,716 27,026 33,742 6,029 23,705 29,734 Exchange differences (74) (132) (206) 97 786 883 Charge for year 589 3,890 4,479 614 3,358 3,972 Disposals (13) (440) (453) (24) (823) (847) At 31 December 7,218 30,344 37,562 6,716 27,026 33,742 Net book value at 31 December 16,700 15,254 31,954 14,274 11,506 25,780 Net book value at 31 December 2009 13,464 10,057 23,521 The net book value of the Group’s plant and equipment includes £64,000 (2010: £142,000) in respect of assets held under finance leases. Net book value of land and buildings can be analysed between: 2011 2010 Land 2,121 1,775 Buildings 14,579 12,499 Net book value at 31 December 16,700 14,274 It is the Group’s policy to test assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 73 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 11. Intangible assets Development Other Development Other Goodwill costs intangibles Total Goodwill costs intangibles Total Cost Balance at 1 January 35,907 5,666 10,505 52,078 33,204 4,647 8,409 46,260 Exchange differences 4 – 199 203 230 – 468 698 Internally developed during the year – 1,328 – 1,328 – 1,018 – 1,018 Acquisition through business combinations 32,548 – 33,356 65,904 2,473 – 1,629 4,102 Balance at 31 December 68,459 6,994 44,060 119,513 35,907 5,665 10,506 52,078 Amortisation Balance at 1 January – 3,194 4,894 8,088 – 2,555 2,925 5,480 Exchange differences – – (12) (12) – – 251 251 Amortisation for the year – 732 3,921 4,653 – 639 1,718 2,357 Balance at 31 December – 3,926 8,803 12,729 – 3,194 4,894 8,088 Net book value at 31 December 68,459 3,068 35,257 106,784 35,907 2,471 5,612 43,990 Net book value at 31 December 2009 33,204 2,092 5,484 40,780 The amortisation charge in both years is recognised within administrative expenses in the income statement. Other intangibles include customer relationships, order books, intellectual property and brand names of acquired companies. Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash generating units (CGUs) identified according to business segment. A segment level summary of goodwill allocation is presented below. 2011 2010 Controls 8,967 6,828 Fluid Systems 23,020 21,436 Gears 7,793 7,643 Instruments 28,679 – 68,459 35,907 The recoverable amounts of all CGUs are based on value in use calculations. These calculations use cash flow projections and are based on actual operating results and the latest Group three year plan. The three year plan is based on management’s view of the future and experience of past performance. Cash flows for the remainder of the next twenty years are extrapolated using a 2% growth rate which reflects the Long Term nature of many of the markets the Group serves. This rate has been consistently bettered in the past so is believed to represent a prudent estimate. The discount rate used is 9.8% (2010: 12.1%), this represents a reasonable rate for a market participant in this sector. The majority of the discount rate reduction is due to the movement in 10 year bond yields on which the risk free rate is based. The discount rate of each business segment is not materially different to 9.8%. For the Goodwill to become impaired in the CGU with the minimum headroom, the discount rate would have to increase to 25.8%. On this basis each business segment has sufficient headroom and therefore no impairment write downs are required. 74 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 12. Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 Property, plant and equipment 189 (1,053) (864) 183 (334) (151) Intangible assets – (11,450) (11,450) – (1,988) (1,988) Employee benefits 8,590 – 8,590 7,742 – 7,742 Provisions 4,620 – 4,620 4,397 – 4,397 Other items 1,435 (1,869) (434) 351 (2,036) (1,685) Net tax assets / (liabilities) 14,834 (14,372) 462 12,673 (4,358) 8,315 Set off of tax (1,590) 1,590 – (1,193) 1,193 – 13,244 (12,782) 462 11,480 (3,165) 8,315 Movements in the net deferred tax asset during the year are as follows: 2011 2010 Balance at 1 January 8,315 9,661 Credited / (charged) to the income statement 344 (1,277) (Charged) / credited directly to equity in respect of share-based payments (539) 472 Acquired as part of business combinations (9,452) 262 Credited / (charged) directly to equity in respect of pension schemes 1,934 (633) Charged directly to hedging reserves in respect of cash flow hedges (65) (253) Exchange differences (75) 83 Balance at 31 December 462 8,315 A deferred tax asset of £13,244,000 (2010: £11,480,000) has been recognised at 31 December 2011. The directors are of the opinion, based on recent and forecast trading, that the level of profits in the current and future years make it more likely than not that these assets will be recovered. A deferred tax asset of £1,958,000 (2010: £2,033,000) has not been recognised in relation to capital losses and certain tax credits, tax losses and other temporary differences. These assets may be recovered if sufficient taxable or capital profits are made in future in the companies concerned. 13. Inventories 2011 2010 Raw materials and consumables 40,609 30,345 Work in progress 13,209 11,411 Finished goods 9,110 6,485 62,928 48,241 Included in cost of sales was £175,352,000 (2010: £147,651,000) in respect of inventories consumed in the year. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 75 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 14. Trade and other receivables 2011 2010 Non-current assets: Insurance policy 1,298 1,158 Other 258 132 Other receivables 1,556 1,290 Current assets: Trade receivables 98,779 72,208 Less provision for impairment of receivables (2,045) (1,846) Trade receivables – net 96,734 70,362 Corporation tax 988 2,398 Current tax 988 2,398 Other non-trade receivables 4,357 3,943 Prepayments and accrued income 4,104 2,741 Other receivables 8,461 6,684 15. Cash and cash equivalents 2011 2010 Bank balances 33,790 40,865 Cash in hand 82 95 Short-term deposits 14,685 56,921 Cash and cash equivalents 48,557 97,881 Bank overdraft (38) – Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 48,519 97,881 76 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 16. Capital and reserves Share capital and share premium 5p Ordinary 5p Ordinary shares £1 Nonshares £1 Nonissued redeemable issued redeemable and fully preference and fully preference paid up shares paid up shares 2011 2011 2010 2010 At 1 January 4,334 40 4,330 42 Preference shares redeemed – – – (2) Issued under employee share schemes 4 – 4 – At 31 December 4,338 40 4,334 40 Number of shares (000) 86,750 86,682 The ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive dividends as declared and are entitled to vote at meetings of the Company. The Group received proceeds of £450,000 (2010: £360,000) in respect of the 68,264 (2010: 68,955) ordinary shares issued during the year: £4,000 (2010: £4,000) was credited to share capital and £446,000 (2010: £356,000) to share premium. Further details of the share awards are shown in note 24. The preference shareholders take priority over the ordinary shareholders when there is a distribution upon winding up the Company or on a reduction of equity involving a return of capital. The holders of preference shares are entitled to vote at a general meeting of the Company if a preference dividend is in arrears for six months or the business of the meeting includes the consideration of a resolution for winding up the Company or the alteration of the preference shareholders’ rights. Within the retained earnings reserve are own shares held. The investment in own shares represents 227,575 (2010: 262,528) ordinary shares of the Company held in trust for the benefit of directors and employees for future payments under the Share Incentive Plan and Long Term Incentive Plan. The dividends on these shares have been waived. Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations. Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve arises when the Company redeems shares wholly out of distributable profits. Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments that are determined to be an effective hedge. Dividends The following dividends were paid in the year per qualifying ordinary share: 2011 Payment date 2011 2010 19.75p final dividend (2010: 17.25p) 6 May 17,097 14,928 14.5p interim dividend (2010: 12.75p) 23 September 12,543 11,033 2010 additional interim dividend of 11.5p paid – – 9,951 2011 additional interim dividend of 11.5p paid 24 June 9,948 – 2011 additional interim dividend of 11.5p paid 16 December 9,946 – 49,534 35,912 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 77 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 16. Capital and reserves (continued) Dividends (continued) After the balance sheet date the following dividends per qualifying ordinary share were proposed by the directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there are no corporation tax consequences. 2011 2010 Final proposed dividend per qualifying ordinary share 22.75p 19,736 19.75p 17,120 Additional interim dividend of 11.5p per qualifying ordinary share proposed for 2011 10,000 17. Earnings per share Basic earnings per share Earnings per share is calculated for both the current and previous years using the profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders for the year. The earnings per share calculation is based on 86.5m shares (2010: 86.4m shares) being the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (net of own ordinary shares held) for the year. 2011 2010 Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 80,401 69,521 Weighted average number of ordinary shares Issued ordinary shares at 1 January 86,419 86,250 Effect of own shares held 55 131 Effect of shares issued under Share option schemes / Sharesave plans 12 24 Weighted average number of ordinary shares during the year 86,486 86,405 Basic earnings per share 93.0p 80.5p Adjusted basic earnings per share Adjusted basic earnings per share is calculated for both the current and previous years using the profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders for the year after adding back the after tax amortisation charge. 2011 2010 Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 80,401 69,521 Amortisation 3,921 1,718 Tax effect on amortisation at effective rate (1,120) (497) Adjusted net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 83,202 70,742 Weighted average number of ordinary shares during the year 86,486 86,405 Adjusted basic earnings per share 96.2p 81.9p 78 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 17. Earnings per share (continued) Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is based on the profit for the year attributable to the ordinary shareholders and 86.8m shares (2010: 86.7m shares). The number of shares is equal to the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (net of own ordinary shares held) adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares. The Company has three categories of potentially dilutive ordinary shares: those share options granted to employees under the Share option scheme and Sharesave plan where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year and contingently issuable shares awarded under the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). 2011 2010 Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 80,401 69,521 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the year 86,486 86,405 Effect of share options in issue 5 9 Effect of Sharesave options in issue 101 108 Effect of LTIP shares in issue 254 145 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) during the year 86,846 86,667 Diluted earnings per share 92.6p 80.2p 18. Interest bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate and currency risk, see note 25. 2011 2010 Non-current liabilities Preference shares classified as debt 40 40 Bank loans 129 – Finance lease liabilities 60 87 229 127 Current liabilities Bank Overdraft 38 – Bank loans 31 – Finance lease liabilities 54 49 123 49 Terms and debt repayment schedule The terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows: Face Carrying Face Carrying Interest Year of value amount value amount Currency Rates maturity 2011 2011 2010 2010 Non-redeemable preference shares Sterling 9.5% – 40 40 40 40 Bank loans and overdrafts Euro 0% 2012–16 198 198 – – Finance lease liabilities Various 1.1% – 8.2% 2012–15 122 114 145 136 360 352 185 176 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 79 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 18. Interest bearing loans and borrowings (continued) Repayment profile Finance leases and bank loans and overdrafts are payable as follows: Minimum Minimum payments Interest Principal payments Interest Principal 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 Bank loans less than one year 69 – 69 – – – Bank loans more than one and less than five years 129 – 129 – – – Finance leases less than one year 58 4 54 54 5 49 Finance leases more than one and less than five years 64 4 60 91 4 87 320 8 312 145 9 136 19. Employee benefits 2011 2010 Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations: Present value of funded obligations 132,804 117,737 Fair value of plan assets (107,429) (100,466) 25,375 17,271 Defined contribution scheme liabilities 1,204 812 Employee bonus and incentive plan 9,513 6,828 Long term incentive plan 305 1,717 Employee indemnity provision 993 1,008 Liability for Long Term service leave 376 336 37,766 27,972 Non-current 28,142 19,752 Current 9,624 8,220 37,766 27,972 Defined benefit pension scheme disclosures are detailed in note 23. 80 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 20. Provisions Contingent Warranty Consideration Provision Total Balance at 1 January 2011 – 5,964 5,964 Exchange differences – (49) (49) Increase as a result of business combinations 550 369 919 Provisions used during the year (41) (1,215) (1,256) Charged in the year – 610 610 Balance at 31 December 2011 509 5,679 6,188 Maturity at 31 December 2011 Non-current 300 1,918 2,218 Current 209 3,761 3,970 509 5,679 6,188 Maturity at 31 December 2010 Non-current – 1,968 1,968 Current – 3,996 3,996 – 5,964 5,964 The warranty provision is based on estimates made from historical warranty data associated with similar products and services. The provision relates mainly to products sold during the last 12 months, the typical warranty period is now 18 months. Contingent consideration relates to amounts outstanding in respect of the Rotork Servo Controles de Mexico S.A. de C.V. and Prokits Limited acquisitions. It is anticipated that £250,000 of the non-current balance will be settled in 2013 with the remaining £50,000 payable during 2014. 21. Trade and other payables 2011 2010 Trade payables 38,502 30,447 Bills of exchange 240 – Trade payables 38,742 30,447 Corporation tax 13,225 10,821 Current tax 13,225 10,821 Other taxes and social security 5,524 4,066 Payments on account 12,847 5,451 Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 19,989 16,817 Other payables 38,360 26,334 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 81 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 22. Derivative financial instruments 2011 2011 2010 2010 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 992 95 918 294 Foreign exchange swaps cash flow hedges – 519 – – Total 992 614 918 294 Less non-current portion: Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges (315) – – – Current portion 677 614 918 294 The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability, if the maturity of the hedge item is less than 12 months. There was no ineffectiveness to be recorded from the use of foreign exchange contracts. The hedged forecast transactions denominated in foreign currency are expected to occur at various dates. Gains and losses in respect of these derivatives recognised in the hedging reserve in equity (note 16) at 31 December 2011 are recognised in the income statement in the period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the income statement. 23. Pension schemes (i) Defined benefit pension schemes The Group makes a contribution to three defined benefit plans to provide benefits for employees in the UK, USA and the Netherlands upon retirement. Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations 2011 2010 Liabilities at 1 January 117,737 108,514 Current service costs 2,438 2,142 Member contributions 467 465 Interest cost 6,468 6,289 Benefits paid (3,637) (3,189) Past service costs – 288 Actuarial loss 9,407 2,759 Currency (gain) / loss (76) 469 Liabilities at 31 December 132,804 117,737 Movements in fair value of plan assets 2011 2010 Assets at 1 January 100,466 88,906 Expected return on scheme assets 6,739 6,141 Employer contributions 5,287 3,393 Member contributions 467 465 Benefits paid (3,637) (3,189) Actuarial (loss) / gain (1,858) 4,487 Currency (loss) / gain (35) 263 Assets at 31 December 107,429 100,466 82 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 23. Pension schemes (continued) (i) Defined benefit pension schemes (continued) Expense recognised in the Income Statement 2011 2010 Current service costs 2,438 2,142 Past service costs – 288 Interest on obligation 6,468 6,289 Expected return on plan assets (6,739) (6,141) 2,167 2,578 The expense is recognised in the following line items in the Income Statement 2011 2010 Cost of sales 595 593 Administrative expenses 1,843 1,837 Net financing (income) / expenses (271) 148 2,167 2,578 Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 2011 2010 Actuarial (loss) / gain on plan assets (1,858) 4,487 Actuarial loss from liabilities (9,407) (2,759) (11,265) 1,728 Currency gain / (loss) 41 (206) Net (loss) / gain (11,224) 1,522 Cumulative losses recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (31,553) (20,329) Experience adjustments 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Defined benefit obligation (132,804) (117,737) (108,514) (81,994) (93,799) Scheme assets 107,429 100,466 88,906 76,277 86,215 Deficit (25,375) (17,271) (19,608) (5,717) (7,584) Experience adjustments on liabilities 121 (177) (2,760) (2,006) (1,953) Experience adjustments on assets (1,858) 4,487 7,020 (17,843) (2,954) Experience adjustments on currency 41 (206) 397 (607) 24 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 83 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 23. Pension schemes (continued) (i) Defined benefit pension schemes (continued) Liability for defined benefit obligations The principal actuarial assumptions at 31 December 2011 (expressed as weighted averages): UK scheme US scheme Average (% per annum) (% per annum) (% per annum) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Discount rate 4.8 5.4 4.6 5.8 4.8 5.4 Rate of increase in salaries 3.5 4.1 4.5 4.5 3.6 4.1 Rate of increase in pensions (post May 2000) 2.9 3.6 0.0 0.0 2.6 3.3 Rate of increase in pensions (pre May 2000) 4.5 4.5 0.0 0.0 4.0 4.1 Rate of inflation 3.0 3.6 3.5 3.5 3.0 3.6 The Retail Price Index is used as the rate of inflation as it is a requirement of the pension scheme rules. The split of the schemes’ assets and expected rates of return were: 2011 2010 % % Equities 6.5 48,787 7.9 51,435 Bonds 3.8 43,287 4.8 36,431 Property 7.5 6,845 7.5 6,426 Cash 3.4 2,109 3.4 44 US deposit administration contract 6.0 6,400 6.0 6,130 Total 107,428 100,466 Actual return on the schemes’ assets 4,846 10,891 The individual return assumptions for each asset class are based on market conditions at 31 December 2011 and represent a best estimate of future returns for that class allowing for risk premiums where appropriate. No scheme assets are invested in the Group’s own equity. The Group estimates that cash contributions to the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes during 2012 will be £3,300,000 for regular payments and additional payments of £6,100,000 in relation to past service (2011: £2,100,000). The mortality assumptions used are the S1NXA year of birth tables with future improvements in mortality based on the CMI_2009 projections with a Long Term rate of improvement of 1.5% per annum (2010: 1.5%). By way of example the respective mortality tables indicate the following life expectancy: 2011 2010 Life expectancy at age 65 Life expectancy at age 65 Current age Male Female Male Female 65 22.4 24.7 22.2 24.5 45 24.7 27.1 24.5 27.0 (ii) Other pension plans The Group makes a contribution to a number of defined contribution plans around the world to provide benefits for employees upon retirement. Total expense relating to these plans in the year was £2,565,000 (2010: £2,173,000). 84 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 24. Share-based payments The Group awards shares and cash under the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and only shares under the Save As You Earn scheme. The share-based payment expense included in the income statement for each of the plan’s can be analysed as follows: 2011 2010 LTIP – cash settled – 762 LTIP – equity settled 1,057 932 Sharesave plan 194 154 Total expense recognised as employee costs (note 6) 1,251 1,848 Volatility assumptions for equity-based payments The expected volatility of all equity compensation benefits is based on the historic volatility (calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of each benefit), adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information. (a) Share option scheme At 1 January 1995 the Group established a share option programme for employees. The allocation of options was linked to the completion of service. In accordance with the programme, once vested the options grant the right to purchase shares at the market price at the date of grant. Options vested after three years and expire ten years after being granted. No new grants have been made under the scheme since 2004. Options over 12,229 shares were outstanding at the beginning of the year. During 2011 5,332 options (2010: 5,314) were exercised and the Group received proceeds of £17,000 (2010: £18,000) at a weighted average exercise price of £3.14 (2010: £3.28). The options were exercised throughout the year at between £2.85 and £3.87 (2010: between £2.85 and £3.87). During the year 417 shares lapsed leaving 6,480 options exercisable at 31 December 2011. These options have a weighted average contractual life of two years remaining. (b) Sharesave plan UK employees are invited to join the Sharesave plan when an offer is made each year. All the offers to date were made at a 20% discount to market price at the time. There are no performance criteria for the Sharesave plan. Employees are given the option of joining either the 3 year or the 5 year scheme. 3 year scheme 5 year scheme 2011 2010 2011 2010 Grant date 1 December 1 December 1 December 1 December Share price at grant date £18.08 £15.79 £18.08 £15.79 Exercise price £13.32 £13.10 £13.32 £13.10 Shares granted under scheme 29,655 22,838 28,868 29,255 Vesting period 3 years 3 years 5 years 5 years Expected volatility 31% 37% 34% 34% Risk free rate 0.7% 1.2% 1.3% 2.1% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 1.9% 1.9% 1.9% 1.9% Probability of ceasing employment before vesting 20% 20% 20% 20% Fair value £5.59 £4.71 £6.53 £5.28 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 85 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 24. Share-based payments (continued) (b) Sharesave plan (continued) Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their weighted average exercise prices are as follows: Average Average exercise exercise price in 2011 price in 2010 £ per share Options £ per share Options At 1 January 8.62 258,411 7.02 274,810 Granted 13.32 58,523 13.10 52,093 Exercised 6.82 (62,932) 5.38 (63,641) Lapsed 10.33 (6,414) 7.36 (4,851) At 31 December 2011 10.17 247,588 8.62 258,411 Of the 247,588 outstanding options (2010: 258,411), 7,045 are exercisable (2010: 37,964). The Group received proceeds of £433,000 in respect of the 62,932 options exercised during the year: £4,000 was credited to share capital and £429,000 to share premium (see note 16). The weighted average share price at date of exercise was £18.07 (2010: £15.48). The weighted average remaining life of 91,455 (2010: 95,992) awards outstanding under the 3 year plan is two years. The weighted average remaining life of 156,133 (2010: 162,419) awards outstanding under the 5 year plan is three years. (c) Long Term Incentive Plan The Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) is a performance share or cash unit plan under which shares or cash units are conditionally allocated to selected members of senior management at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee on an annual basis. Following shareholder approval of the LTIP at the Company’s AGM on 18 May 2000, awards over shares were made to executive directors and senior managers in each year from 2000 to 2009. In 2009, 2010 and 2011 awards were only made under the share-based scheme. LTIP 2008 and 2009 awards No shares or cash units will normally be released to participants unless they are still in the Group’s service following completion of three year performance periods and the Company’s relative total shareholder return (TSR) against a comparator group of companies places it in at least the 50th percentile position in the comparator group at the end of the relevant performance period. TSR measures the change in value of a share and reinvested dividends over the period of measurement. The actual number of shares or cash units transferred will be determined by the number of shares or cash units initially allocated multiplied by a vesting percentage. The actual number of shares or cash units transferred will be 30% at the 50th percentile rising to 100% at the 75th percentile with each percentile position above the 50th adding 2.8% to the vesting percentage. The Company’s earnings per share (EPS) is also monitored during the relevant performance period to ensure it meets a minimum average annual growth equal to the rise in the Retail Price Index (RPI) plus 2% per annum. Failure to meet the RPI requirement will result in nil vesting. The performance period for the 2008 awards ended on 31 December 2010. Messrs. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as independent actuaries certified to the Remuneration Committee that there was a 94.4% vesting of this award as the Company was in the 73rd percentile relative to the comparator group and the Group’s EPS growth has exceeded the minimum average annual growth in the RPI plus 2% per annum. The awards vested during 2011. The performance period for the 2009 awards ended on 31 December 2011. Messrs. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as independent actuaries certified to the Remuneration Committee that there was a 30.0% vesting of these awards based on the performance criteria of the scheme. The awards will vest during 2012. 86 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 24. Share-based payments (continued) (c) Long Term Incentive Plan (continued) LTIP (2010) 2010 and 2011 awards Following shareholder approval of the 2010 LTIP plan at the Company’s AGM on 23 April 2010, awards of shares have been made to executive and senior managers in both 2010 and 2011. Half of these awards vest under a TSR performance condition and half under an EPS performance condition. TSR measures the change in value of a share and reinvested dividends over the period of measurement. The actual number of shares transferred will be determined by the number of shares allocated multiplied by a vesting percentage. The actual number of shares transferred will be 25% at the 50th percentile rising to 100% at the 75th percentile. The EPS performance condition is satisfied with 15% of the awards vesting if the EPS growth is RPI + 10% over the vesting period up to a maximum of 100% vesting if EPS growth exceeds RPI +25%. (i) Share-based scheme 2011 2010 Grant date 04 March 23 April 2011 2010 Share price at grant date £17.00 £13.87 Shares granted under scheme 127,970 138,908 Vesting period 3 years 3 years Expected volatility 36% 38% Risk free rate 1.8% 1.8% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 1.9% 2.1% Probability of ceasing employment before vesting 5% p.a 1% p.a Fair value of awards under TSR performance conditions £9.88 £8.73 Fair value of awards under EPS performance conditions £16.11 £13.13 Outstanding Granted Vested Outstanding at start during during at end of of year year year Lapsed of year 2008 Award 92,249 – (87,078) (5,171) – 2009 Award 191,386 – – (4,554) 186,832 2010 Award 138,908 – – (3,414) 135,494 2011 Award – 127,970 – (1,144) 126,826 422,543 127,970 (87,078) (14,283) 449,152 At the date of vesting the 2008 awards were valued at £17.05. The weighted average remaining life of awards outstanding at the year end is one year. (ii) Cash-based scheme Awards of 67,565 were outstanding at the beginning of the year in relation to the 2008 cash-based award. The performance period for the 2008 awards ended on 31 December 2010. Messrs. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as independent actuaries certified to the Remuneration Committee that there was a 94.4% vesting of these awards based on the performance criteria of the scheme. Awards of 57,652 vested in the year and the weighted average value at the date of vesting was £17.05. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 87 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 25. Financial instruments Financial risk and treasury policies The Treasury department maintains liquidity, manages relations with the Group’s bankers, identifies and manages foreign exchange risk and provides a treasury service to the Group’s businesses. Treasury dealings such as investments, borrowings and foreign exchange are conducted only to support underlying business transactions. The Group has clearly defined policies for the management of credit, foreign exchange and interest rate risk. The Group Treasury department is not a profit centre and, therefore, does not undertake speculative foreign exchange dealings for which there is no underlying exposure. Exposures resulting from sales and purchases in foreign currency are matched where possible and the net exposure may be hedged. (a) Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and cash on deposit with financial institutions. Management has a credit policy in place and exposure to credit risk is both monitored on an ongoing basis and reduced through the use of credit insurance covering 80% to 90% of trade receivables at any time. Credit evaluations are carried out on all customers requiring credit above a certain threshold, with varying approval levels set above this depending on the value of the sale. At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. Goods are sold subject to retention of title clauses, so that in the event of non-payment the Group may have a secured claim. The Group establishes an allowance for impairment in respect of non-insured receivables where recoverability is considered doubtful. The Group Treasury Committee meets regularly and reviews the credit risk associated with institutions that hold a material cash balance. As well as credit ratings, counterparties and instruments are assessed for credit default swap pricing, liquidity of funds and interest rate. Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: Carrying amount 2011 2010 Trade receivables 96,734 70,362 Other receivables 10,017 7,974 Cash and cash equivalents 48,557 97,881 Foreign exchange contracts 992 918 156,300 177,135 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by currency was: Carrying amount 2011 2010 Sterling 7,710 5,107 US dollar 24,259 14,183 Euro 43,249 37,730 Indian rupee 4,420 3,002 Other 17,096 10,340 96,734 70,362 88 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 25. Financial instruments (continued) (a) Credit risk (continued) Provisions against trade receivables The aging of trade receivables and associated provision for impairment at the reporting date was: Gross Provision Gross Provision 2011 2011 2010 2010 Not past due 70,003 (108) 49,870 (88) Past due 0-30 days 15,125 (33) 11,503 (89) Past due 31-60 days 6,178 (15) 5,395 (34) Past due 61-90 days 2,891 (296) 2,008 (274) Past due more than 91 days 4,582 (1,593) 3,431 (1,360) 98,779 (2,045) 72,207 (1,845) (b) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation. The Group is highly cash generative, and uses monthly cash flow forecasts to monitor cash requirements and to optimise its return on investments. Typically the Group ensures that it has sufficient cash on hand to meet foreseeable operational expenses; it also maintains a £7m overdraft facility (2010: £2m) on which interest would be payable at base rate plus 150 basis points. The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of netting agreements: Analysis of contractual cash flow maturities Carrying Contractual Less than More than 31 December 2011 amount cash flows 12 months 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Bank loans and overdrafts 198 198 69 35 94 – Finance lease liabilities 114 122 62 36 24 – Trade and other payables 77,102 77,102 77,102 – – – Foreign exchange contracts 614 614 596 18 – – Non-redeemable preference shares 40 40 – – – 40 78,068 78,076 77,829 89 118 40 Analysis of contractual cash flow maturities Carrying Contractual Less than More than 31 December 2010 amount cash flows 12 months 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Finance lease liabilities 136 145 54 45 46 – Trade and other payables 56,781 56,781 56,781 – – – Forward exchange contracts 294 294 294 – – – Non-redeemable preference shares 40 40 – – – 40 57,251 57,260 57,129 45 46 40 Where a counterparty experiences credit stress then the foreign exchange contracts may be settled on a net basis but standard practice is to settle on a gross basis and the undiscounted gross outflow in respect of these contracts is £116,580,000 (2010: £50,428,000) and the gross inflow is £117,216,000 (2010: £51,191,000). ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 89 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 25. Financial instruments (continued) (c) Market risks Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as currency rates and interest rates, will affect the Group’s results. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk within suitable parameters. (i) Currency risk The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the business unit’s functional currency. The currencies primarily giving rise to this risk are the US dollar and related currencies and the euro. The Group hedges up to 75% of forecast US dollar or euro foreign currency exposures using forward exchange contracts. In respect of other nonsterling monetary assets and liabilities the exposures are maintained and hedged up to 75% where this is deemed appropriate. As part of the Group’s cash management some of the subsidiaries have loan and deposit balances where their intragroup counterparty is in the UK. The balances are typically in local currency for the subsidiary, and the UK holds a foreign currency current asset which is hedged through the use of foreign exchange swaps. At the balance sheet date only the ‘forward’ part of the swap remains and this is designated as a cash flow hedge to match the currency exposure of the intercompany loan asset. The Group classifies its forward exchange contracts (that hedge both the forecast sale and purchase transactions and the intercompany loan and deposit balances) as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value. The net fair value of foreign exchange contracts used as hedges at 31 December 2011 was a £378,000 asset (2010: £624,000 asset) comprising an asset of £992,000 (2010: £918,000) and a liability of £614,000 (2010: £294,000). Forward exchange contracts in place at 31 December 2011 mature in 2012 and 2013. Changes in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts that economically hedge monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, and for which no hedge accounting is applied, are recognised in the income statement. Sensitivity analysis It is estimated that, with all other variables held equal (in particular other exchange rates), a general change of one cent in the value of either the US dollar or euro against sterling would have had an impact on the Group’s operating profit for the year ended 31 December 2011 of £350,000. The method of estimation, which has been applied consistently, involves assessing the transaction impact of US dollar and euro cash flows and the translation impact of US dollar and euro profits. The following significant exchange rates applied during the year: Average rate Closing rate 2011 2010 2011 2010 US dollar 1.59 1.54 1.55 1.57 Euro 1.15 1.16 1.20 1.17 (ii) Interest rate risk The Group does not undertake any hedging activity in this area. All cash deposits are made at prevailing interest rates and the majority is available with same day notice, though deposits are sometimes made with a maturity of no more than three months. The main element of interest rate risk concerns Sterling, US dollar and Renminbi deposits, all of which are on a floating rate basis. The interest rate profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 December was as follows: 2011 2010 Fixed rate financial liabilities 269 118 Floating rate financial liabilities 83 58 352 176 90 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 25. Financial instruments (continued) (c) Market risks (continued) (ii) Interest rate risk (continued) The fixed and floating rate financial liabilities comprise finance leases, preference shares and bank loans. The floating rate lease obligations bear interest at rates determined by reference to the relevant LIBOR or equivalent rate. The weighted average interest rate of the fixed rate financial liabilities is 1.6% or 5.3% excluding the zero rate debt (2010: 6.4%). The weighted average period for which (non zero) interest rates on the fixed rate financial liabilities are fixed is 2.3 years. The maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 December was as follows: 2011 2010 In one year or less 123 49 In more than one year but not more than two years 72 43 In more than two years but not more than five years 117 44 In more than five years 40 40 Total 352 176 (d) Capital risk management The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure it maintains sufficient capital in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value. The group has an asset-light business model and uses cash generated from operations to either invest organically or by acquisition. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic and market conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders or issue new shares. The Group defines capital as net funds and equity attributable to shareholders (see note 16). There are no externally imposed restrictions on the Group’s capital structure. The Group monitors capital using the following indicators: Group net funds 2011 2010 Total borrowings (352) (176) Cash and cash equivalents (note 15) 48,557 97,881 Group net funds 48,205 97,705 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 91 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 25. Financial instruments (continued) (d) Capital risk management (continued) Return on capital employed 2011 2010 Adjusted operating profit Operating profit 112,000 97,724 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 3,921 1,718 115,921 99,442 Capital Shareholders funds 224,169 203,850 Net cash (note 15) (48,519) (97,881) Pension deficit net of deferred tax 18,778 12,608 194,428 118,577 Average capital employed 156,503 110,094 Return on capital employed 74.1% 90.3% (e) Fair values The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, were as follows: Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Amount Value Amount Value 2011 2011 2010 2010 Loans and receivables Trade receivables 96,734 96,734 70,362 70,362 Other receivables 10,017 10,017 7,974 7,974 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 48,557 48,557 97,881 97,881 Designated cash flow hedges Foreign exchange contracts: Financial assets 992 992 918 918 Financial liabilities (614) (614) (294) (294) Financial liabilities at amortised cost Bank overdraft and borrowings (198) (198) – – Trade and other payables (77,102) (77,102) (56,781) (56,781) Preference shares (40) (40) (40) (40) Finance lease liabilities (114) (114) (136) (136) 78,232 78,232 119,884 119,884 Basis for determining fair values The following summarises the significant methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table above. Designated cash flow hedges Forward exchange contracts are valued at year end spot rates adjusted for the forward points to the appropriate value dates, and gains and losses are taken to equity. Trade and other receivables / payables As the majority of receivables / payables have a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value. 92 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 26. Operating leases Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: 2011 2010 Less than one year 3,255 1,830 Between one and five years 6,649 5,738 More than five years 1,347 315 11,251 7,883 Of the £11,251,000 (2010: £7,883,000), £8,657,000 (2010: £5,792,000) relates to property and the balance to plant and equipment. 27. Capital commitments Capital commitments at 31 December for which no provision has been made in these accounts were: 2011 2010 Contracted 1,192 465 28. Contingencies 2011 2010 Performance guarantees and indemnities 6,117 8,522 The performance guarantees and indemnities have been entered into in the normal course of business. A liability would only arise in the event of the Group failing to fulfil its contractual obligations. 29. Related parties The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries and with its directors and key management. A list of subsidiaries is shown on page 98 of these financial statements. Transactions between two subsidiaries for the sale and purchase of products or the subsidiary and parent Company for management charges are priced on an arms length basis. Sales to subsidiaries and associates of BAE Systems plc, a related party by virtue of non-executive director IG King’s directorship of that company, totalled £29,000 during the year (2010: £21,000) and no amount was outstanding at 31 December 2011 (2010: £nil). Key management emoluments The emoluments of those members of the management team, including directors, who are responsible for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group were: 2011 2010 Emoluments including social security costs 3,782 2,990 Post employment benefits 392 370 Share-based payments 844 755 5,018 4,115 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 93 ROTORK p.l.c. COMPANY BALANCE SHEET At 31 December 2011 Notes 2011 2010 Fixed assets Tangible assets c 1,090 1,118 Investments d 43,205 43,205 44,295 44,323 Current assets Debtors f 34,787 44,180 Cash at bank and in hand e 312 10,633 35,099 54,813 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year g 4,447 3,824 Net current assets 30,652 50,989 Total assets less current liabilities 74,947 95,312 Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year h 40 40 Net assets 74,907 95,272 Capital and reserves Called up share capital j 4,338 4,334 Share premium account j 7,835 7,389 Capital redemption reserve j 1,644 1,644 Profit and loss account j 61,090 81,905 Equity shareholders’ funds 74,907 95,272 These Company financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2012 and were signed on its behalf by: PI France and JM Davis, Directors. 94 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE 35 52 STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 for the year ended 31 December 2011 INFORMATION 101 103 a. Accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the financial statements. Notes a to k relate to the Company rather than the Group. Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK GAAP. Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account. Under FRS 1 the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that the Group includes the Company in its own published consolidated financial statements. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under FRS 8 and has not disclosed transactions with entities which are subsidiaries of the Group. The Group financial statements contain financial instruments disclosures which comply with FRS 29 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’. Consequently, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29 not to present separate financial instrument disclosures for the Company. Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. The Company continues to account for intragroup cross guarantees under FRS 12. Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account. Investments Investments are measured at cost less any provision for impairment and adjusted where equity settled share-based payments are made to the subsidiary Company’s employees. They comprise investments in subsidiary companies. Depreciation and amortisation Freehold land is not depreciated. Long leasehold buildings are amortised over 50 years or the expected useful life of the building where less than 50 years. Other assets are depreciated by equal annual instalments by reference to their estimated useful lives and residual values at the following annual rates: Freehold buildings 2% to 4% Short leasehold buildings period of lease Plant and equipment 10% to 33% Post-retirement benefits The Company participates in a Group wide pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable salary. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Company. The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, as required by FRS 17 Retirement benefits, accounts for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme. As a result, the amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the accounting period. Classification of preference shares Following the adoption of the presentation elements of FRS 25, Financial instruments, the cumulative redeemable preference shares issued by the Company are classified as Long Term debt. The preference dividends are charged within interest payable. Share-based payments The Company has adopted FRS 20 and the accounting policies followed are in all material respects the same as the Group’s policy under IFRS 2. This policy is shown in note 1 to the Group financial statements. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 95 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 a. Accounting policies (continued) Deferred taxation Deferred tax is provided in full, without discounting, on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law, except for the items explained below. Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements. Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell the assets or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries where there is no commitment to remit those earnings. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered. Dividends Interim dividends are recorded in the financial statements when they are paid. Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in the period which they are approved by the Company’s shareholders. b. Personnel expenses in the Company Profit and Loss Account 2011 2010 Wages and salaries (including bonus and incentive plans) 2,256 1,594 Social security costs 237 304 Pension costs 295 192 Share-based payments 376 235 3,164 2,325 There are eight (2010: seven) employees of Rotork p.l.c. plus the four (2010: four) executive directors. The personnel costs accounted for within the Company include the full costs of the employees and the Group Finance Director but not the full costs of other executive directors. Upon the appointment of a Divisional Managing Director for the Controls Division all of the Group Chief Executive’s costs have been reported within the Company. The two other executive directors are reported within the subsidiary where they are based. Share-based payments The share-based payment charge relates to employees of the Company participating in the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). The disclosures required under FRS 20 can be found in note 24 to the Group Financial Statements. The table below sets out the movement of share options under the LTIP for employees of the Company. Outstanding Granted Vested Lapsed Outstanding at start during during during at end of of year year year year of year 2008 Award 22,308 – (21,058) (1,250) – 2009 Award 35,736 – – – 35,736 2010 Award 36,318 – – – 36,318 2011 Award – 44,386 – – 44,386 94,362 44,386 (21,058) (1,250) 116,440 At the date of vesting the 2008 awards were valued at £17.05. The weighted average remaining life of awards outstanding at the year end is one year. 96 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 c. Tangible assets in the Company Balance Sheet Land and Plant and buildings equipment Total Cost At 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011 1,468 13 1,481 Depreciation At 1 January 2011 350 13 363 Charge for year 28 – 28 At 31 December 2011 378 13 391 Net book value at 31 December 2011 1,090 – 1,090 at 31 December 2010 1,118 – 1,118 2011 2010 Net book value of land and buildings can be analysed between: Freehold land 60 60 Freehold buildings 1,030 1,058 Net book value at 31 December 1,090 1,118 d. Investments in the Company Balance Sheet Shares in Group companies 2011 2010 At 1 January 43,205 43,205 Increased investment in subsidiary undertakings – – At 31 December 43,205 43,205 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 97 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 d. Investments in the Company Balance Sheet (continued) A listing of the principal subsidiaries of the Group, all of which are wholly owned, is set out below: Company and country of incorporation Nature of business Rotork Overseas Ltd, England and Wales Intermediate holding company for the following: Rotork Inc, USA Intermediate holding company 1 Rotork Controls Inc, USA Manufacture and sale of valve actuators 1 Remote Control Inc, USA “” 1 Flow-Quip Inc, USA Assemble and distribute fluid power solutions 1 Ralph A. Hiller Company, USA Manufacture and sale of valve actuators 1 Rotork (Thailand) Ltd, Thailand “” 1 Ranger Acquisition Corp, USA Intermediate holding company 2 Fairchild Industrial Products Company, USA Manufacture of high precision pneumatic controls 2 K-Tork International Inc, USA Intermediate holding company 3 Controls International Inc, USA Manufacture and sale of vane actuators Rotork Controls (Iberia) SL, Spain Sale of valve actuators 4 Centork Valve Control SL, Spain Manufacture and sale of valve actuators Rotork (Actuation) Sdn Bhd, Malaysia “” Rotork Controls (Deutschland) GmbH, Germany “” Rotork Fluid Systems Srl, Italy “” Rotork Sweden AB, Sweden “” Rotork Controls (Canada) Ltd, Canada Sale of valve actuators Rotork Motorisation SAS, France “” Rotork BV, Netherlands “” Rotork Controls (Singapore) Pte Ltd, Singapore “” Rotork Fluid Systems Pty Ltd, Australia “” Rotork Australia Pty Ltd, Australia “” Rotork Controls de Venezuela SA, Venezuela “” Rotork Ltd, Hong Kong “” Rotork (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, Malaysia “” Rotork Controls (Korea) Co. Ltd, South Korea “” Rotork Africa (Pty) Limited, South Africa “” Rotork Japan Co. Ltd, Japan “” Rotork RUS Ltd, Russia “” Rotork Controls Comercio de Atuadores LTDA, Brazil “” Rotork Norge AS, Norway “” Rotork Middle East FZE, Jebel Ali, Dubai “” Rotork Servo Controles de Mexico SA de CV, Mexico “” Rotork Controls Italia Srl, Italy “” 5 Rotork Gears Srl, Italy Manufacture and sale of gearboxes for valve actuators Rotork Gears BV, Netherlands “” 1 These companies are owned by Rotork Inc, USA 2 These companies are owned by Ranger Acquisition Corp, USA 3 This company is owned by K-Tork International Inc, USA 4 This company is owned by Rotork Controls (Iberia) SL, Spain 5 This company is owned by Rotork Controls Italia Srl, Italy Rotork Controls Ltd, England and Wales Manufacture and sale of valve actuators, and intermediate holding company for the following: Exeeco Ltd, England and Wales Manufacture and sale of gearboxes and valve actuators 6 Prokits Ltd, England and Wales Design and manufacture of valve adaptor kits Rotork Actuation (Shanghai) Co. Ltd, China Manufacture and sale of gearboxes and valve actuators Rotork Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd, China Sale of gearboxes and valve actuators Rotork Controls (India) Ltd, India Manufacture and sale of valve actuators 6 This company is owned by Exeeco Ltd A full list of undertakings is attached to the Annual Return of the Company. 98 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 e. Cash at bank and in hand in the Company Balance Sheet 2011 2010 Bank balances 312 633 Short-term deposits – 10,000 Cash at bank and in hand 312 10,633 f. Debtors due within one year in the Company Balance Sheet 2011 2010 Amounts owed by Group undertakings 34,102 43,912 Other debtors 91 110 Prepayments and accrued income 81 75 Corporation tax 389 – Deferred taxation 124 83 34,787 44,180 A deferred tax asset of £124,000 (2010: £83,000) has been recognised. This asset principally relates to other timing differences in respect of share-based payments. The directors are of the opinion, based on recent and forecast trading that the level of future and current profits make it more likely than not that the asset will be recovered. g. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year in the Company Balance Sheet 2011 2010 Bank loans and overdrafts – – Trade creditors 227 102 Amounts owed to Group undertakings 1,153 1,052 Other taxes and social security 58 28 Other creditors 2,507 2,175 Accruals and deferred income 502 467 4,447 3,824 The Company has a £20m gross overdraft facility and is part of a UK banking arrangement, see note i. h. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year in the Company Balance Sheet 2011 2010 Preference shares classified as debt 40 40 This debt is not redeemable at any fixed future date. i. Contingencies in the Company The UK banking arrangements are subject to cross-guarantees between the Company and its UK subsidiaries. These accounts are subject to a right of set-off. The performance guarantees and indemnities have been entered into in the normal course of business. A liability would only arise in the event of the Group failing to fulfil its contractual obligations. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 99 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 j. Capital and reserves in the Company Balance Sheet Capital Equity Share Share redemption Retained Shareholders’ capital premium reserve earnings funds Balance at 1 January 2011 4,334 7,389 1,644 81,905 95,272 Profit for the year – – – 28,774 28,774 Equity settled share–based payment transactions net of tax – – – (28) (28) Share options exercised by employees 4 446 – – 450 Own ordinary shares acquired – – – (3,185) (3,185) Own ordinary shares awarded under share schemes – – – 3,158 3,158 Dividends – – – (49,534) (49,534) Balance at 31 December 2011 4,338 7,835 1,644 61,090 74,907 Details of the number of ordinary shares in issue and dividends paid in the year are given in note 16 to the Group Financial Statements. Profit for the financial year in the accounts of the Company is £28,774,000 (2010: £54,697,000). k. Capital risk management in the Company The Company’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure the Company may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. The Company’s net funds at the balance sheet date were: 2011 2010 Preference shares (40) (40) Cash at bank and in hand 312 10,633 Company net funds 272 10,593 100 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 TEN YEAR TRADING HISTORY GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP Continuing operations 447,833 380,560 353,521 320,207 235,688 206,709 174,839 146,883 135,964 129,677 Discontinued operations – – – – – – – – – 3,783 Revenue 447,833 380,560 353,521 320,207 235,688 206,709 174,839 146,883 135,964 133,460 Cost of sales (236,359) (199,742) (187,600) (176,046) (127,748) (115,603) (95,358) (79,097) (72,046) (71,875) Gross profit 211,474 180,818 165,921 144,161 107,940 91,106 79,481 67,786 63,918 61,585 Overheads (99,474) (83,094) (74,384) (69,272) (52,553) (46,017) (42,951) (37,354) (36,808) (35,863) Operating profit 112,000 97,724 91,537 74,889 55,387 45,089 36,530 30,432 27,110 25,722 Continuing operations 115,921 99,442 92,103 76,014 55,461 45,187 36,709 30,502 28,415 26,553 Discontinued operations – – – – – – – – – 474 Adjusted* operating profit 115,921 99,442 92,103 76,014 55,461 45,187 36,709 30,502 28,415 27,027 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (3,921) (1,718) (1,153) (1,125) (74) (98) (179) (70) – – Disposal of property – – 587 – – – – – – – Amortisation of goodwill – – – – – – – – (1,305) (1,305) Operating profit 112,000 97,724 91,537 74,889 55,387 45,089 36,530 30,432 27,110 25,722 Exceptional items – – – – – – – – 597 – Net interest 550 131 (621) 862 1,866 972 127 1,074 461 440 Profit before taxation 112,550 97,855 90,916 75,751 57,253 46,061 36,657 31,506 28,168 26,162 Tax expense (32,149) (28,334) (26,884) (22,331) (17,957) (14,728) (12,043) (10,508) (9,469) (8,868) Profit for the year 80,401 69,521 64,032 53,420 39,296 31,333 24,614 20,998 18,699 17,294 Dividends 49,534 35,912 24,102 29,970 24,732 24,140 13,437 17,751 12,592 11,959 Basic eps 93.0p 80.5p 74.2p 62.0p 45.6p 36.4p 28.6p 24.5p 21.8p 20.1p Adjusted* eps 96.2p 81.9p 74.7p 62.9p 45.7p 36.5p 28.7p 24.5p – – Diluted eps 92.6p 80.2p 73.9p 61.6p 45.2p 36.1p 28.4p 24.3p 21.7p 20.0p * Adjusted is before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and the disposal of property. The above ten year history has not been restated to apply IFRS to all periods. Had this exercise been undertaken the major changes would have been the removal of amortisation of goodwill and the introduction of amortisation of separable intangibles, capitalisation and amortisation of development costs and charges for share–based payments. Dividends shown in the IFRS columns are on a paid basis but in the UK GAAP columns are on an accrued basis. ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 101 SHARE REGISTER INFORMATION Share register information The tables below show the split of shareholder and size of shareholding in Rotork p.l.c. Ordinary shareholder by type Number of holdings % Number of shares % Individuals 1,861 66.2 2,750,217 3.2 Bank or nominees 866 30.8 81,691,458 94.2 Other company 39 1.4 516,245 0.6 Other corporate body 45 1.6 1,793,534 2.0 2,811 100.0 86,751,454 100.0 Range Number of shareholders % Number of shares % 1 – 1,000 1,577 56.1 599,480 0.7 1,001 – 2,000 397 14.1 595,509 0.7 2,001 – 5,000 331 11.8 1,007,996 1.1 5,001 – 10,000 145 5.2 1,035,304 1.2 10,001 – 50,000 196 7.0 4,585,754 5.3 50,001 – 100,000 51 1.8 3,545,762 4.1 100,001 + 114 4.0 75,381,649 86.9 2,811 100.0 86,751,454 100.0 Source: Equiniti Dividend information The table below details the amounts of interim, final and additional dividends declared in respect of each of the last five years. Additional Interim Final interim Total dividend dividend dividends dividend (p) (p) (p) (p) 2011 14.50 22.75 23.00 60.25 2010 12.75 19.75 11.50 44.00 2009 11.15 17.25 – 28.40 2008 9.25 16.75 11.50 37.50 2007 7.70 14.00 9.30 31.00 Financial calendar 28 February 2012 Preliminary announcement of annual results for 2011 11 April 2012 Ex-dividend date for final proposed 2011 dividend 13 April 2012 Record date for final proposed 2011 dividend 20 April 2012 Annual General Meeting held at Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath, BA1 3JQ 21 May 2012 Payment date for final proposed 2011 dividend 31 July 2012 Announcement of interim financial results for 2012 102 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 34 CORPORATE DIRECTORY GOVERNANCE 35 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 100 INFORMATION 101 103 Company Secretary Financial Advisers Stephen Rhys Jones UBS Investment Bank 1 Finsbury Avenue Registered Office London EC2M 2PP Rotork p.l.c. Rotork House Auditors Brassmill Lane KPMG Audit Plc Bath BA1 3JQ 100 Temple Street Bristol BS1 6AG Company Number 00578327 Financial Public Relations FTI Consulting Registrars Holborn Gate Equiniti 26 Southampton Buildings Aspect House London EC2A 1PB Spencer Road Lancing Solicitors West Sussex BN99 6DA Messrs. Osborne Clarke No.2 Temple Back East Stockbrokers Temple Quay UBS Investment Bank Bristol BS1 6EG 1 Finsbury Avenue London EC2M 2PP ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 103 NOTES 104 ROTORK P.L.C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 The cover and pages 1-48 are printed on revive 50:50 Silk, a recycled paper containing 50% recycled waste and 50% virgin fibre. The pulp used in this product is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free process. Pages 49-104 are printed on revive 50:50 Offset, a recycled paper containing 50% recovered waste and 50% virgin fibre. Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London. www.corporateprm.co.uk Rotork p.l.c. Rotork House Brassmill Lane Bath BA1 3JQ www.rotork.com
