PRME SHARING INFORMATION ON PROGRESS AY2011-2012 & UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Bentley University, as a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Academic Network, has an ongoing commitment to the Global Compact‘s Principles for Responsible Business and Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME). As part of our mission, the University has a long-standing commitment to ethics, social responsibility, civic engagement, and sustainability that grew out of the intersection of business and the arts and sciences. The emphasis on business ethics emanated from the Philosophy Department, which launched the Center for Business Ethics in 1976, over 35 years ago. Our nationally ranked Service-Learning program was started out of the English and Sociology Departments in the early 1990s and now cuts across the entire institution. As a signatory of the UN PRME initiative, Bentley is committed to innovative pedagogy and research, embedding these areas throughout the curriculum and our research agenda, and instilling these ideals throughout our campus community. In the spirit of the GC, we have institutionalized these principles in our campus operations. Our Alliance for Ethics and Social Responsibility facilitates the collaboration of these institution-wide initiatives, working to inform what we research and teach, and how we operate as a university. This document is our sixth report, summarizing our activities and initiatives during the 2011-12 academic year. It is a reflection of our ongoing commitment to provide an annual update on our efforts to fulfill the principles underlying PRME and the UNGC. Building on our previous Communication on Progress (COP) and Sharing Information on Progress (SIP) reports, this year‘s summary includes comparative assessments with earlier efforts, with our ongoing emphasis on learning and continuous improvement in our endeavors. Gloria C. Larson President, Bentley University THE BENTLEY ALLIANCE FOR ETHICS & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (BAESR) Building on the institution‘s long-standing commitment to ethics, civic engagement, social responsibility, and sustainability, over the past year BASER continued to develop an explicit focus on the way in which these areas inform how we operate as a university. Now entering its ninth year, the mission of the Alliance is to amplify and extend the work of the autonomous Centers and initiatives on campus, supporting and encouraging greater awareness of, respect for and commitment to ethics, service and civic engagement, social responsibility and sustainability in faculty research, curricula and campus culture. 2 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 A unique feature of the Alliance is its ongoing integrative focus on ethics, social responsibility, civic engagement, and sustainability. BAESR seeks to:  Support and encourage collaborative and applied transdisciplinary research that has the potential to significantly affect current practice.  Influence curriculum development and pedagogical innovations intended to make our students more ethically sensitive and socially aware.  Ensure a broader application of these principles and ideals in campus life.  Attempt to foster life-long civic engagement and a commitment to responsive corporate citizenship among our students.  Work closely with external organizations – partnering with academic and professional associations, corporations and not-for-profit organizations in pursuit of these goals. The 2011-12 Bentley Alliance for Ethics & Social Responsibility 3 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 As the Alliance has evolved, this initiative continues to reflect the UN Global Compact‘s call for: (1) the development of useful management tools and multi-stakeholder procedures that can facilitate the integration of environmental, social and governance (ESG) concerns in day-to-day operations; (2) ―good practices‖ case studies that illustrate responsible business practice; and (3) new reporting procedures. Our goal is to provide our students with the knowledge, attitudes and skills to succeed in the new environment of business. The Alliance operates in the spirit of the UNCG and PRME. This ongoing initiative is a collaborative effort that is dependent on the commitment of a broad range of stakeholders, including Bentley faculty, staff, students and alumni, as well as business executives, corporate partners, relevant associations and other colleges and universities in an effort to enhance and disseminate these ideals. The 2011-12 Alliance was built on four ―core pillars‖ in the Bentley community that continue to operate as autonomous entities, but collaborate under its aegis:  Bentley Service-Learning Center: Established in 1990, the BSLC, which has built an international reputation (recognized by US News & World Report), seeks to promote academic learning, develop socially responsible working professionals, and assist community partners in serving the human needs and interests of their constituencies. http://service-learning.bentley.edu  Center for Business Ethics: The CBE, founded in 1976, is dedicated to promoting ethical business conduct in contemporary society. Its mission is to lead in the creation of organizational cultures that align effective business performance with ethical business conduct. CBE strives to: (1) connect ethical thought and action, (2) inspire ethical leadership, (3) enrich ethical knowledge; and (4) promote ethical collaboration. With a vast network of practitioners and scholars, and an expansive library, the Center provides an international forum for benchmarking and research in business ethics. http://cbe.bentley.edu  Center for Women and Business: This newly created Center is focused on helping women reach their full potential in the workplace and helping corporations engage the full potential of talented women leaders. The Center‘s research and programs provide a roadmap for organizations and individuals alike to move this critical conversation forward. http://www.bentley.edu/centers/center-for-women-and-business  Valente Center for Arts & Sciences: Created in 2007, the Center‘s mission is to help make the arts and sciences a vital, integral and challenging aspect of undergraduate and graduate education at Bentley. The Center promotes research and teaching in the disciplines and at the intersection of the arts and sciences and business, supports individual scholarship, and encourages cross-disciplinary discussion and research. http://arts-sciences-center.bentley.edu 4 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Progress and AY2012-13 Goals Continuing to support a broad series of programs and activities across the institution, this initiative has significantly raised the visibility of ethics, corporate social responsibility, service and civic engagement, and sustainability across the university. The main goals for AY2012-13 reflect our commitment to continue working to expand the institution‘s commitment to these ideals, informing our teaching and curriculum, research and scholarship, relationships with our surrounding community, other organizations and associations, and, in general, how we operate as a university. As we continue to move forward with our assurance of learning initiative, our goal is to further explore and assess the effectiveness of our efforts and their contribution to our commitment to the ideals of the UN Global Compact‘s Principles for Responsible Business and Principles for Responsible Management Education. As an institution, we understand that our own organizational practices should also serve as an example of the values and attitudes we convey to our students and other stakeholders. PARTICIPATION IN UNGC AND PRME INITIATIVES As part of our ongoing commitment to the Global Compact and PRME initiative, Bentley was actively involved in UNGC and PRME meetings and Working Group activities over the past academic year:  Bentley‘s president, Gloria Larson, signed the Higher Education Sustainability Initiative for Rio+20.  Anthony F. Buono, professor of management & sociology and coordinator of the Bentley Alliance, served as a member of two Working Groups: o UN Global Compact Academic Working Group, which produced A Practical Guide to the United Nations Global Compact for Higher Education Institutions: Implementing the Global Compact Principles and Communicating on Progress (2012). o Core Discussion Leader Group, 3rd Global Forum PRME Planning Group (Rio de Janeiro, June 2012), which produced the 3rd Global Forum for Responsible Management: The Future We Want – Participant Guide. He also participated in the Global Forum.  Buono also gave two presentations on the UNGC/PRME initiative: o ―The UN Global Compact and Corporate Responsibility in Higher Education,‖ Association of International Educational Administrators, Washington, DC, February, 2012. o ―The UN Global Compact, PRME and Sustainability: Sustaining an Innovative Initiative,‖ Sustainable Leader Speaker Series, Clark University, Worchester, MA, October, 2011.  Patricia Flynn, Trustee Professor of economics and management, serves as one of the two cochairs of the PRME Gender Equality Working Group. Members of the Working Group from six countries developed a Global Repository of resources to help faculty integrate gender issues into 5 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 management education; the Repository was officially launched at the 3rd Global Forum for Responsible Management Education in Rio. Encompassing over a dozen disciplines, the Repository is accessible on the UN PRME website and provides a searchable data base with links to syllabi, case studies, and other course materials.  Flynn also: o Participated in two Working Group Webinars (November 2011, March 2012); o Gave presentations on the Working Group and its new initiative at the: PRME Affinity Group Meeting at the AACSB Dean's in New Orleans, LA (February 2012); Rio+20 Corporate Sustainability Forum in Rio (June 2012); and Academy of Management Annual Meeting in Boston (August 2012).  As part of the PRME Gender Equality Working Group, Susan Adams, professor of management and senior director, Center for Women & Business, coordinated the creation of the Global Repository Resource on ―Corporate Governance‖ and was co-coordinator for the ―Management‖ resource materials.  Bentley’s 8th Global Business Ethics Symposium (May, 2012) was a PRME co-sponsored event. The theme of the day-long symposium was ―The Future of Capitalism: Ethics, Sustainable Practice & the Global Economy.‖ Jonas Haertle, Head, PRME Secretariat, served as a panelist on ―Responsible Management, Responsible Capitalism: Implications for Business schools.‖  Bentley‘s efforts in implementing PRME on campus were highlighted in two case vignettes in the Inspirational Guide for the Implementation of PRME: Placing Sustainability at the Heart of Management Education: Professor Tony Buono accepting recognition on behalf of Bentley’s commitment to the UNGC and ―How to Get Started: Management by Talking Around‖ PRME at the 2011 Boston area UN Day Luncheon and ―The Bentley Alliance for Ethics & Social Responsibility.‖  Bentley participated as a Delegate sponsor for the 12th Annual United Nations Day Luncheon in Boston. The University was noted for its commitment to the UNGC and PRME initiative. AY2012-13 Goals Bentley plans to continue to play a leadership role within PRME and UNGC‘s Academic Network. Through the Alliance, Bentley will also be the North American representative on the UNCG-EABISAshridge Business School project on ―Assessing the UN Global Compact LEAD Initiative Pilot Phase.‖ 6 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 AY 2011-12 COP & SIP CONTENTS PRME Principle 1: Purpose ……………………… 7 PRME Principle 2: Values ……………………… 32 PRME Principle 3: Method ...……………………. 42 PRME Principle 4: Research ...……………………. 47 PRME Principle 5: Partnership ..…………………….. 56 PRME Principle 6: Dialogue ………………………. 65 Note: This year‘s report contains information on Bentley‘s Communication on Progress as part of its commitment to the UNGC and Sharing Information on Progress for PRME. 7 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 PRINCIPLES FOR RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT EDUCATION Principle 1 We will develop the capabilities of students to be future Purpose generators of sustainable value for business and society at large and to work for an inclusive and sustainable global economy. As detailed in our earlier reports, beginning with our AY 2006-07 COP, the guiding philosophy at Bentley is that no one course or approach is sufficient to instill a sense of ethics, social responsibility, civic engagement, and sustainability in our students. As part of an attempt to maintain and nurture the university community and to maximize the potential for learning, the institution continues to embrace what we refer to as the Bentley Beliefs, a set of principles that govern conduct in classrooms, residence halls and places of work:  We strive at all times to treat one another with respect.  We acknowledge and learn from our differences.  We act with integrity and honesty in our academic, personal and professional affairs.  We seek to further the growth and learning of each member of our community and ourselves. As we have done with the beginning of each academic year, this year‘s incoming class of 2015 cited and pledged their commitment to these beliefs during the opening convocation ceremony. http://www.bentley.edu/files/student-handbook-2012-2013_3.pdf ACADEMIC INTEGRITY An increased focus on ethics and personal responsibility serves as the foundation for Bentley‘s Academic Integrity System (AIS). Developed jointly by students, faculty, and administration, the AIS sets and regulates standards of academic integrity throughout the university. An Academic Integrity Coordinator (AIC) oversees and facilitates the system‘s procedures for insuring fair and effective implementation. The AIC also provides educational outreach to students and faculty, and is available to consult with faculty to determine how to proceed with a suspected violation, assist faculty with investigations, and consult with both faculty and students once a violation is alleged. Finally, an Academic Integrity Board, which consists of faculty and students, becomes involved (1) when there is a prior record of academic dishonesty, (2) in cases that remain unresolved between student and instructor/university official, (3) when the AIC determines that a hearing is the most effective means of resolving a case, (4) when certain sanctions are recommended, and/or (5) in cases that represent the most serious breaches of intellectual honesty. In these cases, it is the responsibility of the Board to determine whether or not there has been a violation and what, if any, sanction should be imposed. 8 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Combined with outreach to the student population – both undergraduate and graduate – about the importance of academic honesty, a goal is to instill a commitment to ethical and responsible behavior as part of business education and subsequent practice. Ellen Snedeker, a senior lecturer in the Law, Financial Planning, and Taxation (LFPT) Department, serves as the current academic integrity coordinator (AIC). Progress and AY2012-13 Goals This past academic year, Bentley‘s Academic Integrity Coordinator initiated a review of the University‘s AI policy and procedures, focusing on academic integrity within the context of study abroad programs, dealing with questionable or inappropriate professorial behavior, training for properly filing academic integrity incident reports, on-line/hybrid courses, and a reassessment of the system‘s levels of violation. During AY 2012-13, under Snedeker‘s leadership, the AI System will be finalizing this major review, updating policies and procedures, and further institutionalizing its role on campus and instilling a more pronounced student presence with respect to academic integrity across campus. Specific goals include revising the Student Council, and exploring the possibility of a Student Ethics Bowl and a Student Ethical Honor Society. http://www.bentley.edu/centers/alliance/academic-integrity CIVIC ENGAGEMENT & LEADERSHIP: SERVICE-LEARNING, THE GRADUATION PLEDGE ALLIANCE & NET IMPACT Students also have the opportunity to directly immerse themselves on campus and in the surrounding community through the Bentley Service-Learning (S-L) Center, the Civic Leadership Program, and, at the graduate level, our Net Impact chapter. Service-Learning Program The Bentley Service-Learning Center (BSLC) promotes academic learning through service in the local, regional and international community. BSLC does so with the understanding that students‘ community involvement outside the classroom contributes significantly to what they learn within it. BSLC also seeks to enhance students‘ ability and disposition to become socially responsible working professionals. Through academically-linked student involvement in the community, BSLC assists community partners in serving the human needs and interests of their constituencies in Waltham and the wider Boston area. The service-learning program encompasses: (1) a service project that meets identified community needs, and (2) structured reflection and other academic assignments that promote greater student understanding of the subject matter, civic needs, and the students themselves. At BSLC, student service projects generally fall within one of four clusters: technology, skills development, not-for-profit organizational enhancement, and business and the arts. Illustrative projects include tutoring Waltham residents in computer skills, developing marketing plans and accounting systems for not-for-profit corporations, establishing business 9 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 strategies for not-for-profit organizations, and working on a variety of social service projects for children, the elderly, the economically disadvantaged, and individuals whose native language is not English. Additionally, BSLC has established a technology partnership with the Waltham Public Schools. During the last several years, as a result of the efforts of BSLC students and the contribution of computer equipment by Bentley University, computer labs have been designed, built and staffed at the MacArthur, Whittemore, and Fitzgerald elementary schools in Waltham. BSLC students are currently designing, building, and staffing a new lab at Waltham‘s Fitch Elementary School. Community Partners Our local S-L Community partners and programs for AY 2011-12 included: Afterschool Programs Computer Assistance Programs  Chesterbrook Afterschool Program  America Clicks!  Chesterbrook Teen Center  Brookhaven Cyber Coaches  Dana Court  Charles River Public Internet Care  Leadership Academy at the Salvation  Skills For Life Army  More than Words\Prism Project In-School Mentoring/Tutoring  Waltham Boys and Girls Club  2+2=5: The Power of Teamwork  Woburn Boys and Girls Club  Bookworms  Casa Guatemala Community Assistance  The Fitzgerald Drama Program  Anti-Bullying  Waltham Family School Programs  Bentley Low Income Taxpayer Clinic  Brookhaven Memoir Project – Individuals with Developmental Chronicles of Your Life Disabilities  Financial Literarcy Tutoring  Edinburg Center  Gender Focused Research  Greater Waltham Arc (GWarc)  Grant Research and Writing Public  Minute Man Arc Relations  Project Eye-to-Eye  Sustainability Auditing & Mapping  Special Olympics  Web Design ESL Programs  Creative Starts  Dana Court – Moving Forward  English Language Learners  Home Suites  Power Program ESL Tutoring  Pax Populi English Tutoring During the past academic year, once again, roughly 1,400 students and over 75 faculty members worked with over 30 community partners in service-learning projects. 10 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 International Service-Learning BSLC‘s international presence has significantly expanded over the past few years, through partnerships with the Quinn School of Business at University College Dublin (Ireland), Bond University (Australia), University of Manchester (UK), the University of Glasgow (UK), the Ghana Project (Africa), and the Lorenzo de‘Medici Institute (Italy). Pax Populi English Tutoring As an illustration of these programs, this past year Bentley students continued to tutor Afghan students via Skype through Pax Populi English Tutoring, a technology-based international service-learning program. Bentley students worked with students in Afghanistan to help them advance their English language skills. The program provided opportunities for Afghan students to readily engage with their American and international counterparts, and for both tutors and students to learn about each other‘s culture and life experiences. Progress and AY2012-13 Goals This past year Edward Zlotkowski, founding director of the Center, continued in his leadership role, undertaking an evaluation of the Center, focusing on ways to enhance the learning experience for our students and community partners. http://service-learning.bentley.edu/ Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) Program Each year as part of our Service-Learning program, Bentley undergraduate and graduate students, under the direction of graduate tax students and Bentley tax faculty, offer free tax return preparation for residents of Waltham, our local community, and surrounding communities. This was the 13th consecutive year that Bentley offered this service through the IRS-sponsored VITA program. Students receive tax training in order to pass an IRS VITA exam and are trained to use tax preparation software. Group VITA training is held on two Saturdays in early February and self-study materials are also available for Bentley students. The VITA program provides students with a meaningful service opportunity that also directly benefits the student by providing real-world professional experience as well as supplementing their formal tax curriculum. Many of the assisted taxpayers would not be able to correctly complete their own tax returns. With VITA assistance, they can be assured that their tax returns are appropriately completed and efiled so that returns are accepted by State and Federal taxing authorities within a 48 hour period. 11 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Small Business Taxpayer Workshops For the third year in support of the local small business community, a series of free workshops for small business owners were sponsored by Bentley‘s Department of Accountancy and Service-Learning Center and the Internal Revenue Service. February 27, 2012:  Starting Up Your Business  Figuring Your Income Tax: Part I March 5, 2012:  Figuring Your Income Tax: Part II  Hiring Help in Your Business Bentley Civic Leadership Program: Graduation Pledge Alliance The visibility of the Alliance and Service-Learning Program has also prompted undergraduate students to get more actively involved through the Bentley Civic Leadership Program (BCLP), which is the Bentley chapter of the Graduation Pledge Alliance. The BCLP, which is student initiated and led, has three foci: campus involvement, civic engagement, and ethical and responsible behavior. Campus Involvement is designed to encourage students to become actively involved early in their undergraduate career, helping them feel comfortable in becoming a leader within their immediate community. Civic Engagement is intended to facilitate student appreciation of the importance of the greater community, which includes aspects of political participation, cultural awareness, and service, with an emphasis on experiences that lie outside of Bentley. Finally, Ethical and Responsible Behavior is designed for students to realize the importance of ethics and social responsibility in their lives. Emphasis is placed on striving for exemplary behavior, being a role model, and active and responsible involvement. www.bentley.edu/alliance/bclp The international headquarters of the Graduation Pledge Alliance moved to Bentley in 2007. Started at Humboldt State University (California) in 1987, the Graduation Pledge of Social and Environmental Responsibility asks students to pledge to explore and take into account the social and environmental consequences of any job [they] consider and … try to improve these aspects of any organizations for which [they] work. The pledge operates at three levels: students making choices about their employment; schools educating about values and citizenship rather than only knowledge and skills; and the workplace and society being concerned about more than just the bottom line. The Pledge program at Bentley has adapted the national pledge to more closely reflect the broad goals of a business school. Graduating seniors who have taken part in the program take the following pledge: I _____ pledge to continue my role as a civic leader by carrying on the Bentley tradition of ethics, service, social responsibility and sustainability as an active member of the organizations in which I work and the communities in which I live. 12 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 For additional information on the Graduation Pledge program see: www.graduationpledge.org. Progress and AY2012-13 Goals To date, over 200 Bentley students have taken the Graduation Pledge prior to commencement and the university‘s baccalaureate ceremony. Prior to taking the pledge, students track and reflect on their campus involvement, civic engagement, and ethical and socially responsible behavior through an eportfolio, where they capture their activities each semester and reflect on their development as civic leaders via a Tracking Form. Our main goal is to continue developing the program, expanding the number of our undergraduates who complete the BCLP requirements and take the pledge. Net Impact As the BCLP/Graduation Pledge program is focused on undergraduates, one of our goals for AY200910 was to establish an active Net Impact chapter on campus for our MBA and MS students. In 2009, Bentley launched a Net Impact (NI) chapter, the international nonprofit organization with a mission to inspire, educate and equip individuals to use the power of business to create a more socially and environmentally sustainable world. Although the chapter was very active during its first year of operation, co-sponsoring several events including the 2010 TIME Leadership Forum and the 2nd International Research Conference on Conscious Capitalism, this past year the chapter was not as visible on campus. Progress and AY2012-13 Goals AY2011-12 was a disappointing year for our Net Impact chapter and the goal over this next year is to re-establish the association, attempting to institutionalize the program and involve our NI students in events and activities across campus. DIVERSITY Bentley has had a long-term commitment to working on issues, challenges and opportunities related to the mix of people who make up this institution. In 1993, Bentley created a formal ―diversity initiative‖ to build on and coordinate the many diversity-related efforts already underway on campus. Since then, different structures, committees and approaches have been used to continuously develop and implement strategies intended to improve the diversity climate on campus. Diversity work at Bentley has been concerned with both:  developing our capacity as an institution to value and work with all significant difference; and  dealing intensely with particular dimensions of diversity including sex/gender, race, nationality/culture, sexual orientation/gender identity, disability, and religion. One of the most visible elements of the diversity initiative has been two-day off-site retreats to which all members of the faculty and staff are invited. Among the participants in the very first retreat in 1993 13 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 were the president, vice presidents, and deans. Bentley has sponsored more than 60 retreats since then, and approximately 900 faculty, staff, and administrators have participated. The University also offers:  ―Ally‖ workshops, introducing participants to being an ―ally‖ on sexual identity and gender identity issues for members of the Bentley community; and  (dis)Ability Awareness Workshops, which are offered jointly with the Office for Disability Services. This workshop stimulates discussion of issues relating to both ―visible‖ and ―invisible‖ disabilities facing members of the Bentley community. All workshops are available to faculty, staff and students. While the retreats and workshops have been an important component of Bentley's efforts to become more inclusive and take fuller advantage of its diversity, the University‘s diversity initiative has also included:  Teams working on a wide variety of issues such as curriculum, faculty development, recruitment, retention, and sexual orientation.  Educational/developmental activities to help increase the capacity of all members of the Bentley community to deal more effectively with diversity.  Support of offices and departments throughout Bentley as they have struggled with diversityrelated challenges or sought to realize opportunities.  Direct work with students in key roles such as resident assistants, orientation leaders, first year seminar facilitators and academic tutors Bentley’s Vision for Diversity The importance of creating an institution in which people do not experience barriers because of aspects of their identity unrelated to their performance is a central driving force in the University‘s diversity work. Three additional goals drive this effort:  To truly educate all our students: The recognition that diversity is a business imperative for the 21st century lies at the heart of our concern with diversity. As the workforce in the United States becomes increasingly diverse and the economy becomes ever more global, we must address these issues if we are to fulfill our responsibilities to all of our students. Our graduates cannot be successful if they are unprepared to work with a wide variety of people.  To maintain our institutional viability: Broadening the pool from which we attract our students, faculty and staff promises to increase our quality. Especially as the groups from 14 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 which we have traditionally drawn our people represent a smaller proportion of the population, adding people of color, women, international citizens and people from other underrepresented groups will contribute to our long-term viability.  To enhance our organizational effectiveness: As we become more diverse, we must also increase our ability to work effectively across differences if we are to fully utilize all the available resources. Our increasing diversity offers additional opportunities, but it also presents significant challenges. Ultimately, the goal is to create an institution in which all of us can fulfill our potential. To meet this goal it is particularly important that members of the Bentley community who are ―in the majority‖ develop their effectiveness in relation to diversity. Multicultural Center Bentley‘s Multicultural Center (MCC) continues to serve as the ―home‖ to many ALANA students at the university, with the underlying goal of furthering their retention and academic success. The MCC provides academic monitoring, guidance, and referrals; initiatives for leadership development; and one-on-one connections for advocacy and ongoing personal support. The MCC also serves as a campus-wide resource, promoting the university‘s efforts to foster diversity and to develop a richly varied, learning community. http://campus-life.bentley.edu/cultural-spiritual-life/multicultural-center LGBTQ During AY2011-12 under the guidance and direction Earl Avery, Special Assistant to the President, the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ) Steering Committee was restructured to create more intentional leadership and direction. The revised committee structure encompasses a new co-chair structure consisting of liaisons to Bentley Faculty, Staff and Student/Alumni. The committee focuses on three core concepts: professional development, action/business, and Bentley community/ social involvement. Highlights of the accomplishments of last year include: October 2011  Annual Rainbow Luncheon: Keith Boykin, Keynote speaker November 2011  Guess the Straight Person – Cosponsored with Residence Life and PRIDE 15 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 December 2011  LGBTQ and Ally Off-campus Community Social February 2012  Webinar entitled ―LGBTQ on Campus: Three Critical issues to Consider in 2012.‖ The webinar was co-sponsored by the Residence Life and Housing and Students Systems  Faculty-Staff Ally Training  Faculty Development Workshop: LGBTQ Inclusive Content for your Classroom presented by Traci Abbott  With the support of President Larson, Faculty Senate and past/future members of the LGBTQ committee, the Board of Trustees approved an expansion of domestic partner benefits to include opposite sex couples and unmarried same-sex couples in Massachusetts. April 2012  PRIDE hosted Zach Whal, speaking on his experience growing up and embracing his life as a straight male with two loving mothers by his side.  LGBTQ Alumni Event: ―Out on the Job: Bentley Alumni on LGBTQ Workplace Issues,‖ co-sponsored with support from the Center for Women and Business and PRIDE.  Student Ally Training  Professional Development – Brown Bag Lunch – Book Discussion on Keith Boykin‘s Beyond the Down Low, sponsored by Human Resources  PRIDE hosted ―The Day of Silence‖ giving out over 1,100 t-shirts that were worn throughout the day  PRIDE co-sponsored the second annual ―Reject Stereotypes‖ campaign with APO, the Student Government Association, Campus Activities Board, and the Arts Lecture Series. May 2012 th  7 Annual Alumni Event in Boston  Affinity Lunch on Campus: Members of the LGBTQ community have the opportunity to meet socially and discuss topics of interest within the LGBTQ community.  End of the Semester Off-campus Social to celebrate the successful work of the committee June 2012  Boston PRIDE Parade Bentley’s Policy toward Members of Disadvantaged Communities The University continues to have a number of programs and offices that focus on the needs of the entire community, with an emphasis on historically disadvantaged groups. Our Office of Disability Services, for example, is committed to providing equal educational opportunities for students with disabilities. It is the University‘s policy that no qualified student be excluded from participating in any university program or activity, be denied the benefits of any university program or activity, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination with regard to any university program or activity. http://campus-life.bentley.edu/student-services/disability-services 16 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Progress and AY2012-13 Goals Although much work remains to be done to accomplish our vision, a number of significant strengths related to diversity at Bentley can be identified: Diversity programming is frequent, deep and broad, through speakers, events and activities sponsored by many groups on campus. Offices, programs and affinity groups provide substantial support: the Multicultural Center, International Services, the Spiritual Life Center, Disability Services, LGBTQ@Bentley, and the Women's Center, to name just a few. More women are in top administrative positions such as department chairs, deans, vice presidents, and president. There is greater comfort in reporting incidents among staff, faculty and students and Bentley seems to have greater capacity to respond to crises. Faculty recruitment and retention of underrepresented faculty of color is now being done in conjunction with eight Boston area schools of business through an initiative designed in large part by Bentley. The program is the Massachusetts Business School Collaborative. The Diversity Council is comprised of staff and faculty members from throughout campus who have explicit responsibility for diversity issues. The Diversity Council meets regularly to facilitate communication and collaboration, and develop input to senior administration. The Student Diversity Council, established in AY 2008-2009, is comprised of representatives from diversity-oriented student organizations – Bentley Cultural Council, PRIDE, the religious organizations, Women's Center – as well as other major student organizations – Greek fraternities and sororities, Residence Life, Student-Athlete Advisory Committee, Student Government Association and Campus Activities Board. The purposes of the Council are to: 1. Identify, discuss and develop recommendations on diversity issues and opportunities of particular interest to students; 2. Facilitate interchange between student organizations focused on diversity issues and those with other purposes (e.g. Greeks, CAB, SAAC, etc.); 3. Develop relationships among students working on particular diversity issues so that they can collaborate across areas of difference; 4. Develop input for the Staff and Faculty Diversity Council, including information about the diversity climate on campus for students; 5. Collaborate with the Staff and Faculty Diversity Council; and 6. Facilitate continuity and momentum from year-to-year in relation to student diversity activities. 17 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 With respect to our ALANA representation on campus, our goals include:  Increasing the number of ALANA faculty.  Increasing the degree to which Bentley is known among qualified ALANA candidates as an institution that actively seeks and supports faculty diversity.  Developing and implementing a Visiting Professor Program.  Increasing the number of ALANA graduate students in both the part and full-time programs.  Continuing to identify outstanding ALANA candidates for our PhD program. http://campus-life.bentley.edu/cultural-spiritual-life/diversity ETHICS POLICY AND UNIVERSITY-WIDE ETHICS COMMITTEE Bentley expects all members of the campus community – students, faculty and staff – to adhere to the highest ethical standards of conduct and integrity. The University seeks to instill a sense of business ethics in our students, and our faculty and staff are expected to lead the ethics initiative by example. Bentley faculty and staff members are required to appreciate the general scope and application of business ethics in an institute of higher learning, and to abide by Bentley‘s Code of Ethics, which is supported by a University-wide Ethics Committee. www.bentley.edu/alliance/ethicspolicy.cfm SUSTAINABILITY The Bentley University Office of Sustainability aspires to make Bentley a model for campus and community sustainability. It is Bentley University‘s ambition to establish institutional practices that promote environmental sustainability and social well-being, including measures to increase energy and water efficiency while decreasing waste generation and air pollution with the ultimate goal of shrinking both our carbon and ecological footprints. Over the past four years the office has taken aggressive steps towards sustainability, building partnerships with student groups and with faculty and staff to fully engage the Bentley community in 18 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 the sustainability mission. Bentley‘s sustainability efforts are defined as commitments and behaviors that are ecologically viable, economically sound, and socially just, now and for future generations. In addition to a commitment to greening campus buildings and operations, the Office of Sustainability works closely with faculty to support academic programs and provides opportunities for students to put what they have learned in the classroom into practice on campus. Highlights of these activities are provided below. Carbon Footprint Reductions Energy Efficiency The Office of Sustainability and Facilities Management are working diligently to achieve the carbon footprint reduction goals that Bentley committed to by signing the American College and University Presidents‘ Climate Commitment (ACUPCC). The ACUPCC‘s mission is to encourage colleges and universities to determine the most effective methods of carbon footprint reductions for different types of communities (rural, suburban and urban). Thus far American colleges and universities have achieved a 25% reduction in greenhouse gases collectively, more than any other sector in the United States. A carbon mitigation cost-benefit analysis conducted in 2010 revealed the following strategies as most effective:  Continued energy efficiency projects including expansion and operation of energy management systems;  Building retro-commissioning projects; and  Purchasing renewable energy. As of the writing of this report calculation of Bentley‘s FY2012 carbon footprint had not been completed (the results are expected by December, 2012). However, as electricity use traditionally accounts for the largest portion of Bentley‘s carbon footprint (44%) the reduction in electricity use reported by Bentley‘s Energy Systems Engineer for FY2012 will likely translate into a reduction in the university‘s carbon footprint for the third straight year. Carbon Footprint Reductions from Energy Efficiency Projects Thus far, Bentley has achieved an 8% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions based on energy efficiency projects and sound energy management. Cumulative savings from energy efficiency projects and energy management have totaled approximately $1M since FY2008. The energy management system has yielded the most significant cost savings, however, other projects like replacing old windows and boilers with high efficiency models achieve additional reductions. The university is expected to save $70,000 per year (with a four year payback period) from a change over to LEDs in all roadway, parking lot and walk way lighting. 19 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 The Office of Sustainability expects to see an additional 10% reduction based on continued energy efficiency work and the commencement of building retro-commissioning projects. However, in order to achieve the university‘s first carbon footprint reduction goal (a 50% reduction by 2020) an investment in renewable energy is required. Carbon Footprint Reductions from Renewable Energy Projects Creative financing methods enable Facilities Management to pursue further carbon footprint reductions by bundling energy efficiency projects with an investment in renewable energy. The goal is to tackle energy efficiency projects with short-term pay back periods, taking just a small amount of the savings to invest in further carbon footprint reduction strategies. The 2010 carbon mitigation cost-benefit analysis identified off-site renewable energy purchases as the most valuable means to reduce the campus‘ carbon footprint. Due to space and siting constraints, on-site renewable energy projects are not as attractive. Investigation into this possibility proves effective in fulfilling the mission of the ACUPCC. For tight urban and suburban areas where onsite generation is not feasible the answer to reducing greenhouse gases is purchasing electricity generated at a cleaner power Bentley‘s ongoing building energy efficiency program includes plant (i.e., a wind farm). upgrades to energy-efficient heating and cooling equipment, highefficiency lighting and occupancy sensors, and the installation of LED lights on outdoor walkways and in some buildings. Facilities Management saved approximately $300,000 on electricity during FY2012 and as of July 1, 2012 has reinvested 8% of that money in offsite renewable energy via the purchase of green e-certified renewable energy certificates (RECs). Each REC guarantees that 25 megawatts (the amount of electricity that Bentley uses per year on average) is generated by a domestic wind farm and placed on the U.S. electricity grid. By making this investment Bentley gets to take the carbon footprint reduction benefits. The wind power purchase helps Bentley achieve its 2015 carbon footprint reduction goal. Other benefits of the REC purchase include:  Recognition by the Environmental Protection Agency‘s Green Power Partnership.  Education opportunities for our students as Bentley has joined the ranks of other universities and many top companies (including State Street, Raytheon and Sun Life) that have purchased RECs and joined EPA‘s Green Power Partnership. 20 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12  Encouraging further development of the domestic renewable energy market and renewable energy projects, which increases energy security, promotes job creation and results in a cleaner electrical grid. Bentley‘s carbon mitigation strategy going forward will be a combination of, energy efficiency projects, sound energy management, a small amount of on-site renewable energy and a purchase of off-site renewable energy. Recycling Electronics Recycling Program The Office of Sustainability launched Bentley‘s first electronics recycling program on February 1, 2012. Based on its commitment to waste reduction and proper recycling, the program was developed by the Office of Sustainability to assess the need for proper disposal of electronics used on Bentley‘s campus at the end of their useful life. To address this issue, two electronics recycling stations were set up on campus for the collection of batteries, cell phones, small hand-held devices and ink jet cartridges. The Office of Sustainability has also set up a ―tag & snag‖ program where faculty and staff can set aside Bentley-owned electronics for recycling pick up once per month. All electronics, light bulbs and batteries are stored at the North Campus cold storage facility and picked up as needed by Institutional Recycling Network (IRN), a certified electronics recycler located in Concord N.H. The Office of Sustainability reviewed IRN‘s certifications and environmental record before entering in to a relationship with the company. Single-Stream Recycling, Cardboard Recycling and Trash Generation The Office of Sustainability continued education and outreach work associated with the University‘s single-stream and cardboard recycling programs. Facilities Management supports the Office of Sustainability‘s recycling program by collecting recycling from every building on campus six days per week. The tables below detail recycling tonnage for FY2012 as compared to FY2011. Single-Stream Recycling (does not include cardboard dumpsters) Fiscal Year 2012 2011 Difference Net Result Sum (tons) 170.23 172.73 -2.5 Monthly Average 14.18 14.39 -0.20 (tons) 21 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Cardboard Recycling (from three cardboard dumpsters at the LaCava Campus Center, Student Center and Collins Hall) Fiscal Year 2012 2011 Difference Net Result Sum (tons) 55.38 48.39 6.99 Monthly Average 4.62 4.03 .58 (tons) Municipal Solid Waste Fiscal Year 2012 2011 Difference Net Result Sum (tons) 1223.42 1361.36 -137.94 Monthly Average 101.95 113.45 -11.50 (tons) Diversion Rate (amount of material diverted from the solid waste stream by recycling) Fiscal Year Diversion Rate Net Result FY12 17.12% FY11 13.82% Water Use Reduction Since FY2010 Facilities Management has created a standard of installing dual-flush toilets and lowflow faucets and shower heads during all bathroom renovation projects. Thus far these fixtures have been installed in four residence halls. The low flow faucets reduce water use by 50% and the dualflush toilets alone are expected to save a total of 900,000 gallons of water each year. Green Dining The Office of Sustainability partners with Sodexo (the university‘s dining service provider) on green dining initiatives. In the past year green dining work has expanded on Bentley‘s campus as Sodexo works to enact the principal objectives of its corporate sustainability plan called the ―Better Tomorrow Plan.‖ Since 2010 Sodexo has worked diligently to increase recycling in all kitchen and dining areas, by AY 2012 compliance in kitchen and dining recycling was at an all-time high. 22 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 In FY2012 Sodexo successfully removed all Styrofoam containers from campus dining and retail dining spaces. The Sodexo team worked with retail dining operations to identify substitute take away containers in order to replace these Styrofoam containers. Sodexo has worked to source items locally wherever possible. Local foods are always labeled to educate diners. Presently about 15% of food served in dining areas is sourced from local vendors. It is Sodexo's goal to increase this number over the next several years. Sodexo also provides catering clients with several options to reduce waste from their catered event including:  Providing food service on china (when requested);  Providing paper plates made from 100% recycled content;  Providing bulk condiments instead of individually packaged items;  Providing recycling and information about recycling at events; and  Providing water bubblers at water stations rather than individual water bottles at large events. Waste cooking oil from Sodexo kitchens is collected by Cape Cod Biofuels and recycled into biodiesel for cars and trucks and home heating oil. Green Career Services The Office of Sustainability partnered with the Office of Career Services to address increasing student demand for information on careers in socially and environmentally conscious companies. The Office of Career Services has assigned one career counselor to be dedicated to careers in sustainability. The Office of Sustainability and the Office of Career Services have been working together to develop a network of green employers who are interested in recruiting Bentley students. Contacts include:  Clean tech startup companies;  Renewable energy companies;  Sustainable business consulting firms;  Sustainable business associations (The Green Restaurant Association); and  The public sector (New York City Mayor‘s Sustainability Office). Students also have access to green career information on the Bentley Office of Sustainability website. The website provides students with a directory of potential employers and Bentley‘s Green Career Guide, which contains information for students on green career options by major (e.g., accounting students can consider positions in green cost accounting). 23 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Bentley students have been placed in summer internships and full-time jobs in renewable energy companies, clean tech start-ups, socially responsible investment firms, and energy efficiency organizations. Student Engagement Outside of the Classroom Through its internship program the Office of Sustainability works to provide students with opportunities to apply what they have learned in the classroom to real-world situations on campus. The office employs a Green Dining Intern, a Student Recycling Coordinator, a Student Recycling Auditor and an Office Assistant. The Office of Sustainability works to support student groups on campus including the Bentley Green Society, the Student Government Association‘s Sustainability Project Group, and a Student Eco-Rep program. Student Eco-Rep Program The Student Eco-Rep program was created by the Office of Sustainability and the Bentley Residential Housing Association (RHA) in January 2010. Each residence hall has up to three Eco-Reps who serve as sustainability peer-educators. The Student Eco-Reps are currently developing a Green Certification Program. Through the Green Certification Program student Eco-Reps act as sustainability auditors and consultants. Each Eco-Rep reaches out to a student group or campus department with an offer to audit the organization. The audit reveals sustainable behaviors already in practice and items for improvement. Through the audit the student group or department receives a green certification rating (―seed,‖ ―sapling‖ or ―tree‖) and recommendations from the Eco-Rep on ways to improve or maintain the rating. Through this program students receive hands-on sustainability consulting experience. The Bentley Green Society The Bentley Green Society‘s primary purpose is to educate the Bentley community on the environmental challenges that the institution and global community face. It is the Green Society‘s hope that with education, the community will group together to solve these global problems. The Green Society runs the Blackout Challenge, RecycleMania, and Earth Fest. and partners with the Office of Sustainability in support of the Sustainability Film Series each year. 24 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Sustainability and the Student Government Association During the fall 2009 semester, the Student Government Association created the Sustainability Project Group as a means to ensure that students are engaged in sustainability initiatives. The group has been extremely successful in bringing changes to Bentley‘s campus, including the creation of informational videos to address student confusion over heating and cooling systems in the residence halls. The Office of Sustainability supports this group‘s activities as they work to pass sustainability bills. In FY2012 the group passed a bill banning Styrofoam on campus. The group is currently working on a bill to require the use of 30% recycled content paper on campus. http://www.bentley.edu/offices/sustainability W. MICHAEL HOFFMAN PRIZE IN BUSINESS ETHICS The Hoffman Prize was established at the Center for Business Ethics‘ (CBE) 20th Anniversary Celebration in October 1996 by the CBE‘s corporate advisory board and executive fellows to honor Professor W. Michael Hoffman, CBE‘s founder and executive director. Two $1,000 prizes are awarded each year: one to an undergraduate student and one to a graduate or a PhD student based on papers written in any course. Papers nominated for these prizes must demonstrate academic strength and must include an explicit business ethics component. Progress and AY2012-13 Goals In the 2011-12 academic year, there were 16 undergraduate papers and 9 graduate papers submitted, which was a drop-off from prior years. Academic Year Undergraduate Papers Graduate Papers 2011-12 16 9 2010-11 23 23 2009-10 21 21 2008-09 9 14 2007-08 21 4 2006-07 15 9 2005-06 27 9 A goal for the upcoming academic year is to expand the number of submissions at both the undergraduate and graduate levels. 25 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 ILLUSTRATIVE STUDENT PROGRAMS AND INITIATIVES The Mmofra Trom Bead Project The Mmofra Trom Bead Project is a social enterprise created by Bentley University students in partnership with The Mmofra Trom Education Center in Ghana, Africa (see pages 60-62). Vulnerable children who attend the Center‘s K-9 school at no cost do not have funds to go on to high school and university. As an after-school, after-homework art project, they string recycled-glass beads into elastic bracelets that Bentley students market in the United States. They sell bracelets to individuals and to retail stores through the project‘s website. The Bead Project‘s priority is to ensure that each child has the opportunity to have a high school and University education. The project continues to be a successful source of funding. http://initiatives.bentley.edu/ghana/student-initiated-projects Bentley Microfinance Initiative The student-run Bentley Microfinance Group (BMG) strives to integrate microfinance into the Bentley community and to promote community development through education and innovation in microlending activities. The club promotes microfinance by selecting loan candidates, monitoring loan portfolios, working with external partnerships, networking, and providing business plan assistance. Key objectives of the club are education, community development, operational sustainability, and innovation. BMG is unique in that members merge business experience with service – it is one of the first U.S. student run microfinance funds in the Greater Boston Area. Progress and AY2012-13 Goals During AY2011-12, the Club hosted several events focused on microfinance domestically and abroad. Professor Diane Kellogg and several of her students spoke about the accomplishments of the Ghana program and the achievements that have been made with $5,000 of BMG money. The largest accomplishment was the building of a chicken feed mill outside the village of Asutuare. This mill has greatly reduced travel costs and spoilage of chicken feed, greatly increasing the profitability of the Ghanaian villagers. BMG has also increased its presence locally by providing two additional loans to small businesses in the Boston area, totaling $18,000 of financing. These loans have allowed BMG clients to expand their business and get closer to achieving their goal of self-sustainability. Lastly, BMG has formed an extensive partnership with a local non-profit to establish the Artist Investment Fund designed to support local artists in their efforts to start and expand local businesses. 26 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Goals for the next academic year are to continue lending to clients with a goal of 3-5 by the end of 2013. BMG will also be continuing the fundraising effort toward its $300,000 loan portfolio goal. http://bentleylends.org/ Project Eye-To-Eye Project Eye-To-Eye is a national mentoring program that matches college and high school students with LD/ADHD, acting as tutors, role models and mentors, with elementary, middle, and high school students with LD/ADHD in order to empower these students and help them find success (see projecteyetoeye.org). Bentley is one of more than 20 colleges across the country participating in this ―first of its kind‖ project. Across the country, leaders in education, business, psychology, and medicine have acknowledged the success of Project Eye-To-Eye by spreading word of the program or joining the board of directors. Bentley ―mentors‖ are paired with a ―mentee‖ with a similar ‗dis‘ability for the entire semester. Each Monday mentors and mentees meet together in the art room of the school to work together on projects designed to build confidence and self-esteem. The Bentley chapter of Project Eye-To-Eye has worked with 4th and 5th grade students at the MacArthur Elementary School in Waltham. This past year, the students worked with the McDevitt Middle school, where students were paired together based on their disability. Each week they completed different art projects, focusing on the strengths and talents of the middle school students. Bentley Model UN The Bentley Model UN (BMUN) program is an organization of Bentley students interested in international affairs and has been active on campus since 1987. The program‘s primary activities are: 1) promoting understanding of the United Nations and international affairs through on campus speakers, conferences, and an educational institute at the UN Headquarters; 2) encouraging and supporting Bentley students as they participate in collegiate Model UN conferences; 3) organizing and running a one-day Model UN conference on the Bentley campus for approximately 300 middle school students from throughout New England; and 4) organizing and running a three-day high school Model UN conference on the Bentley campus for approximately 100 students from schools along the East coast and including schools from Mexico and the Dominican Republic. 27 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 The BMUN 2012 Secretariat Approximately 30 Bentley students are currently active in the programs of the Bentley Model United Nations. The activities of the group enable Bentley students to develop expertise in the operation of the United Nations and on such international topics as: Iran and nuclear weapons, clean water shortage, peace in the Middle East, and sustainable development. The Bentley students organize the conferences and then preside over the sessions of the General Assembly, Security Council, and the Economic and Social Committee (ECOSOC). These conferences also help the students to develop skills in public speaking, negotiating, and resolution writing. They also learn to research international issues and to understand cultures and perspectives different from their own. Progress and AY2012-13 Goals The 2012 Conference featured heated debate in both the United Nations Security Council and ECOSOC on topics ranging from torture to agricultural subsidies. The BMUN Club is currently planning for its 2013 Conference. Navera Asghar, who served as Undersecretary General for the 2012 BMUN, will be the BMUN 2013 Secretary General. http://student-organizations.bentley.edu/modelun/index.html 28 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 CAMPUS-WIDE LECTURES AND EVENTS A sample of campus-wide lectures and events focused on ethics, CSR, sustainability and civic engagement included: SEPTEMBER 2011  Remembering 9/11/2001: Ten Years Later Bentley hosted a series of event in remembrance of 9/11: o September 6 to 12: ―We Remember Banner‖: Members of the Bentley community were encouraged to write their names and capture their memories on the 9/11 Banner. o September 9: 9/11 Commemorative Pins were distributed to members of the Bentley community. o September 9: 9/11 Remembrance Service o September 11: The Sacred Space was open for prayer, quiet mediation and signing the Book of Remembrance.  Why Do Good Employees Do Bad Things? David Gebler, President, Skout Group, LLC, an expert in corporate culture, ethics and values, led a discussion on the root causes of why good employees do bad things. Drawing from his 20 years of experience in the field, Gebler focused on how key fundamentals of social psychology and behavioral economics get lost in corporate culture, unnecessarily creating risks for organizations.  Food, Inc. The Bentley Office of Sustainability and the Bentley Green Society hosted the provocative film, which draws on Eric Schlosser's Fast Food Nation and Michael Pollan‘s The Omnivore's Dilemma. The Oscar-nominated documentary explores the food industry‘s detrimental effects on our health and environment, spotlighting the men and women who are working to reform an industry rife with monopolies, questionable interpretations of laws and subsidies, political ties and rising rates of E. coli outbreaks.  Building Character Documentary Filmmaker Randall Wood presented an analysis of recent documentaries in distribution and a new film in production (The Grammar of Happiness) for the Smithsonian Channel focused on Dean of Arts & Sciences Daniel Everett's theory of language. Wood examined the critical role of character development in shaping a successful documentary. OCTOBER  Occupy Wall Street: What's it All About? Protesters were on Wall Street and the Occupy Boston demonstration was gathering momentum in the wake of a police crackdown. A panel of Bentley professors led an informed discussion of the recent events: Atul Gupta (Finance), Elizabeth LeDoux (EMS), Randall Nichols (EMS), Kartik Raman (Finance), Joni Seager (Global Studies), and Cyrus Veeser (History).  Summer Rayne Oaks The World's First ―Eco-Model,‖ Summer Rayne Oakes combines her environmental expertise and vision with her modeling career. As brand ambassador and sustainability 29 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 strategist for Portico Home, Payless ShoeSource's zoe&zac line, MODO ECO Eyewear, and Aveeno Smart Essentials, her work involves advising and consulting on various aspects of design, production, and practice.  Gasland The Bentley Office of Sustainability and the Bentley Green Society hosted the Oscarnominated documentary, directed by Josh Fox, that journeys across America to examine the negative effects of natural-gas drilling, from poisoned water sources to kitchen sinks that burst into flame to unhealthy animals and people. The film explores whether natural gas is a viable alternative to the country's dwindling energy resources, or whether the potential harmful consequences outweigh the positives.  Raytheon CEO Lecture Series in Business Ethics: Inventing a Win-Win-WinWin-Win Future The Center of Business Ethics hosts the Raytheon Lectureship in Business Ethics, highlighting respected corporate leaders of companies that have a manifest and deep-rooted commitment to doing business in the right way. Leading CEOs share their insights and ideas and engage in discussion about how the business community can and should achieve ethical excellence. The fall semester speaker was Gary Hirschberg, Chairman, President and CE-Yeo, Stonyfield Farm, the world's leading organic yogurt producer. His talk focused on creating a sustainable approach to business that respects the interests of all company stakeholders.  Unconventional Leadership: What It Takes To Effect Change and Secure Justice Sponsored by the Center for Women and Business, Judge Nancy Gertner shared her views on leadership, change and justice. While there are many paths to leadership, Gertner underscored the importance of a strong moral compass and the fortitude to hold true to a set of core beliefs. NOVEMBER  King Corn The Bentley Office of Sustainability and Bentley Green Society hosted Aaron Woolf's thought-provoking documentary as they follow two friends who moved back to America's Corn Belt to plant an acre of the nation's most-grown and most-subsidized grain, following their crop into the U.S. food supply. What they learned about genetically modified seeds, powerful herbicides and the realities of modern farming calls into question government subsidies, the fast-food lifestyle, and the quality of what we eat.  Leadership, Rhetoric and Ethics: Crossing Disciplinary Boundaries Lena Lid Andersson, Stockholm School of Economics, focused on the role of leadership in today‘s society. Among the questions she addressed were: How and why are individual leaders given importance? What leadership ideals exist in the international arena? Her work builds on two case studies: a mapping of the eight General Secretaries of the UN, and the life and leadership of Dag Hammarskjöld. DECEMBER  The Burning Season The documentary film shines a light on the dilemma faced by Indonesia, the world's thirdlargest carbon emitter, as the country struggles to feed its people without destroying its most precious resource – its rainforests. The film follows a trio of individuals at the heart of the 30 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 struggle – a palm oil farmer, an orangutan rescuer and a carbon trader – through a single burning season. Co-sponsored by the Office of Sustainability and the Earth, Environment and Global Sustainability Liberal Studies Major. FEBRUARY 2012  Giving Voice to Values: How to Speak Your Mind When You Know What's Right Mary Gentile, director of the Giving Voice to Values curriculum and senior research scholar at Babson College, shared her work on how organizational members can effectively stand up for their values when pressured by bosses, colleagues, customers, or shareholders to do the opposite. Gentile‘s talk explored how students can empower themselves with the skills and insight to voice and act on their values, aligning their professional path with their principles. Challenging the assumptions about business ethics at companies and business schools, she argued that often the issue isn‘t distinguishing what is right or wrong, but knowing how to act on one‘s values despite opposing pressure.  Interaction Order in the Late-Modern City Rodrigo Suassuna, the 2011-2012 Valente Center Visiting Scholar, drew on an ethnographic study of Greater Brasilia, the capital city of Brazil, to examine the myriad obstacles to effective social exchange. His work underscored the potential development of intergenerational mistrust, especially concerning the expectations of human rights and freedom of expression held by the inhabitants of such poor areas.  2012 Verizon Visiting Professor: Globalization and Its Challenges for Business in the 21st Century Patricia Werhane, Wicklander Chair of Business Ethics and Managing Director of the Institute for Business and Professional Ethics, DePaul University, shared her thoughts about the ethics of globalization. As one of the most respected scholars of business ethics in the United States today, Werhane presented a hard look at the ethics of globalization and its challenges. APRIL  Who is a Survivor in a Genocide? The Silencing and (Re)Discovery of Islamized Armenian Survivors in Turkey The Department of Global Studies and Valente Center for Arts and Sciences hosted Ayşe Gül Altınay, a political anthropologist from Sabancı University in Istanbul. Professor Altinay drew on her research on gender, militarism, and political violence as she addressed such topics as nationalism, gender, genocide, and militarism.  Raytheon CEO Lecture Series in Business Ethics: Toward a Sustainable Future The Center of Business Ethics hosts the Raytheon Lectureship in Business Ethics, highlighting respected corporate leaders of companies that have a manifest and deep-rooted commitment to doing business in the right way. Leading CEOs share their insights and ideas and engage in discussion about how the business community can and should achieve ethical excellence. The spring semester speaker was Muhtar Kent, CEO and Chairman of the Coca-Cola Company. 31 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12  Confessions of a Lapsed Historian: The Value of Liberal Arts in the Business World Dr. Eric Schultz, an experienced entrepreneur and senior executive, and President of Sensitech, a former Inc. 500 company acquired by Carrier Corporation/United Technologies, shared his views about the value of the liberal arts in the business world.  Solving the Sweatshop Problem: Rival Corporate and Social Movement Solutions There is widespread agreement that sweatshops are a pervasive problem in global manufacturing and that something should be done about them. Different social groups, however, have very different understandings of what causes sweatshops and what might be done to solve the problem. In particular, major corporations like Nike or the Gap have one approach, through their corporate social responsibility programs, while organizations in the anti-sweatshop movement like United Students Against Sweatshops has a very different one. Each group regards the other‘s approach as fundamentally flawed. In this talk, Dr. Matthew Williams (Boston College) will look at these approaches, how they are rooted in the different groups‘ interests and values, and analyze the strengths and weaknesses of each approach. 32 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 PRINCIPLES FOR RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT EDUCATION Principle 2 We will incorporate into our academic activities and curricula the values of global social responsibility as Values portrayed in international initiatives such as the United Nations Global Compact. CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT In addition to required courses as well integration throughout the curriculum at the undergraduate and graduate levels, a series of dedicated electives focusing on ethics, social responsibility and sustainability are available for interested students. In addition the curriculum also includes courses dedicated to labor issues, human rights, the environment and anti-corruption in the spirit of the UNGC‘s Principles for Responsible Business. This year‘s report focuses on new curricular developments related to the spirit of the UNGC and PRME. Undergraduate Business Core The new 27-credit undergraduate business core emphasizes the integration of ethics and social responsibility across the curriculum:  GB 110 Legal and Ethical  GB 214 Marketing-Operations Environment of Business Fundamentals  GB 112 Tools & Concepts in  GB 215 Human Behavior & Accounting and Finance Organizations  GB 212 Practice and Applications  GB 310 Business Processes& in Accounting and Finance Systems  GB 213 Statistical Analysis of  GB 320 General Business Field Business Data Project  GB 410 Global Strategy The Bentley MBA Through collaboration by faculty in business and the arts and sciences, Bentley‘s new MBA program, which was launched Fall 2012, foregoes the standard course format to engage students in four 10-week themes: Innovation, Value, Environment, and Leadership. Each theme includes three-credit modules where students work in a cohort with faculty and corporate guests, balancing individual development with teamwork to promote creativity. 33 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Innovation Theme: Explores the psychology of innovation, personal creativity, the use of design and creativity in business, and how leadership can sustain innovation. Specific modules include:  Psychology of innovation  Design for business  Personal creativity  Sustaining innovation Topic areas:  Conditions for innovation  Ethical approaches to and  Convergent and divergent consequences of innovation thinking  Gender and individual differences  Idea generation in creative approaches  Operationalizing innovation  Product and service prototypes  Dealing with failure Value Theme: Examines what is valuable to different stakeholders, with a focus on developing a personal approach to generating value within a firm with an emphasis on assessing value in its many forms. Specific modules will include:  The value environment  Generating value  Deriving value Topic areas:  Stakeholder perceptions of  Internal use and management of value information  Human capital  Pricing  Financial capital  Investment  Supply chains  New product development Environment Theme: Goes beyond the boundaries of the firm to discover the importance of culture and acculturation, investigating the roles that social networks and local contexts play in business decisions. Specific modules include:  Social Context  Technology, communication and  Law, regulation and the networks economic environment  Analyzing complexity and change Topic areas:  Culture and acculturation  Institutions and  Knowledge sharing institutionalization  Ethical approaches to using power,  Markets knowledge and communication  Addressing conflicting  Law and government roles interests  Living with disruptive change  Uses of data and information in context 34 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Leadership Theme: Emphasis will be placed on discovering one‘s leadership style and tracking one‘s personal development. Skills include learning how to communicate with different groups to earn their trust, working through the intricacies of strategic leadership. Specific modules include:  Leadership fundamentals  Leadership ethics: Decision Thinking about thinking making, influence and integrity  Global strategy Topic areas:  You as a leader  Motivation  Role of emotional  Managing crises and stakeholder intelligence engagement  Developing norms  Strategy  Ethical decision-making within an organizational culture Course sessions are held in a specially designed high-tech studio intended to tap students as active contributors to the learning experience. After-class studio time allows for delving deeper into issues and ideas, as students work in teams with each other and with faculty. The program also involves domestic and international field collaborations where students join faculty and organization representatives at sites around the world to address an emerging or persistent issue for the host organization. Students also explore the social role of business in the local culture. SUSTAINABILITY Bentley has been developing an extensive curriculum focused on the integration of environmental sciences and global sustainability with business studies. At the undergraduate level, as part of the Liberal Studies Major (LSM) program, Earth, Environment and Global Sustainability is one of 7 distinct concentrations student can select. A new B.A. degree in Sustainability Science is also being launched in fall semester, 2012. Earth, Environment & Global Sustainability The ―Earth, Environment and Global Sustainability‖ LSM focuses on the challenges inherent in environmental issues and the sustainability of our planet‘s resources. Emphasis is placed on the ways in which scientific and technological solutions to these problems are dependent on economic, political, and social constructs that require global cooperation. This concentration provides students with a background in Earth and environmental systems combined with global, societal and economic perspectives on the challenges of sustainable development. 35 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 The concentration includes eight courses, 3-4 courses selected from the Natural & Applied Sciences courses and 4-5 liberal arts and business electives listed below: NAS Courses  NASC 100 Astronomy: Solar System  NASC 122 Environmental Chemistry  NASC 111 Green Biology: Ecological &  NASC 130 Principles of Geology Botanical Connections  NASE 305 U.S. Space Program: Going  NASE 311 Ecology: Principles & Beyond Applications  NASE 314 Coastal Biology of Cape Cod  NASE 315 Human Health & Disease in  NASE 317 Economic Botany Today‘s World  NASE 318 Global Health Challenges  NASE 328 Water Quality  NASE 333 Natural Disasters  NASE 334 Coastal Geology of Cape Cod  NASE 335 Oceanography  NASE 336 Water & the Environment  NASE 337 Global Climate Change  NASE 339 Weather & Climate  NASE 344 Energy Alternatives  NASE 364 Science of Sustainability Electives A&S Courses  EXP 201 Expository Writing: Critical  GLS 230 Politics & Public Policy Thinking (with appropriate theme)  HI 267 The Past and Present in Africa  HI 280 The Caribbean: Past, Present,  HI 314 History of the World Economy Futures  HI 346 Economic History of the United States  GLS 110 Global Regions  GLS 116 International Relations  GLS 243 The Developing World  GLS 246 Geographic Information Systems  GLS 325 Global Transportation &Tourism  GLS 310 Perspectives on Global Commerce  LIT 362 American Literature 1830-1870  LIT 363 American Literature: Realism  MA227 Mathematical Modeling in & Naturalism Environmental Management  MA 263 Continuous Probability for  PH 130 Business Ethics: Corporate Social Risk Management Responsibility  PH 133 Business Ethics: International Business  PH 301 Environmental Ethics Ethics  PS 305 Environmental Psychology  PH 351 Perspectives on Poverty Business Courses:  EC 311 International Economics  EC 321 International Economic Growth & Development  EC 341 Urban and Regional Economics  EC 346 Environmental Economics  FI 318 Real Estate Investment Decisions  FI 327 Insurance and Risk Management  FI 351 International Finance  LA 102 Environmental Law  MLA 308 International Business Law  MG343 Project Management 36 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Sustainability Science A new B.A. degree, with a major in Sustainability Science, is also in the process of being launched. This new major, the first science-based major offered at Bentley, prepares students to analyze the impacts on, interactions with, and limitations of the Earth‘s environmental systems as they relate to societal and business activities, and to act as business and community leaders in ways that are sustainable in terms of environmental, economic and societal considerations. The program includes a strong foundation in laboratory sciences, field experience in environmental science, and a capstone project or internship in which students apply their knowledge in an original research project or an approved workplace-based internship. All students enrolled in the Sustainability Science major must also complete the new Business Studies major or minor, which will better prepare them to apply principles of environmental sciences in addressing sustainability challenges of business and society. The new major has four broad learning goals: 1. Enhance environmental science literacy and its application in business and personal decision making. 2. Promote activeand problem-based learning in Earth and environmental sciences by incorporating the use of field and laboratory technology. 3. Improve creative problem-solving and critical thinking skills. 4. Integrate and apply scientific knowledge across students‘ multidisciplinary liberal arts & sciences and business curriculum. Required Courses  NASC 122 Environmental Chemistry  NASC130 Principles of Geology or NASC 111 Green Biology: Ecological & Botanical Connections  NASE 364 Science of Sustainability  NASE 402 – Federal Environmental & Natural Resource Policy Field Experience (One of the following illustrative options):  NASE336 Water and the Environment  NASE314 Coastal Biology of Cape Cod  NASE334 Coastal Geology of Cape Cod  NASE International Faculty-led program Sustainability Science Electives (3)  NASE 311 Ecology: Principles & Applications  NASE 318 Global Health Challenges  NASE 328 Water Quality  NASE 336 Water & the Environment  NASE 337 Global Climate Change  NASE 339 The Atmosphere  NASE 344 Energy Alternatives  MA 227 Mathematical Modeling in  EC 346 Environmental Economics Environmental Management  PS 305 Environmental Psychology  LA 102 Environmental Law  PH 301 Environmental Ethics  GLS 101 Globalization  GLS 243 The Developing World Senior Capstone Experience  NASE 415 Research in Natural &  NASE 412 Internship in Natural & Applied Sciences Applied Sciences 37 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 ILLUSTRATIVE COURSES Our earlier COP and SIP reports covered the broad range of courses offered at Bentley that emphasize and integrate ethics and corporate social responsibility related topics across the curriculum at both the undergraduate and graduate levels. This year‘s report provides examples of courses across the curriculum that explicitly capture the spirit of the UNGC‘s Principles for Responsible Business, highlighting human rights, labor and anti-corruption (environment-related courses are discussed in the Section on Sustainability, pp. 34-36). For a complete list of courses with coverage of ethics, social responsibility, service-learning, diversity, and sustainability go to: http://www.bentley.edu/centers/alliance/teaching-initiatives EC 232 Labor Economics The course analyzes the economic forces influencing employment, wages and working conditions in the United States. Examines topics such as the decline in job security, the rise in educational and training requirements, the impact of technology and trade on employment and wages, and the extent and effects of unionization. Discusses managerial compensation and the use of incentive packages to reduce labor turnover and encourage productivity. Course also addresses public policy issues regarding income inequality, safety and health, discrimination, minimum wage, and unemployment compensation. FI 333 Seminar in Micro-Lending This course is a reading seminar designed for students who have an interest in micro-lending or microenterprises. The course will use journal articles and cases to present and develop the micro-lending issues. Much of the article and case identification and presentation, as well as the management of the class discussion will be lead by the students in the class. Students will be expected to do a coordinated research project to learn how other universities, banks, enterprises and governments have become involved in micro-lending programs. This research will study micro-finance from both the international and the domestic perspectives, with discussions and coordinated research working toward a final course project developing a recommendation that can be implemented by the students operating the Bentley Microfinance Club and managing the loan fund. GLS 243 The Developing World As the forces of globalization increase the flow of goods, services, capital, people, ideas and images across borders, many social, political and economic consequences have arisen for developing, as well as developed, countries. This course takes an interdisciplinary approach to examining the dynamic interaction of the social and political factors with regional and transnational economic forces in the developing world. More specifically, it discusses the social and political conditions for successes or failures of development as well as the consequences of development and underdevelopment. The United Nations Human Development Index is used to analyze the consequences of global socioeconomic interactions. Students in this course will acquire a deep understanding of the global and socioeconomic interactions measured by HDI and develop skills to analyze the multifaceted impact of globalization on the developing world. GLS 255 Global Commerce and Human Rights: Short-term Program – Chile The course looks at Chile as a test case for global commerce and a free market economy. Emphasis is placed on the benefits and opportunities that are available to Chileans who live in a nation whose recent governments have embraced a liberal marketplace and free trade, as well as the hardships that the Chilean people and their environment have endured as a result of such unrestricted free trade combined with a lack of human rights, social services, and environmental protections. Staying in 38 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Santiago, Temuco, and Renaca while visiting some of the surrounding coastal and mountainous regions in central and south-central Chile, we will speak with representatives from the Central Bank of Chile, the Santiago chapter of the Association of Relatives of the Detained-Disappeared, the Mapuche indigenous people of Chile, a journalist and communication professor, a filmmaker and blogger, and a TV journalist/host, among others. GLS 282 Race in Southern Africa This course explores the development and impact of racism in Southern Africa, with special reference to apartheid in South Africa. Students examine print and web sources as well as primary sources including historic documents, political tracts, political music, literature, newspaper clippings, and recorded interviews with political leaders. Although the focus of the course is on South Africa, students gain insight on the economic, political and social impact of apartheid on other countries in Southern Africa, especially Zimbabwe and Mozambique. Students also study the role of the United States, Europe, the United Nations and other ―players‖ in southern African history and current events. GLS 285 Case Studies in Culture and Commerce of Africa The course introduces students to the history and culture of South Africa as they relate to economic development and business practices. A former Bentley student from South Africa serves as the local program coordinator. Students visit governmental and nongovernmental agencies engaged in business development and meet with local business leaders. Topics covered include women in development, U.S./South Africa commercial relations, the impact of social issues, such as HIV/AIDS, South Africa's economic role in the continent and others. Students visit the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, Coca Cola, a gold mining company as well as cultural sites. The travel portion takes place over spring break. GLS 315 Human Rights in Global Media This course looks at how media covers themes of human rights across the globe. It focuses primarily on documentary and feature films, but includes television, radio, print journalism, music, poetry, textiles, and the Internet. It explores styles, forms, and techniques of media production and reception. Many films and videos will be in languages other than English, with English subtitles. The course examines how media influence and are influenced by recent history, politics, violence, and culture in different parts of the world, with emphasis on media influence in judicial human rights cases. The course emphasizes team projects, fieldwork and student creativity. HI 347 Work and the American Worker This course looks at the history of work and the American worker from, roughly, the late 19th century to the present. It considers such issues as shifting styles of work, i.e., the evolution and meaning of the assembly line, scientific management, and the re-engineered workplace of today. It also examines the changing nature of working-class life and community among native-born and immigrant workers, women, and racial minorities. It explores the evolution of organized labor movements in the U.S. and their relationships to government and politics. This leads us into discussion of the role of law and government in workers' lives through the state response to strikes, government support or opposition to unionization, and anticommunism. IB 701 Internship in International Business: Enhancing Afro Brazilian Incubator Business Performance and Incubates – An Entrepreneurial Business Experience in Rio de Janeiro. Students have the opportunity to learn about the business culture and economy in Brazil and how nongovernmental organizations have emerged to address economic and social issues. Graduate students are placed with an Afro Brazilian Incubator (ABI), in Rio de Janeiro Brazil, where they spend four 39 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 weeks learning how their business skills can be applied to organizations designed to address economic, business, and social issues. LA 104 Gender and the Law Explores the law both as a force in maintaining the second-class citizenship of women and as a tool in dismantling gender discrimination throughout society. Examines ways in which the law, in the name of patriarchy and protection of women, has been unfair to men. Reviews legal milestones in women's history whereby women gained such rights as the right to vote, to serve as jurors, to serve in the military. Studies the evolution of law as a tool for empowerment of women from early caselaw through modern statutes that seek to prevent gender discrimination in such societal arenas as the workplace, education, and health care. Addresses what many believe is the failure of the legal system to adequately handle areas in which women arguably have unique needs, by examining such topics as the laws surrounding pregnancy, rape and domestic violence. LA 105 Race and the Law Examines the role of the law both as a force in maintaining the second-class citizenship of racial minorities and as a tool in dismantling racial discrimination throughout society. Considers the law as an instrument of oppression of racial minorities through historical reviews of laws and court decisions that have treated whites and non-whites differently; examines legal efforts to liberate and empower racial minorities. Focuses on selected topics particular to Native Americans, Asian Americans, Hispanic/Latino Americans, and African Americans, as well as legal issues common to all racial minorities (hate crimes, housing segregation, equal education opportunity, discrimination in the criminal justice system, workplace discrimination, affirmative action). Looks at the intersection of gender and race to identify issues unique to female members of racial minorities. LA 106 Outsiders and the Law This course provides a focused study of the law as a dynamic force in social change by examining law as both an instrument of institutionalized oppression and a tool for liberation and empowerment of oppressed groups-those outside the majority. This particular course will focus on traditionally disenfranchised groups other than women and racial minorities. (For a parallel study of these groups, the Law Department offers LA 104, Gender and the Law, and LA 105, Race and the Law, respectively.) Groups studied in this course include: religious minorities, the physically challenged, the elderly, minors (including students), gay and bisexual persons, non-citizens, the homeless, the mentally ill, and criminals. The course will address the law's historical and current role both in maintaining the second class citizenship of these groups and in dismantling discrimination against them. LA 309 Current Issues in Labor and Employment Law Introduces the student to labor and employment laws that govern the rights of employers and employees in the workplace. Federal and state statutes, leading court and agency decisions are examined. Topics include union representation, collective bargaining, unfair labor practices, the right to strike, dispute resolution, the erosion of the doctrine of employment-at-will, minimum wage law, occupational safety regulation, drug and alcohol testing, plant closing laws, employer-related immigration issues, and public sector employment topics. Fair employment practice law encompasses race, sex, religion, national origin, handicapped and age discrimination including the topics of equal pay for equal work, affirmative action and sexual harassment. Collaborative textual analysis is supplemented with lectures, guest speakers, films and panel discussions. 40 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 LA 720 Law and Ethics Today managers are expected to make decisions that comply with legal principles and ethical theories. This course is designed to increase manager awareness of legal and regulatory controls that impact their business dealings with government agencies, consumers, employees, competitors, investors, and the general public. Using a review of court cases, business case examples, and ethical readings, the course will help managers to identify and deal with major legal issues, to avoid potential legal liability, and to maintain ethical integrity in a competitive global marketplace. Topics will include applied ethics, business torts and crimes, consumer protection, product liability, equal employment opportunity, securities regulation, and antitrust law. MG 228 Managing Diversity in the Workplace Explores the opportunities and challenges of the United States' increasingly diverse work force. Addresses the knowledge and skills that managers must develop in working with others who are different from themselves. Special attention is paid to the effect of gender and racial diversity on individuals, work groups, and the organization as a whole. MG 601 Competing in a Global Marketplace: Analysis of the Business Environment This interdisciplinary course presents a conceptual framework for scanning the global business environment. This scanning or information-gathering process is a critical part of how the corporate general manager formulates strategy. The course comprises four main areas that identify internal and external forces affecting the firm's ability to compete domestically and internationally: 1) sociocultural and ethical forces and issues; 2) global economic and financial forces; 3) political/legal forces and issues; and 4) global technological forces. The objective is to provide the student with the skills and methodology necessary for market analysis and business strategizing on a global scale. PH 130 Business Ethics: Corporate Social Responsibility Examines the various meanings of corporate social responsibility by looking at the nature of the corporation and the character structure of its managers, both historically and in the present. After investigating several philosophical theories concerning the ideal use of power, the emphasis is on the application of principled moral thinking concerning corporate responsibility to such topics as employees, consumers, local communities, government, environmental issues, advertising, payoffs and bribes, the role and structure of corporate whistleblowing, privacy rights, poverty and equal rights, and other ethical issues that relate to corporate technology and the individual. Some attention is given to the moral evaluation of entire economic systems. PH 131 Business Ethics: Philosophy of Work What should work look like in the 21st Century? Explores personal work values and a wide range of moral questions about contemporary work. Includes topics such as: globalization, technological change, wages and working conditions, work-life balance, discrimination and diversity, and workplace democracy. Texts include cases, academic articles, documentary films, literature, journalism, and discussions of public and institutional policies. Draws on moral theories and students‘ overall academic expertise to identify problems and defend solutions. PH 133 Business Ethics: International Business Ethics Explores ethical issues confronted by corporations operating in the global marketplace, where laws, moral standards and cultural customs can vary widely from country to country. Possible issues to be discussed: bribery, environmental and safety standards, fair wages, sales and marketing, businessgovernment relations, and the role of multinational corporations in developing nations. To assess the morals of multinational corporations, a number of cases will be analyzed from the perspective of a variety of ethical frameworks. 41 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 PH 351 Perspectives on Poverty What are the moral obligations of government, other institutions, and individuals in dealing with poverty? Should just societies satisfy the basic needs of all their members? How should we deal with conflicting claims about justice, rights, needs, freedom and equality? Are current U.S., state, and local policies dealing with poor people morally justified? What alternative policies might be better? Explores answers to these questions through study of different philosophical theories and through investigation of one or two current problem areas as cases. Investigation will include substantial service-learning experiences in inner-city schools or other institutions that serve poor people. SO 241 Diversity, Minorities and Social Change Examines the growing social diversity of contemporary societies. Considers the changing nature and significance of minorities in historical and cross-cultural perspective. Minority status, ethnicity and race, group formation, structural disadvantage, migration and multiculturalism are among the key ideas considered. Other dimensions of social diversity, such as gender, age, class, disability and sexual orientation, will also be studied. Social policy implications of current issues in diversity and minority status will be addressed. Progress and AY2012-13 Goals Bentley is committed to ongoing curricular development and the exploration of ways to continue to weave issues of ethics, social responsibility, sustainability, and civic engagement across campus, capturing the essence of the UNGC‘s Principles with respect to human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. 42 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 PRINCIPLES FOR RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT EDUCATION Principle 3 We will create educational frameworks, materials, processes and environments that enable effective learning experiences Method for responsible leadership. As a way of influencing curriculum development – at both the undergraduate and graduate level – across the university, in 1988 the Center for Business Ethics (CBE) began working with the chairs of Bentley‘s Accountancy, Law and Computer Information Systems Departments, providing them with assistance in integrating ethics into their departmental courses. The subsequent work with these departments – and its success in elevating the visibility of ethics in their curricula and stimulating faculty research in this area – prompted CBE to transform this initiative into a formal workshop. The first session was offered in May 1991, and it continues today. Expanding the initial focus on business ethics, the workshop also covers issues surrounding corporate social responsibility and sustainable business practices. TEACHING BUSINESS ETHICS FACULTY WORKSHOP Background information on the Teaching Business Ethics workshop is provided in our initial AY200607 COP. Initiated in spring 1991, the intent of the program remains the same – to encourage faculty to address ethical issues and questions of corporate social responsibility (CSR) in required and elective courses across Bentley‘s curriculum. Each Spring Bentley faculty members and (since 2004) visiting faculty from around the world participate in a 5-day workshop to explore ways of integrating ethical and CSR issues into their discipline-based courses. The workshop is designed to accomplish this goal through: (1) facilitated discussions among faculty from several different disciplines (and institutions) intended to provide them with a basic grounding in ethical theory and corporate responsibility, and (2) presentations by the faculty participants on integrating ethics/CSR into their courses, with the opportunity for feedback from the workshop facilitators and other participants. The program is currently supported by a grant from the State Street Foundation. By focusing on pedagogical tactics and approaches to incorporating ethical and social responsibility issues, the teaching workshop has stimulated a greater comfort level across our faculty. Over time, our experience suggests that faculty become increasingly skilled at engaging students in in-depth discussions of ethical issues, going beyond planned activities (cases, exercises, videos) to servicelearning projects and drawing on student work-related experiences and issues that emerge ―in the moment.‖ Complete information on the Global Business Ethics Teaching Workshop, including past workshop agendas and plans for the 2013 program, is available at: www.bentley.edu/alliance/global_business_ethics_teaching_workshop.cfm 43 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Global Business Ethics Teaching Workshop “Alumni”: External Faculty The May 2012 program was on the Bentley campus. External faculty from across the globe participating in this year‘s program included:  Huma Baqai, Institute of Business Administration, Karachi, Pakistan  Elise Perrault Crawford, College of Charleston  Tracy L. Gonzalez-Padron, University of Colorado-Colorado Springs  Hashir Ibne Irsha, FAST National University, Pakistan  Jerome Joseph, Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, India  Simrit Kaur, University of Delhi, India  Barrie E. Litzky, Penn State Great Valley  Margaret McKee, Saint Mary’s University, Nova Scotia  Jo Ann Oravec, University of Wisconsin-Whitewater)  Rommel (Bombie) Salvador, University of Massachusetts-Amherst Progress and AY2012-13 Goals To date over 190 Bentley faculty, representing every academic department on campus, have participated in the annual Faculty Development Business Ethics Teaching Workshop. As a result, ethics, social responsibility, and, now, sustainability topics are being integrated throughout the business and liberal arts core as well as in departmental courses across the university. In addition through the support of the State Street Foundation, over 100 faculty outside Bentley have participated in the week-long workshop. The May 2013 program, which is in the planning stages, will be held on the Bentley campus in Waltham, Massachusetts. LIBERAL STUDIES MAJOR (LSM) As part of our undergraduate program, Bentley has created an optional second major that complements a business major with a concentration built around a particular theme of interest. The impulse behind the LSM is to help students increase the value and meaning of their liberal arts education by combining some required courses in the general education curriculum with arts and sciences electives and some business electives within a concentration. The LSMs include majors in ―Ethics and Social Responsibility‖ (designed to create a framework for more fully understanding these issues in work and life), ―Earth, Environment and Global Sustainability‖ (focused on developing insights into environmental systems and the economic, political and social constructs necessary to achieve sustainable development on a worldwide scale), and ―Global Perspectives‖ (focused on understanding the global economy as well as distinct regions and cultures, with an emphasis on understanding diverse ways of thinking, communicating, acting, doing business and governing). www.bentley.edu/undergraduate/academics/lsm.cfm 44 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Progress and AY201-13 Goals Now seven years old, the LSM has over 750 students enrolled, with 90 students currently enrolled in the ―Ethics and Social Responsibility‖ and ―Earth, Environment and Global Sustainability‖ majors. Our goal is to continue to expand the number of undergraduates involved in this program. EVOLUTION OF THE COMPLEX PROBLEMS / CREATIVE SOLUTIONS INITIATIVE From 2002 to 2008 Bentley assigned a class book to the freshman class. Entering students were expected to read the book over the summer and complete a three-page essay on the issues raised in the book. The book was discussed in freshman-level courses and served as the focus of a series of activities, including a visit by the author, panel discussions, community conversations, a film series and web site. Over the years, the class book program included Adam Hochschild‘s King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa, Eric Schlosser's Fast Food Nation, Pietra Rivoli‘s Travels of a T-Shirt in the Global Economy, and David Callahan‘s The Cheating Culture. One of the selection criteria for the class book was the extent to which it raises questions of ethics and social responsibility. In Fall 2009, the class book program was phased out and replaced with a pilot program, ―Complex Problems / Creative Solutions‖ (CP/CS). Because ethical, effective, and nuanced problem solving is required of future business leaders, this new program was designed to enable students to study a globally important, difficult problem from the perspectives of both business and arts and sciences disciplines, thereby developing skill in the kind of ―kaleidoscope thinking‖ creativity requires. Recognized and supported by a grant from the Davis Educational Foundation, CP/CS integrated classroom and extracurricular learning as well as disciplinary approaches to problem solving by including guest speakers, corporate site visits, and film viewing. When students enrolled in CP/CS, they joined other students in classes that were thematically linked to an over-arching theme. The initial theme for the pilot was The Unintended Consequences of our Consumer Choices. For a two-year period, students in the program focused on environmental sustainability in general and the challenge of ―techno-trash‖ in particular, examining in detail what happens when we dispose of our cell phones, iPods, computer and other electronic gadgetry across a range of different courses. Throughout the program emphasis was placed on learning to solve real-world issues on a global scale. Although the pilot program was phased out this past year, its influence has shaped other curricular innovations. Ethical and corporate responsibility considerations related to electronic waste have been formally included in the freshman-year finance/accounting general business core sequence. Faculty who were involved in the pilot continue to be enthusiastic about the program‘s possibilities, incorporating CP/CS topics and thought processes in their courses. CP/CS students also have designed a service-learning program to link local entities (businesses and other organizations) to sustainability initiatives and government sponsored energy programs. 45 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Teaching Sustainability & Ethanol: Integrating Business, Public Policy, and Science One outcome of the CPCS pilot is a cross-course, multidisciplinary approach to teaching sustainability, focusing on Corn Ethanol. The cross-course module – ―Will Corn Ethanol Fuel U.S. Energy Needs?‖ – is the result of collaboration between faculty in the natural sciences, economics, political science, and accounting departments that took place during a two-week summer workshop. The module provides students in a number of different courses with a brief introduction to ethanol and the ethanol biofuel industry in its full complexity. Students use U.S. Department of Agricultural crop and production data – more than 500 total data points – to plot the change in relevant variables over time. Later, they hypothesize about their relationships to broader agricultural, scientific, economic, and political forces. Instructors then contextualize core concepts from their own courses (e.g., Environmental Chemistry, American Government, Microeconomics), helping students gain perspective on a complex, multidisciplinary problem. The module came out of a National Science Foundation (NSF) grant in its Course, Curriculum and Laboratory Improvement program. During the first summer workshop funded by the grant, faculty from different natural science disciplines were brought together to develop technology-enhanced laboratory and classroom modules that applied basic science concepts to real-world problems. Since most Bentley students major in business-related disciplines, part of the core mission was to integrate liberal arts and sciences with the business curriculum. By teaching basic scientific concepts in the context of real-world problems, the pilot attempted to show students the importance of scientific literacy to business and society as well as to their personal lives. In the second round of workshops, these concepts were extended to include larger multidisciplinary challenges of sustainability, which are inextricably linked to other fields like political science and economics. Due to the pedagogical challenges related to teaching such interdisciplinary topics related to sustainability, which require individual faculty to teach beyond their areas of expertise, as well as institutional barriers that commonly limit opportunities for cross-disciplinary team-teaching, faculty from several disciplines were recruited to develop a cross-course module to overcome some of these challenges. Led by Rick Oches, Chair of the Natural & Applied Sciences, and David Szymanski, assistant professor in the Natural & Applied Sciences Department, the faculty created a common exercise and reading that was done by students in all participating courses (e.g., economics, public policy, environmental chemistry, water quality), with instructors creating their own discipline-specific lesson and activity. Within this cross-course model: the economics course taught cost-benefit analysis from the perspective of corn-ethanol; environmental chemistry students produced ethanol from corn kernels and learned about the chemistry and energy involved; the science of sustainability class explored agricultural systems 46 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 and food vs. bio-fuel production; and public policy looked at the legislative process related to the renewable fuels standard act and the role of science, lobbyists, constituents, and other stakeholders in developing federal legislation. Specific program goals included:  Enhancing science literacy;  Promoting activeand problem-based learning by incorporating the use of technology and data analysis;  Improving problem-solving and critical thinking skills; and  Integrating and applying scientific knowledge across students‘ multidisciplinary business and liberal arts & sciences curriculum. After completing this integrative module, students were expected to able to:  Describe the interdependence of the natural sciences and social sciences in decisionmaking for business, society, and the environment.  Provide examples of ways in which human modification of complex natural and established social systems may lead to unintended consequences.  Explain ways in which human decision making and natural systems impact one another on various time scales.  Evaluate proposals for moving society toward greater sustainability. Progress and AY2012-13 Goals The module, which was well received by students, will be revised and piloted again during AY2012-13, with plans to expand the core group of faculty using the module. An underlying goal is to encourage the business and the arts and science faculties to work more closely together on these types of modules that contextualize issues of sustainability across the curriculum. 47 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 PRINCIPLES FOR RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT EDUCATION Principle 4 We will engage in conceptual and empirical research that advances our understanding about the role, dynamics, and impact Research of corporations in the creation of sustainable social, environmental and economic value. Bentley continues to encourage applied transdisciplinary research, emphasizing collaborative projects that involve faculty members across different academic departments and research streams that have the potential to significantly affect current practice. In conjunction with a Risk Management Research Program, BAESR also supports interdisciplinary research on governance, strategy and corporate integrity, and sponsors campus-wide panels and presentations on current issues. The Center for Women and Business similarly sponsors collaborative research on women in the organizational world and the Center for Business Ethics (CBE) undertakes research – surveys, studies and data syntheses – of trends in business ethics. BUSINESS AND SOCIETY REVIEW The CBE also publishes Business and Society Review in partnership with Blackwell Publishers. Robert Frederick, professor and chair of the philosophy department, serves as the editor of the journal. During this past academic year, CBE published 4 issues of B&SR. Autumn 2011: Volume 116, Issue 3  Mark Wexler, ―Which Fox in What Henhouse and When? Conjectures on Regulatory Capture‖  Sandra Waddock & Malcolm McIntosh, ―Business Unusual: Corporate Responsibility in a 2.0 World‖  Shaheen Borna & Dheeraj Sharma, ―Considering Privacy as a Public Good and Its Policy Ramifications for Business Organizations‖  Earl Spurgin, ―Can Businesses Be Too Good? Applying Susan Wolf's ―Moral Saints‖ to Businesses‖  Philipp Bagud, Walter Block, Marian Eabrasu, David Howden & Jeremie Rostan, ―The Ethics of Tax Evasion‖ Winter 2011: Volume 116, Issue 4  Patricia Werhane, Laura Hartman, Crina Archer, David Bevan & Kim Clark, ―Trust after the Global Financial Meltdown‖ 48 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12  Donald R. Nichols, Elizabeth Plummer & William F. Wempe, ―Equitable Taxation and the Provision of Health Insurance Subsidies‖  Bill Buenar Puplampu & Hevina S. Dashwood, ―Organizational Antecedents of a Mining Firm's Efforts to Reinvent Its CSR: The Case of Golden Star Resources in Ghana‖  Steven Globerman, ―The Social Responsibility of Managers: Reassessing and Integrating Diverse Perspectives‖  Patrick J. Gnazzo, ―The Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer: A Test of Endurance‖ Spring 2012: Volume 117, Issue 1  Mark S. Schwartz & David Saiia, ―Should Firms Go ―Beyond Profits‖? Milton Friedman versus Broad CSR‖  Terry Porter & Robbin Derry, ―Sustainability and Business in a Complex World‖  Jessica Christie Ludescher, Rubina Mahsud & Gregory E. Prussis, ―We Are the Corporation: Dispersive CSR‖  Jan Tullberg, ―Integrity—Clarifying and Upgrading an Important Concept for Business Ethics‖  Vesela Veleva, Shoshana Parker, Allison Lee & Chris Pinney, ―Measuring the Business Impacts of Community Involvement: The Case of Employee Volunteering at UL‖ Summer 2012: Volume 117, Issue 2  Al Gini & Ronald M. Green, ―Bad Leaders/Misleaders‖  Florian Wettstein, ―Corporate Responsibility in the Collective Age: Toward a Conception of Collaborative Responsibility‖  Thomas A. Hemphill, ―The Obama Administration's Regulatory Review Initiative: A 21st Century Federal Regulatory Initiative?‖  Mark S. Blodgett & Linda Melconian, ―Health-care Nonprofits: Enhancing Governance and Public Trust‖  Jason Childs, ―Demonstrating the Need for Effective Business Ethics: An Alternative Approach‖  Radu Mares, ―Corporate Responsibility and Compliance with the Law: A Case Study of Land, Dispossession, and Aftermath at Newmont's Ahafo Project in Ghana‖ Additional information on the journal can be found at: http://cbe.bentley.edu/research/bs-review FACULTY RESEARCH Bentley faculty are also committed to research in this domain. During AY2011-12, publications in the PRME domain included (note: Bentley faculty member names are in bold face): 49 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Journal Articles Abdolmohammadi, M.J. & Reinstein, A. (2012). Practicing Accountants‘ Views of the Content of Accounting Ethics Courses. Advances in Accounting Education: Teaching and Curriculum Innovation, 13: 213-236. Almobaireek, W.N. & Manolova, T.S. (2012). Entrepreneurial Motivations among Female Saudi University Youth. Journal of Business Economics and Management (in press). Almobaireek, W.N. & Manolova, T.S. (2012). Who Wants to be an Entrepreneur? Entrepreneurial Intentions among Saudi University Youth. African Journal of Business Management, 6 (11): 40294040. Ariail, D., Abdolmohammadi, M. & Murphy, L.M. (2012). Ethical Predisposition of Certified Public Accountants: A Large-scale Study of Gender Differences. Research on Professional Responsibility and Ethics in Accounting, 16: 29-57. Asare, K. N., Abdolmohammadi, M. J. & Hunton, J. E. (2011). The influence of corporate governance ratings on buy-side analysts' earnings forecast certainty: Evidence from the United States and the United Kingdom. Behavioral Research in Accounting, 23 (2), 1-26. Baxter, R., Bedard, J.C., Hoitash, R. & Yezegel, A. (2012, in press). Enterprise Risk Management program quality: Determinants, value relevance, and the financial crisis, Contemporary Accounting Research. Bedard, J.C., Hoitash, R., Hoitash, U. & Westermann, K.( 2012). Remediation of internal control material weaknesses: A detailed examination. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 31 (1): 39-56. Bedard, J. C., Graham, L. (2011). Factors associated with severity classification of Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 internal control deficiencies. The Accounting Review, 86 (3): 825-855. Brown, J., Buchholtz, A., Stewart, M. M. & Dennis, B. (2012) Board diversity as a camouflage signal. Academy of Management Proceedings. Buono, A.F., Fletcher-Brown, D., Frederick, R., Hall, G. & Sultan, J. (2012). Acting Ethically: Moral reasoning and business school student behavior. SAM Advanced Management Review, 77 (3): 18-26. Buono, A.F. & Sisodia, R. (2011). A Conscious Purpose. EFMD Global Focus, 5 (2): 56-59. Callan, S. J. & Thomas, J. M. (2011). Executive Compensation, Corporate Social Responsibility, and Corporate Financial Performance: A Multi-equation Framework. Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management. Clark C.E. & Newell, S. (In press). Institutional Work and Complicit Decoupling Across the U.S. Capital Markets: The Work of Rating Agencies, Business Ethics Quarterly. Clark, C.E. & Newell, S. (In press). Conflicts of Interest and Collusion in Capital Markets: The Ethical Risks of Maintaining an Institution, Business and Society Review. 50 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Clark, C.E. & Crawford, E.P. (2012). Influencing Climate Change Policy: The Effect of Shareholder Pressure and Firm Environmental Performance, Business & Society, 51 (1): 148 – 175. Clark, C.E. & Van Buren, H. J. (In press). Compound Conflicts of Interest in the U.S. Proxy System, Journal of Business Ethics. Eunni, R.V. & Manolova. T.S. (2012). Institutional Environments for Entrepreneurship: Evidence from the BRIC Economies. Journal of Enterprising Culture (in press). Faleye, O., Hoitash, R. & Hoitash, U. (2011). The Costs of Intense Board Monitoring. Journal of Financial Economics, 101 (1). Fletcher-Brown, D., Buono, A.F., Frederick, R., Hall, G. & Sultan, J. (2012). ―A Longitudinal Study of the Effectiveness of Business Ethics Education: Establishing the Baseline,‖ Journal of Academic Ethics, 10 (1): 45-56. Hoffman, W.M. & McNulty, R. (2012, in press). Transforming Faith in Corporate Capitalism through Business Ethics, Journal of Business, Spirituality and Religion. Hoffman, W.M., McNulty, R. & Rowe, M. (2012). The Corporate Ethics Officer Redux: Strengthening Organizational Governance, Diary of Alpha Kappa Psi, (Spring). Hoffman, W.M., BaŇon Gomis, A.J., Guillén Parra, M. & McNulty, R. (2011). Rethinking the Concept of Sustainability, Business and Society Review, (Summer). Houghton, D., Eshghi, A., Legrand, P., Skalestsky, M. & Woolford, S. (2011). Identifying Groups: A Comparison of Methodologies. Journal of Data Science, 9 (2): 271-291. Hunton, J. E., Hoitash, R. & Thibodeau, J. C. (2011). The Relationship between Perceived Tone at the Top and Earnings Quality. Contemporary Accounting Research, 28 (4). Hunton, J. E., Wright, A. & Wright, S. (In press). Are Financial Auditors Overconfident in their Ability to Assess Risks Associated With Enterprise Resource Planning Systems? Journal of Information Systems. Kohlmeyer, J. & Hunton, J. E. (In press). Participative Budgeting in a Collective Environment, Advances in Accounting Behavioral Research. Markow, W., Adams, V., Bucci, G., Green, D. & Szymanski, D.W. (2011). Closing the Energy Efficiency Information Gap for Small Businesses. The Sustainability Review, 3 (2). McEwen, R. A., Mazza, C. & Hunton, J. E. (2012). The Effects of Fair Measurement and Incentives on Analysts' Assessments. Journal of Behavioral Finance, 9: 1-12. Moriarty, J. (In press). The Connection between Stakeholder Theory and Stakeholder Democracy: An Excavation and Defense. Business & Society. Moriarty, J. (In press). Smilansky, Arneson, and the Asymmetry of Desert. Philosophical Studies. Moriarty, J. (2012). Justice in Compensation: A Defense. Business Ethics: A European Review, 21 (1): 64 – 76. 51 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Moriarty, J. (2011). Does Distributive Justice Pay? Sternberg‘s Compensation Ethics. International Journal of Applied Philosophy, 25 (1): 33 – 48. Moriarty, J. (2011). The Sky‘s the Limit: A Response to Kolb, Business Ethics Quarterly, 21 (4): 686 – 691. Osborn, G., Menounos, B., Ryane, C., Riedel, J., Clague J.J., Koch, J., Clark, D., Scott, K., Davis, P.T. (2012). Latest Pleistocene and Holocene glacier fluctuations on Mt. Baker, Washington. Quaternary Science Reviews, 49: 33-51. Sisodia, R. S. (2011). Conscious Capitalism: A Better Way To Win, California Management Review, 53 (3), 98-108. Sisodia, R. S. (2011). ―A Case for Conscious Capitalism: Conscious Leadership Through the Lens of Brain Science, Ivey Business Journal, (September/October). Szymanski, D.W., Hadlock, C. & Zlotkowski, E. (In press). Using Public Sector Research Projects to Engage Undergraduates. CUR Quarterly, 33: 7. Williams, C.C. & Perrault, E. (In press). Influencing climate change policy: The effect of shareholder pressure and firm environmental performance. Business & Society. Books Houghton, D. & Haughton, J. (2011). Living standards analytics: Development through the lens of household survey data. New York: Springer-Verlag. Sisodia, R. & Mackey, J. (In press). Conscious Capitalism. Boston: Harvard Business School Press. Thomas, J. M. & Callan, S. J. (2011). Resources and Learning Tools in Environmental Economics, (2nd ed.). Mason, OH: South-Western/Cengage Learning. Zlotkowski, E. & Saltmarsh, J. (2011). Higher Education and Democracy: Essays on ServiceLearning and Civic Engagement. Philadelphia, PA: Temple University Press. Book Chapters Almobaireek, W.N. & Manolova, T.S (2012, in press). Islamic Entrepreneurship. In D.E. Laouisset (Ed.), Islamic Management. Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar Publishing. Benjamin, N., Mbaye, A.A. & Houghton, D. (2012). Informality and Productivity. In N. Benjamin & A.A. Mbaye (Eds.), The informal sector in Francophone Africa: Firm size, productivity and institutions (pp. 145-170). Washington, DC: World Bank Publications. 52 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Culnan, M.J. (2011). Accountability as the Basis for Regulating Privacy: Can Information Security Regulations Inform Privacy Policy? Privacy Papers for Policy Makers. Washington: Future of Privacy Forum. [Available at www.futureofprivacy.org/the-privacy-papers]. Goldman, M (2012). A Sustainable City for the Career Woman. In M. Pacetti, G. Passerini & C.A. Brebbia (Eds.), Urban Regeneration and Sustainability. Southampton, UK: WIT Press. Hoffman, W.M. & Brinkman, J. (2012, in press). Risk, Encyclopedia of Management, 2nd edition. Hoffman, W.M. & GöBling, T. (2011). Ethics Officers. In M.S. Aesländer (Ed.), Handbuch der Wirtschaftsethic. Stuttgart: Metzler Verlag. Hoffman, W.M. & McNulty, R. (2011). Can Corporate Capitalism be Redeemed? Business Ethics and the Search for a Renewed Faith in Work. In H. Wantischer, A. Olson & G. Walter (Eds.), Philosophical Faith and the Future of Humanity. New York: Springer. Hoffman, W.M. & McNulty, R. (2011). A Business Ethics Theory of Whistleblowing: Responding to the $1 Trillion Question. In M. Arszulowicz & W. Gasparski (Eds.), Whistleblowing: In Defense of Proper Action. New York: Transaction Publisher. Hoffman, W. & McNulty, R. E. (2011). A Business Ethics Theory of Whistleblowing: Responding to the $1 Trillion Question. In In Defense of Proper Action: The Whistle-blowing. New York: Transaction Publisher. Kirsch, G. (2012, in press). Developing a Sustainable Land Ethic for 21st Century Cities. In EcoArchitecture: Harmonisation between Architecture and Nature. Southampton, UK: Wessex Institute of Technology Press. Punnett, B.J., Glidden, P. A., Mulder, C, & Greenidge, D. (2012). Job Attitudes in an Anglophone Caribbean Country: The Case of Barbados. In S. Fox & T. Lituchy (Ed.), Gender and the Dysfunctional Workplace, New Horizons in Management Series (pp. 175-188). Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd. Zlotkowski, E. (2011). Civic Engagement on the Ropes?‖ In J. Saltmarsh & M. Hartley (Eds.), Democratic Civic Engagement: Institutional Change for Reclaiming the Public Purpose of Higher Education. Philadelphia, PA: Temple University Press. Zlotkowski, E., Horowitz, K. & Benson, S. (2011). The Potential of Service-Learning Student Leadership. In C. Gibson & N.V. Longo (Eds.), The New Leadership: Civic Engagement and the Revitalization of Democracy. Lebanon, NH: University of New England Press/Tufts University. For a complete listing of faculty research and publication, please go to: https://faculty.bentley.edu/ PHD PROGRAM Bentley‘s doctoral program also includes a number of students focusing on business ethics and corporate social responsibility. This concentration includes research on business ethics, civic 53 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 engagement and social responsibility in general, as well as a seminar in social, environmental and governance issues. The types of issues our doctoral students are pursuing includes such topics as corporate governance and ethical conduct, corporate social responsibility and profitability, reputational capital, social and financial performance, stakeholder management and the social role of business, women in leadership, and risk management. Current doctoral students pursuing their studies in these areas include: ACCOUNTING  Lindsay Andiola: Auditor judgment and decision making  Nathan Cannon: Auditor judgment and decision making  Jace Garrett: Judgment and decision making, auditing, trust  Joy Gray: Fraud detection, internal auditing, audit ERP systems  Allen Hartt: Behavioral accounting, capital markets research  D. Kip Holderness: Auditor judgment and decision-making, fraud  Mary Parlee: Auditor judgment and decision making, auditing education  Michael Ruff: Managerial accounting and auditing CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  D. Kip Holderness: Harold S. Geneen Institute Fellow  Michele Jurgens: Harold S. Geneen Institute Fellow  Paul Ledoux: Ethics and corporate social responsibility  Luisa F. Melo: Corporate governance, international policy  Gary Ottley: Marketing strategy, socially responsible business, socially conscious marketing  Su Zhang: Strategy, corporate governance In partnership with the State Street Foundation, Bentley also launched the State Street Doctoral Fellowship in Corporate Social Responsibility. The first recipient of the State Street Doctoral Fellowship is Ms. Elise Perrault Crawford. Elise, who holds an MBA from McGill University, began the program in Fall 2008 and completed the program in Spring 2012. She successfully defended her dissertation entitled ―Refining the firm-stakeholder engagement model: An expanded theory of stakeholder salience and firms‘ responses to stakeholder engagement tactics.‖ Dr. Crawford is currently an assistant professor at the College of Charleston. NEXT GENERATION ESG SCHOLARS WORKSHOP The Next Generation Workshop focusing on Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) issues is a week-long program that brings together promising young doctoral researchers and world-leading experts in ESG related research and practice for the purpose of fostering these young researchers‘ talents. The program aims to establish a dialogue between present and future ESG researchers, involving scholars from different disciplines with the underlying goal of supporting interdisciplinary conversations. Progress and AY2012-13 Goals For each the past four years, three internationally recognized experts and competitively selected doctoral students were invited to participate in the program in conjunction with the Global Business 54 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Ethics Symposium and Teaching Workshop sponsored by the State Street Foundation. The experts and students engaged in a series of presentations and discussions (including detailed one-on-one feedback between expert and student), with the goal of promoting practically relevant research in the ESG area. The students also participate in Bentley‘s teaching business ethics workshop occurring the same week. Visiting faculty for the 2012 Next Generation ESG Scholars workshop included:  Andy Hoffman, Holcim Professor of Sustainable Enterprise, University of Michigan  Kathleen Rehbein, Associate Professor of Management, Marquette University  Shawn Berman, Associate professor of management and Bill Daniels Ethics Fellow, University of New Mexico Our third cohort of Next Generation Scholars included:  Kelli Mayes-Denker, St. Ambrose University  Tiffany Maldonado, University of Houston  Smita K. Trivedi, George Washington University Planning for the 2013 program, which will be on the Bentley campus, is in process. GENEEN INSTITUTE FOR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Established in 2008 through the generosity of the Harold S. Geneen Charitable Trust, the Geneen Institute is dedicated to the pursuit of directed, leading-edge research on important corporate governance issues via a consortium of faculty and PhD students dedicated to researching social, comparative and reformative approaches to governance. Bentley Management Professor Cynthia Clark directs the Institute. Its primary focus is to fund the research efforts of selected doctoral students and as a central part of the educational process; the fellows undertake an in-depth doctoral research internship. At the Institute, corporate governance is broadly defined as embracing the rights and responsibilities among all parties who may have a stake in the firm. In doing so, our faculty and doctoral students focus on the ways in which policies, processes and people are used to fulfill these rights and responsibilities. The underlying belief is that the center of corporate governance should focus on promoting integrity and accountability within and across organizations from a financial, environmental, and social vantage point. In doing so the Institute focuses on six broad areas of corporate governance: 1. Ethics and corporate boards 2. Regulation and compliance 3. Social and environmental reporting 4. Corporate social responsibility 5. Executive compensation 6. Corporate governance and women in leadership positions 55 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Progress and AY2012-13 Goals Since inception, the Institute has brought on four doctoral students, two in both 2009 and 2011. The Institute will bring on 2 additional students in 2013, having received a second round of funding. Recruitment begins in the Fall of 2012. Accordingly, our first two students are preparing to graduate in 2013 and placement is underway. Our Fellow in Accountancy, Kip Holderness, has focused on organizational misconduct, and our Fellow in Business, Michele Jurgens, on corporate social responsibility. INSTITUTIONAL REVIEW BOARD (IRB) In accordance with University‘s mission, Bentley‘s IRB is committed to ensuring the safe and ethical treatment of human participants in our research. Federal and university regulations stipulate that all faculty, staff, and student research projects, involving human subjects, are reviewed and approved by the IRB prior to their initiation. This requirement covers all human participant research conducted at, or sponsored by, Bentley, and all research involving human subjects conducted at other institutions in which Bentley faculty, staff, or students will be involved. Our ultimate goal is to provide timely service, support and assistance in promoting the ethical conduct of all research involving human subjects and to assure the safety, rights and welfare of all participants in our research projects. www.bentley.edu/alliance/irb.cfm 56 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 PRINCIPLES FOR RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT EDUCATION Principle 5 We will interact with managers of business corporations to extend our knowledge of their challenges in meeting social Partnership and environmental responsibilities and to explore jointly effective approaches to meeting these challenges. As a way of inspiring ethical leadership and promoting discussion concerning business ethics, social responsibility, civic engagement and sustainability, Bentley‘s Center for Business Ethics and the Alliance have established corporate and NGO partnerships to support Bentley‘s workshops, seminars, lecture series and research in the area of business ethics, corporate responsibility, and civic engagement, and to provide internships and opportunities for interested students. ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE OFFICER ASSOCIATION Working with the Ethics and Compliance Officer Association, which was established through the Center for Business Ethics (CBE), CBE offers a ―Managing Ethics and Organizations‖ (MEO) program. Over the years, the course has provided attendees with practical advice and tools for creating and managing an effective ethics and compliance initiative. Hallmarks of the Program include:  An outstanding faculty of experienced ethics officers and nationally recognized subjectmatter experts;  In-depth sessions devoted to the Impact of the Current Legal and Regulatory Environment on Ethics and Compliance Programs, Managing Helplines, Globalizing an Ethics Program, Ethical Reasoning, and Managing Change;  Interactive sessions, extensive Q&A and the opportunity to form an invaluable network of colleagues and peers. Progress and AY2012-13 Goals Since 1995, over 1000 ethics and compliance officers and others have completed the five-day seminar. Planning for the June 2013 program is currently in progress. http://cbe.bentley.edu/events/programs-managing RAYTHEON LECTURESHIP IN BUSINESS ETHICS In its efforts to inspire ethical leadership, while sparking a vital discourse around ethics in business, Bentley‘s Center for Business Ethics has created lectureship programs in which prominent corporate leaders and ethical thinkers come to Bentley to share insights and ideas with students, faculty and invited guests. Established in 1998 with the generous support of Sears, Roebuck and Co., the Sears Lectureship was given twice annually until the end of 2002. The series gained considerable prestige based on the caliber of CEO speakers it attracted and the high quality of their remarks. In 2003, Raytheon Company took on the mantle of supporting the Center‘s CEO lecture series, and continues as the program‘s sponsor. Monographs containing the text of each lecture and highlights of questionand-answer sessions are published by the Center for Business Ethics. 57 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Progress and AY2012-13 Goals To date over 5,000 students and members and friends of the Bentley community have attended the Raytheon lecture series. Our goal is to continue this popular program with its emphasis on ethics, corporate social responsibility, and sustainability. Our scheduled speaker for Fall 2012 is Linda Parker Hudson, CEO and President, BAE Systems, Inc., who will speak on ―Women at the Top: Changing the Defense Dynamic.‖ Previous Raytheon Speakers to date include:  2012 (April): Muhtar Kent, CEO and Chairman, Coca-Cola Company: ― Toward a Sustainable Future‖  2011 (October): Gary Hirshberg, Chairman, President, and CEO, Stonyfield Farms: ―Inventing a Win-Win-Win-Win-Win Future‖  2011 (April): Steve Pagliuca, Director, Bain Capital and Co-owner, Boston Celtics: ―The Ethics of Teams: Playing Fair in Business.‖  2010 (October): Andrew N. Liveris, President, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The Dow Chemical Company: ―Ethics as a Business Strategy.‖  2010 (April), Rosabeth M. Kanter, Ernest L. Arbuckle Professor, Harvard Business School and Co-Founder & Chair of Goodmeasure, Inc.: ―Values Investing: How Companies Create Innovation, Profits, & Social Good.:  2009 (November): Howard Putnam, Former CEO of Southwest Airlines and former CEO of Braniff International: ―Turbulence is Inevitable...Misery is Optional: Ethics and integrity are your greatest assets in good times and in crisis.‖  2009 (April): Tom Chappell, Co-founder and CEO, Tom's of Maine: ―Goodness in Business.‖  2008 (October): John A. Swainson, CEO, CA, Inc.: ―Back from the Brink: Rebuilding A Company After A Near Fatal Ethics Breakdown.‖  2008 (March): Bruce Bodaken, Chairman, President and CEO, Blue Shield of California: ―Playing Fair: Balancing Business Imperatives With Healthcare Needs.‖  2007 (September): James H. Quigley, CEO, Delloite & Touche USA LLP: ―Trust An Essential Asset: Creating Individual and Corporate Value.‖  2007 (March): William W. George, Former Chairman and CEO, Medtronic Inc.: ―In Search of Ethical True North.‖  2006 (October): Lawrence S. Benjamin, CEO, U.S. Food Service: ―Rebuilding Trust After a Corporate Crisis.‖  2006 (March): Dov Seidman, Founder, Chairman and CEO, LRN: ―The Power of How: Achieving Enduring Success Through Ethics.‖ 58 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12  2005 (October): Michael L. Eskew, Chairman and CEO, UPS: ―The Ethics of Globalization: Oxymoron or Path to Peace and Prosperity?‖  2005 (April): Anne Mulcahy, Chairman and CEO, Xerox Corporation: ―Social Responsibility: Building a Culture of Strong Ethics, Good Deeds and Smart Business.‖  2004 (October): Jamie S. Gorelick, Board Member, United Technologies Corporation: ―Keepers of the Corporate Conscience: The Role of the Board in Ethical Oversight.‖  2003 (November): Raymond V. Gilmartin, President and CEO, Merck & Co. Inc.: ―Ethics and the Corporate Culture Ethics and the Corporate Culture.‖  2003 (October): Michael C. Ruettgers, Executive Chairman, EMC Corporation: ―The Integrity of Management and the Management of Integrity.‖ Additional information on the Raytheon Lectureship and copies of the lecture monographs can be found at: www.bentley.edu/cbe/events/Lectures.cfm#raytheon VERIZON VISITING PROFESSOR OF BUSINESS ETHICS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY For one week each year, usually in February or March, CBE brings to Bentley a leading academic from another institution of higher learning or a thought leader from the business world. This program is made possible through the generous support of Verizon Communications, which has been our sponsor since the program's inception in 1999. The Verizon Visiting Professor delivers a public lecture dealing with issues at the intersection of business ethics and information technology. Throughout the week of the Visiting Professor‘s stay, he or she typically visits five to six undergraduate or graduate classes to lead a discussion on topics arising from the public lecture. In addition, the Visiting Professor facilitates a workshop for Bentley faculty. Progress and AY2011-12 Goals To date over 3800 students and members and friends of the Bentley community have attended the Verizon lecture series. Our goal is to continue this popular program with its emphasis on ethics and information technology. The scheduled scholar for 2013 is Kenneth E. Goodpaster, Koch Endowed Chair in Business Ethics, University of St. Thomas. The Verizon Visiting Professors to date include:  2012: Patricia Werhane, Wicklander Chair of Business Ethics in the Department of Philosophy and Managing Director of the Institute for Business and Professional Ethics at DePaul University: ―Globalization and its Challenges for Business in the 21st Century.‖  2011: Patrick Gnazzo, Former Chief Ethics, Risk & Compliance Officer at CA Technologies and former Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer at UTC: ―The Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer: A Test of Endurance.‖ 59 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12  2010: John R. Boatright, Raymond C. Baumhart, S.J., Professor of Business Ethics, Graduate School of Business and Director, Graduate Certificate Program in Business Ethics, Loyola University, Chicago: ―Ethics of Risk Management in the Information Age.‖  2009: George Brenkert, Director, Georgetown University‘s Business Ethics Institute and Professor of Business Ethics, McDonough School of Business, Georgetown University: ―Corporate Control of Information: Ethical Challenges and Dilemmas.‖  2008: Jennifer M. Moore, Member, Epstein Becker & Green P.C.: ―Your E-mail Trail: Where Ethics meets Forensics.‖  2007: Thomas I. White, Hilton Professor of Business Ethics, Director of the Center for Ethics and Business, Loyola Marymount University: ―Data, Dollars and the Unintentional Subversion of Human Rights.‖  2006: Deborah G. Johnson, Olsson Professor of Applied Ethics and Department Chair, Department of Science, Technology and Society, University of Virginia: ―Corporate Excellence, Ethics and the Role of IT.‖  2005: Rushworth M. Kidder, Founder and President, Institute of Global Ethics: ―Moral Courage, Digital Distrust: Ethics in a Troubled World.‖  2004: Norman E. Bowie, Elmer L. Andersen Chair in Corporate Responsibility, Carlson School of Management, University of Minnesota: ―Information Technology and Intellectual Property.‖  2003: Francis J. Daly, Corporate Director, Ethics and Business Conduct, Northrop Grumman Corporation: ―Reply, Delete ... or Relate? IT‘s Human Dimension.‖  2002: Richard O. Mason, Carr P. Collins Distinguished Professor of Management Information Sciences and Director of the Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility: ―Leadership, Ethics, and the Information Imperative.‖  2001: Thomas Donaldson, Mark O. Winkelman Professor, Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania and Director of the Wharton Ethics Program: ―Ethics in Cyberspace: Have We Seen This Movie Before?‖  2000: Laura P. Hartman, Grainger Chair of Business Ethics, University of Wisconsin: ―Technology and Ethics: Privacy in the Workplace.‖  1999: Richard T. De George, University Distinguished Professor of Philosophy and Business Administration, Director of the International Center for Ethics in Business, University of Kansas: ―Business Ethics and the Information Age.‖ Additional information on the Verizon Professorship and monograph of the lectures are available at: www.bentley.edu/cbe/events/lecture-verizon.cfm 60 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 INTERNATIONAL SERVICE-LEARNING PARTNERSHIPS The Bentley International Service-Learning program is aimed at enriching the experience of Bentley‘s Study Abroad students. Every year several hundred Bentley students travel to Europe, Latin America, Asia, and Australia for a semester of study at one of Bentley‘s international partner universities. While taking courses in management, marketing, finance, and other business disciplines, the service-learning (S-L) program provides the additional opportunity of helping students to learn about and appreciate the local culture while making a positive contribution to their host communities. Our international S-L partnerships were detailed in our AY2008-09 COP:  Quinn School of Business, University College Dublin (Ireland)  Lorenzo de‘Medici Institute (Italy)  Bond University (Australia)  University of Manchester (UK) In addition to these programs, a new service-learning partnership was started in Ghana, as part of Bentley‘s Mmofra Trom project. The Mmofra Trom Project is a long-term economic development partnership between Bentley University and the Mmofra Trom Center near the village of Trom in Ghana, West Africa. The Project is focused on helping the Center, which is a home for orphans, to become self-sustaining over the next ten years by creating sources of income to increase the children's opportunities for education, healthcare, and jobs to support themselves. Progress and AY2012-13 Goals In addition to continuing to grow these programs, Bentley is also exploring expanding our partnerships abroad. THE GHANA PROJECT The Ghana Project is a multi-disciplinary experiential learning program that offers the Bentley Community opportunities in Ghana for inter-cultural learning, teaching and research. We partner with Ghanaian organizations working toward sustainable economic development. We partner only with organizations founded by, and led by, Ghanaians. The project began in 2006 with one partner and has grown to include eight partner organizations. Bentley‘s first partner, originally an orphanage, has transformed itself, with the help of Bentley students and faculty, into a social enterprise that is now self-sustaining. The central social enterprise at the Mmofra Trom Education Center, which provides access to education, health care, job skills training and employment for The Mmofra Trom Education Center 61 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 vulnerable Ghanaian children, is a private K-9 school that educates 400 children, 20% of whom attend at no cost. Bentley has a business consulting partnership with the Center to help develop other social enterprises that have resulted in sustainable sources of income to eliminate dependence on private donations. As of 2011, that goal has been reached and the Center is financially self-sustaining through tuition generated through what became a private boarding school and by using the land for growing income-generating crops. With the successful development of this 38-acre site near Somanya, vulnerable children can still live near their home villages and retain ties to nearest living relatives, but they have a year-round home at the Center. Biofilcom.com Having had a successful business consulting partnership with the Mmofra Trom Education Center, Bentley is now working closely with Biological Filters and Composters (biofilcom.com), a social enterprise dedicated to the improving sanitation conditions and thereby preventing disease in Ghana, and throughout the developing world. The founder, Kweku Anno, has invented a digestible toilet system that successfully processes human waste without reliance on a sewer system and water processing infrastructure. In the Summer 2012, 8 Bentley students organized an awareness campaign in the city of Accra to make local businesses aware of the absence of toilets at many public education facilities in the city. They worked through Corporate Social Responsibility officers at Accra's largest companies (see http://initiatives.bentley.edu/ghana). Corporate Support In 2009, Bentley University received a $50,000 gift from Grant Thornton that established the Global Social Responsibility (GSR) Internship award. Bentley students who complete an eight week practicum with partner organizations in Ghana receive a $1,000 stipend. The practicum allows Bentley students to engage in socially responsible work – applying their business skills, while gaining valuable life experiences in a developing economy. Intuit donated 50 licenses to its Quickbooks software, which Bentley students use to assist local NGOs in transforming their paper bookkeeping records to a computer, thereby improving transparency and giving NGOs the ability to demonstrate their accountability with funds. 62 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Diaspora Africa Forum (DAF) Bentley has deepened ties with Diaspora African Forum (DAF) with each passing year, as Bentley supports the Diaspora's goal of bringing business to Africa. Ambassador Erieka Bennett provided Bentley with an office in Accra, which serves as Bentley's home base in Ghana. Students use the conference room, provided by the DAF, for weekly reflection sessions and for training sessions with partner organizations wishing to learn how to use Quickbooks. Micro-finance Initiative The Bentley Micro-finance Group / Ghana has invested $10,000 in micro-finance education in Ghana, by placing $2500 with four different partner organizations that agree to use the $2500 to give microlo0ans to their clients. Most importantly, they agree to give Bentley students opportunities to learn about micro-finance by giving them access to the books for semi-annual audits, introducing them to loan recipients who agree to let our students work alongside them for a day or a week, to learn more about micro-businesses in Ghana. Summer Internship Program Growth In Summer 2012, the program had 15 interns in Ghana spending 8 weeks working with partner organizations, reflecting steady growth in the number of interns. Year Number of Interns 2012 15 2011 12 2010 8 2009 4 2008 2 The program has now developed a strong infrastructure that we can continue to grow, in keeping with student demand for opportunities. Progress and AY 2012-12 Goals This past summer, Gloria Larson, Bentley‘s President, and Earl Avery, Special Assistant to the President, spent a week in Ghana visiting partner organizations and witnessing first-hand the activities of our interns in the country. They visited: the Ghana Poultry Network project in Ho, which was a pilot program for the Ghanaian government's micro-finance initiative; the Asutsuare's Women Development Association in Asutsuare; the Mmofra Trom Education Center in Somanya; the Diaspora Africa Forum; and went with the 15 2012 interns for an educational weekend excursion to the Slave Dungeons in Cape Coast. Our plan is to continue to grow and evolve this initiative. 63 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 BENTLEY-CITY YEAR “GIVE-A-YEAR” PARTNERSHIP During AY 2008-09 Bentley began a new venture with City Year – The Bentley—City Year GiveaYear Partnership, a new program that will enable young people who volunteer for a service year with City Year to enjoy a variety of benefits as Bentley students, including a $20,000 Give-a-Year scholarship from Bentley, Bentley service-learning credits, and internship opportunities with leading global corporations. Bentley awards up to 10 scholarships annually to Bentley National Service Scholars who participate in the program. The ―Give-a-Year‖ Scholarship Program provides selected Bentley students with scholarships for spending a year serving as a City Year Corps Member. As tutors, mentors, and role models, idealistic leaders will be able to make a difference in the lives of children, and transform schools and neighborhoods in 18 U.S. locations. Through service with City Year, Corps Members build on their own strengths and assets, and learn new skills as they achieve their service and professional goals. Clear guidance, constructive training and coaching, and feedback are provided often so that all Corps Members have the greatest opportunity to succeed. Each Corps Member is assigned to a team and learns about the team's specific service focus during Basic Training Academy. Training will be provided to prepare the team to deliver that service effectively. In some cases, corps members are trained by the school system in which they work. Bentley undergraduate students who apply for and are awarded a ―give a year‖ scholarship will receive a $20,000 credit toward their senior year Bentley tuition. Bentley graduate students who apply and are awarded the scholarship will receive the $20,000 tuition credit for their graduate study. All ―give a year‖ scholars must apply for and be accepted as a Corps Member by City Year as well. In addition to receiving the $20,000 tuition credit from Bentley, ―give a year‖ scholars will receive a $4,725 education award from AmeriCorps. Additionally, as City Year Corps Members, the students will receive a weekly stipend to defray living expenses during their service year, health insurance, deferment of any college loan payments during their service year, an orientation and training program at the start of service, weekly leadership development sessions throughout their service year, a uniform, a cell phone, and a public transit pass. 64 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 Progress and AY2012-13 Goals Thus far 14 students have been awarded Bentley National Service Scholars. Each student received a $20,000 scholarship and a Segal AmeriCorps Education Award. Current Scholars:  Brenna Foley, City Year Miami, FL  Katie Auger, City Year San Antonio, TX  Keisha Johnson, City Year Miami, FL  Ma-Kirah Wilkerson, City Year Miami, FL  Michael Chanler, City Year San Jose, CA  Molly Godfrey, City Year Los Angeles, CA  Travis Vigneault, City Year Manchester, NH 2010-2011 Scholars:  Kaylyn Frazier, City Year San Jose  Kiernan Patenaude, City Year Seattle  Brian LeBlanc, City Year Philadelphia  Max Rogers, City Year Boston  Marc Schleif, City Year Los Angeles 2009-2010 Scholars:  Tara Meehan, City Year Miami  Jenna Nakamura, City Year Louisiana These Bentley National Service Scholars have joined over 1,700 City Year corps members working in 21 locations across the United States and one in South Africa who change the world each day through full-time service as tutors, mentors and role models for children. Additional information on the program can be found at: http://service-learning.bentley.edu/content/bentley-city-year-give-year-scholarship-program 65 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 PRINCIPLES FOR RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT EDUCATION Principle 6 We will facilitate and support dialogue and debate among educators, business, Dialogue government, consumers, media, civil society organizations and other interested groups and stakeholders on critical issues related to global social responsibility and sustainability. The final component of Bentley‘s commitment to PRME is in outreach to other colleges and universities, the corporate sector and the not-for-profit world. As part of the Alliance and Center for Business Ethics‘ programs, our Global Business Ethics Symposium and Teaching Workshop continued to invite scholars from around the world to examine these issues. The Business Ethics Teaching Workshop (discussed on pages 42-43) now over has 100 faculty alumni from other colleges and universities across the globe. Complete information on the Global Business Ethics Teaching Workshop, including information on the 2012 and upcoming 2013 programs, can be found at: http://www.bentley.edu/centers/alliance/global-business-ethics-teaching-workshop GLOBAL BUSINESS ETHICS SYMPOSIUM Begun in 2005, the annual Global Business Ethics Symposium program brings together international experts for in-depth discussions of current practices and challenges in business ethics, corporate social responsibility and sustainability. Sponsored by the State Street Foundation, the purpose of the symposium is to:  explore current practices in other institutions, countries and cultures;  identify ways to enhance issues of ethics and corporate responsibility in business education and in outreach to the larger corporate community; and  disseminate this experience throughout the academic and practitioner worlds. Emphasis is placed on uniting business and higher education in the common goal of building a strong ethical foundation from which to serve our many constituencies and communities. 66 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 The focus of the May 2012 Symposium was ―The Future of Capitalism: Ethics, Sustainable Practice & the Global Economy.‖ This year‘s program was held on the Bentley campus, with over 130 participants from the academic, corporate, government and NGO worlds gathering to explore and discuss the challenges of the business world. Progress and AY2012-13 Goals Planning for the 2013 program is currently in progress. The theme of the symposium will be ―Responsibility and Accountability in Managing Organizational Integrity.‖ The planned program, which will be another PRME-sponsored event, will be held on the Bentley campus in May 2013. Luncheon Speaker Steven Young, Global Executive Director, Caux Round Table Symposium programs and themes to date:  2012 Symposium: ―The Future of Capitalism: Ethics, Sustainable Practice & the Global Economy‖  2011 Symposium: ―Stakeholder Engagement in Practice: Global Challenges, Possibilities, and Limitations‖ (in partnership with Euromed Management, in Marseille, France). 67 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12  2010 Symposium: ―What is Sustainability? Differing Perspectives on Sustainable Business Practice in the Global Context‖  2009 Symposium: ―Building Responsible Global Cultures: The Role of Ethics, Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability.‖  2008 Symposium: ―Ethics, Governance and Enterprise Risk Management: A Global Perspective.‖  2007 Symposium: ―Business Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility: Different Sides of the Coin? A Comparison of European and North American Perspectives‖ (in partnership with the Universidad Pontificia Comillas, in Madrid, Spain).  2006 Symposium: ―Corporate Social Responsibility in the 21st Century: Coping with Globalization.‖  Inaugural 2005 Symposium: ―Ethics and Risk Management in a Global Environment.” Complete information on the Symposium series, with Proceedings of the programs, can be found at: http://www.bentley.edu/events/symposium CONSCIOUS CAPITALISM Building on the success of the 2009-2011Bentley University gatherings of thought leaders laying the intellectual and conceptual foundations of Conscious Capitalism, the May 2012 program continued to identify challenges and key research questions in this area. Conscious capitalism has four key elements, emphasizing companies that:  have a higher purpose that transcends profit maximization;  are managed for the benefit of all stakeholders in their ecosystem, not just shareholders;  are led by spiritually evolved, self-effacing servant leaders; and 68 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12  have a supportive and facilitative culture. Companies that practice conscious capitalism embody the idea that profit and prosperity go hand in hand with social justice and environmental stewardship. They operate with a systems view, recognizing and benefiting from the connectedness and interdependence of all stakeholders. They tap into deeper sources of positive energy and create greater value for all stakeholders. They utilize creative business models that are both transformational and inspirational, and can help solve the world‘s many social and environmental problems. The theme of the 2012 program was Conscious Cultures: Building a Flourishing Business on Love and Care; program speakers included:  Richard Barrett, Barrett  John Mackey, Whole Foods Values Center  Scott Minerd, Guggenheim  Marya Besharov, Cornell Partners University  Satish Pradhan, Group  Abilio Diniz, Chairman, Head, Tata Sons Grupo Pão de Açúcar,  Michael Pratt, Boston Brazil College  Robert Quinn, University  Adam Grant, Wharton of Michigan Business School  Doug Rauch, Trader Joe’s  James Heskett, Harvard Business School  Vineeta Salvi, Conscious Capitalism Institute  Karambir Singh Kang, Taj Boston  Anjan Thakor, Washington University  Julia Kirby, Harvard Business Review Progress and AY2012-13 Goals Building on the success of the first three conferences, a fifth academic conference to be held on the Bentley campus in May 2013 is currently in the planning stage. The underlying goal is to (1) further our understanding of this unique approach to business and (2) deepen commitment to such responsible management practice. 69 Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 ASPEN UNDERGRADUATE BUSINESS EDUCATION CONSORTIUM Bentley University is part of the Aspen Institute‘s Business Education Consortium, focused on ―Rethinking Undergraduate Business Education.‖ The goal of the initiative is to more fully prepare students for lives as responsible, engaged citizens, with a fuller understanding of the role and place of business in larger institutional contexts. Bentley is one of 30 colleges and universities that have committed to developing and sharing curricular and co-curricular ideas that tie liberal arts and business education together in ways that resonate for students – and for their employers. The Consortium also has a strong action learning component: as part of participation, each school is taking on a pilot project that attempts to further the integration of liberal learning and business education. Bentley committed to exploring different ways to encourage multidisciplinary courses and modules Participants at the 2012 Consortium meeting at George Washington University Progress and AY201-13 Goals In the Spring 2012 semester, a faculty workshop was held on campus focused on ―Sustainability, Responsible Management and the Curriculum.‖ Drawing on Bentley‘s role as a signatory of the PRME initiative, the workshop explored ways to develop the capabilities of our students to be generators of sustainable value within a more inclusive global economy. Emphasis was placed designing interdisciplinary course modules that effectively integrate sustainability challenges into our curriculum. During Fall 2012, Bentley faculty Lynne Durkin and Rick Oches will give an Aspen-sponsored webinar on the trans-disciplinary module – ―Will Corn Ethanol Fuel U.S. Energy Needs?‖ – that has been developed and implemented at Bentley (see pages 44-46). Bentley will also participate in the March 2013 Consortium meeting in Denver, Colorado, reporting on our progress to date. Bentley University COP/SIP: AY 2011-12 For questions or additional information on the Bentley University UNGC and PRME initiative and/or the combined AY2011-12 Communication on Progress and Sharing Information on Progress Report, please contact: Anthony F. Buono, Ph.D. Professor of Management and Sociology Coordinator, Bentley Alliance for Ethics & Social Responsibility Adamian Academic Center 315 Bentley University 175 Forest Street Waltham, Massachusetts 02452 USA E-mail: abuono@bentley.edu Phone: 781-891-2529 BENTLEY UNIVERSITY is a leader in business education. Centered on teaching and research in business and related professions, Bentley blends the breadth and technological strength of a university with the core values and student focus of a close-knit campus. Our undergradaute curriculum combines business study with a strong foundation in the arts and sciences. The McCallum Graduate School emphasizes the impact of technology on business practice, in offerings that include MBA and Master of Science programs, PhD programs in accountancy and in business, and custom executive education programs. Located minutes from Boston in Waltham, Masschusetts, the school enrolls approximately 4,000 undergraduates, 250 adult part-time undergraduates, 1,400 graduate and 30 doctoral students. Bentley is accredited by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges, AACSB International – The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business, and the European Quality Improvement System (EQUIS), which benchmarks quality in management and business education.
