PANDORA CSR REPORT 2011 PANDORA CSR REPORT 1 Contents 2 CEO STATEMENT 11 CRAFTING IN THAILAND 12 Responsibility approach 3 CSR APPROACH 12 Preventing workplace accidents 5 CSR Policy 13 Attractive employment terms 5 CSR commitee 14 Labour Rights 5 PANDORA Life 14 Reducing overtime 5 PANDORA Ethics 14 Expressing opinions and raising concerns 5 Scoping CSR 15 Environmental impact 6 SOURCING 15 Strengthening and systematising 7 Supplier’s code of conduct 15 Bangkok floodings 7 CSR supplier program 16 TRADING 9 Improvements in 2012 17 Business Ethics Policy 9 Spearheading industry action 17 Health, safety and the environment 9 Sourcing of gold 17 Training 10 Lighthouse project 18 Charity 10 Paper and wood consumption PANDORA CSR REPORT 1 CEO statement 2011 was an eventful CSR year for PANDORA. Entering into CSR at PANDORA and gave a more detailed description 2011, we had developed our Group values, established our of our responsible crafting facilities in Thailand, the 2011 CSR organisation governed by a cross-functional CSR comreport provides an in-depth description of our CSR Supplier mittee, and joined The Responsible Jewellery Council and Programme defining our expectations towards our suppliers. United Nations Global Compact. In 2011, we dedicated our 2011 was the year where PANDORA outlined the efforts to developing and testing a range of new CSR policies roadmap towards becoming a fully sustainable jewellery and supporting programmes. We have done so with the company. However, we acknowledge that we are still facing clear aim of having the entire PANDORA Group certified a number of challenges when navigating towards this goal. on its responsible business practices during 2012. Therefore, PANDORA’s 2011 CSR Report is also an invitation Building on the solid foundation of fairness and craftsfor our stakeholders to engage with us, bring ideas to the manship we inherited from our founding fathers, PANDORA table or raise concerns. spent 2011 strengthening and systematising our efforts to advancing responsible business practices in our own operations as well as in the entire jewellery industry. In practical terms, 2011 was the year where we developed and tested our CSR policies, procedures and proper mindset that will help us to achieve our vision of becoming the world’s most recognised jewellery brand. The 2011 CSR report covers PANDORA’s CSR achievements between 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011. Marcello Bottoli While our 2010 CSR report defined the playing field for Interim CEO PANDORA CSR REPORT 2 CSR Approach PANDORA CSR REPORT 3 cSR APPROACH / SOURCING / crafting in thailand / Trading CSR APPROACH PANDORA is committed to supporting and advancing While also serving as PANDORA’s 2011 Communication on responsible business practices throughout the jewellery Progress on the ten principles of the United Nations Global value chain. This commitment is the backbone of our CSR Compact, this report pays special attention to our CSR SupPolicy and is reflected in internal operations as well as in plier Programme and our CSR achievements at our crafting our relations with external stakeholders. In 2011, we increased facilities in Bangkok, Thailand. our efforts to proactively reach out to our surroundings and This focus is deliberate. PANDORA remains committed to willingly enter into dialogue with stakeholders on how to openly communicate the real dilemmas facing the jewellery strengthen our performance. Beside our engagement in the industry, our responses to such dilemmas, and the achieveResponsible Jewellery Council, we have in 2011 worked to ments we make in advancing responsible business practices – establish strategic cooperation with a range of stakeholders internally as well as in the entire jewellery industry. A natural such as sourcing NGO’s, experts, refiners etc. part of this approach is to welcome stakeholders to comment The PANDORA CSR Report 2011 provides information on this report, bring ideas to the table and raise concerns and basic statistics on the results we have achieved in 2011. regarding PANDORA’s activities. By conducting a materiality assessment in early 2011, we identified the sourcing of precious metals, gemstones and other materials as the most important challenge facing the jewellery industry. Furthermore, we recognise that PANDORA’s jewellery crafting facilities in Thailand have a positive socioeconomic impact and leave an environmental footprint. CSR at PANDORA 2010 – Setting the scene April May August November December CSR Committee UN Global RJC Responsible Suppliers Code Group CSR Compact Jewellery Council of Conduct Function 2011 – Develop and text March April April September December 4-Step Supplier CSR Report 2010 Business Ethics Road map to RJC Policy Framework Program & website Policy Certification for CSR 2012 – Full Implementation February February June August August onwards Policy Framework CSR Report 2011 RJC audits entire Responsible Business Stratetic CSR enters into force & Roll-out PANDORA Group Practices Certificate Project/integration PANDORA CSR REPORT 4 cSR APPROACH / SOURCING / crafting in thailand / Trading CSR POLICY • P  ANDORA is a PRIDE of strong individuals, skilful and unique, though only successful when working as a team. Following a thorough stakeholder consultation process in • PANDORA PASSION is wholehearted; a big overview 2010 and early 2011, we have revised PANDORA’s CSR and a great heart. Policy which lays the foundation of our CSR related efforts: • PANDORA PERFORMANCE comes from a can-do “PANDORA is committed to advancing responsible attitude. business practices from the sourcing of gemstones, precious In short the sentence “PANDORA is a pride of strong metals and other materials to the crafting and marketing individuals with a wholehearted, can-do attitude” help us of our jewellery. navigate on how to work together as colleagues and how to We believe that corporate social responsibility and our behave and act towards our surroundings and stakeholders. aspiration to offer high quality and genuine jewellery go hand in hand. Responsible business practices and social awareness have always been part of PANDORA’s DNA PANDORA Ethics and they are virtues which we strive to honour in our daily operations as well as through initiatives that aim at raising In alignment with the overarching PANDORA Life values, the bar for the jewellery industry. in 2011 PANDORA developed a set of CSR policies defining Furthermore, we believe that our business shall benefit our standards regarding human rights, working conditions, our stakeholders and not least our customers. Therefore, environmental impact and business ethics. Our Business PANDORA has a social commitment to supporting charitable Ethics Policy is described in more detail in chapter 4.1. With purposes that inspire individuality and improve the lives of these policies in place, we have a clear and uniform CSR women around the world”. guidance for staff and business partners as well as a solid platform for entering into dialogue with other stakeholders. Acknowledging that such rules and regulations cannot CSR COMMITTEE alone provide any guarantees for responsible business practices, we have developed and tested a range of procedures, PANDORA CSR is governed by a global CSR Steering training concepts and compliance tools. The result is a CSR Committee, commissioned to coordinate and monitor programme named “PANDORA Ethics” that guide us in honresponsible business practices across our value chain, from oring our commitment to advancing responsible business sourcing through crafting to the trading of our jewellery. The practices in our own operations as well as in the jewellery Committee is headed by our Vice President Group CSR and industry in general. further consists of the heads of Production, Procurement, HR, and Communications and with our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Merchant representing the Executive SCOPING CSR Management. The CSR Steering Committee convenes once a month. Each member of the CSR Committee is responsible PANDORA operates with a highly integrated value chain for developing and embedding CSR in their own business covering all processes from jewellery design to after sales area while drawing on the expertise of our CSR units located service. This means that appropriate methods of ensuring in Copenhagen and Bangkok. responsible business practices will vary across the Group. Thus, we have tailored our CSR Programme to containing three main processes: sourcing, crafting and trading. The PANDOR A Life remainder of the report is dedicated to communicating our progress within these areas. In March 2011, PANDORA launched the PANDORA Life programme by implementing the three core company values that guide us in fulfilling our vision of becoming “… the world’s most recognised jewellery brand”. The three values are pride, passion and performance. PANDORA CSR REPORT 5 sourcing PANDORA CSR REPORT 6 cSR APPROACH / SOURCING / crafting in thailand / Trading sourcing In order to sell 50 million pieces of jewellery in 2011, SUPPLIERS’ CODE OF CONDUCT PANDORA sourced large quantities of silver and gold, diamonds, gemstones and other materials used in the proPANDORA Suppliers’ Code of Conduct clearly expresses duction process. Further, the more than 10,000 retail outlets our expectations for the ethical performance of our suppliselling PANDORA jewellery require a wide range of additional ers within the realms of human rights, working conditions, products ranging from sales displays, jewellery boxes and environmental impact and business ethics. To ensure that paper bags to cleaning detergents. our suppliers are aware of and comply with these expecWith a commitment to longstanding business relations tations, the Code was adopted into all new and updated and a highly integrated business model, our point of departure supplier contracts during 2011. We acknowledge that such for responsible sourcing relies on mutual respect, dialogue and a contractual commitment does not in itself guarantee the sustainable business relations rather than PANDORA using implementation of responsible business practices. Thereits buying power to force suppliers into delivering what might fore, during 2011 we developed, tested and adjusted a new turn out to be superficial or unsustainable solutions. and comprehensive CSR Supplier Programme. The programme instructs our sourcing and purchasing staff to adopt a four-step approach with the purpose of ensuring that our suppliers meet the requirements listed in the Code of Conduct, and understand complying with these requirements can help them increase their own profitability. CSR SUPPLIER PROGRAM In order to strengthen the CSR competencies and skills of our purchasing staff and enable them to carry out their important role in PANDORA’s four-step CSR Programme, in 2011 we trained our purchasers to identify and mitigate CSR risks in our supply chain. The training was delivered by our CSR teams based in Denmark and Thailand. Our CSR specialists have comprehensive experience from more than 500 CSR supplier audits throughout Europe and Asia – regions that account for almost 100 per cent of our direct supply base. The training includes supplier audits by teams comprised of our purchasers, our CSR specialists and a global audit company which we have contracted to conduct independent CSR audits in our supply chain. PANDORA CSR REPORT 7 cSR APPROACH / SOURCING / crafting in thailand / Trading Step 1: Screening suppliers Step 2: Supplier trainings During the first step of the CSR Supplier Programme, our Depending on the outcome of the initial screening, suppliers purchasers screen and categorise all suppliers delivering are either directly approved for business or invited to move goods above a threshold limit of USD 50,000. Each of on to step two of the programme which is a one-day CSR these eligible suppliers are investigated for the CSR risks supplier training course. In 2011, more than 50 supplier related to their specific product as well as the CSR risks representatives participated in such trainings organised in that typically occur in their country of operation. Further, Bangkok and Hong Kong. The key objective of the CSR our purchasers must assess the CSR maturity of each suptraining is to enhance suppliers’ awareness of CSR risks, plier by conducting a desktop investigation of any public improve their understanding of PANDORA’s CSR approach evidence regarding the CSR performance of the supplier. and expectations and ensure that they are aware of relevant Finally, purchasers are instructed to trust their own instincts rules and regulations. Whenever working through agents, and never approve a supplier they do not fully believe to we invite both the agent and their suppliers responsible for be in compliance with PANDORA’s Suppliers’ Code of the actual production. Conduct. Suppliers falling under the USD 50,000 threshold During the training, we encourage and seek to inspire limit – but still fail to convince the responsible purchaser our suppliers to make use of practical tools and methods – will also become eligible for further investigation. to raise their standards and to prevent or mitigate nonThe outcome of this initial CSR screening is integrated compliance with our Code of Conduct. A vital part of this into our “Supplier Segmentation Model” which also categoexercise is to share with our suppliers how we work to rises suppliers according to their potential business impact ensure responsible business practices at our own crafting as well as other supply risks associated with the supplier. facilities in Thailand, operating under similar conditions as The integration of CSR risks into our supplier model allows the majority of our suppliers. This approach has proved to us to sort our suppliers into four categories, each eligible to be a fruitful means of facilitating difficult discussions on specific actions. how seemingly unsolvable issues can be turned into business advantages. In addition to content delivered by PANDORA’s CSR team, suppliers who participate in our training also receive Categorising Suppliers advice from independent experts on relevant national and international legislation and common breaches related to these laws. Finally, staff from our contracted independent CSR Risk audit company explains in detail how the actual audit process is structured. • CSR materials • CSR materials • Legal  clause/Sign Code • L  egal clause/Sign Code of Conduct of Conduct Step 3: Supplier audits High • Supplier training • Supplier training The third step is an actual CSR audit conducted by an • (Self-Assessment) • Self-Assessment independent audit company. The audit process is often initi• (Independent Audit) • Independent Audit ated by asking the supplier to perform a preliminary CSR • (Remedial action plan) • (Remedial action plan) self-assessment using a template provided by PANDORA. We do this with a dual purpose. Firstly, we wish to allow • CSR materials • CSR materials our suppliers to identify and mitigate any non-compliance • Code of Conduct • L  egal clause/Sign Code that they might not have understood or paid attention to in of Conduct Low • Supplier training the past. Secondly, we want to obtain sufficient knowledge • (Self-Assessment) about the supplier’s CSR performance before ordering a com• (Independent Audit) prehensive supplier audit. If such a self-assessment provides • (Remedial action plan) vital and reliable information, which proves beyond doubt full compliance with all relevant regulations, we might Low High decide to not initiate an audit. Following our commitment to constructive dialogue and Business importance long-term partnerships, we decided that all 2011 audits would be announced to our suppliers 2 to 3 weeks in advance. PANDORA CSR REPORT 8 cSR APPROACH / SOURCING / crafting in thailand / Trading Finally, by training our purchasers to spot irresponsible SPEARHEADING INDUSTRY ACTION business practices as part of their daily contacts with our suppliers, we find ourselves capable of identifying potential At PANDORA, we consider our current Code of Conduct irregularities, posing the right questions and acting accordto fully match the codes issued by our peers in the global ingly. In 2012 we will review this approach to see if we jewellery brands. PANDORA acknowledges that many could benefit from an approach that combines announced suppliers today suffer from “Code Mania”. This means that and unannounced audits. suppliers have to comply with a wide range of codes, each with their unique, but comprehensive, requirements for Step 4: Corrective actions documentation. To help counter this problem, and to help The fourth and final step is to develop and implement advance the role of the Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC), corrective action plans ensuring that any non-compliance PANDORA will work to abandon our Suppliers’ Code of identified during daily operations, initial screenings, Conduct and replace it with the equally suited RJC Code dialogue during the supplier training, self-assessments of Practices. or through independent audits, are eliminated within In the spring of 2011 PANDORA was elected by our a reasonable time frame. peers to represent the Jewellery Manufacturers in RJC’s Most audits reveal non-compliances of varying severity, Standards Committee. During 2012, the RJC Standards which result in the independent audit team preparing a draft Committee will work with an external stakeholder panel corrective action plan based on their CSR expertise and local to update the RJC Code of Practices. We will use this as knowledge of how fast companies and authorities can be our platform to persuade our peers within the industry to expected to act on the given context. The plan is presented unite behind the RJC Code of Practices. to the supplier at the end of the audit, and the supplier can Finally, PANDORA has in 2011 accepted an invitation either accept it or suggest an alternative plan, which ultito join the reference group for the NICE Code of Conduct mately must be accepted by our purchaser and Group CSR. for the fashion industry – the first sector-specific initiative Failure to comply with the Code of Conduct code results under the United Nations Global Compact in its history. The in an escalation of PANDORA’s efforts, which may ultimately NICE code will be launched in 2012 and promoted during result in PANDORA’s CSR committee deciding to terminate the Rio+20 Summit. the business relation. In November 2011, PANDORA seized the opportunity to present our CSR Supplier Programme to the Nordic Network SOURCING OF GOLD for United Nations Global Compact member companies. At this event, we received positive recognition and valuable inThe gold supply chain is complex, and especially gold mining put that will help us in further developing the programme. has often been criticised for harsh working conditions, a high environmental impact, and in some cases breaches to fundamental human rights. This has already led to inIMPROVEMENTS IN 2012 creased regulatory demands in the US, and more governments are now following suit pushing for full traceability During 2011, we developed and tested different audit conof gold from mine to market. cepts, ranging from audits carried out by PANDORA staff PANDORA’s jewellery crafting process requires a only, independent third party audits, and joint audits with fineness of our gold at 99.99 per cent. Thus, PANDORA the participation of both independent auditors, PANDORA’s depends on high quality gold smelters, refiners and traders purchasers and our CSR teams. In 2012 we wish to move who in turn acquire their gold from a range of sources. towards a model that relies on more independent audits Our initial inquiries into our gold supply chain indicate and to start developing a CSR toolkit that will help our that the primary source of our gold is recycling, but we are suppliers integrate CSR into their company procedures. aware that the melting process might also contain gold from Finally, we will be gaining further experience in executing bullion banks and mining. To date, PANDORA has found our four-step CSR Programme, enabling us to define Key no evidence or indication that our gold originates from Performance Indicators on how frequently we should sources or countries known to be associated with conflict engage with the different supplier categories. or irresponsible business practices. In 2012 we will further PANDORA CSR REPORT 9 cSR APPROACH / SOURCING / crafting in thailand / Trading investigate the origin of gold entering our supply chain LIGHTHOUSE PROJECT and strive towards traceable gold sourcing. Gold is one the world commodities with the highest In December 2011 we joined forces with “Solidaridad”, recycling percentage. It is estimated that between 90 and a leading NGO within responsible gold sourcing. Together 100 per cent of all gold re-enters the global market through we wish to explore the feasibility of assisting a medium recycling. The drawback to this positive fact is that recycling scale mine to achieve the RJC certification and thus develop makes it extremely difficult to determine the exact origin of a fully transparent and traceable sourcing process from that gold. In 2012 PANDORA will work to introduce procedures mine to the market. If successful, this project might serve as that meet, or exceed, the upcoming “OECD Due Diligence a model for other jewellery brands and small and medium Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains for Gold”. While sized mining companies to follow. the OECD guidance has not yet been finalised, and since there is no creditable gold certification system in operation, PANDORA has decided to start developing our own due PAPER AND WOOD CONSUMPTION diligence procedures within gold sourcing. Thus, in 2011 PANDORA initiated a project to ensure that we can trace For several years, PANDORA has marketed FSC certified the origin of our gold to either responsible mining or recywood beads, and we continuously seek to expand the cling facilities that have been certified by the Responsible range of paper and wood based materials certified accordJewellery Council. Further, as a member of the RJC Standing to international standards. Thus, in 2011 we decided to ards Committee, PANDORA actively participates in RJC’s implement a full shift to certified paper bags, a goal that we initiative to develop a voluntary Chain of Custody certificaexpect to reach in 2012. Finally, we are investigating the tion system. The Chain of custody certification is expected feasibility of ensuring certified paper in printed brochures to be released in 2012. and jewellery boxes across all markets. PANDORA CSR REPORT 10 Crafting in Thailand Pandora CSR report PANDORA CSR REPORT 11 cSR APPROACH / SOURCING / crafting in thailand / Trading Crafting In thailand PANDORA continues to benefit from the enthusiasm and RESPONSIBILIT Y APPROACH skills of more than 5,000 employees around the world. While all our people and entities are equally important, PANDORA’s jewellery crafting takes place in modern and we have once again decided to pay special focus to our safe facilities within an industrial estate near Bangkok, responsible business practices in the crafting of our jewellery, Thailand. Here, we are subject to specific requirements and all of which takes place in Thailand. As mentioned in last regular audits from authorities within Safety, Health and year’s CSR Report, we operate in full compliance with Thai the Environment (SHE). We operate with a fully integrated regulations, the International Labour Organisation’s core SHE organisation that enables us to continuously strengthen conventions as well as with our own firm commitment to and systematise our performance on all three issues within providing sound working conditions, attractive employment a common setup. All new employees are introduced to the terms and a range of social and welfare benefits for our SHE organisation as part of our Thai induction programme more than 3,600 Thai employees and their families. that ensures a thorough and engaging introduction to PANDORA values and operating practices relating to quality, health, safety and the environment. Also, we have a comprehensive, externally audited annual training plan ensuring that existing staff are kept up to date on relevant SHE issues and procedures. PREVENTING WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS PANDORA is highly committed to preventing workplace accidents. We define an accident as any incident that leads to an employee being absent for one or more working days. With the expertise and commitment of our SHE team and the engagement and cooperation of our colleagues we saw a reduction in the number of accidents from nine in 2010 to five in 2011. Similarly, we achieved a reduction in lost time through accident from 47 man days in 2010 to 37 man days in 2011. The number of incidents which required medical treatment, but did not lead to absence, fell from 64 in 2010 to 27 in 2011. On the rare occasion that an accident occurs, the SHE department specialists, together with employee representatives and employees within the respective departments, will assess the cause, document and publish the incident internally and implementing corrective actions. Our colleagues’ primary focus, however, is far more pro-active and PANDORA CSR REPORT 12 cSR APPROACH / SOURCING / crafting in thailand / Trading preventative – assessing the work environment for risk and employees attractive employment terms by paying living potential hazards, thorough incident and statistical analysis, wages above the national minimum wages and which are documentation and, at a minimum, monthly organization competitive by industry norms. All Thai staff are hired on wide communications of initiatives and activities taken. In open ended contracts that include a Provident Fund with 2011, we expanded our team of Safety, Health and Envimatching contributions from the company and medical ronment specialists and continued to focus on education, benefits that meet or exceed legal requirements. prevention and rigorous audit of policies and practices to Not least, PANDORA provides a range of welfare benefits further enhance our working environment. that target additional needs of our employees. Obvious examples of our welfare benefits are special breaks and maternity classes for pregnant employees, paternity leave, free ATTR ACTIVE EMPLOYMENT TERMS meals, free bus transportation for more than 2,000 employees every day, and traffic safety initiatives such as facilitatOur HR and Reward Management strategies seek to ing the provision of affordable, high quality traffic helmets. attract, motivate, develop and retain a skilled and engaged Recognising that credit card debt and loan sharks are workforce capable of conducting complex tasks with the common in Thailand, PANDORA provided financial literacy dedication required within the crafting of quality jewellery. training for all of our employees in 2011. During phase two In 2011, the percentage of staff leaving PANDORA Thailand, of this initiative, which continues in 2012, we will provide including those who did not pass probation, was 4.4 %. extended confidential, individual, financial counselling This turnover rate is significantly lower than the national to a group of employees experiencing severe difficulties, average. If we exclude dismissals (such as failing probadelivered by an independent external consultant. In 2011, tion), the percentage of staff leaving through resignations PANDORA was nominated by the Thai Health Promotion was 1.7 % Agency, chaired by the Prime Minister, for two national To ensure high quality products, we reward quality and awards relating to our “Happy Money” financial literacy accuracy rather than pieces produced. We offer our Thai programme. PANDORA CSR REPORT 13 cSR APPROACH / SOURCING / crafting in thailand / Trading LABOUR RIGHTS EXPRESSING OPINIONS AND RAISING CONCERNS PANDORA complies with the core conventions on labour rights as defined by the International Labour Organisation An integral element in responsible business practices is (ILO). We recognise the right to freedom of association to support each employee in expressing their opinion, and collective bargaining. We strictly oppose forced and developing their competences and striving to succeed. bonded labour, child labour and discrimination in any form. At our Thai crafting facilities, we have clear and transparent Measures to ensure compliance with the ILO conventions processes and procedures to encourage and enable our colare incorporated in all Thai procedures. leagues to raise suggestions, air ideas, voice opinions and Reflecting the general age composition in Thailand, we register complaints. We have regular and frequent forums have a high percentage of young staff with the youngest befor our colleagues to inform, be informed and discuss mating 19 years of age. We employ comparable percentages of ters directly with managers and directors. We value highly male and female staff up to the level of director, and wage the contribution such forums make to our business perforrates and measures are consistent across gender. Being a mance and to employee satisfaction and development. In production facility, directors are mainly hired on technical addition, on each floor of each building at our Thai entities, qualifications and experience. Here, we have found that the we have located confidential suggestion/complaint boxes pool of qualified candidates in Thailand still predominantly wherein comments or grievances can be addressed directly consists of men. As part of our strategic approach to succesto our Managing Director, the Vice President of HR or the sion planning, all managers are regularly assessed against SHE Manager. transparent quantitative as well as qualitative indicators. In Employee representatives on our SHE and Welfare 2011, we delivered a comprehensive programme of leadercommittees and subcommittees are elected by and among ship training for our entire management and supervisory all employees, and we are very proactive in ensuring that team to support their continued development. With this, staff representatives are provided with the time, training, and other related development and career path initiatives equipment, facilities and freedom to fulfil their important currently under way, we expect the pool of female candiroles. In April 2011, we launched Radio PANDORA broaddates suitable for executive management positions to further casting five days a week, providing news, company and deexpand in the future. partmental updates and musical entertainment throughout all our Thai crafting facilities, with “DJ” duties performed by employee teams voted for by their listeners. REDUCING OVERTIME The growth that PANDORA has experienced over the past decade has been accompanied by a high degree of overtime at our Thai crafting facilities. We have worked hard to reduce overtime by optimising processes, opening new facilities and hiring more staff. Thus, since 2005 we have grown from 380 employees to 3,632 employees by the end of 2011. These efforts have made it feasible to achieve our goal of reducing overtime. As discussed in more detail in last year’s CSR report, overtime is always voluntary and compensated competitively by industry standards. Consequently, reducing overtime has had a negative financial impact on some of our employees due to the subsequent drop in their earnings. PANDORA CSR REPORT 14 cSR APPROACH / SOURCING / crafting in thailand / Trading ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT PANDORA acknowledges that our contribution to the Thai economy is accompanied by the consumption of natural resources and other environmental challenges. Apart from the sourced raw materials, the crafting of our jewellery mainly requires water and energy. At our Thai facilities, energy is mainly used in our modern casting equipment and for running air conditioning in the facilities that house jewellery crafting as well as administrative offices. Thus, approximately 85% of the buildings at our crafting facilities are air-conditioned. Altogether, PANDORA Thailand consumed 12,721,500 KWH in 2011. Furthermore, the jewellery crafting processes required 74 tonnes of liquid petroleum gasses. Our environmental impact is also influenced by our waste and waste treatment procedures. We divide our industrial waste into four categories; hazardous waste, general waste, recyclable waste and refined waste. When disposing of hazardous waste, we engage with certified vendors who manage the waste in accordance with Thai law. Finally, in 2011 we consumed 165,236 cubic metres of water. The disposure of waste water is subject to control by local authorities, audited by external experts, and handled by a joint waste water treatment facility managed by the industrial estate. STRENGTHENING AND SYSTEMATISING Our Thai jewellery crafting facilities are already certified to the ISO 9001 quality standard. In 2011, we started to further systematise and strengthen our SHE capabilities. During 2012, this process is intended to result in the acquirement of the OHSAS 18001 certificate on occupational health and safety as well as the ISO 14001 certificate on environmental management. By these international standards as well as the RJC certification on responsible business practices, we strive to develop a best practice model for responsible jewellery crafting. BANGKOK FLOODINGS Several Thai regions were impacted by severe and prolonged flooding in the last quarter of 2011. Although our own facilities were not directly impacted, PANDORA was proactive in providing assistance to the affected communities by sponsoring teams of doctors and nurses providing medical support and supplies in situ, and also by providing financial help to the families of employees and a small number of employees whose homes were flooded. PANDORA CSR REPORT 15 Trading sourcing PANDORA CSR REPORT 16 cSR APPROACH / SOURCING / crafting in thailand / Trading Trading In 2011, PANDORA sold 50 million pieces of jewellery in HEALTH, SAFET Y AND THE ENVIRONMENT more than 65 countries. PANDORA currently owns and operates more than 100 stores and our jewellery is sold at In 2011, we dedicated substantial resources to ensuring safe more than 10,000 stores around the world of which the vast and healthy working conditions at our owned and operated majority are independent retailers. PANDORA’s overarching retail stores. As part of this endeavour, we work systemCSR Policy instructs us to constantly develop our responsible atically with employee satisfaction surveys and Personal business practices in our own operations and to use our Development Reviews. PANDORA continues to have a low position to influence and encourage our business partners rate of accidents. Thus, the more than 5,000 people makto do the same. ing up the PANDORA Group lost 408 working days due to work related accidents. We will continue our endeavour to minimize the number of accidents in the years to come. BUSINESS ETHICS POLICY In 2011, we initiated a project that will lower the energy consumption for store lightning at new stores across Within responsible trading, our 2011 PANDORA Ethics the world. This will also result in considerable cuts in air activities have primarily been focusing around impleconditioning in the stores. In 2012, PANDORA will work menting our Business Ethics Policy on a global scale. The to establish clear energy saving KPIs for our points of sale purpose of this policy is to ensure that PANDORA staff do as well as for our jewellery production facilities in Thailand. not adopt corrupt practices or become complicit in corrupt practices through agents and other business partners. In certain countries, corruption is endemic and repTRAINING resents a challenge to all responsible companies. In order to prevent and mitigate such corrupt practices, we issued PANDORA is dedicated to continuously improve the qualia Group Business Ethics Policy in April 2011, defining a fications of the staff in our own stores as well as staff at our zero tolerance towards bribery, extortion and facilitation business partners selling our jewellery. During 2011 PANDORA’s payments for all staff and agents. The policy also provides 35 in-house trainers delivered face-to-face trainings for strict guidance regarding fair competition, conflicts of intermore than 13,500 participants. est as well as the provision and acceptance of hospitality, The second key feature in our training academy is the entertainment and gifts. Finally, employees are encouraged PANDORA Online Directory (POD). Through this e-learning to raise concerns if they find that our policies are being system, we ensure that our sales associates are constantly inbreached. As a last resort, our staff can use our anonymous formed and trained in regards to PANDORA history, culture, whistle blower function. In 2011, we carried out a business values as well as sales and product standards. Following a ethics risk assessment that resulted in face-to-face training major update in of the POD in June 2011, the almost 16,000 of the 100 staff members representing the business units users had completed more than 80,000 training modules by most likely to be confronted with corrupt practices. During end 2011. To increase the competences and product knowlspring 2012, we will continue these tailored training sesedge of sales staff and to enhance compliance with business sions supported by a general e-learning module allowing standards, including CSR, we have integrated the POD trainall staff to familiarise themselves and comply with all our ing with other learning opportunities such as face-to-face CSR policies. training and train-the-trainer programmes. PANDORA CSR REPORT 17 cSR APPROACH / SOURCING / crafting in thailand / Trading One such example is our cooperation with the GemoCHARIT Y logical Institute of America (GIA), a leading authority within the jewellery industry. In 2011, 135 PANDORA staff members PANDORA remains committed to support charitable courses. gained profound jewellery knowledge and understandAgain in 2011 we have globally supported the cause and ing through GIA courses, enabling them to provide the best most of PANDORA’s market joined forces in the support possible service and product disclosure to our customers. of the Breast Cancer Association. This year’s collection These employees are now “GIA Accredited Jewellery Profesfeatured beautiful charms and pendants that raised a total sionals”. Furthermore, 700 PANDORA store managers were donation sum of 10,9 million Danish kroner. enrolled in a specialised jewellery fundamentals POD course While continuously working to align our donations, in as well as a train-the-trainer module. Furthermore, 700 2011 individual markets continued to support relevant local PANDORA store managers were enrolled in a specialised initiatives such as Denmark’s Collects 2011 dedicated youth GIA jewellery fundamentals e-learning course which also inin Africa and support for local communities affected by the cluded training materials for them to use with their own staff. 2011 Bangkok flooding described above. In October 2011, PANDORA Australia won the “Employer of Choice Award”, an Australian HR Award for excellence in people management. Here, the POD was mentioned as one of PANDORA’s key achievements alongside PANDORA Australia’s reward and recognition programme for retail staff and the GEM program (Growing Exceptional Managers) targeting existing and potential people managers. PANDORA CSR REPORT 18 cSR APPROACH / SOURCING / crafting in thailand / Trading PANDORA Group staff statistics M F Total Staff on 31. Dec <18 3 17 20 18-25 547 988 1,535 26-35 1,519 1,809 3,328 36-45 171 357 528 46+ 89 246 335 TOTAL* 2,329 3,417 5,746 Management General Management Team 11 1 12 Vice Presidents 27 11 38 Directors/Manager 93 121 214 Store Manager 6 68 74 Staff Turnover New staff 99 420 519 Resignations 96 206 302 Dismissals 18 74 92 Retirements PANDORA Group Accident Statistics Accidents 2010 2011 Hours worked 10,986,139 11,590,187 No. of accidents with absence 15 12 Number of lost working hours 3,264 840 Total working days lost lost 408 105 How the United Nations Global Compact is covered in CSR Report 2011 Human Rights Labour Rights Environmental impact Anticorruption UNGC 1 UNGC 2 UNGC 3 UNGC 4 UNGC 5 UNGC 6 UNGC 7 UNGC 8 UNGC 9 UNGC 10 CSR Approach x x x x x x x x x x Sourcing x x x x x x x x x x Crafting x x x x x x x x Trading x x x x x x * The 5746 staff members by 31st December 2011 equals 5,387 full time employees PANDORA CSR REPORT 19 PANDORA A/S Hovedvejen 2 DK-2600 Glostrup Denmark Phone: +45 3672 0044 Fax: +45 3673 0800 CVR nr.: 28505116 www.pandoragroup.com Concept, writing and Editing PANDORA Corporate Social Responsibility Photography Ture Andersen (www.ouro.dk), Anne Mie Dreves (www.annemiedreves.dk) Design Kontrapunkt © PANDORA 2011 PANDORA CSR REPORT 20
