Reshaping our prospects Sustainability Report 2011 Reshaping our prospects Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainability Report 2011 1 2 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. contents 4 Management letter 14 Goals & Performance 30 Environment 6 S&B at a glance 16 Engaging with stakeholders 40 Socioeconomic Contribution 8 Our Values, Vision and Purpose 18 Our People 46 On reporting 10 Reshaping our approach 24 Health & Safety 48 GRI Index to Sustainable Development Sustainability Report 2011 3 Management letter Our Sustainability Vision Every employee of S&B will personally contribute every year to our sustainability targets During 2011, a pivotal year for S&B, we achieved an exceptional financial performance with sales of €456 million and earnings of €21 million that almost matched the Group’s pre-crisis historic highs, we completed a major organizational overhaul along with a leadership succession and we expanded our global footprint. We accomplished all these despite the increasingly challenging and ambiguous macroeconomic environment. 2011 was also a milestone for Sustainability. We took the important step to create a distinct Sustainable Development function, reporting directly to the CEO, elevating all aspects of Sustainability, therefore providing a distinct and clear strategic and operational focus. In S&B we recognize that Sustainable Development is key to our ability to develop and create long-term shareholder value. Today, more than ever, we view Sustainable Development as a competitive advantage and not as a mere response to the social imperatives of our times. The Sustainability Report represents the evolution of our Social Report. We have been publishing a non-financial Social Report alongside our Annual Report since 2001. The renaming does not simply highlight a change in the character of this report but rather a reorientation of our enhanced approach towards Sustainability. Our Sustainability Vision calls upon every S&B employee to take personal responsibility for our Sustainable Development objectives and we have grouped those under four core pillars: People, Health & Safety, Environment and Social Contribution. We aim to become a great place to work; we strive to achieve zero accidents by continuously improving our working environment; we improve our own, our contractors and our customers’ environmental footprint and we create goodwill capital and build relationships in every community we operate based on the social relevance of our operations. 4 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. We measure our business success alongside the economic developWe continue to support business and sustainability related initiatives, ment, the environmental care, the social welfare and the integrity of our such as the UN Global Compact and the Federation of Greek Induscorporate governance across all our operations and local communities. tries’ Business Council for Sustainable Development (SEV BCSD), associate organization to the World Business Council for SustainReviewing our 2011 Sustainability related performance; we are proud able Development and we remain an active member in our sector’s that in October 2011 we inaugurated at our Milos Operations, a state associations at local and global level. Joining our sector’s biannual of the art bentonite warehouse facility that will substantially improve celebration we participated with our German and Greek facilities at our environmental performance and workplace conditions. In addition the European Minerals Day 2011. This initiative has been enacted by to this, we are making good progress well ahead of the timetable the European minerals sector to raise public awareness on the role stipulated by our environmental permitin evaluating the best available of minerals in our everyday lives and increase transparency on the techniques and alternative methods for disposal of our perlite superindustry’s practices. fines on Milos. In recognition of this progress and our long-term overall responsible operation and cooperation, both Milos and neighboring We made a dynamic Sustainability start into the new year, and remain Kimolos Municipal Councils issued official Decrees to demonstrate convinced that 2012 will compensate our efforts by producing the first their ongoing appreciation and support to S&B. solid results stemming from our well-structured Sustainability strategy: from a corporate Sustainability Vision, to specific Sustainability goals Safety was again at the center of our people-related issues. Despite and targets, to clearly defined tasks cascaded to all facilities, operathe effort devoted we are not satisfied with this year’s performance tion sites, functions, and each and everyone within the global S&B since we have not managed to reduce the accidents frequency rate to community. historical low levels. In 2012 we will spare no effort to reduce this ratio further. Integration and training on pro-active safety practices at work continued and were successfully expanded to our Bulgaria operations Ulysses P. Kyriacopoulos and strengthened further in our Germany operations. “Near miss” Chairman of the Board incident reporting in all facilities was enhanced with the redesign of the Group database to share incident information in a common language Kriton Anavlavis and allow facilities to learn from each other. Chief Executive Officer Sustainability Report 2011 5 6 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. S&B at a glance €455.7 million sales in 72 countries 1,963 employees 26 mines 47 plants & processing units 26 distribution centers in 20 countries & 5 continents We are a global minerals and materials group, providing industrial 20 countries across the geographic regions of North Europe, South solutions based on natural resources, to serve a wide range of indusEurope, Americas and Asia/Pacific. trial applications in the global markets of metallurgy, construction and foundry and in various specialty niche sectors. Through mining and Industrial Minerals have always been at the center of our 77-year-long processing operations, we utilize the multiple properties of industrial history, which has seen S&B grow into an international group of more minerals to transform our mineral-based product portfolio into industhan 40 companies with sales in more than 70 countries across the trial customized solutions that enhance the production processes globe. Our unique market-to-mine model coupled with our profesof our customers and increase end-product performance. We have sional and responsible conduct towards society and the environment, a well-balanced international presence with diverse operations in provide the basis for continued sustainable development. 2011 Industrial Minerals sales 2011 Industrial Minerals sales by Segment by Geographic Region Metallurgy Specialties North Europe Asia/Pacific 36% 16% 47% 6% • Continuous Steel • Glass & ceramics • Belgium • China Casting • Horticulture • France • India • Iron ore pelletizing • Pet litter absorbents • Germany • S. Korea • Alumina • Other • Hungary • Refractories • Netherlands • Iron smelting • Poland • UK Foundry Construction South Europe Americas 26% 22% 27% 20% • Various Foundry applications • Construction • Bulgaria • Canada & building materials • Georgia • USA • Civil engineering • Greece • Brazil • Cements • Italy • Drilling • Morocco • Cryogenics • Spain • Other • Turkey Sustainability Report 2011 7 8 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Our Values, Vision and Purpose 2011 was the year of revisiting our purpose, values and vision. Our Purpose was refined to reflect our truly extensive global presence. We reaffirmed our long-standing Values and made two small but Our Vision was restated as we strive for sustainable value growth significant changes: “Safety” was elevated to a separate value, through a well-balanced international presence. stressing its strategic importance for our sustainable existence; “Social Responsibility” was rephrased to better reflect the way that we aspire to conduct our business today. Our Purpose We provide industrial solutions globally, by developing and transforming natural resources into value creating products Our Vision Our Values We grow by developing innovative industrial solutions that represent Integrity an important value-enhancing element of our customers’ products We keep our promises and production processes. Respect for People We strive to extend our customer base around the world developing We foster the development of our people within a culture of mutual a well-balanced international presence. In this pursuit, we take into trust and respect consideration emerging global trends and product lifecycles. Safety We capitalize on the diversity of our global community of employees We secure safe working conditions and we all behave accordingly by fostering a collaborative, learning and innovative organization. Customer Intimacy Each one of us takes pride and satisfaction out of our positive impact We strive to understand our customers’ needs contributing to their on all stakeholders, while we commit to constantly improve our susfuture aspirations tainability practices across all operations. Social Responsibility Our efforts result in sustainable value growth, aiming to outperform We contribute to economic development while sustaining our natural our industry’s peers’ total return to shareholders. and social environment At any point in time, our conduct attests that we live fully the values of Integrity, Respect for People, Safety, Customer Intimacy and Social Responsibility. Sustainability Report 2011 9 Reshaping our approach to Sustainable Development New Governance structure New organizational structure In April 2011 our new CEO assumed his duties. Upon his appointment and validate related goals and targets per region and function, review he initiated a reform process that lasted 4 months and involved 4,000 progress and report results. The Committee is chaired by the Group working hours of more than 60 people from across the organization. Sustainable Development Manager and members are representatives The conclusion was very reassuring as it confirmed that our Group from all four Regions and Corporate functions of the Group (Group maintains strong and deep-rooted foundations. During this process Environment, Health & Safety, Group Human Resources, Group our Purpose, Vision and Values were revisited and redefined, and a Marketing Organization and Group CSR) ensuring wide reach and new organizational structure was formulated. influence. The new organizational shape consists of a simple organization based Once a year, the Board of Directors assesses sustainability goals and on four geographic regions complemented by four global market segperformance and reviews progress. ments and supported by a lean structure of corporate functions that set, drive and monitor the implementation of corporate strategies and policies. The matrix was launched in September 2011 and operates with multiple communication lines that capitalize on the diversity of Solid Corporate Governance our global community of employees, fostering a collaborative, learning and innovative organization with a clear strategic focus. S&B has established and follows a modern Corporate Governance System which, beyond its legal and statutory obligations, comprises Within the new organizational structure, a Group Sustainable Develself-imposed commitments stemming from its corporate Ethics. The opment Department was established, directly reporting to the CEO, Corporate Governance Principles form the basis of the S&B governoverseeing the Group’s Environment, Health & Safety and Corporate ance system by which a sound and effective management of the Social Responsibility & Communication functions with responsibiliGroup is achieved. ties in policies & guidance, project implementation and monitoring & measuring progress aiming for continuous improvement and better In order to ensure a more efficient operation of the Board of Directors, risk management. without adverse effects on its cohesion, three Committees have been established and function with clearly defined duties and authorities: Early in 2012 a Sustainability Steering Committee was formed to overthe Audit Committee, the Human Resources & Nomination Commitsee our Sustainability strategy roll-out and implementation, support tee and the Strategic Planning Committee. 10 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Our Sustainability definition At S&B we provide value to our customers and to society through our products and solutions. Sustainability is an approach on how we conduct our business, which: (a) supports the achievement of our business objectives and (b) incorporates stakeholders’ needs and aspirations. In all we do, we consider the long-term and short-term impacts of our operations and products on our customers, suppliers, and employees; the local and global environment; and the communities in which we operate. This necessitates that we communicate openly and engage constructively with our stakeholders, and that we prepare our employees for the numerous challenges our business is facing now and may face in the future. With our new governance and structures in place we set out to review These strategic intents have been further analyzed into priorities and our material issues and set priorities. Through a participative and colspecific goals have been set, which are cascaded all the way down laborative process we reformed our Sustainability definition, revisited to operations, facilities and functions into specific tasks and individual our strategic framework for Sustainable Development and set goals performance objectives. and targets along four pillars: People, Health & Safety, Environment, Social Contribution. People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution We will be considered a great We strive to achieve zero acWe improve our customers' and We build goodwill capital and place to work in our sector cidents and continuously improve our own environmental footprint relationships in every community our working environment (waste/energy/land) based on the social relevance of our operations Sustainability Report 2011 11 Commitments & Policies We have committed publicly to a number of key initiatives, principles, voluntary agreements and codes that are driving best practices today. S&B actively participates in the dialogue for the evolution and We have formulated policies and standards to drive our performance implementation of a number of these principles and codes, through forward. Each year, we monitor implementation through our internal its participation in their governing bodies and working committees. reporting mechanisms and the internal audit function. S&B’s commitments are not just promises – they often entail a recommendation or an obligation to report against them. Group Policies The purpose of the Group Policies is to establish a uniform way of United Nations Global Compact managing the Group’s assets and liabilities under a common risk S&B is a participant of the UN Global Compact since May 2008 as management framework across all legal entities. These policies are one of the founding members of the Global Compact Network Hellas. currently under development to also include certain sustainability Yearly Communication on Progress and description of actions and reareas. The Group Policies apply to all S&B Group legal entities, where lated outcomes as per the Global Compact’s principles are integrated S&B owns directly or indirectly a shareholding above 50%. each year in this report. Human Resources Management Systems & Policies Agreement on Crystalline Silica Comprehensive Corporate Human Resources Management Policies In February 2006, S&B, along with other Industrial Minerals As& Systems, including the job evaluation process, the performance sociation – Europe (IMA-Europe) member companies, participated management and the compensation & benefits systems, are fully actively in pursuing and concluding the “Social Dialogue Agreement applied in our major hubs (Greece, Germany, Bulgaria, France and on Workers’ Health Protection through the Good Handling and Use the USA). Integration of our HR policies & systems in the rest of our of Crystalline Silica and Products Containing it”. The Agreement is operations follows a gradual and judicious approach and is based on complementary to existing legislation and complies with European various factors pertaining to size, structure and local conventions and and National H&S Standards and Directives which remain applicable norms. at all times. Read more about fulfillment of our obligations pertaining to this Agreement in the discussion on dust. Corporate Policy on Quality, Environment, Health & Safety This policy is available in 11 languages and applied to all our facilities IMA-Europe Sustainable Development Charter worldwide. As a member of IMA-Europe, S&B is committed to the IMA-Europe Sustainable Development Charter, which was established in 2004 as a joint S&B Corporate Governance Principles commitment to take the sector forward in a sustainable way. S&B’s Corporate Governance System is an evolution of business principles that were formulated already since the 1990s, in order to reIMA-Europe Biodiversity Statement place the traditional management system of a family-owned business. The members of IMA-Europe, recognizing that biodiversity is crucial to Following the edition of the OECD Principles of Corporate Governthe future of humanity, agreed to actively work towards its conservaance” in 2000, S&B readily adopted them and transformed its Corpotion and enhancement and signed, in December 2008, a common rate Governance Principles accordingly. As a result, the first codified statement, the IMA-Europe Biodiversity Statement. edition of “S&B Principles of Corporate Governance” was published in 2001, the first of its kind in Greece. The Group’s Corporate GovernSEV Business Council for Sustainable Development Code ance System evolves in order to respond to the continually changing In 2008 the Hellenic Federation of Enterprises (SEV) launched the SEV business and social conditions, and in the first quarter of 2010 S&B Council for Sustainable Development founded by 31 Greek member concluded its 4th Corporate Governance System revision. The “S&B companies which committed to gradually implement and disseminate Principles of Corporate Governance” reflect the Group’s conduct a 10-principle Code for Sustainable Development. The SEV Council towards its Stakeholders, comprising not only the Company’s legal participates in the regional network, as partner organization, of the and statutory obligations, but also its self-imposed commitments that World Business Council for Sustainable Development. stem from its Corporate Business Ethics. Greek Mining Enterprises Association Code of SD Principles As member of the Greek Mining Enterprises Association (GMEA), S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. adopted the Code of Principles for Sustainable Development instituted in May 2006. This Code involves a yearly reporting obligation for Environment, Health & Safety and Social Performance Indicators of the parent company, S&B Industrial Minerals S.A., which are aggregated for all members of the GMEA and published each year in its Annual Report. 12 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Identifying our Material Issues 2011 was the year of revisiting our Sustainability orientation culminating with a new materiality assessment in early 2012. This assessment involved identification of issues affecting our business and its stakeholders over the next three years and their prioritization considering internal and external perspectives according to a participatory systematic methodology. Step 1: Identify. We include a complete list of topics raised by all our stakeholders (from shareholders and employees to local communities and contractors), rising from our risk management process and concerning our sector in particular. Step 2: Prioritize. We rate sustainability issues based on the significance of their impact to S&B and on the level of concern from our internal and external stakeholders. The level of concern is measured by stakeholder engagement outcomes and overall rating is based on the informed opinion of 46 management executives (including the Executive team and plant managers from around the world). The chart displays all the material topics that were assessed in our most recent materiality assessment. Actively Monitor Strategic Actively Manage People & Communicate Integrate with Stakeholders 1 Diversity Actively Monitor 12 Strategic Actively Manage People 2 Training/Development & Communicate Integrate with Stakeholders 1 Compensation/Reward 3 Diversity 12 22 2 2 11 10 0 4 Training/Development Human Rights 17 3 4 22 2 5 Compensation/Reward Aging Workforce 0 6 10 4 Human Rights 4 17 14 11 9 5 Aging Health Workforce & Safety 6 Social Social Concern Concern 20 13 14 8 6 Occupational Health 9 7 Health & Safety 7 Occupational Safety 20 13 7 8 8 Occupational 6 Health Product Health/Safety 16 3 9 Occupational 7 Safety Contractor Health/Safety 8 Product Health/Safety 16 9 Contractor Health/Safety 21 2 3 19 Environment 18 10 Restoration/Reclamation 21 2 19 15 Environment 11 Physical Footprint 1 18 10 Climate 12 Restoration/Reclamation Change Mit./Adapt. 15 11 Energy Physical Footprint 1 13 5 12 Air 14 Climate Change Mit./Adapt. Emissions 13 Reserve 15 Energy Management 5 14 Waste Air Emissions 16 Low priority 15 Reserve Management 17 Water Management Passively monitor Set internal processes 16 Product 18 Waste Responsibility Low priority 17 Customer 19 Water Management Passively monitor Set internal processes 18 Product Responsibility Impact on Company 19 Contribution Social Customer Impact on Company 20 Philanthropy Social 21 Contribution Volunteerism Size of bubbles indicates Level of Control we have on issues 20 Community 22 PhilanthropyEconomic High Moderate Low 21 Development Volunteerism Size of bubbles indicates Level of Control we have on issues 22 Community Economic High Moderate Low Development Step 3: Report. On deciding which issues to include in our report, topics from our materiality assessment are combined with user needs to present a complete and accurate sustainability performance. The topics on which we report are reviewed by our Sustainability Coordinating Committee for relevance, completeness and alignment to our strategy. This means that we might report on issues that we have not rated as highest priority in terms of their impact to our organization. Nevertheless, they might be considered as priority for external information purposes. The material topics included in our report are presented in summary below: Governance People Environment Health & Safety Socioeconomic Goals & performance • Training • Mine Reclamation • Occupational Contribution Governance People Environment Health & Safety Socioeconomic & Development & land footprint Health & Safety • Community Contribution Goals & performance • Training • Mine Reclamation • Occupational Development • Compensation & Development • Energy & land footprint • Product Health &Health Safety • Community & Reward • Energy Dust Emissions & Safety • Donations Development • Compensation • • Product Health • Diversity & Reward & Safety Health • Contractor • Volunteerism • Donations • Waste • Dust Emissions & Safety • Diversity • Water • Waste Management • Contractor Health • Volunteerism & Safety • • Product Water Management Responsibility • Product Responsibility Sustainability Report 2011 13 Goals & Performance S&B has been setting targets and measuring performance on a number marized in four pillars – People, Health & Safety, Environment, Social of Sustainability related areas for a number of years already; the novelty Contribution – and targets within these pillars have been reevaluated is that since last year’s reorganization the Sustainable Development and reset at Group-wide level. The Table below restates our Targets strategic framework has been redefined. Strategic intents are now sum& Performance summary according to this new orientation. Monitoring performance Commitment, effective implementation, monitoring and reporting S&B’s Corporate Governance System and continuously modernized represent the main principles towards a transparent communication Group policies and procedures provide the necessary framework of the S&B Group’s operation and performance. But these need for compliance to all employees. Moreover, Corporate Financial to be supported by external, third-party mechanisms of effective Statements as well as the Group’s activities in general are controlled operational control. by external auditors, within the framework of its legal obligations. Internal and external audits are carried out regularly, as required by S&B’s Internal Audit, steered by a detailed regulation and reporting to the ISO 9001:2000 and 14001:2004 certification for the majority of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, serves to safeguard the Group’s installations. Accordingly, major suppliers are monitored compliance with the financial, operational and risk-management procethrough the management & supply chain certified procedures. S&B’s dures and carries out controls for fraud, corruption, conflict of interests, extractive and processing activities are supervised and licensed by compliance etc. Audit priorities are established based on a yearly risk the statutory Supervising Authorities, for example the Mining Inspecassessment methodology which combines multiple risk scoring criteria torate in Greece, or similar authorities in global operations. Likewise, covering a wide range of issues from financial, operational to environcompetent administrative authorities safeguard compliance of our ment, health & safety, labor issues and country corruption risk. Supply corporate actions with applicable regulations (e.g. Capital Markets chain audits are carried out selectively for major contractors as defined Commission, Corporate Law) in countries of activity. by the yearly audit planning and for specific issues each time. 14 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Table with goals & targets – αυτό στο χρωστάω / θέλω να το δούν πρώτα εσωτερικά Goals and targets Trends Performance in 2011 Health & Safety: We strive to achieve zero accidents and continuously improve our working environment Certify all operations* per Health & Safety management 2 facilities certified or pre-certified until 2011 system standard OHSAS 18001 (by end of 2014) Expand implementation of proactive safety practices ImpleDuring 2011, systematic implementation began in ment Management Safety Visits practice (specific methodolBulgarian facilities ogy) at mines and processing plants (by end of 2013) Improve working environment Targeting dust dose on each During 2011, 8 sites reported measurements above employee 20% below thresholds of local regulations (by end dust target set, and 5 sites above noise exposure of 2014). Targeting 8 hours noise exposure level in working target set environment at all production/processing facilities below 85dBA (by end of 2013). Environment: We improve our customers' and our own environmental footprint (waste/energy/land) Certify all operations* per environmental management Operations where 79.2% of products are produced system standard ISO 14001 (by end of 2014) certified until 2011 Reduce net water consumption in all Group facilities by 5%/ During 2011, a slight improvement in Group net MT of product in 3 years water consumption/MT of product was achieved. New target. Reduce energy consumption in all Group facilities by 5%/ During 2011, a slight decline in Group energy conMT of product in 3 years sumption/MT of product was observed. New target. Dust emissions to be at least -20% vs permissible limits set New target by local legislation (by end of 2014) Noise level at facility boundary limits at least -2% vs permisNew target sible limits set by local legislation (by end of 2014) Group additional (new/new) revenues will be coming from New target exploiting the value of waste streams (by end of 2014) People: We will be considered a great place to work in our sector Align HR systems and practices and integrate across the New Group structure established in 2011 supports inGroup (by end of 2014) tegration and alignment of HR systems and practices. India, China and Brazil facilities still to be integrated. Ensure transparent internal communication New internal communication practices and program introduced to strengthen the Reform Process. Tools included CEO webcasts to all employees globally, use of renewed Intranet platform. Increase and strengthen Training & Development •1  46% increase in training hours (compared to 2010) was achieved in Greece, Germany and Americas • Within our new structure: 50% of our executive employees undertook new responsibilities; 25% of which promoted to new roles Social Contribution: We will build goodwill capital and relationships in every community based on the social relevance of our operations All operations have in place locally appropriate, social acGreek operations on Milos and Fokis have locally tion plans and performance indicators that demonstrate appropriate social action plans in place engagement (by end of 2012) Encourage employees to participate in community and/or New target volunteerism activities in specific programs by establishing appropriate incentives per Region (by end of 2012) Key: Improving performance Declining performance Static performance * operations are facilities where production and/or processing of industrial minerals / ores takes place Sustainability Report 2011 15 Engaging with stakeholders Stakeholder dialogue and exchange of views forms a basic element and a prerequisite for the strategic management of our sustainability issues. We engage with our stakeholders at group level, at business and regional level and at local community level in our countries of operation. Stakeholders are identified through a process of informed analysis of the depends on the issues at hand, but is always founded on a systematic, groups that have an interest or an influence in our business and conduct, transparent and equal basis. Outcomes of stakeholder dialogue inform or who might be impacted by our activities. The method of engagement our decisions on those matters that are deemed material by us. S&B reforms its organization In 2011, S&B reached a significant milestone by reviewing its Vision shape a promising future for S&B. In addition, following the launch and Values and by streamlining its organizational structure. The “Reof the new structure, several workshops took place throughout the form” process has been the result of a truly participative work which organization to clarify regional and corporate roles and responsibilities. lasted 3 months. About 4,000 working hours of more than 60 peoThe use of methods and procedures of participative management ple from the global S&B community were invested in this process of was adopted by the company back in 1990 aiming at the continuous finding the right way to move forward. Complementary teams were organizational improvement, the reinforcement of communication at created with members from various, functions, backgrounds and all levels and the establishment of a common approach for making nationalities who shared their views, exchanged concerns, ideas and implementing decisions. Participative management still characterand worked together within a climate of mutual trust and respect to izes S&B’s culture today and plays an important role in our daily work. Redefining Customer Intimacy S&B’s new organizational structure created in 2011 is a matrix sysefficiency of operations and sales networks across all the compatem, based on four geographic regions (Regions) and four market ny’s products and satisfying our customers’ needs today. Through segments (Global Marketing Organization or GMO). the GMO, it is looking from the global perspective of market segments and applications to identify and satisfy customers’ future Our previous structure was looking at customers from the perspecneeds – through new products and solutions. The two sides of tive of S&B’s existing products, through a product-based organisathe matrix, with Regions focusing on the operational and Markets tion. The new structure provides for interaction with customers in on the developmental, have the customer as their common focal two dimensions: Through the Regions, it is looking at improving the point and the main area of their interaction. Dialogue with local communities In November 2010 we were granted a permit renewal at our alternative management methods. Evaluation of findings will be largest processing and loading operations in Greece, in Voudia examined in cooperation with public authorities to decide on the on Milos island, incorporating the latest legislative rules, but also optimal viable solution. First phase findings from the HCMR study providing for the re-examination of current practices with regard to were presented in November 2011 to the local community, during the disposal of the perlite fine rejects resulting from this product’s a dedicated Milos Municipality Council meeting. We have been processing, which are now disposed in the sea. Within a strict making good progress in examining the best available techniques timetable, all aspects – environmental, social, financial – regarding and methods for alternative disposal of our perlite rejects resulting the best available techniques and methods for alternative disposal from processing, and we will soon be in a position to move on to of the perlite fine rejects must be carefully evaluated. A base study the final evaluation phase along with the pertinent authorities. In for the ecological assessment of the marine environment by the recognition of our responsible operation on Milos, both Milos and Hellenic Center for Marine Research (HCMR) is already underway, neighboring Kimolos Municipal Councils issued official Decrees to as well as a technical study for the development/adaptation of demonstrate their ongoing support to S&B. 16 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Our Stakeholders Stakeholder group Engagement methods Employees • Regular employee – management meetings, presentations, workshops, webcasts • Regular meetings with Work Councils and Labor Union representatives • Company-wide conferences • Intranet • Newsletters • Employee Commitment survey (next one planned in 2012) • Performance appraisals and goal setting process Customers • Global Marketing Organization • Regional sales teams Contractors • Regular meetings & interactions • Compliance processes • Health & Safety training Local Communities • Dedicated local affairs representatives • Institutional partnerships • Local authority public meetings and presentation of company plans and studies Suppliers • Purchasing department • Sales team • Compliance processes Business Partners • Participation in BoD for joint ventures • Regular information flow Shareholders & Investors • Annual General Meeting • Results presentations • Roadshows • Dedicated Investor Relations service Public Authorities Engagement directly and through industry associations, international partnerships NGOs & Academia • Two-way dialogue on issues of concern • Scientific projects • Educational projects • Base studies Business Associations Participation of S&B executives to many business and industry-related associations Media Through a dedicated Communication service and Investor Relations using: • Press releases & briefings • Presentations in meetings • Website Awards in 2011 S&B’s Social Report was distinguished in the “Bravo! Sustainability (EUBA) branch participating in various committees and boards. Some Dialogue 2011” process, in which a wide stakeholder forum reads and of the issues addressed at IMA – Europe working groups are the evaluates Social or Sustainability Reports published in Greece, based REACH regulation (Regulation 1907/2006 of the European Parliament on a pre-defined methodology and criteria. Our Report was selected and Council of the December 18th, 2006 for the registration, evaluaamong the top five in the categories: “Best materiality assessment” tion, authorization and certification of chemicals), Life Cycle Analysis and “Best labor conditions and practices (including Health & Safety)”. of products, biodiversity management, the European Minerals Day. • European Association of Mining Companies (Euromines) S&B has been active in Euromines working groups, through its particiWe participate pation in the Greek Mining Enterprises Association, to promote industry sustainable development issues. S&B executives participate actively in committees and working groups • Hellenic Federation of Enterprises Council for Sustainable of international, European and national organizations and associations, Development (SEV-BCSD Greece) S&B is a founding member leading the way in initiatives which promote Sustainable Development and actively participates in the Council’s Board. The SEV Council principles and their relevant practices in the business community. also participates in the regional network of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, as partner organization. • Industrial Minerals Association – Europe (IMA – Europe) S&B is • Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility an active member of IMA – Europe’s European Bentonite Association • Hellenic United Nations Global Compact Network Sustainability Report 2011 17 18 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Our People Our People strategy Our People strategy is founded on our Value of respect to our people Develop & Train fostering their personal and professional development within a culture of mutual trust and respect. We strive to be considered a great place We seek to develop and maintain a skilled technical workforce and to work in our sector and in the areas we operate, providing a fulfilling a high-caliber competent team of executives and business leaders. working environment. Training is offered to S&B and contractor’s employees with special emphasis on technical, safety, environmental, quality, and manageWe base our strategy on the comprehensive Corporate Human Rement issues. sources Management Policies & Systems, which include recruitment and job evaluation processes, the performance management and the S&B perceives training and development as an investment in its longcompensation & benefits systems. Integration of our HR policies & term sustainable growth. Every year, based on the specific competensystems across the Group follows a gradual and judicious approach cies and behaviors that need to be developed for each employee, and is based on various factors pertaining to size and structure of faareas for development are assessed and training needs are identified cilities, as well as local conventions and norms. Our systems are fully within the framework of the formal Performance Management proapplied in Greece, Germany, Bulgaria, France and the USA, mostly cess. Based on this analysis between supervisor and supervisee, indicountries where we have a large employee population. vidual as well as group training and development plans are designed accordingly. Training is offered either within the company or through During 2011, a new HR structure (Group and Regional) was estabselected educational bodies outside the company. lished putting in place the foundation for further alignment of systems and practices over the next years. Within the framework of its training and development policy, the company also finances long-term programs for professional development and specialization, such as underand post-graduate studies in Attract & Retain technical and business-related subjects. Our employee attraction & selection process is carefully designed to match a recruit’s competencies to job requirements and affinity to Reward S&B’s values. We respect people’s personal beliefs and personality, their cultural diversity, we offer equal opportunities and equal treatS&B employee compensation & benefits is based on a system which ment, we acknowledge free expression of opinion, including the right has been developed with the following objectives: to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. Within this • Assure internal consistency and meritocracy in the employees’ salaries context there is no tolerance of discrimination (personal, sex, religion, • Offer competitive remuneration packages in relation to the market ethnicity etc.), forced or compulsory labor or child labor. • Safeguard reliability and objectivity in compensation management and progression. We favor local employment, especially in significant locations of our operations. S&B is a major local employer in more than half of its minThe compensation package of each employee consists of a fixed and ing and processing facilities, such as Greece (Milos & Fokis), Bulgaria, a variable part, and is determined by the corporate policy and by local Brazil, India, and France. In more than 80% of significant locations of market trends. The variable part of S&B’s employee compensation our operations senior management executives are locals, in the sense consists of either a bonus scheme (for executives) or incentives (for that they have been born or are citizens of the country where our technical staff) which are based on the achievement of personal or activity is located. team goals and pre-defined targets, for example of Health & Safety or Productivity. S&B additionally offers a series of benefits related to work-life balance (health & fitness and family), which may vary depending on size and nature of activity, but also local social norms and culture. Opening up the dialogue As S&B grows, we wish to attract & retain employees who are deour company’s quality of employment. We also joined LinkedIn, termined to share our Vision, shape our future and live our Values the largest professional on-line network, to enable our employees fully. In 2011, we decided to enhance our Employment Branding and clients to interact with us, and potential new colleagues to find by increasing our on-line presence. As a start, we launched a dediinteresting news about S&B and consider working with us. cated Careers section in S&B’s new website, with insight into Sustainability Report 2011 19 People in numbers At the end of 2011, our workforce numbered 1,963 employees globally. Moreover, S&B used the services of 635 contractors’ workers in Greece (515), Bulgaria (43), India (42), Germany (12), the USA (10), Spain (6), France (3), Brazil (3), and the Netherlands (1). The majority (94.1%) of our total workforce in 2011 were employed with a permanent contract. The rest were employed in fixed term or temporary contract. Only 3% (68 employees) of our total workforce was employed part-time. Global Presence Regional Organization Global presence Regional organization Americas (203) South Europe (946) North Europe (545) Asia / Pacific (269) USA (144), Brazil(203) Americas (59) South Europe Greece (635), (946) Bulgaria (198), North Europe Germany (545) (390), France (35), AsiaChina / Pacific (269) (124), India (64), USA (144), Brazil (59) Georgia (24), Greece ItalyBulgaria (635), (49), Turkey (20), (198), Hungary Germany (18),(390), Netherlands France (102) (35), ChinaSouth Korea (124), India(81)(64), Spain (15), Morocco (5) Georgia (24), Italy (49), Turkey (20), Hungary (18), Netherlands (102) South Korea (81) Spain (15), Morocco (5) South Korea and the Netherlands activities are not managed by S&B. The S&B Group has a 50% participation in their ownership and participates in their BoD. However, their headcount is included in our total workforce and this number is used in all calculations of labor indices included in this section. 20 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Group Employee Distribution by Category by Years of Employment Executives 0-5 11-20 16% 34% 25% Adninistrative Technical Staff Staff 6-10 21 and above 21% 63% 22% 19% by Age by Gender 60 and above 5% 18-29 50-59 9% 27% 30-39 40-49 Male Female 24% 35% 82% 18% Group Employee Turnover The employee voluntary turnover rate of the S&B Group remained relatively low, at 1%. Germany USA France Spain China Greece India Rest of Total World Group Employees 390 144 35 15 124 635 64 556 1,963 Turnover 5 5 4 3 2 1 1 0 21 Turnover % employees 1% 3% 11% 20% 2% 0% 2% 0% 1% Diversity In 2011, 18% of S&B’s total workforce was female. Furthermore, two out S&B’s new organizational structure is based on a collaborative learnof the eight members of S&B’s top executive team and four out of twelve ing culture, which demands that our people work a lot in teams and Board of Directors members are women. take value from their diversity. This diversity, expressed through different backgrounds, cultures, perspectives, ideas and priorities, is actually an advantage that helps us in achieving our goal of sustainable value growth. Sustainability Report 2011 21 Training & Development The increase of training and development programs which was noted Training Hours Training Hou in 2010 continued with a more intense rhythm during 2011. About by Category 29,500 hours of training were offered in Greece, Germany and North Environment/Quality/ Management, Health & Safety Marketing, Sal & South America, a notable 146% increase to 2010. This figure corresponds to approximately 37.2 hours of training per trained employee, 17% and to 23.9 hours of training per employee against the total workforce Information Environment, Technology Health & Safet in the aforementioned countries. Technical training corresponds to 60% of total training. Contractors’ employees training was also imSpecial/ 2% Special/Techni plemented and relevant data may be reviewed in the Health & Safety Technical Finance/ section of this report. subjects Accounting/Tax Finance/Accou 60% 3% Foreign Management, Information Te Languages Marketing, Sales etc. 3% 14% Foreign Langu Developing people We are proud that our new organizational structure reflects S&B’s employees. New roles have been created, redefined or broadened. emphasis on developing its people in unfolding their competencies About 50% of our executive employees have undertaken new and bears proof to successful promotion and retainment of talent. responsibilities, 25% of which have been promoted to more challengFour senior management members reporting directly to our CEO, ing roles. In addition, new expatriation opportunities provide some of come from either Business Unit, Operational or Corporate manageour colleagues with unique chances for enriching their experience and ment positions. And this has taken place in all levels of our executive developing their cross-cultural awareness and adaptability. Training for a smooth transition to our new structure Particular emphasis was placed on training initiatives that facilitated the smooth transition from the previous structure to the new matrix organization and assisted in the diffusion of a collaborative, learning culture. A Pricing Workshop was organized at S&B’s headquarters among 32 colleagues from all Regions and Segments. The main objective was to transfer knowledge and define product and customer strategy, but also to address the new matrix organization’s management challenges. An in-house Product Training was prepared and delivered by S&B engineers in Marl, Neuss and Oberhausen facilities with participation of more than 75 employees. The purpose of the training was to inform non-technical employees about the industrial solutions offered to customers. 22 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. People and Rights S&B’s voluntary commitments, standards and labor practices are diThe risk of incidents of child labor or forced or compulsory labor is rectly linked to the active protection of Human Rights, i.e. we respect further dealt with by S&B’s thorough employee selection process, our people’s personal beliefs and personality, their cultural diversity, which is part of the S&B Group’s comprehensive Human Resources we offer equal opportunities and equal treatment, we acknowledge System already fully integrated in our USA operations and also free expression of opinion, including the right to exercise freedom adhered to in our Indian operation, which ensures that no individual of association and collective bargaining. Within this context there under 18 years of age is recruited and employed by the organization. is no tolerance of discrimination (personal, sex, religion, ethnicity Moreover, S&B’s work procedures rule out the possibility of forced etc.), forced or compulsory labour or child labor. During 2011, 82% or compulsory labor and deal with related issues (such as forced of the Group’s workforce was located in countries that have ratified overtime, threat of firing etc.) for our operations located in countries “at all related International Labor Organization (ILO) Conventions, which risk”. In addition, employees are periodically reminded of HR policies means that requirements have been harmonized with national legislathat promote fundamental principles & rights at work. tion, to which S&B strictly adheres. Risk assessment process and risk-ranking components of the yearly Countries of S&B operations which have not ratified all ILO ConvenInternal Audit plan examine the risks of non-compliance on issues tions represent: such as the ones described above, that may arise either from the a) 10.6% of total workforce (USA, India) for issues related to child nature of an operation or from the country in which an operation is labor; located. This process has not identified so far any operations whose b) 17.8% of total workforce (USA, China, South Korea) for issues nature creates a significant risk of non-compliance with our standards related to elimination of forced or compulsory labor; pertaining the rights to exercise freedom of association and collective c) 24% of total workforce (USA, China, India, South Korea, Brazil and bargaining, or occurrences of child labor or forced or compulsory Morocco) for issues related to freedom of association and collective labor. In 2011, no significant incident of unfair or discriminatory treatbargaining. ment was reported from our operations. In these locations, S&B Regional General Managers and Country Managers have the responsibility to implement, monitor and ensure that facilities operate in line with corporate Values, commitments, standards, policies and practices, which are binding for all S&B employees, with no exceptions, and pertain to respect for fundamental human rights, as well as principles and rights at work. Sustainability Report 2011 23 In 2011 we elevated Safety into a separate Value, stressing its strategic importance for our sustainable existence. Health & Safety is not just about numbers. It is about our collective effort towards the achievement of zero accidents through implementation of pro-active safety practices and continuous improvement of equipment and working environment. 24 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Health & Safety Safety We carefully assess safety occupational hazards We systematically and methodically manage these associated with: towards our zero accidents objective: • Vehicles machinery traffic • C  ontinuous improvement of working conditions • Rock falling in underground and open pit works • Promotion and application of safe working methods and practices • Worker falls from height • Occupational risk assessment • Improper handling of tools and machinery • On-going training with the objective of preventing hazardous • Use of explosives in underground works situations • Implementation of behavior improvement methods • Internal audits by the Group and Regional EHS functions and the local Safety Officers Safety Βehavior Ιmprovement Methods aiming at accident prevention and improvement of attitude toBulgaria. Until 2013 the above practices will be in place in all our facilities wards safety have been introduced in our Greek facilities since 2005 and worldwide. At our facility in Brazil, and in combination with the Internal at German facilities since 2008. These methods include Management Accident Prevention Committee, monthly rounds and discussions with Safety Visits, Safety Barometers and rigorous methodology for Incident supervisors on potential safety improvement points have made a differInvestigations. During 2011 their systematic implementation began in ence in influencing behaviors and driving better safety performance. “Near Miss” Incident Reporting Reporting of incidents is a matter of particular importance for the in the English language in a speedy and standardized manner. This entire Group, whether an accident, an incident without lost days or allows for extraction of useful conclusions and exchange of informaa “Near Miss”. The new Group-wide incidents database became fully tion, the ultimate target being to avoid repetition of similar incidents operational in 2011, enabling sharing of information among all sites throughout the Group. “Safety Week in Brazil “Safety Week” is an initiative running every year at our Brazilian alcoholism. The Internal Accident Prevention Committee comprised Continuous Casting Fluxes operation since 2002. Initiated to conform of 4 employees (2 chosen by management and 2 through electo local regulations, this event has turned out to be much more over tions among employees), in cooperation with the facility’s Human the years. “Safety Week” today is an employee awareness raising Resources function and volunteers, drive this yearly initiative and initiative about work-related accident prevention, but also health & select appropriate activities and additional training themes to complesafety culture and behavior in every aspect of our lives. During “Safety ment the week’s core training. This additional training differs from the Week”, S&B employees, as well as some contractors’ employees standard S&B-led Health & Safety training, as the topics covered dur(cleaning crew and safety guards) are given the opportunity to attend ing this week are different ones and driven by a wide consensus. The training on safety at work related issues, but also on health issues most important contribution of this initiative to H&S is that it has made such as prevention of smoking, sexually transmitted diseases and employees more aware of a wider scope of H&S matters. Sustainability Report 2011 25 Safety Indicators 2011 In the course of 2011, 43 LTA incidents occurred, with a total loss of Accidents Frequency & Severity Rate, Group 1,603 working days, 35 LTAs concerning employees of the Group and 8 LTAs concerning contractors' employees, the frequency and severSeverity Rate Frequency Rate ity index being 8.90 and 348.30 respectively. It should be noted that 500 40 the indices cover both Group employees and Contractors' supervised by S&B’s staff. Severe and fatal accidents are reported separately. 35 400 30 The diagrams show the historical evolution of frequency (FR) and severity (SR) indices at Group and Regional level. 25 300 20 15 200 10 100 5 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Severity Rate Frequency Rate Frequency Rate (LTA only) (Total accidents) Accidents Frequency & Severity Rate, S. Europe Accidents Frequency & Severity Rate, N. Europe Severity Rate Frequency Rate Severity Rate Frequency Rate 400 15 1200 30 350 12 1000 300 25 250 9 800 200 6 600 20 150 3 400 100 50 0 200 15 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Accidents Frequency & Severity Rate, Asia-Pacific Accidents Frequency & Severity Rate, Americas Severity Rate Frequency Rate Severity Rate Frequency Rate 300 20 600 25 250 500 15 20 200 400 150 10 300 15 100 200 5 10 50 100 0 0 0 5 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The diagrams do not include very grave injuries and fatal accidents. These are: Basis of calculations: Grave injuries: 1 (1980), 2 (1982), 1 (1994) Frequency rate: (number of incidents with one day lost at least x 1,000,000)/Total working hours Fatal accidents: 1 (1986), 2 (2003), 1 (2007) Severity rate: (lost working days x 1,000,000)/Total working hours Also, there was 1 fatality (2005) concerning a worker of a Contractor with own supervision Fatal accidents are only counted in the calculation of the frequency rate. 26 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Engineering controls and studies to improve safety at work Investments for new equipment, maintenance of the existing one and •F  okis operations, Greece: Evaluation of the adequacy of roof supprocess modifications to improve safety are parts of the everyday port at bauxite underground mines, based on rock mass classificawork. Below is a non-exhaustive list of major investments, or signifition model; risk assessment per “bauxite deposit characteristics” to cant in other aspects of activities, targeting safety at work: reduce risk of roof falling. • Fokis operations, Greece: Modification of underground equipment •M  ilos operations, Greece: facility for dried bentonite storage of to comply with the updated (2011) Mining & Quarry Regulation 40.000t capacity at Voudia site to improve dust in the working concerning FOPS-ROPS; cameras for vehicles’ safe reverse environment with an investment cost of €10 million; read more movement. on page 36. • Brazil facility: Guide cables and fall arrester in fixed ladders; pneu• Milos operations, Greece: Kanava warehouse improvement matic vibrators at silos and valves to prevent workers climbing on amounting to €215,000. silos/tanks. • Montoir facility, France: Construction of an emergency room as• Niagara Falls facility, USA: Installation of warning beacons on forksociated with an investment of €250,000, in compliance with legal lifts in order to improve visibility; additional fire alarms and guards. obligation due to the vicinity with a chemicals manufacturing facility. • In all USA facilities: enforce hard hat requirement. “Safe Drive” continued in Greece Since 2007, we have initiated a special training and awareness contractors’ drivers. A total of 150 drivers participated in all seminars program for our own employees (drivers, foremen, engineers cycles and were initiated in new safe and ecologic driving techniques etc.) and our contractors (mainly truck drivers), aiming at reducing and approaches internationally known as Safe & Eco Driving. The “traffic-related” incidents at our Greek operations. We have been drivers’ theoretical knowledge, as well as their qualitative driving charconducting this training every year in collaboration with a specialized acteristics, with the use of advanced software and simulators, were external consultant and the use of a simulator. In 2011, a new cycle evaluated. In addition, new theory was introduced in classroom trainof educational seminars on safe and ecologic driving was concluded ing and “brushing up” of knowledge, complemented with practical both in our Milos and Fokis operations, addressed to S&B’s and its training for skills development, a differentiating factor of this program as compared to others and a decisive element when selected as the optimal training for S&B’s and its contractors’ drivers. Especially for our contractors, this training is a prerequisite for them to receive a Certificate of Professional Competence. Therefore, Safe & Eco Driving training provided by S&B is considered an important benefit to them. Worth noting is that traffic incidents in Milos have considerably decreased over the last couple of years. In 2011, traffic incidents in actual numbers were reduced by 24% as compared to 2010 (from 21 traffic incidents in 2010 to 16 incidents in 2011). As a percentage over the total Safety incidents, too, traffic incidents showed also a 20% decrease. More specifically, the relevant percentage was decreased from 64% in 2010 (21 traffic incidents over a total of 33 incidents), to 44% in 2011(16 traffic over a total of 36 incidents). Safety contest in Fokis At the company’s bauxite operations in Fokis, a prize was awarded Protection Equipment”, “behavior towards supervisors and colfor those contractors’ truck drivers participating in the 6-month duraleagues” and “speed”. Between February and August 2011, 198 tion contest. The aim of the contest was to reward those truck drivers “tickets” were recorded containing 499 remarks, 84% of which rewho applied specific criteria of safe practices related to “lowering ferred to positive behavior-compliance and 16% to negative behavior. truck carrier before moving”, “use of mobile phone”, “use of Personal The winners-best drivers were awarded a token money prize. Sustainability Report 2011 27 Health We carefully assess potential impacts We systematically and methodically manage these towards to workers' health associated with: our prevention objective through: • Noise • C ontinuous improvement of workplace conditions with investments in equipment, • Dust changes in the production process and use of personal protective equipment • Vibrations from vehicles equipment • Emphasis on improving employee behavior with continuous training • Air quality in underground works and awareness raising • Establishment of rules and exposure limits according to norms • Systematic measurements (dust, noise, vibrations and underground works’ air quality) • On-going training Noise or eliminate the hazard, covered 25 facilities and 1,614 workers. The Agreement is complementary to existing legislation and complies with Noise measurements this year were undertaken in our facilities at Milos, European and National H&S Standards and Directives which remain Fokis, Ritsona, Bulgaria, Brazil. A program is still under development for applicable at all times. improvement of noise level conditions in Bulgaria. We target noise level in the working environment below 85dB(A) in all our facilities by 2013. Other parameters This will require update of noise measurements in some facilities over the next year in order to map current status and establish mitigation Vibration measurements were continued in Fokis on heavy equipment plans, where needed. operators. Whole body vibration measurements were made on forklift operators at the German bentonite facilities of Essen, Marl Sinsen, Dust Oelsnitz and in our Hungarian bentonite facility. Legislation limit was exceeded at Essen in some cases and 4 pneumatic seats were purRespirable dust measurements were carried out this year in Greece chased to reduce vibrations. (Milos, Ritsona, Fokis facilities), in all USA bentonite facilities, in Bulgaria, at Neuss in Germany and in Brazil. The program to record the performance of the equipment in use for ventilation of underground mines and their deviation from the manufacturer’s At Milos facilities in particular, measurements are implemented since standard that was initiated in Fokis in 2009 was continued; 624 measure2007, according to the relevant Protocol developed by IMA-Europe ments of air supply and noxious gases (CO, CO2, NO2) were carried out in at a programme managed by the Institute for Risk Assessment of the the underground mines, 7 of which were not in compliance. University of Utrecht and the Netherlands Expertise Centre for Occupational Respiratory Disorders. The IMA database is the largest multi-comSafeguarding Employees' Health pany multiple-site coordinated dust monitoring programme in Europe containing (status of 15 February 2011) 15,638 respirable dust, 12,890 Health surveillance of workers is in compliance with local legislation at respirable quartz and 1,308 respirable crystalline silica (RCS) measureeach facility. In some facilities, as in Milos for example, audiometric and ments from 27 industrial mineral companies, collected since 2001 and spirometry tests are carried out by the occupational medical doctor. representative for a total workforce of 5,000 employees. In other facilities, workers are given the possibility to obtain external general and specialized medical testing. In 2011 all facilities in Germany The S&B Group continued to implement measures resulting from were equipped with defibrillators to minimize risk and sustain life in case its obligation to the “Social Dialogue Agreement on Workers’ Health of an emergency. In our Brazilian facility, over and above the standard Protection through the Good Handling and Use of Crystalline Silica medical and dental plan offered, employees were provided with the serand Products Containing it”. Reporting per above agreement on the vices of a nutrition specialist, a psychologist and a dentist, who visited status of workers exposure to RCS and measures in place to reduce the facility and offered their advice and care. Noise study carried out on Milos, Greece Besides the generic measures for the protection of the workers (use out a study for the reducing of noise at our premises, which, in its of Personal Protection Equipment, training, signs etc.), systematic effinal version, was delivered in 2011. The study comprises specific forts have been made in recent years towards implementation of the proposals for further machinery interventions, aiming at reducing appropriate organizational and technical measures for the minimizanoise levels and therefore employee exposure to it. tion or reduction of noise hazard at source. Over the last three years, The cost of all suggested interventions varies from €200 €500 our Maintenance Dept. implemented eleven additional mechanical thousand, depending on the size and number of interventions to upgrades in our bentonite and perlite plants at Voudia, Kanava and be implemented in combination with the necessary organizational Tsigrado. The cost of all aforementioned interventions amounts improvements. The application of the study’s proposals will be efapproximately to €65,000. fected in stages so as to allow for intermediate scientific re-evaluaWithin this framework, a third-party specialized contractor carried tions of the results. 28 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Product Safety Safety in the use of our products is ensured by the strict adherence to been processed. For the above products, the safety data sheets are guidance and regulations for their proper use. It should be noted, howupdated to the requirements of relevant Regulations, although not ever, that S&B’s main products (bentonite, perlite, bauxite, wollastonite) required by REACH Regulation. Other products containing hazardous are naturally occurring minerals, non-toxic and not harmful to living constituents are classified accordingly, in compliance with Regulations. organisms or the environment and they remain so even after they have Improved foundry work environment from our new inorganic binder system Health & Safety Training by Region The advantage: no Man-hours emissions (smoke) during casting (first photo, left), as compared to an organic binderNumber of employees system and (right) in second photo contractors Group total The IKO brand of S&B is well known as a strong partner 13,520.45 of foundries Group totallower emissions and odor (up to 95%) during pouring, significantly 2254 globally. From the beginning of 2011 our IKO product portfolio was cooling and shakeout when compared to organic core binder proS.extended Europe with a silica based inorganic binder system for foundry cesses, thus contributing to clean air in the workplace. In addition, core sands. This system, known as AWB, is used for the prepara5950.2 S. Europe it is easy to reclaim and offers a series of other improved properties 1118 tion of cores and forms mainly in light metal foundries using an to the process and end-product itself. N. Europe inorganically bound sand formulation. The AWB system emits 1078.75 N. Europe 492 Asia & Pacific 4757 Asia & Pacific 399 Americas 1734.5 Americas 245 Health & Safety Training A total of 13,520 man-hours of health & safety training were conduct•  elding operations (Milos – Greece) W ed across S&B Group facilities during 2011, such as: • New requirements of Mining & Quarry Regulation (all Greek facilities) • Analysis of incidents (Fokis – Greece) • “ Safe Drive” training for the fifth year in a row in Milos and Fokis • Emergency drills (underground works, fire) Greek facilities. • First aid • Electricity hazards and risks (Milos – Greece, Bulgaria). • General work hazards • Lock out –Tag out procedure during equipment maintenance (USA) Health & Safety Training by Region Man-hours Number of employees and contractors Average man-hours training / employee (S&B and supervised contractors) S. Europe 5,950.2 1,118 5.3 N. Europe 1,078.8 492 2.2 Asia & Pacific 4,757.0 399 11.9 Americas 1,734.5 245 7.1 Group total 13,520.4 2,254 6.0 Health & Safety expenditures Health & Safety investments and expenses in the Group during 2011 amounted to €726,000 and €249,000, respectively. Sustainability Report 2011 29 We formulate our environmental strategy on the fundamental principle of prevention and according to our Corporate Policy for Quality, Environment and Health & Safety 30 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Environment Our new governance structure, in place since September 2011, enchecked by regular internal audits from trained employees. sures our commitment to continuous improvement, with a Group EnAt the end of 2011, facilities where 79.2% of S&B products are provironment, Health & Safety (EHS) function that sets strategy, policies duced were certified as per the environmental management system and goals, complemented by Regional EHS functions that translate standard ISO 14001. Our target is that all facilities will be certified these into specific targets, action plans and implementation. Monitoraccording to this standard by the end of 2014. ing of our EHS performance is also consolidated at Group level, and Environmental issues management …is based on a sound strategy and the application of appropriate practices Rational management of the mineral reserves, Rational planning of extraction is based on planning that carefully balances and management of the large quantities of raw today’s market needs with those of future generations: materials excavated, as well as of the materials used in the processing of products Utilization of overburden material for other uses Exploitation of rejects and by-products of other activities for the production of certain S&B products Rehabilitation of mines in order to minimize imGradual land rehabilitation that proceeds in parallel with extraction, wherever pacts to the natural environment associated possible, or as early as possible with changes to the land morphology and disturbance to the biodiversity of local ecosystems Up-to-date Environmental Impact Assessments which are based on sound scientific data and provide for modern reclamation methods and techniques Base studies to establish or update concrete reference data for the flora and fauna of an affected area, necessary for proper planning of environmental impact mitigation, which results from a mining activity Successful establishment of viable and self-sustaining ecosystems with an abundance of flora and fauna species Exclusive use of native plants from the region where the mining area under rehabilitation is situated (applicable at our operations in Greece) Continuous research and development in collaboration with academic and research organizations for improvement of rehabilitation methods, as well as for reproduction and cultivation of rare and endemic plants Dust emissions management during processing Continuous care for mitigating dust emissions to the environment and the nearby local communities and establishment of working environment with minimal exposure of employees to dust Application of best available techniques through the systematic investment in anti-pollution equipment, Personal Protective Equipment and in Safety Training of employees Continuous assessment of the effectiveness of measures implemented Waste management of mineral or non-mineral Care for reduction of mineral waste, which constitute the greater volume of S&B's materials waste, from the planning phase of a mine Use of mineral inert wastes, mainly to refill excavation voids or to form the landscape in reclamation works Minimization of mineral processing wastes and conversion into saleable mineral products Recycling the largest volume of other produced waste materials (lubricants, lead batteries, car tyres, paper, etc.) Energy management mainly during product Significant energy saving efforts on a continuous basis, even though the activities of the processing S&B Group are not particularly energy-intensive Water management mainly during product Significant efforts for conserving water, which is mainly consumed for sprinkling roads processing in mines and facilities in order to reduce dust emissions, and for the production of casting fluxes granules to reduce dust emission in end use Product responsibility and prevention of possiContinuous research in collaboration with academic and research institutions to unble impacts to the environment and health & safety derstand the impact that S&B's products may have throughout their entire lifecycle on during product processing, use and final disposal human health and the natural environment Sustainability Report 2011 31 Mine Reclamation Land Reclamation of affected areas in the S&B Group per Region (2011) in hectares South Europe North Europe Americas Asia / Pacific Total area “in use” end of 2011 568.9 28.8 20.3 2.4 New areas brought into use in 2011 44.3 3.7 0 0 Reclamation of affected areas in 2011 187.2 5.6 0 0 Reclamation of affected areas since the beginning of the activity 547.4 31.8 103.0 0 S&B Group, Surface area in use (2011) S&B Group, Surface area in use (2011) per country per Region Huanya, China 0.4% Milos & Fokis Egyházaskeszö Greece Hungary 77.3% 0.9% Aberdeen Sardinia South USA Italy Europe Asia / Pacific 3.3% 10.8% 91.7% 0.4% Landshut Kardjali North Germany Bulgaria Europe Americas 3.7% 3.6% 4.6% 3.3% Land Reclamation of affected areas in the S&B Group (2011) in hectares Milos & Fokis Aberdeen Landshut Kardjali Sardinia Egyha ΄ zaskeszö Huanya Greece USA Germany Bulgaria Italy Hungary China Total area “in use” end of 2011 479.6 20.3 23 22.3 67 5.8 2.4 New areas brought into use in 2011 36.3 0 3.5 0 8 0.2 0 Reclamation of affected areas in 2011 186.7 0 5.6 0 0.5 0 0 Reclamation of affected areas since the beginning of the activity 544.9 103.0 31.8 0 2.5 0 0 Reclaimed surface Good progress of our Rehabilitation Departments’ work 49.9% Milos Remaining Land in use 6.2% • Planting trials through traditional methods. Planting 43.9% of seeds for several years. To date, the following species have of seeds in pits dug out with a mattock is recommended for been successfully established in our land reclamation works: plants with large seeds. During 2011 more than 10 kgs of oak Medicago arborea, Atriplex halimus (shrubby orache), Sarcoand anagyris seeds were planted in approximately 1,300 pits poterium spinosum (thorny burnet), and Lavatera arborea. In opened with this traditional method directly at the rehabilitation 2011, a new species was added in the local woody plants’ seeds sites, skipping the nursery phase of planting and cultivation. collection program, namely Artemisia absinthium (wormwood), The evolution of the plants growing will be monitored systemwhich is resistant to grazing and its seeds may be easily collectatically in order to evaluate the establishment of this method. ed. In 2011, 50 kgs of such seeds were collected from nature, • Selection of new woody plant species appropriate for planta quantity which was enough for use in all hydroseeding works ing or hydroseeding. We have been carrying out trials for the and for evaluating results. In addition, wormwood has been addition of woody plants’ seeds in the hydroseeding mixture successfully produced at the company’s plant nursery. 32 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Landshut Kardjali North Germany Bulgaria Europe Americas 3.7% 3.6% 4.6% 3.3% Greece in focus Reclaimed surface 49.9% Remaining Land in use 6.2% 43.9% •T  he majority (76% of surface area in use) of S&B Group’s mining pay for the reclamation work in the affected areas, but the State activity worldwide is located in Greece and so is the majority of was responsible for carrying it out. Nevertheless, none of the its industrial minerals production (65% in volume). affected areas was ever reclaimed by the Greek State, although • Already 49.9% of the total affected area has been reclaimed. the cost had been covered in full and the land returned by the • Of the remaining 50.1%, 43.9% is still in use for mining purposes. companies to the competent authorities. After the introduction of • Hence, the remaining affected surface area currently available a compulsory procedure for reclamation by the mining companies for rehabilitation work amounts to 6.2%. themselves, S&B has reclaimed most parts of its exhausted mines and quarries and reports on progress each year. Over and above S&B in Greece has often found itself to be the focus of criticism its conventional obligations, S&B to date has voluntarily underrelated to its alleged “failure to reclaim old open-pit bauxite mintaken the reclamation of about 1/3 of the affected areas in Fokis ing areas” in the Fokis area. Therefore, it is important to make falling under the category for which the State was responsible, i.e. reference to the legal framework concerning mines rehabilitation. (1,651,000 m2 out of 5,062,000 m2). In the past, mining companies, including S&B, were obliged to Land Reclamation of affected areas in Greece (2011) in hectares Milos Fokis Greece Total Total area “in use” end of 2011 201.80 277.82 479.62 New areas brought into use in 2011 19.60 16.70 36.30 Reclamation of affected areas in 2011 13.70 173.00 186.70 Reclamation of affected areas since the beginning of the activity 191.10 353.78 544.88 • A  ffected surface area is defined as the area disturbed by mining (extraction), or disposal of overburden/waste rock material, or reclamation works, whether completed or on-going. • Active, or “in use” mining area is the surface area used for either mining (extraction), or disposal of overburden/waste rock material. • Reclaimed surface area is defined as the area where at least the planting stage has been completed. Fokis • Establishment of sites for plants stocklets aiming at the  lanting is effected in big pits in a particular way requiring only one P protection and promotion of local pseudo-alpine zone plants. In watering during the planting phase. During 2011 experimental two small areas of a 1,000 sq. meters’ surface each, located in implementation was realized in 500 planting pits so as to evaluate mines at high altitudes the following species were planted: Pinus the effectiveness of this method and its further application. Nigra, Nepeta spruneri, Abies Cephalonica, Marubium veluti• Artificial aging of rocks. In cooperation with the Dept. of Soil num, Acer heldreich. These areas will be gradually enriched with Science of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, relevant trials other plant species reproduced at our nursery with an aim to were effected in the past on steep excavations’ surfaces with become “sites of regeneration” and of seeds production for the satisfactory results. Although no new experimental attempts aforementioned plant species. were made during 2011, we aim to continue research with trials • Implementation of a tree-planting method to avoid irrigaon new surfaces during 2012. tion. It is a special tree-planting system that allows for the reten• Rehabilitation of steep excavations. In 2011 two more cliff tion and saving of rainwater, delivering it according to the plants’ plant species were reproduced at our plant, ivy and ephedra, which needs. This system consists in special bags filled with perlite, were used in the rehabilitation of open and steep excavations. compost and composite water-soluble crystalline fertilizer. Sustainability Report 2011 33 Biodiversity Management Biodiversity management has been inextricably linked to our land reclamation activity for over two decades. We are continuously investing in suitable infrastructure, in development of specialized know-how and in continuous research and development. As our mining footprint is larger in Greece, both in size and in depth of particularities of each site; on-going research and development in cooptime, it is here that we have built our biodiversity expertise and infraeration with renowned academic and research institutions in specialized structures. These include: operation of specialized local departments of studies that improve know-how and methods; composting of local Land Reclamation staffed by experienced foresters; company-owned organic waste to produce natural fertilizer for land reclamation projects, plant nurseries (in Milos and Fokis), where apart from production and while at the same time conserving natural resources. preparation of seeds and plants suited for reclamation, they also act as “laboratories” exploring appropriate scientific methods for obtaining the No foreign plant species was used in our new reclamation works optimum result; development of specialized know-how in reproduction of Fokis and Milos during 2011, as was also the case in 2010, thus of indigenous and rare plants as well as plants that are suited to the achieving the target set a few years back. Biodiversity Indicators in the making We have been actively participating in the EU Business & Biodiversity Platform through our European Association, IMA-Europe, contributing to the non-energy extractive sector’s work since 2010. The objective of the EU Business & Biodiversity Platform is to stop the loss of biodiversity by development and promotion of good practices through cooperation of industry associations, companies, competent authorities and NGOs, the challenge being to measure progress against this objective. We continued our work during 2011, by contributing with expertise towards the development of meaningful and comparable biodiversity indicators appropriate for our sector. 34 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Protected areas Mining and reclamation within or adjacent to protected areas is of The total surface “in use” for S&B’s mining activities within protected special concern and carried out with extra care. In such cases, special areas of high biodiversity value is located in Fokis (Greece) where studies for a detailed evaluation of the possible effects on the flora and bauxite is extracted. Revised regulations effective from 2011, with fauna of the area are carried out at the planning stage of the mine and regard to Natura 2000 network areas in Fokis, have increased the during the mining activity, in order to ensure their effective protection. region’s protected areas. As a result, existing bauxite underground and surface extraction areas operating within these cover 600,400 m2 in total, i.e. 9.6% of our total mining activity in Fokis. Five-year research evaluation The five-year research program (2005-2010) to study the flora at Milos and Fokis, carried out by S&B in cooperation with the Institute of Mediterranean Forest Ecosystems of the National Agricultural Research Foundation (NAGREF) and the University of Athens, was concluded at the end of 2010. Many positive outcomes and “lessons learned” resulted from the numerous studies and projects carried out within the scope of this program. During 2011, we evaluated results and continued monitoring of the past field trials that had been undertaken during the program. It is the intention of both parties to devote more effort in the reproduction of rare plant species, study the effects of fertilization on plants’ growth and the expansion of the use of climbing plants. The latter would be very appropriate for the rehabilitation of excavations, especially the old ones. Rare juniper successfully reproduced in plant nursery The production of Juniperus foetidissima seedlings in Fokis is one of the major achievements of the five-year research program with NAGREF and the Athens University. All other methods having failed, it was made possible only with the grafting of cuttings into seedlings of Cupressus sempevirens. Several plants have been successfully reproduced in our plant nursery over the past years and are now being used in our reclamation areas. This plant grows into a high tree and its natural reproduction in nature, especially in the mountains of Fokis, is quite scarce. We are particularly proud of this achievement, especially bearing in mind that this species is included in the Red Data books of several countries where it was once abundant. Sustainability Report 2011 35 Dust Emissions Management Combating dust emissions generated from raw materials handling and processing is one of our significant environmental issues. For the purpose of documentation and evaluation of the effectiveness carried out at our Bulgarian facilities, where improvement has been made of measures taken and the need for new ones, regular and systematic on emissions from the perlite expansion plant with simultaneous recovery dust emissions measurements are carried out on furnaces’ chimneys of dust fraction. Worth mentioning is the achievement of a 30% dust and bag house stacks. Furthermore, preventive maintenance and reduction fraction at our perlite expansion plant in Ritsona, Greece, during regular refurbishment of de-dusting equipment ensures operational 2011. A series of dust emissions measurements and improvements were efficiency and regulatory and permit compliance. carried out in Cincinatti and Morganton, in the USA. All bin vents and dust collectors were refurbished at our Cincinnati facility and stack testing at Dust emissions at Milos facilities in Greece are routinely measured and our Morganton facility was found in compliance with legislation. Measurestay below the regulatory limits. Similarly, annual measurements are ments in our Brazilian facility were also found within limits. out using loaders and conveyor belts. With the new warehouse, storing as well as handling and transportation to the loading bridge will be realized within an enclosed space for the majority of the product, resulting in a significant reduction in dust emissions, reaching standards that supersede legislative limits and outperform conditions set by permits. Operational efficiencies are also expected from the closed warehouse that will contribute to the competitiveness of the Milos installations. Construction of the warehouse began in 2007 following very high technical standards, which were set after careful examination of multiple alternatives, so as to achieve the optimal In 2011, a processed bentonite warehouse located in Voudia facilisolution with respect to environmental and operational consideraties (Milos, Greece) was completed and inaugurated at a religious tions. The 40,000 tons capacity warehouse has been constructed service officiated by the Bishop of Syros, Tinos, Andros, Kea and with reinforced concrete and consists of 20 closed compartments. Milos Dorotheos II. The investment, amounting to €10 million, aims The transportation of bentonite from the drying facility is made on at minimizing the environmental impact from the handling (transporenclosed conveyor belts, while unloading is carried out through an tation – storing) of dried bentonite, while at the same time provides underground conveyor belt system. The warehouse is equipped for operational benefits for the product’s handling within the facility. with de-dusting filters, while completely automated systems ensure Until now, processed bentonite was stored at an open-air area, and optimum storage and handling of the product, maximum protection it was moved within the facility by trucks; ship-loading was carried of the environment, of the working area and the workers themselves. Waste Management Mineral waste Mineral waste constitutes the greater volume of the company’s waste wastes of mineral processing and convert them into saleable mineral and is mainly overburden (inert) from extraction activities. In 2011, the total products such as the perlite “fine” rejects produced during processproduction of mineral waste (overburden and minerals processing waste) ing. The purpose of this effort is not only to reduce waste during proamounted to 3,756,153 m³ from Greece and to 1,663,820 m³ from the cessing, but also to find new, marketable uses for this material. Such rest of S&B Group mining and processing activities. For many years efforts have been successfully implemented in our perlite processing already reduction and effective management of overburden forms facilities in Bulgaria, Spain and the USA since 2010. Similarly, processan integral part of extraction and rehabilitation planning, with a direct ing waste in casting fluxes production has been zeroed in our facilities positive effect towards reducing the extraction activity’s environmenat Brazil, USA and Germany. In compliance with the environmental tal footprint. During 2011, 60% of overburden produced in Greek permit terms for our Milos facilities, efforts are made to reduce the extraction activities (Milos and Fokis) was used to refill old excavations coarser rejects’ fraction through recycling in the process, which has and underground depleted mines in reclamation works. Of equal been successful to an extent, and also for the exploitation of the fine importance are the coordinated efforts of recent years to minimize fractions into other uses. 36 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Non-mineral waste Non-mineral waste production is much smaller compared to mineral Non-mineral waste purchased & recycled in 2011 waste and primarily concerns materials used for our equipment, and – S&B Group running of our facilities and operations in general. Recycling methods are applied to such waste streams, aiming at their efficient managetype of material in kg ment and best utilization. We report aggregated Group data for the Lead batteries purchased 5,260 first time this year. Lead batteries recycled 6,716 Recycling rates surpass 90%, while licensed end disposal is impleTyres purchased 13,216 mented for any non-recycled waste. During 2011, we removed more Tyres recycled 5,964 than 12 tns of waste (at a cost of € 22,169) stocked at our Fokis site, Metal scrap 306,405 which was sent for recycling to certified receiving facilities. Similarly, all Volume of lubricants purchased 277,599 non-mineral waste at Milos has been re-organized to ensure efficient selection and recycling. Volume of used lubricants recycled 89,239 Office paper purchased 14,323 A large portion of S&B’s products are sold in bulk and therefore the Office paper recycled 60,447 consumption of packaging materials is relatively minor. During 2011, the bentonite and perlite products that are sold in a packaged form amounted to less than 5% and 1% respectively, of total Group sales. 94/62/EC, has signed contracts with special authorized Alternative Nevertheless, for the portion of production sold packaged, the Group, Packaging Materials Management Systems, or with other Bodies in compliance with the obligations arising from the European Directive certified by Authorities under national legislation. Energy Management The S&B Group’s activities are not energy intensive. Nevertheless, The energy sources used across the Group’s activities are: natural gas, we are particularly sensitive to issues regarding energy consumption, liquefied natural gas, heavy fuel oil diesel oil (used in vehicles, for proas much in response to the problem of climate change, due to greenduction purposes and for production of in-house electricity), electricity house gases emissions, as well as because energy costs constitute a from the grid and gasoline used in vehicles. Energy-saving efforts have significant portion of total production costs. For this reason, in 2008, been undertaken in various facilities towards achieving our target, while a specific energy saving target was adopted: The aim was for a 10% others are being implemented on an on-going basis. For example the reduction of the Group’s energy consumption per ton of product by bentonite natural sun-drying in open fields on Milos result in significant 2020, with 2005 as the base-year. The evolution of energy consumpenergy savings, a practice that is being evaluated for implementation tion per tonne of product is shown in the Table. Our target has not at other Group bentonite sites, as well. been achieved and more effort should be devoted, taking into account that the new target is more ambitious than our previous one, i.e. to achieve a 5% energy reduction per tonne by the end of 2014. S&B Group progress on energy consumption target S&B Group progress on energy consumption target per product per region % of target achievement % of target achievement 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 Bentonite 6.8% 4.8% 4.4% 6.1% N. Europe 17.1% 16.7% 19.6% 19.9% Perlite -6.1% -6.9% -9.7% -10.8% S. Europe 1.2% -1.6% -3.8% -3.9% Bauxite -15.9% -24.1% -28.0% -30.2% Asia/Pacific 5.0% 3.5% 4.2% 13,0% Stollberg 20.7% 19.6% 23.9% 25.4% Otavi 38.2% 36.9% 34.4% 34.9% Americas 3.9% 1.8% 4.9% 7.1% Group 5.3% 2.9% 2.7% 3.5% Group 5.3% 2.9% 2.7% 3.5% Within 2011 = 7.4% Within 2011 = 7.4% Basis of calculation: After calculating the amount of energy that should be consumed in 2020 the 10%reduction target was translated into absolute numbers and was distributed linearly per year spanning the 15-year period (2005-2020). Based on this distribution, the necessary energy consumption reduction until the end of each year was calculated for each activity. The percentages presented in the table demonstrate the divergence or convergence from the desired energy consumption by 2008, 2009 and 2010, so that the 2020 target can be met. A plus sign (+) indicates achievement of the target by the equivalent percentage, while a minus sign (-) indicates the equivalent divergence from the target. Sustainability Report 2011 37 Studying Energy Efficiency Improvements S&B participates as member of a wider consortium in a European models. The main goal is to develop innovative solutions for energy Union 4-year research program, code-named EE-Quarry, to study efficiency by modeling all the stages in extraction and processpotential improvements in energy efficiency and reductions in CO2 ing, and propose a series of improvement alternatives based on emissions in quarries, throughout the production cycle, i.e. from the initial mapping of energy consumed. Moreover, proposal of extraction to processing plants. The S&B perlite and bentonite compensation measures will be explored, in order to reduce the mines in Milos, the Monte Sparau perlite mine and the Sardinia rhyenvironmental impact of CO2 emissions during the quarry life cycle. olite mine and related processing plants have been included in the The effectiveness of the project results will be validated by installing first phase of the project, which began in September 2010. Already the newly-developed model in several quarries in different locations characterization of existing energy consumption and inefficiencies around Europe to check its influence on the energy optimization of have been mapped, based on data from the existing production the sites. Water Management Water consumption in the mining and processing operations of S&B comprises to sprinkling the roads used for transportation of the company’s raw materials and products, in order to reduce dust emissions and the amount of water used in cooling equipment at certain processing stages and facilities. S&B Group water use S&B Group water use per region per product m /tn 3 m3/tn 1.25 1.0 1.00 0.8 0.75 0.6 0.50 0.4 0.25 0.2 0.00 0.0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 S. Europe N. Europe Asia/Pacific Americas S&B Group Bauxite Perlite Bentonite Otavi Stollberg S&B Group Water saving Aware of the significance for the environment of conservation of this our buildings are used for sprinkling roads or for other purposes in our natural resource, S&B undertakes various actions towards water savGreek facilities. Water consumed in these facilities is drawn from the ing. Each year significant amounts of rainwater collected in bentonite ground (drills), from the sea and from rainfall. quarry beds (due to bentonite’s impermeability) and from the roofs of Water saving on Milos island Κατανάλωση νερού Οµίλου S&B Κατανάλωση νερού Οµίλου S&B ανά γεωγραφική περιοχή ανά προϊόν Milos is an island where climatic and soil conditions are difficult, with scant rainfall unm /tn evenly distributed over themyear,/tn strong winds and dry summers.The plants now used 3 3 1,25 1.0 in our land reclamation are carefully selected local species that are adapted to local conditions and do not require irrigation. Moreover, a significant amount of the water 1,00 used for road sprinkling 0.8– approximately 40% of the total water consumed in our Milos operations during 2011 – is collected from quarry beds. As total water consumption (excluding seawater) for all purposes on Milos operations amounted to 62,086 m3 0,75 0.6 during 2011, 59,877 m3 of which for road sprinkling, it is obvious that the collection and use of quarry bed water amounts to a significant saving of water resources. 0,50 0.4 38 0,25 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. 0.2 Materials Stewardship Raw Materials of continuous casting fluxes are based on such materials, which in 2011 represented on average 21% of total input materials used. The S&B Group is a supplier of mineral raw materials extracted from its mines and intermediate products to various industrial sectors. AcProducts cess to land and effective management of its mineral resources is of primary concern to the company, so as to be able to satisfy current as Responsibility for our products means understanding and efficiently well as future demand for its products, while at the same time ensurmanaging the impact that their production, use, recycling and final ing efficient management of these resources and their effective use in disposal may have to human health and the natural environment, i.e. the production processes. their total “footprint” throughout their lifecycle. To this end we have carried out a number of projects that have improved our processes Raw materials purchased by the S&B Group for its own use in downover the years. stream operations, as well as for formulation of products for foundries and continuous casting fluxes, include soda ash, coal, graphite and Every product sold (bentonite, perlite, bauxite, wollastonite, continuresins (Europe and N. America). In Neuss, Germany, raw materials ous casting fluxes etc.) is accompanied by a safety data sheet (SDS) supplied by third parties are processed for the formulation of products that provides all necessary details for its safe use, handling and disused in refractories, in the ceramics industry, etc. The utilization and posal. It should be noted, however, that S&B’s products are naturally exploitation of reusable materials and by-products from other indusoccurring minerals, not harmful to living organisms or the environment tries for the production of new products is significant in all our Continuand they remain so even after they have been processed. We have ous Casting Fluxes (CCF) operations around the world. Approximately ensured compliance with REACH and CLP regulations for the entire 10 out of the 45 ingredients normally used in the product formulation S&B Group products since 2010. Base study on the impact to the sea environment on Milos measurement, chemical analysis of heavy metals in the seawater column and of sediments, mapping of perlite deposits, seawater turbidity measurement and measurement of chlorophyll, and evaluation of the impact of perlite fines to filtering organisms (mytilus galloprovinciallis, i.e. mussels). Findings up to now show that the status of seawater in the Tsigrado area is defined as good to excellent and that in Voudia as fair to good. With regard to the morphological conditions of the structure and the substratum of the seabed in particular, the situation was defined as good at both Voudia and Tsigrado. Regarding the In 2009, S&B engaged the Hellenic Center for Marine Research physical and chemical qualitative data, concentrations of heavy met(HCMR) to carry out an ecological assessment of the marine environals were found within the limits that usually characterize non-disturbed ment in areas, where perlite rejects 8from the company’s operations areas and, therefore, the seawater condition 6,61* was defined as excellent. on Milos are disposed of (Voudia and Tsigrado facilities). One of Regarding the biological qualitative data, the quality of seawater both 6 the first studies undertaken by HCMR for sea water classification at Voudia and at Tsigrado was deemed as excellent as far as the pres4,24* ence of phytoplankton is concerned and good as3,88 εκατ. € following the guidelines of the Water4Framework Directive 2000/60/ far as the macro3,31* 3,50* 2,87 3,00 EC, the research continued in 2011 and2,70 initial results were shared 2,35 phytes 2,46 are concerned.2,3 1,99 Characterization for the seawater status at Tsiat a public presentation to Milos local2 authorities in November 2011. grado was defined as good with regard to benthic invertebrate fauna. The research, focused on the evaluation of potential impact from the At Voudia, the level of diversity and affluence of benthic invertebrate authorized disposal of perlite fines in0 the2000 Voudia and 2001Tsigrado areas, 2002 2003 fauna2004lies moderately 2005 outside the 2006 2007 2008 defining 2009 the2010 limits usually conditions 2011 consists of: recording of phytobenthos andγιαzoobenthos, currents’ αποκατάσταση τοπίου of the area. για άλλουσ σκοπούσ The conclusions for angiosperm are similar. Περιβαλλοντικέσ επενδύσεισ *Περιλαµβάνουν επενδύσεισ αποθήκησ ξηρού µπεντονίτη Environmental Expenditures 8 We invest in environmental 6.61* management and infrastruc6 ture works to improve our 4.24* € million 3.88 4 3.50* 3.31* performance continually. 2.70 2.87 3.00 2.35 2.46 2.3 Figures from 2000-2010 1.99 2 concern Greek operations. 2011 figures refer to all 0 Group operations. 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 for landscape reclamation for other purposes Environmental Investments *Figures include bentonite warehouse investment Sustainability Report 2011 39 Our Group-wide target is that “All facilities have in place locally appropriate social action plans and performance indicators that reflect and demonstrate their social contribution relevance by end of 2012” 40 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Socioeconomic Contribution Economic contribution • €455.7 million sales • €29 million for taxes, duties and social contribution • €39.6 million operating profit • €302.2 million to suppliers of all kinds • €74.3 million to employees in compensation • €12.8 million to shareholders and benefits Contribution to Greece Since its establishment in Greece in1934, S&B has made a positive contribution to the country’s industrial sector. In 2011, when the Greek economy reached an all-time low with grave consequences for society, S&B’s contribution to the national economy and to the local economies of Milos and Fokis, where our mining and production facilities are located, was significant. Our operations in Greece employ 635 direct and an additional 390 indirect employees, with total payments in compensation and benefits amounting to €33.3 million in 2011. Payments to suppliers in Greece amounted to €89.2 million, with almost half directed to Milos and Fokis local communities. Payments to governments for taxes and duties, as well as social contribution totalled €9.3 million. Apart from its significant contribution to local economies in Greece, S&B is one of the major Greek exporters with €116.6 million worth of exports realized last year. Community contribution The S&B Group directly operates and manages mines, plants, processS&B’s Community strategic approach is developed according to each ing units, laboratories and distribution centers in 15 countries worldfacility’s relevant social footprint. With varying degrees of development wide. We assess the social impact and relevance of our operations by that depends on a facility’s relative social impact, our social policy covevaluating direct and indirect employment in relation to local population, ers the following areas: understanding key social factors and the potential impact of our business • Creation and operation of infrastructure works that promote the in the area. We revisited our Social Contribution methodology and, cultural as well as the industrial heritage of each area, like the Milos based on pre-determined criteria, we have made a new categorization Mining Museum, the Milos Conference Center and the Vagonettoof our facilities according to their impact on surrounding local communiFokis Mining Park. ties. Not surprisingly, Greek operations remain of big importance as the • Providing financial, technical and other support to local organizacompany’s social footprint in Milos and Fokis is significant. tions and initiatives of high interest and acceptance, as well as local infrastructure works. Group-wide Social Contribution Action Plans will be re-evaluated in • Developing initiatives and activities that promote these regions and 2012 according to the new categorization and in line with the new contribute to their balanced development. target. • Supporting local populations with educational, cultural and other activities. Distribution of 2011 Social Contribution in Greece In 2011, S&B businesses developed activities covering a wide range of Donations areas including education, environΔωρεέσ Donations (Μήλοσ, Δωρέεσ (υπόλοιπη (Milos, Fokida) ment, local infrastructure works and (rest of Greece) Φωκίδα) Ελλάδα) 40.8% 6.9% 40,8% health. Overall, we spent € 1.4 mil6,9% Museum, lion on community contribution Χρηµατική Cash Μουσείο, and Conference Center, Contribution to Συνεδριακό, Συνεισφορά Thematic Park 95% of Milos Municipality Θεµατικό that in our Greek activities Πάρκο προσ Δήµο Μήλου 37.3% 15.0% 37,3% (Athens, Milos and Fokis). 15,0% Sustainability Report 2011 41 Education Engaging with Students •W e continued to support the “Anastassia Antoniadou Scholarship Award” on Milos (Greece), financing the university studies of a young female student graduate of the Milos high school. •A s member of the Association of Industries & Exporting Enterprises of Milos, S&B continued to participate in the scholarship and financial support program to 5 first-year University and vocational school students, graduates of the Milos high school. •W e continued our support to the “Guarda Mirim” program with three trainees hired in our Brazil operations. This program runs under the auspices of the local community’s Mayor and aims to help young apprentices (16 to 18 years old) successfully enter the labor market. •W e continued our long-standing cooperation with the non-profit We seek to create bonds with the student community and Junior Achievement Organization through our participation in their future professionals by organizing student visits to our facilities, programs in Greece and in the USA. employing students for apprenticeships, attending Career Days, and supporting activities such as the Global Management Challenge, the largest international competition for business strategy, or those run by the Junior Achievement Association. The year 2011 was a period of intense activity aiming to enhance ties with higher education academic and technical institutions. A total of 12 young people from local schools joined a traineeship of 2-4 weeks at our Germany facilities. In addition, S&B offered 6-month practical internships in cooperation with a local training center in Marl and Mannheim to students pursuing a technical degree. 42 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Environment Local Infrastructure Works •O  n the occasion of the proclamation • We continued to finance the water supply project of the Karoutes by UNESCO of 2011 as International village (Fokis, Greece) by the Mornos river artificial lake for third year Year of Forests, the Milos Mining in a row; contributed to various construction works in local villages. Museum, in cooperation with the Municipality of Milos and the Milos Forest • We continued to contribute to road maintenance works with equipDepartment organized an educational ment and staff: Oinoxori national road in Fokis (Greece); local roads reforestation program in the area of on Milos (Greece); rural – forest roads in Morgongiori (Italy). Profitis Ilias sponsored by S&B. 76 pupils of the fifth and sixth grades of the Milos and Adamas primary schools participated in the reforestation and local vegetation enrichment program.The children planted 550 local plants cultivated at S&B’s plant nursery such as oak trees, schinus shrubs, cypress trees and junipers in an enclosed area. The MMM in cooperation with S&B will irrigate the young plants regularly to ensure success in the new vegetation's growth. 1  50 cypresses, 150 oak trees, 150 junipers, 100 schinas, all local plants from S&B's Milos plant nursery •W  e continued to provide our machinery for local roads network snowplowing during winter in areas of our operations, like Fokis (Greece) and Egyhazaskeszo (Hungary). • In Hungary we contributed to the creation of a park at the local village by providing soil and in Turkey with maintenance of local school facilities. Health •H  ealth causes supported in 2011 by S&B included: the Greek Chapter of the Medecins du Monde with the donation of medicines •G  reen Days Ιnitiative in our Bulgarian facility: Αiming to motivate (Athens, Greece), the local senior citizen’s house (Fokis, Greece); our people to get involved in volunteer work, to raise awareness Italy’s Red Cross for the acquisition of an ambulance (Sardinia, and to enhance their respect for the planet’s natural environment, Italy); Roswell Park Cancer Institute, MUSC Children’s Hospital, our Bulgarian colleagues the Green Days Initiative, in spring 2011. Blair E Batson Hospital (USA); Aktion Mensch (Germany). Green areas were cleaned, shrubs and plants trimmed and watered, trees and flowers earthed up, fences painted at the offices and •W  e continued to support people or causes in need of special medibentonite processing facility. cal care in underprivileged areas, such as near our facility in India and Brazil. Volunteerism •W  e continued to support the “Anastassia Antoniadou – Volunteerism and Social Contribution Award” honoring a citizen of Milos (Greece) for his/her contribution to the community. •O  ur Milos volunteers group contributed to: the Milos 2011 European Minerals Day event organized for the island’s young school children; the interactive event “Search for me in Nature, I am there!” within the framework of the 18th Milos Cultural Festival in cooperation with an expert group of pedagogues. •O  ur USA employees devoted over 1,000 hours of voluntary work to various community services during the year. Sustainability Report 2011 43 44 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Museum – Conference Center – Thematic Park In Greece, we have created and we support the operation of a Museum and a Conference Center on Milos island and a Thematic Park in Fokis. These establishments honor and promote the mining history of the local communities of our activity, but also support their sustainable development by promoting tourism and education. In 2011: • 8,394 visitors at the Milos Mining Museum. Of these local school pupils participated in the Museum’s educational programs. • 6,938 people participated in congresses, scientific meetings and cultural events organized in 2011 at the Milos Conference Center – George Eliopoulos. • 7,106 visitors at the Vagonetto – Milos Mining Park, of which 4,691 children, within the framework of schools’ educational visits. 2011 European Minerals Day: “The World of Minerals” A bi-annual initiative launched in 2007 by the Industrial Minerals Association-Europe, aiming at raising the public’s awareness about minerals, and more importantly the schoolchildren’s from the various local communities. •O  ur German operations participated for the first time: Open days with tours and presentations in our Neuss, Marl, and Landshut facilities were organized with 390 visitors from local community, customers and employee’s families. •2  00 children from the nursery and first grades of Milos primary schools participated in an event on Biodiversity organized at the George Eliopoulos–Milos Conference Center. •1  40 pupils of the fifth and sixth grades of the Itea, Amfissa and Gravia (in Fokis) primary schools participated in an educational activity entitled “Explore the World of Bauxite”. •E  ducational and recreational activity on minerals “All around us” was organized for 50 children of employees in Athens, Greece. New permanent exhibition at the Milos Museum A new permanent exhibition, the “Zafeiris Vaos Obsidian Collection”, is displayed at the Milos Mining Museum since summer 2011. It comprises artefacts made of obsidian, Milos’s characteristic volcanic rock, which forms an important chapter in the archaeology of prehistoric human tool-making. The collection was gathered gradually from various sites of the island by Zafiris Vaos, a Melian folklorist and collector, following an official pronouncement by the Greek Archaeological Council in 1959. The “Zafeiris Vaos Obsidian Collection” permanent exhibition is the most recent addition to the Milos Mining Museum’s collections of minerals, rocks, objects, and photographs, which in their own way narrate the island’s long-established mining history. Sustainability Report 2011 45 46 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. On reporting Methodology Report Content, Scope and Boundary S&B’s Annual and Sustainability Report (henceforth referred to as the Information and data covered by the Report are based on an assessReport), published annually, conveys a summary of our economic, enment of those material sustainable development issues of S&B which vironmental and social performance and progress, and also includes are of high importance and concern both to us and to our external significant activities of the past year that contribute to our sustainable stakeholders. Report content was revisited after the new materiality development. This is our 11th non-financial Report and covers the assessment which took place in early 2012. calendar year 2011. We include sustainability-related information in our Annual and Sustainability Report (hard copy and on-line), in our CorpoAlthough our new organizational structure did not come into effect rate Governance Principles, 4th revision and in our website. until September 2011, we have begun to present certain data under this new structure, and in particular our operational focus now under We report under voluntary commitments, and mainly the Global ReRegional responsiblity, as we believe this reflects our renewed porting Initiative and the United Nations Global Compact. We use the sustainability strategy better. This has not changed our calculation GRI’s G3 Mining and Metals Sector Supplement as we find it valuable methodology, which is based on relevant and acclaimed industry in addressing some of our performance reporting areas. However, standards and protocols which ensure comparability and uniformity due to the size, nature and location of our activities a lot of the issues across the Group’s operations worldwide. In addition, during 2011, we addressed in the Supplement are not applicable to S&B’s operations. created a new internal on-line reporting tool for Environment, Health & We declare a GRI Application Level of B, which is checked by the Safety (EHS) data from all our facilities. This tool defines data-gathering GRI itself. Our Report is not externally assured. At the end of 2010 we steps focusing on controls, reporting cycles, boundaries, definitions initiated an Assurance Readiness Check, by engaging a third party and guidelines, all of which ensure the reliability and quality of data auditor, in order to work towards establishing an assurance process gathered. The tool was created following findings and recommendaover the next two to three years. During 2011 we further developed tions of the first phase of the assurance readiness check initiated in our internal sustainability performance reporting mechanism. S&B is a 2009. We based this tool’s development on our existing policies and signatory party to the principles of the UN Global Compact since May performance indicators (in Environment, Health & Safety, Human 2008. Description of our actions and related outcomes that form our Resources, Group consolidation policies and IT capabilities), as well Communication on Progress as per the Global Compact’s principles as applied best practices within our sector. Collection of EHS data has are fully integrated in our Report and facilitated by the G3 Index. increased to cover 176 indicators (almost three times more than we had recorded annualy until 2010) from our mining and processing facilities around the world. We do not, however, publicly report on all this data because some of it is not deemed material enough to be reported, or there may be proprietary information concerns. In addition, reliability of data is not harmonious across our operations, something we aim to improve over the coming years. Nevertheless, we report sufficient data and information for the material sustainability issues of our Group to provide a clear, complete and balanced view of our sustainability performance. Recording of our Socio-Economic, Environment, Health & Safety and Human Resources data and relevant key performance indicators calculations is based on relevant and acclaimed industry standards and protocols which ensure comparability and uniformity across the Group’s activities worldwide. In all sections of the 2011 Report, and in particular where data or performance indicators are reported, the scope of collection is stated (locations of operations or activity or Regions) and the basis of calculations is mentioned, as well as any major changes or revisions from previous years. No significant changes from previous periods of reporting in the scope, boundary or measurement techniques occurred during 2011 that have a material impact on the collection and reporting of our sustainability performance. Sustainability Report 2011 47 GRI Index AR = Annual Report 2011 SR= Sustainability Report 2011 CPG= S&B Group Corporate Governance AFR = Annual Financial Report 2011 on Principles (4th revision) www.sandb.com/investor-relations/results-presentations/2011-2 Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer/Explanation UN Global Compact Disclosure Element addressed 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. Fully AR p.10 & 12, SR p.4 Statement of Continuing Support in SR p.5 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully SR p.11 & 13, AR p.38 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully www.sandb.com/our-business/ 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, Fully AFR p.44 & 62 operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Fully Athens, Greece 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of Fully Interactive map on www.sandb.com/ourcountries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to business/ the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully AR p.42, AFR p.44 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and Fully AR p.20 types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully SR p.7&20, AR p.6&20 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, strucFully SR p.9 New organizational structure, which ture, or ownership. does not have an impact on operations or sustainability 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully SR p.17 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Fully Fiscal Year 2011 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully Social Report 2010 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Fully SR p.52 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully SR p.13&47 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased Fully SR p.47 facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Fully SR p.47 (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, Fully SR p.47, we consolidate data from our outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect S.Korea and Netherlands joint ventures for comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. economic and labor indices to comply with financial statements’ consolidation, but not for EHS data 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including Fully SR p.47 assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided Fully SR p.47 in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, Fully SR p.47, no significant changes occurred boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. during 2011 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Fully SR p.48-51 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance Fully SR p.47 for the report. 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under Fully SR p.10, AR p.30 & 32 the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an Fully Yes, refer to AR p.32. The Chairman and CEO executive officer. used to be represented by the same person; while establishing a modern corporate governance model, the roles were separated but the Chairman continues to be an executive officer for historical reasons. The Chairman’s executive function pertains to overview of strategy and high level company matters. 48 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number Fully AR p.32 of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/ or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendaFully SR p.17, AR p.42, CGP p.8-10 & p.19-20 tions or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governFully AR p.41 ance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts Fully CGP p.12-13, www.sandb.com/investor-relaof interest are avoided. tions/shareholders/shareholder-obligations 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members Fully Human Resources & Nomination Committee of the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy in AR p.33 on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, Fully SR p.12 and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organizaFully SR p.10, CGP p.15 on internal controls Includes oversight of tion's identification and management of economic, environmental, and UNGC Principles social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own perforFully CGP p.8, par. 2.4 on Effectiveness mance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or princiFully SR p.31 Principle 7 ple is addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, Fully SR p.12 Includes the UNGC principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or Principles endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or Fully SR p.17 Founding member of Helnational/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: lenic UNGC Network * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Fully SR p.17 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to Fully SR p.18 engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Fully SR p.17 engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Fully SR p.17-18 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. G3 DMA Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer/Explanation UN Global Compact Element addressed DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Partially AR p.10&12, AFR p.5, www.sandb.com/ Actions to implement about/strategy Principles 1,4,6 DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Partially SR p.14,31,39, AR p.38. Operational Actions to implement responsibility for environmental management Principles 7,8,9 is held by the Plant or Facility Managers and the Regional EHS Managers. The Group EHS Manager, reporting to the Group Sustainable Development Manager has a policy-making, consulting and monitoring role. DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA Partially SR p.19,20,22,25,28. Operational responsibilActions to implement ity is held by by Facility Managers and RegionPrinciples 1,3,6 al HR Managers for labor issues and by Facility Managers and Regional EHS Managers for health & safety. For the latter, the Group EHS Manager, reporting to the Group Sustainable Development Manager has a policy-making, consulting and monitoring role. DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Partially SR p.12,14,23. Operational responsibility is Actions ot implement held by Facility Managers and Regional HR Principles 1-6 Managers. DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Partially www.sandb.com/sustainability/society &/ Actions to implement local communities, SR p.9, 14. Operational Principle 10 responsibility is held by Facility Managers and Regional HR Managers. For closure planning it is held by Facility Managers and/or Local Affairs Managers. DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Partially http://www.sandb.com/sustainability/environActions to implement ment/product-responsibility, SR p.39 Principles 1&8 Economic Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer/Explanation Indicator EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, Partially SR p.41 operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. Fully AFR p.99, S&B has a defined contribution pension plan EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Fully AFR p.45 line “Government grants received”. No government grants were received in 2011. Sustainability Report 2011 49 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers Partially SR p.41 at significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired Fully SR p.19 Attract & Retain Outcomes from implefrom the local community at significant locations of operation. menting Principle 6 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services Fully SR p.41, 42 provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Environmental Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer/Explanation Indicator EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Fully Raw materials SR p.39 Outcomes from implementing Principles 8 & 9 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based prodPartially SR p.37 Actions to implement ucts and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of Principles 8 & 9 these initiatives. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully SR p.38 Outcomes from implementing Principle 8 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Partially SR p.38 Water Saving on Milos Outcomes from implementing Principle 8 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, proFully SR p.35 Protected areas Outcomes from impletected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. menting Principle 8 MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for production activities Fully SR p.32-33 Outcomes from impleor extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated. menting Principle 8 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Fully Greece in focus SR p.33 Outcomes from implementing Principle 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Partially SR p.36-37 Outcomes from implementing Principle 8 MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges and their Fully SR p.36 associated risks. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully no significant spills were recorded in 2011 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are Partially SR p.37 non-mineral waste Outcomes from implereclaimed by category. menting Principles 8 & 9 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Fully no significant fines or non-monetary sanctions Outcomes from implesanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. were imposed for non-compliance with envimenting Principle 8 ronmental laws and regulations during 2011 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Partially SR p.39 Actions taken and outcomes from implementing Principles 7-9 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer/Explanation Indicator LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. Fully SR p.20-21 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and Fully SR p.20-21 Outcomes from impleregion. menting Principle 6 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to tempoFully SR p.19, AR p.40 rary or part-time employees, by major operations. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, Partially Notice periods vary based on national laws Outcomes from impleincluding whether it is specified in collective agreements. and regulations to which S&B strictly adheres menting Principle 6 MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week's duration, by Fully No strikes or lockouts exceeding one week country. duration occurred in 2011 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Fully SR p.26 Outcomes from implenumber of work-related fatalities by region. menting Principle 1 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs Partially SR p.25 Safety Week Outcomes from implein place to assist workforce members, their families, or community menting Principle 1 members regarding serious diseases. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. Fully SR p.22,29 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Fully SR p.19 Reward development reviews. 50 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Fully SR p.21 Group Employee Distribution & Outcomes from implecategory according to gender, age group, minority group membership, Diversity menting Principles 1 and 6 and other indicators of diversity. Social: Human Rights Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer/Explanation Indicator HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Fully SR p.23 Actions taken and outcomes from implementing Principles 1,2 and 6 HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of associaPartially SR p.23 Actions taken and outtion and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions comes from implementing taken to support these rights. Principles 1,2 and 3 HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, Fully SR p.23 Actions taken to impleand measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. ment Principles 1,2 and 5 HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced Fully SR p.23 Actions taken to impleor compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of ment Principles 1,2 and 4 forced or compulsory labor. Social: Society Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer/Explanation Indicator MM6 Number and description of significant disputes relating to land use, Fully none in 2011 customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples. MM9 Sites where resettlements took place, the number of households resetFully none in 2011 tled in each, and how their livelihoods were affected in the process. MM10 Number and percentage of operations with closure plans. Fully none in 2011 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related Partially SR p.14 Outcomes from impleto corruption. menting Principle 10 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Fully no such incidents occurred in 2011 and no such Actions taken to implepending legal cases were concluded in 2011 ment Principle 10 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development Fully We participate in SR p.17, Biodiversity indicaActions taken to impleand lobbying. tors in the making in Biodiversity management Principle 1-10 ment in SR p.35 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, Fully none in 2011 and monopoly practices and their outcomes. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Fully no such claims were exercised in 2010 against sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. S&B at any of its operations, see AFR p.108 Social: Product Responsibility Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer/Explanation Indicator MM11 Programs and progress relating to materials stewardship. Fully SR p.39 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and Partially Products in SR p.39 Actions taken and outservices are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant comes from implementing products and services categories subject to such procedures. Principle 1 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Fully none in 2011 Outcomes from implevoluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and menting Principle 1 services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and Fully Products in SR p.39 Actions taken and outpercentage of significant products and services subject to such informacomes from implementing tion requirements. Principle 8 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and volunFully none in 2011 Outcomes from impletary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by menting Principle 9 type of outcomes. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Fully none in 2011 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of cusFully none in 2011 Outcomes from impletomer privacy and losses of customer data. menting Principle 1 PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and Fully none in 2011 regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Sustainability Report 2011 51 Please send any feedback to: Myrto Kontaxi, Group Corporate Social Responsibility & Communication Manager 15, A. Metaxa str. 145 64 Kifissia, P.O. Box 51528 tel. +30 210 6296292, -3 fax: +30 210 6296074 e-mail: csrcomm@sandb.com Design by 3 in a box S&B’s Sustainability Report is printed on Splendorgel E.W. paper, completely biodegradable and recyclable. It is certified by the Forest Stewardship Council FSC, acid free, heavy metal free. No elemental chlorine was used for its bleaching. 52 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A.
