Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact – 2011 Table of Contents This report documents Aastra’s Social Corporate Responsibility and describes the progress Aastra has made in initiatives directed at improving Statement of Continuing Support for the Global human rights, labour standards, environmental Compact impacts, business ethics and sustainability of its business within the communities in which Aastra operates worldwide. Human Rights Commitments Outcomes Future Commitments Labour Standard Commitments Outcomes Future Commitments Environment Commitments Outcomes Future Commitments Anti-Corruption Commitments Outcomes Future Commitments Aastra Technologies Ltd. 155 Snow Blvd. Concord, Ontario Canada, L4K 4N9 www.aastra.com Statement of Continuing Support for the Global Compact Since joining the UN Global Compact in March 2008, Aastra In 2011, Aastra started to promote the use of greener has reached a number of noteworthy accomplishments that technologies to its customers with an innovative marketing cement our commitment to corporate social responsibility. campaign, and in parallel increased its number of strategic partners with ISO 14001 certification as well those complying In 2008, Aastra launched its trademarked EthoSourcing® with its EthoSourcing® Program. Program which highlights Aastra’s innovative approach to sustainable and socially-responsible supply management. As we enter into 2012, Aastra is pleased to once again commit Aastra is not only constantly looking to improve the energy itself to the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect to efficiency of its products but is also evaluating the complete human rights, labour rights, the protection of the environment supply chain to ensure that every stage of production meets and anti-corruption. our high standards for social responsibility. With this Communication on Progress, we express our intent In 2009, Aastra launched its first Environmental Compliance to support and advance the principles that are within our Committee and published its first corporate “Social & sphere of influence. Environmental Compliance Strategy” document to further publicly demonstrate Aastra’s commitment to its social and environmental responsibilities. In 2010, Aastra's Environmental Compliance Committee released and implemented its first four Directives covering Europe's main regulations (ROHS, WEEE, REACH, and EcoDesign). In addition, Aastra increased its number of strategic Mr. Francis Shen partners complying with its EthoSourcing® Program. Chairman & Co-CEO 1 Human Rights 2011 HIGHLIGHTS Commitments In 2011, Aastra has increased the percentage of Aastra is committed to upholding the United Nations’ Universal strategic partners that have signed up to EthoSourcing® Declaration of Human Rights. As such, Aastra continues to from 86% to 91%. review and amend its internal Human Resource policies as 7 additional EthoSourcing® audits were conducted. well as its ethical sourcing practices which are guided by its Aastra started to collect and analyze monthly Key EthoSourcing® Program and based on the Electronic Industry Performance Indicators with some of its strategic Code of Conduct (EICC). partners in order to monitor more closely their EthoSourcing® compliance on a regular basis. Development was done on the Embedded Unified Messaging of Aastra 5000 call manager in order to cipher the messages stored, so that nobody can listen to the messages except the user. Together with its supply chain partners, and in support of On the product side, the increasing amounts of data held online the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, Aastra has by new technologies is endangering everyone’s freedom and committed itself to supporting youth in conflict-prone regions people are increasingly concerned about how their personal around the world and to encourage them to act as a symbol of information is used and shared. As such, Aastra is continuously unity in a world often divided by ethno-religious borders and to developing new technologies within its product portfolio find dignity, beauty and value in their differences as they inspire protecting privacy and personal data. others to do the same. Aastra is also committed to working with diverse and small suppliers to develop and retain a competitive advantage Outcomes while having a positive impact on regional development and All Aastra's strategic partners are encouraged to sign up to stimulating economic growth locally. Aastra’s EthoSourcing® Program ensuring that they comply to a wide range of assessment factors covering issues such as health & safety, wages and benefits, forced and child labour, harassment and abuse and non-discrimination as well as good environmental practices. Principle 1: The scope of Aastra’s EthoSourcing® Program now includes its Businesses should support and respect the protection Repairs Centers and ODM partners. of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Future Commitments Principle 2: Aastra will continue to support and respect the protection Businesses should make sure that they are not of internationally proclaimed human rights through the complicit in human rights abuses. regular review of its internal Human Resource policies and by expanding its EthoSourcing® Program to other supply chain partners while monitoring those that have already met the stringent EthoSourcing® standards. Aastra will continue to support humanitarian relief and development activities around the globe through its trusted partners. Aastra will further develop the Key Performance Indicators with its Strategic Partners related to their social responsibility including statistics related to employee overtime, training, injuries, and living conditions and will ensure that they regularly report on their performance in these areas. 2 Labour Standard Commitments Aastra is committed to supporting and contributing to the wellbeing of its employees and as such has developed wide ranging Human Resource policies that ensure that its employees are treated fairly and in accordance with internationally approved standards. As part of its Labour Standards, Aastra supports diversity: with a presence in approximately 30 countries, Aastra draws upon a wide range of local talent to manage its global operations. The workforce composition at Aastra's headquarters in Ontario reflects the diverse workforce of the city of Toronto. Aastra’s EthoSourcing® Program ensures that Aastra’s supply chain partners comply with minimum acceptable labour standards that are in line with the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct and other relevant industry standards. Thanks to its own technologies, Aastra has experienced a positive relation between work flexibility, productivity and employee's personal life balance. Aastra, using its own technologies, has developed a work environment allowing some of its employees the flexibility of working from various remote locations. As such, Aastra has become a prime example on how new communication devices and networks can modify today's workplace to positively correlate productivity with employees’ well balanced life. Principle 3: I am a European home based Senior Director, Businesses should uphold the freedom of association working as part of Aastra's Global Product and the recognition of the right to collective Provisioning Group. I am in constant use of bargaining; Aastra's high quality voice and video products to effectively do my job. From early-morning Principle 4: calls with our Asian suppliers to numerous conference and video calls throughout each Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms day and into the evenings with my European of forced and compulsory labour; and Canadian colleagues, I truly experience the benefits of both the technologies and Principle 5: flexible workplace that Aastra provides. I Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of am also a mother of two small children so child labour; and avoiding an office commute enables me a wonderful work/life balance that I am Principle 6: extremely grateful for. Businesses should uphold the elimination of A.S. discrimination in respect of employment and Senior Director occupation. Performance Measurement & Strategic Initiatives 3 Outcomes Future Commitments Through its EthoSourcing® Program the following labour Aastra will continue to assess and improve its labour practices standards were addressed: forced labour, child labour, working both internally and through its strategic supply chain in order hours, wages and benefits, humane treatment of employees, to meet and exceed established international labour standards. non-discrimination, freedom of association, health & safety, Aastra will continue to audit existing and new strategic supply occupational safety, emergency preparedness, occupational partners to ensure that they meet Aastra’s stringent Ethoinjury and illness, industrial hygiene, physically demanding Sourcing® Program assessment factors. work, machine safeguarding, and dormitory and canteen standards. Aastra will review its EthoSourcing® Code of Conduct in 2012, with the goal to assess if tighter expectations regarding labour standards can be achieved under current market conditions. EthoSourcing® certified partners plaque In a number of cases Aastra was instrumental in lobbying for better working conditions for the workers of some of its partners. In order to promote the EthoSourcing® Program's vision and commitment within each of their operations, Aastra formally presented certified partners with certification plaques as part of formal presentations made in front of their workers and staff. 2011 HIGHLIGHTS No major issues were found during the 7 EthoSourcing® audits conducted in 2011. In 2011, Aastra initiated breakfast meetings at Aastra France allowing the General Managers to spend time with employees in a casual atmosphere while candidly sharing information about the company. Held from time to time, breakfast meetings help to foster open communication by enabling employees to voice concerns, ask questions, and seek perspectives on a variety of topics. 4 Environment Commitments Aastra is very aware of the demands being placed on most businesses today as they are challenged to reduce green house gas emissions and energy costs. This is supported by increased regulations for businesses, both internally and for our customers, taxes and other expenses associated with environmental issues as well as growing expectations from the market place, customers and other stakeholders. At Aastra, we are continually researching ways in which to address this global issue and constantly striving to participate in lessening the environmental impact of our products and our operations. Principle 7: Aastra is committed to reduce its environmental impacts by Businesses should support a precautionary approach involving its supply chain partners and delivering solutions that to environmental challenges; help its customers reduce their environmental impacts. Quite often these efforts also make good business sense by reducing Principle 8: operating costs and business risks. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Outcomes through Aastra’s partners Aastra’s EthoSourcing® Code of Conduct has ensured that: Principle 9: Environmental Permits, Registrations and reporting are Businesses should encourage the development and obtained, maintained and kept current. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Wastes of all types are reduced or eliminated at the source or by practices such as modifying production, maintenance and facility processes, materials substitution, conservation, recycling and re-using materials where possible. Chemical and other materials posing a hazard if released to the environment are identified and managed to ensure their safe handling, movement, storage, recycling or reuse and disposal. 2011 HIGHLIGHTS Wastewater and solid waste generated from operations, 5 of the 8 strategic partners that committed themselves industrial processes and sanitation facilities are monitored, to start their application process for ISO 14001 controlled and treated as required prior to discharge or certification in 2011 have been successfully certified. disposal. 3 additional strategic partners are expected to be Air emissions of volatile organic chemicals, aerosols, certified in 2012. corrosives, particulates, ozone depleting chemicals and In 2011, Aastra increased to 88% the share of strategic combustion by-products generated from operations are to be characterized, monitored, controlled and treated as required partners who are ISO 14001 certified. prior to discharge. In 2011, not only did Aastra ensure its supply base uses Aastra’s Contract Manufacturing (CM) partners must adhere environmental friendly processes and technologies, to all applicable laws and regulations regarding prohibition Aastra also promoted the use of greener technologies or restriction of specific substances including labeling laws by its customers through a marketing campaign called and regulations for recycling and disposal. Aastra Green Me UP that was launched in France and Belgium. Aastra created a contest in those countries Aastra’s strategic CM partners are required to obtain all rewarding the oldest Aastra PBX owner with a brand environmental permits and registrations which are to be maintained and kept current with all operational and reporting new multimedia and environmental friendly gateway requirements. as well as a free refurbishment of the older platform. This was an opportunity to promote the use of greener Aastra’s strategic partners are required to obtain and maintain technologies in Aastra’s sphere of influence by creation a Quality Management System that is certified to meet the of a green portal, advertising, public relation campaign requirements set forth in the ISO 9001:2000 standards. They and social media broadcasting. must also meet the global environmental management standards and as such are expected to be ISO 14001 registered. 5 Outcomes through Aastra’s Products Aastra’s products are compliant with international directives such as ROHS and even go beyond them by making compliant products available in geographies where these directives are not required even when network infrastructure equipment could benefit from the “lead in solder” ROHS exemption. Aastra closely monitors standards and regulations relating to product toxicity and adheres to worldwide directives relating to the use of materials and potentially hazardous substances. This includes monitoring our direct activities and the activities in our supply chain. Since 2009, when Aastra launched its first Environmental Compliance Committee (ECC) to meet and exceed the requirements as set out in various environmental legislations, the Committee released a number of directives covering topics such as ROHS, WEEE, REACH and Eco-Design European 2011 HIGHLIGHTS regulations in order to ensure that Aastra is addressing these topics in a unified and consistent manner. Aastra has been successful in developing a new video communication portfolio. Video communication not Aastra is committed to taking practical steps to increase the only eases teleworking and improves productivity and efficiency of energy usage, services and processes and to personal life balance, it is also a very efficient means to meeting and exceeding global environmental standards. In reduce travel, and save the planet by reducing related all of the hardware that Aastra does produce our Research & CO2 emissions. Development teams are always looking for ways to: Aastra has pursued its strategy to “virtualize” its call Reduce the number of watts a user requires on Aastra’s manager applications with the MX-ONE portfolio. servers and handset terminals. Standby/sleep modes during The use of virtualization enables customers to reduce idle periods on handsets and desktops means less power is the number of physical servers leading to a global consumed per user. reduction of power consumption. Produce servers that occupy a smaller footprint, therefore With the new design of 6735/6737i SIP phones, Aastra requiring less lighting and cooling. decreased the power consumption of these phones Reduce power, raw materials and manufacturing by by 56%. These phones are no longer systematically developing applications rather than hardware. delivered with power adaptors in order to reduce the electronic wastes given the growing use of Power over Since 2010 Aastra: Ethernet by Aastra’s customers. Ensured that new circuit boards designed for digital By using an embedded PC server with the Aastra 400 phones included a sleep mode in order to save on energy solution, Aastra achieved the reduction of power consumption. consumption by 63% compared to using an external Increased its offering of server virtualization reducing the PC-based solution. need for physical servers. Aastra redesigned some interface cards for digital sets Developed “Soft only” products that have absolutely no used with the Aastra 5000 in order to support an idle impact on the environment. mode leading to a reduction of the power consumption of the system. Reduced the power consumption of some phones by changing their power category when adding new features. Aastra continued to introduce thermo-regulated fans in some of its PBX to reduce their power consumption. Aastra is also committed to: Using raw materials that reduce the use of harmful chemicals (plastic parts that are free of brominate and halogenated flame retardants). Improving its manufacturing process. Aastra aims to have Offering products that are easily recyclable (design more common components across products, e.g. Aastra’s incorporating an easier dismantling, plastic parts marked SIP phones now all share common components in the for recycling according to DIN standards, product packaging product design, thus reducing manufacturing and logistics that can be 100% recycled, non plastic materials which satisfy requirements. national recycling initiatives such as Germany’s “Green dot”). 6 Aastra has developed solutions that help its customers support their environmental and social responsibilities: The good news for Aastra’s customers is not only do these Teleworking provides a virtual office environment for an employee, wherever they are, at home or working off site. policies help protect our wellbeing Teleworking enables a reduction of commuting time which and planet: in most cases these results in time saved, reduced expenditures for fuel, car new approaches can help parking and maintenance; as well as supporting a reduction businesses save money and in the CO2 emissions by having fewer people on the roads. re-engineer the way we work to operate more efficiently The applications and solutions that form part of Aastra’s Unified Communications such as collaboration tools, multimedia contact centres, integrated mobility in and outside the office and videoconferencing lead to many benefits. For example, on top of improved efficiencies (time and cost savings), videoconferencing can replace travel reducing the carbon footprint generated by business Outcomes through its Internal Actions activities. In addition to its internal policies and programs at a group level, Aastra’s Remote Maintenance provides a business with a Aastra’s local operations are also proactive in implementing centralised solution to manage, maintain and resolve faults environmental initiatives. that may occur for both voice and data. This means that problems and faults can be rectified without the need for Some Aastra Business Units have obtained or are investigating technical staff to travel on most occasions. This reduces fuel, ISO 14001 certification which not only requires a formal parking and travel costs, as well as emissions on the roads. commitment to environmental and social protection and responsibilities; it also has support from senior management Aastra’s use of Power over Ethernet (PoE) in its products right down to frontline employees for continual improvement. reduces negative environmental impact during manufacturing, recycling, packaging and overall thermal dissipation Some Aastra Business Units have been making environmental by not having to use a power adaptor at each desktop. This declarations for all their products. The ECO declaration lists reduces cabling costs and benefits the manufacturing proenvironmental related standards, power consumption and cess. information for the recycling industry. Some Aastra Business Units have developed Environmental Aastra’s paper consumption, through the use of online Incentive Programs for customers that send back their marketing collateral, ordering systems and IP fax has been products for recycling. significantly reduced. Some Aastra Business Units invested in specific software tools that optimize paper consumption which enabled them to switch their postal mailing to an e-mailing solution. Some Aastra Business Units continued to release an internal 2011 HIGHLIGHTS Sustainable Development Newsletter in order to communicate their actions and incent their employees to develop behaviors The French Business Unit renewed its ISO 14001 that promote environmental sustainability. certification successfully. Some Aastra Business Units continued to develop transport A total of 8 internal Sustainable Development coordination plans to optimize employee transportation. Newsletters were released to incent employees Where possible, recycled goods are used for office stationery. to develop behaviors promoting environmental Teleworking is supported for our employees, giving people sustainability. the freedom to work from home, reducing carbon emissions Some of the Aastra Business Units implemented and fossil fuel use. bi-yearly environmental management reviews in Aastra’s regional distribution centres help to reduce shipping order to define and review their action plan toward and delivery distances and costs, thereby reducing emissions, environmental sustainability. travel and other related costs, in addition to providing shorter delivery time frames. 7 Anti-Corruption Commitments Aastra is committed to work against all forms of corruption and will continue to implement policies that address these issues. Outcomes Aastra has implemented detailed Business Conduct, Disclosure Policies and Conflict of Interest Guidelines for all staff to follow. As a Canadian public company, Aastra and its subsidiaries must comply with the Ontario Securities Commission National Instrument 52-109 (“NI 52-109”). Under NI 52-109, the Co-Chief Executive Officers and Chief Financial Officer of the Company must certify on a quarterly and annual basis that they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure Principle 10: controls and procedures and internal control over financial Businesses should work against corruption in all its reporting and that these controls have been evaluated for weaknesses which are disclosed in the Company’s Annual forms, including extortion and bribery. Management Discussion & Analysis. In order to allow the Co-CEOs and CFO to certify to the above, a control environment has been established at Aastra. This control environment has created an overall “tone at the top”, a set of guidelines as to conduct of employees, and a set of detailed key controls to  Intellectual Property – Intellectual property rights ensure that receipts and expenditures at Aastra are being (trademarks, copyrights, patents and trade secrets) are to made only in accordance with authorizations of Management. be respected; transfer of technology and know-how is to be Thus, the control environment attempts to prohibit employees’ done in a manner that protects intellectual property rights. and in turn, Aastra’s involvement in corruption, extortion or bribery. The control environment is tested at the detailed level  Fair Business, Advertising and Competition – Standards of by an internal audit team every year by visiting Aastra’s various fair business, advertising and competition are to be upheld. subsidiaries and sampling primary documents for compliance Means to safeguard Aastra’s classified information should with the key controls. be available. Additionally, Aastra has a Whistle-Blowing policy which is in  Protection of Identity – Programs that ensure the protection effect for its major operational units in order to augment its of supplier and employee whistle-blower confidentiality are internal control policies and procedures for reporting and to be maintained. addressing any misconduct within its organization.  Community and Global Engagement – Community and Through its EthoSourcing® Program, Aastra further requires its global engagement is encouraged to help foster social and strategic suppliers to uphold the highest standards of business economic development both locally and within the broader ethics including: global context. Aastra and its supply chain partners have historically been great contributors to social causes around  Business Integrity – The highest standards of integrity the world. are to be expected in all business interactions. Any and all forms of corruption, extortion and embezzlement are strictly prohibited resulting in immediate termination of the Future Commitments business relationship. Aastra will continue to review its anticorruption policies to  No Improper Advantage – Bribes or other means of ensure that they remain relevant. Aastra will continue to audit obtaining undue or improper advantage are not to be its strategic suppliers to ensure they conform to the strict offered or accepted. business ethics guidelines that form part of Aastra’s EthoSourcing® Program.  Disclosure of Information – Information regarding business activities, structure, financial situation and performance is Aastra will continue to implement its Whistle-Blowing policy to be disclosed in accordance with applicable regulations across its operational units. and prevailing industry practices. 8 About Aastra Aastra Technologies Limited (TSX: “AAH”), Aastra is entirely dedicated to enterprise is a leading company at the forefront of communications and offers one of the the enterprise communication market. most complete portfolios of unified Headquartered in Concord, Ontario, communications solutions individually Canada, Aastra develops and delivers tailored to satisfy its customers’ innovative communications products requirements. These range from and applications for businesses. With a feature-rich call managers for small and strong focus on open standards, Aastra medium businesses and highly scalable enables enterprises to communicate ones for large enterprises, associated and collaborate more efficiently. Aastra’s UC applications, integrated mobility, operations are truly global with more multimedia call center solutions and than 50 million installed lines around high definition video communications the world and a direct and indirect to a wide selection of deskphones and presence in more than 100 countries. cordless terminals. For additional information on Aastra, visit our website at: www.aastra.com Aastra Technologies 155 Snow Blvd. Concord, Ont., L4K 4N9 Canada T 1 905 760 4200 Rev. 15.02.12 F 1 905 760 4233 www.aastra.com Copyright © 2012 Aastra Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved. Information in this document is subject to change without notice. Aastra assumes no responsibility for any errors that may appear in this document.
