Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 01 Contents Citizenship at Microsoft Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report 3 Serving communities 14 Creating opportunities for youth 46 Our people 85 Reporting year 4 Working responsibly 15 Empowering youth through 47 Compensation and benefits 85 Scope 4 Citizenship governance education and technology 48 Diversity and inclusion 85 Additional reporting 5 Setting priorities and 16 Inspiring young imaginations 50 Training and development 85 Feedback stakeholder engagement 18 Realizing potential with new skills 51 Health and safety 86 United Nations Global Compact 5 External frameworks 20 Supporting youth-focused nonprofits 53 Environment 6 FY12 highlights and achievements 54 Impact of our operations 23 Empowering nonprofits 58 Technology for the environment 24 Donating software to nonprofits Our Company worldwide 61 Human rights 26 Providing hardware to more people 62 Affirming our commitment 28 Sharing knowledge to build capacity 64 Privacy and data security 8 Our business 28 Solutions in action 65 Online safety 8 Where we are 67 Freedom of expression 8 Engaging our customers 31 Employee giving and partners 32 Helping employees make 69 Responsible sourcing 10 Our products a difference 71 Hardware production 11 Investing in innovation 73 Conflict minerals 36 Humanitarian response 74 Expanding our efforts 37 Providing assistance in times of need 76 Governance 40 Accessibility 77 Corporate governance 41 Empowering people with disabilities 79 Maintaining strong practices and performance 42 Engaging students with special needs 80 Public policy engagement 44 Improving seniors’ well-being 83 Compliance Cover: Participants at the 2012 Imagine Cup, Sydney, Australia. Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report To our stakeholders, I’m proud of the generosity of our employees. In October 2012 we are marking our company’s 30th Employee Giving Campaign, whereby the company matches the We’ve always believed that technology creates opportunities for people and financial and volunteer contributions of our employees. Through this campaign, organizations to realize their full potential. This belief inspires us to deliver Microsoft and its employees gave nearly $100 million in FY12, and in FY13, we are new technology that unleashes creativity, productivity, and opportunity for on track to bring the total to $1 billion since 1983. more and more people around the world. Beyond direct service to the community, we made significant strides in the areas This report describes our citizenship work in fiscal year (FY) 2012 and shares our of human rights and environmental sustainability. We consulted with businesses, vision for what’s to come. Together with our annual financial report, it provides government and other key stakeholders to develop a human rights statement a full accounting of our fiscal and citizenship priorities and performance. that brings together long-standing policies on issues such as privacy, security, free The full scope of our citizenship activities includes serving communities, champiexpression and labor rights. And, we exceeded our goal to cut carbon emissions oning the growth of our people, and advancing our commitment to responsible by 30 percent compared with 2007, due in part to the 1.1 billion kilowatt hours business policies and practices. In particular, we are increasing our focus on of green power we purchased, the third most of any US company. young people in order to help more and more youth reach their dreams. Being a leader in corporate citizenship, we recognize there’s always more we Though we live in a time of tremendous opportunity, there’s a growing divide can do. Our endorsement of the United Nations Global Compact drives us to between young people with the chance to succeed and those without. To help close continually improve our business practices and increase our accountability. this gap and ensure a prosperous future, we are launching Microsoft YouthSpark, I’m confident that in this coming year we will continue to create value for a bold initiative to connect hundreds of millions of youth with opportunities for our business as well as the communities and people we touch through our education, employment and entrepreneurship. In partnership with governments, citizenship activities. Thank you for your interest in Microsoft. We welcome nonprofit organizations and businesses, we’re helping the next generation use your thoughts and suggestions. technology to make a real impact for a better tomorrow. Sincerely, For the first time ever, we are now dedicating the majority of our cash donations to organizations that help young people. And, through our Technology for Good program, we provided more than 62,000 nonprofits in more than 100 countries with affordable access to technology to better serve their communities. Steven A. Ballmer CEO, Microsoft Corp. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 1 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Citizenship at Microsoft Our citizenship mission is to serve globally the needs of communities and fulfill our responsibilities to the public. Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Since the release of our first product in 1975, we’ve demonstrated “It takes more than the promise of computing to change the world. But as we’ve grown as a company, so have the world’s social and environmental a great product challenges. We’re responding by applying our technology, ingenuity, and collaborative spirit to help solve these critical challenges and to make a great create fulfilling and exciting opportunities for people everywhere. company.” We focus our commitment to corporate citizenship in two ways: serving communities around the world and working responsibly in our own business. Bill Gates, Chairman Serving communities We’re active members of the communities everywhere we do business. We use our skills, technology, and other resources to serve the people in these communities—from supporting disaster relief efforts to connecting nonprofits with the tools they need to run efficiently. Creating opportunities for youth is the backbone of our community work. By making technology more accessible and creating programs to inspire and empower young people, we’re helping a new generation of innovators build the skills and education they need to prosper. As we work to bridge the opportunity divide that separates youth who have opportunities from those who don’t, we help young people secure their individual futures and also the future of our global economy. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 3 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Working responsibly Citizenship governance Good corporate citizenship starts at home. To meet our responsibilities Our board of directors assumes overall governance responsibilities as a global company, we’re continually working to create a respectful for citizenship at Microsoft. Through most of FY12, the board’s and rewarding work environment for our 94,000 employees. Governance and Nominating committee handled oversight of all citizenship and public policy issues. As FY12 drew to a close, however, We’re also taking steps to reduce the environmental impact of our the board shifted citizenship governance to its new Regulatory and operations while partnering with industry colleagues and leading Public Policy committee, which is charged with overseeing public nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) to elevate standards across issues that may affect the company’s operations or performance in the supply chain. And with the release of our Global Human Rights areas like human rights, climate change, and responsible sourcing. Statement, we affirmed our commitment to respecting fundamental rights and freedoms throughout our business practices. Our Citizenship and Public Affairs team manages our overall citizenship initiative, including stakeholder engagement. Part of our Legal and Corporate Affairs department, the 30-person team is responsible for driving new citizenship programs and engaging with colleagues and partners to keep our citizenship work vibrant. More broadly, citizenship at Microsoft relies on the combined efforts of all our employees, including colleagues in dozens of other leadership roles, business and operational groups, and global subsidiaries. Together, they help us identify the issues that are most material to Microsoft’s business, develop and implement new strategies and programs, and monitor our progress. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 4 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Setting priorities and stakeholder engagement External frameworks We regularly communicate with thousands of stakeholders from To guide our work, we consult international frameworks such as the global human rights experts and environmental NGOs to parents Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, concerned about their children’s safety and education. Those the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human conversations help inform and guide our citizenship strategies Rights, and the UN Global Compact. This report serves as the and programs. Communication on Progress of our commitment to the UN Global Compact (see index on page 86). Our stakeholder engagement takes several forms. Employees from our business and operational groups regularly identify and engage with stakeholders in the course of their daily work activities. Our Citizenship and Public Affairs team also manages a number ers Emp m loy of stakeholder engagements and external relationships to help usto ee guide our strategies. C s We connect with leading thinkers on corporate responsibility issues as participants in groups such as Business for Social Responsibility Shareholders (BSR), the Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship, the Our Suppliers Clinton Global Initiative, Net Impact, and the World Economic Forum. In partnership with our colleagues in corporate governance and stakeholder investor relations, we discuss environmental, social, and governance groups issues twice a year with our largest institutional investors. We also listen to advocacy groups, socially responsible investors, corporate responsibility rating agencies, and our own employees Pa C to identify new and emerging citizenship issues. s i nitie es r tn e it mu rs m un om Com Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 5 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report FY12 highlights and achievements $900 Million $100 Million Gave more than $900 million Nearly $100 million contributed in cash and software to through our employee giving nonprofits worldwide and company match program 62,200 120 Helping Employee Nonprofits Countries Youth Investment Donated software to 62,200 Reached 120 countries through Decided—on a go-forward Made the company’s biggestnonprofits worldwide our philanthropy programs basis—to give the majority of ever investment in overall our cash contributions to employee compensation nonprofits that help young people around the world Reduced Carbon Human 100% of by 30% Neutrality Rights Suppliers Met our goal to reduce carbon Set goal to achieve companyReleased our Global Human Required 100% of suppliers to emissions by 30% per unit of wide carbon neutrality by the Rights Statement to communiabide by our revised Vendor revenue compared with 2007 end of FY13 cate our policies and practices Code of Conduct Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 6 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Our Company Our company mission is to help people and businesses throughout the world realize their full potential. Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Our business Engaging our customers and partners Microsoft Corporation (NASDAQ: MSFT) is the worldwide leader Our success depends on creating new and compelling products and in software, services, and solutions that help people and businesses services, while building strong relationships with our customers and realize their full potential. We’re committed to sharing our successes partners. We keep in touch through online feedback forms, support with our employees, our shareholders, and the communities in communities, product satisfaction surveys, usability studies, research which we operate. We approach that commitment with the same forums, and our customer service Twitter account, @MicrosoftHelps. energy and innovation we bring to all parts of our business. The insights we gain help us understand and respond to our customers’ and partners’ experiences. We also use information drawn from global customer and partner satisfaction surveys as a measurement for Where we are employee, executive, and regional performance. Headquartered in Redmond, Washington, Microsoft employed Our partners—approximately 640,000 mostly small to medium-size approximately 94,000 people on a full-time basis in more than local businesses around the world—develop, market, sell, and service 100 countries/regions and territories in FY12. Approximately 55,000 Microsoft products, supporting millions of jobs and contributing to employees were based in the United States, and 39,000 were based local and global economic growth. in other countries. To learn more about how we connect with customers and partners or to provide feedback, please visit the Microsoft Customer and Partner Experience website. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 8 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report $73.7B Revenue by business division $69.94B FY12 FY11 BUSINESS STRUCTURE FY10 FY11 FY12 $62.48B FY10 Windows® and Windows Live® $19.49B $19.03B $18.37B Windows 7 and prior versions of the Windows operating system, Windows Live suite of applications and web services, Microsoft PC hardware products Server and Tools $15.38B $17.10B $18.67B Windows Server® operating systems, Windows Azure™, Microsoft SQL Server®, SQL Azure™, Windows Intune™, Windows Embedded, Microsoft Visual Studio®, Microsoft Silverlight®, Microsoft System Center products, Microsoft Consulting Services, Premier product support services Online Services $2.2B $2.53B $2.87B Bing, MSN, adCenter, Atlas online tools for advertisers Entertainment and Devices $6.17B $8.91B $9.59B Xbox 360® gaming and entertainment console, Kinect™ for Xbox 360, Xbox 360 video games, Xbox 360 accessories, Revenue Xbox LIVE®, Microsoft Mediaroom®, Windows Phone Microsoft Business $22.19B $19.08B $23.99B Microsoft Office, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft $2.69 SharePoint®, Microsoft Lync™, Microsoft Dynamics® ERP $27.16B FY11 and CRM solutions, and Office Web Apps, which are the $24.1B FY11 $2.10 online companions to Microsoft Word, Excel®, PowerPoint®, FY10 $21.8B $2.00 and OneNote® FY12 FY10 FY12 For detailed financial information, see the Microsoft annual financial report. Operating income Earnings per share Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 9 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Our products Examples of our cloud-based computing services include: • Microsoft Office 365, an online suite that enables people to work Our products include operating systems for personal computers (PCs), from virtually anywhere, at any time, through simple collaboration servers, phones, and other intelligent devices; server applications and communication solutions, including Microsoft Office, Exchange, for distributed computing environments; productivity applications; SharePoint, and Lync. business solution applications; desktop and server management tools; software development tools; video games; and online advertising. • Xbox LIVE service, which enables online gaming, social We also design and sell hardware including the Xbox 360 gaming and networking, and access to a wide range of video, gaming, entertainment console, Kinect for Xbox 360, Xbox 360 accessories, and entertainment content. and Microsoft PC hardware products. • Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, which provides solutions for sales, service, and marketing professionals through a familiar Beyond our product portfolio, we offer consulting, product, and Microsoft Outlook interface. solution support services. We also train and certify computer system integrators and developers. Our cloud-based solutions • Bing, our Internet search engine, which finds and organizes provide customers with software, services, and content through the answers people need so they can make faster, more the Internet. Revenue from these technologies mainly flows informed decisions. from usage fees and advertising. • Skype, which allows users to connect with friends, family, clients, and colleagues through a variety of devices. • The Azure family of platform and database services, which helps developers connect applications and services in the cloud or onsite. These services include Windows Azure, a scalable operating system with computing, storage, hosting, and management capabilities, and Microsoft SQL Azure, a relational database. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 10 to the work we do at our headquarters in Redmond, Washington. Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Investing in innovation Canada England In FY12, we invested $9.8 billion in research and development— equal to 13 percent of revenue—focused primarily on product Ireland Denmark United States China development. To stay competitive, we make strategic, long-term investments in research and development across a broad array of technologies, tools, and platforms spanning communication and India Israel collaboration, information access and organization, entertainment, business and e-commerce, advertising, and devices. To drive future growth, we focus our efforts on: • Initiating and embracing disruptive technology trends • Entering new product and geographic markets • Inspiring broad adoption of our products and services Innovating locally to compete globally Research and development teams around the The people who power our innovations drive our success. We world add insight and talent to the work we do compete for talented employees from universities and private at our headquarters in Redmond, Washington. companies by offering broad customer reach, a wealth of Research and development resources, and competitive compensation. R&D FY10 FY11 FY12 We also collaborate with top universities through Microsoft Spending $8.71B $9.04B $9.8B Research—one of the world’s largest computer science research organizations—to advance the state of the art in computer science. Spending as % of Revenue 14% 13% 13% More information about Microsoft investment in research and development is available in our FY12 10-K filing. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 11 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report We fund research at both the corporate and business-segment levels to spark innovation and maintain momentum. When innovations prove successful in individual segments, we share them throughout the company. This way, we capture their full value. We develop some of our products internally, while others result from partnerships, alliances, and acquisitions. We draw insight from key technology trends and a long-term research plan to focus our innovation efforts on the following areas. Communications Smart, connected devices and productivity Cloud computing As people use more and more Running an efficient business requires Successful companies focus on key devices to access digital information a clear view of all information business goals—not managing data and online services, they need richer exchanges—no matter their type. storage. We’re advancing cloud comsoftware platforms and applications We’re advancing productivity and puting infrastructure, platforms, and to power their experiences. We’re communications in the office with applications to help businesses of all combining smart, connected devices software developments that unify sizes focus their attention at the points with cloud computing to seamlessly key tasks, such as communications, of greatest impact. connect devices and transform the collaboration, business intelligence, Related offerings user experience. content management, and relationship Microsoft Dynamics Online, management. Related offerings Microsoft SQL Azure, Office 365, Windows Phone, Xbox 360, Surface, Related offerings Windows Azure, Windows Intune, SkyDrive, Xbox LIVE, Bing, Skype, and Dynamics, Exchange, Lync, Office, Office and Windows Server Windows Azure cloud platform 365, SharePoint, Skype, Windows Phone, and Windows Live Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 12 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Serving Communities We’re helping create a better future for young people and fostering healthier, more vibrant communities worldwide. 14 Creating opportunities for youth 36 Humanitarian response 23 Empowering nonprofits 40 Accessibility 31 Employee giving Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Creating opportunities for youth Today’s youth are tomorrow’s leaders, In this section Empowering youth through innovators, and entrepreneurs. Through education and technology Inspiring young imaginations our Microsoft YouthSpark initiative, we’re Realizing potential with new skills Supporting youth-focused nonprofits connecting hundreds of millions of young FY12 performance and FY13 commitments people to opportunities for education, employment, and entrepreneurship. 600,000 $1 million Students connected through In Imagine Cup grants to help Skype in the classroom students launch their ideas Free software for students and A faster, more accurate way teachers through Office 365 to diagnose malaria from one for education Imagine Cup team Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 14 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Empowering youth through education “Youth empowerment and technology starts with access, but it For young people, success in a highly competitive job market doesn’t end there. We requires direct access to technology and relevant skills, as well as a supportive community of educators, leaders, and nonprofits. By must also inspire young connecting youth to the resources they need, we can help them create more opportunities for themselves, their communities, and people to envision a better the world, and ultimately make a real impact for a better tomorrow. tomorrow and connect • Provided access to relevant and affordable education technologies to 7 million young people worldwide through our Shape the them with opportunities Future program. to realize their dreams.” • Shared new learning approaches with 217 million teachers and students in 119 countries to date through our Partners in Brad Smith, Executive Vice President and General Counsel Learning program. • Advanced learning and collaboration among students and teachers around the world through free access to Office 365 A glaring opportunity divide separates young people who have for education. the access, skills, and chance to succeed from those who don’t. We believe we can and must help close this gap. Improving access • Connected 20,000 teachers and 600,000 students to a global to technology, skills, and opportunities is the central focus of our community of other classrooms and guest speakers through Microsoft YouthSpark initiative. We’re using technology to make Skype in the classroom. it easier to find and take advantage of learning opportunities, • Equipped students with the technology skills they need and we’re delivering real-life experiences that equip youth for to succeed in today’s evolving workplace at the Microsoft IT a successful future. Academy—a career-ready education program operating in 160 countries. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 15 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Inspiring young imaginations Expression and collaboration are vital to helping young people grow skills and develop ideas that make a real impact. Encouraging young people through events and online communities can lead to innovation and better career opportunities in the future. • Brought together more than 350,000 students from more than 260 regions and countries to participate in the 2012 Imagine Cup—the world’s largest student technology competition. • Supplied high school and college students, teachers, and schools with innovative designer and web developer tools through Microsoft DreamSpark. • Awarded the 2011 Kodu Game Lab Cup to 10-year-old Hanna Wyman, whose game, Toxic, involved collecting coins and zapping pollution clouds to save the environment. Her innovative idea led to a meeting with President Obama in February 2012. • Helped students adapt their ideas to real-world scenarios by providing selected Imagine Cup teams with $1 million in cash, technology, consulting, and other support. Student technology teams bring their ideas to life through Imagine Cup competitions worldwide. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 16 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Saving children’s lives with a Windows phone Sometimes a mosquito bite is just an itchy bump. Sometimes it’s the symptom of something far more deadly. In sub-Saharan Africa, Asia, and parts of the Americas, mosquitoes often carry malaria, a potentially fatal disease that takes the lives of more than 1 million people per year—85 percent of them children under the age of five. One team that competed in the Microsoft Imagine Cup technology competition believes it can save children’s lives by diagnosing malaria faster and more accurately, increasing detection rates, and ensuring medication is distributed correctly. The current malaria test uses a chemically treated cotton swab to diagnose an infection. But the test has a false positive rate as high as 60 percent, leading health care workers to distribute precious medication to patients who don’t need it. A new solution called Lifelens provides a more accurate diagnosis using high-resolution images. The concept is simple: a semi-spherical lens is attached to a Windows phone, enabling the phone to take pictures of cells from blood smears. The parasite is then detected using an algorithm. The test is 94 percent accurate and 40 percent cheaper than traditional tests. What’s more, Lifelens automatically collects and stores data so it can be transferred to a centralized server that aggregates the information to identify outbreaks before they become serious. Lifelens can be used by anyone who has the ability to operate a cell phone, lowering or eliminating training costs, and enabling testing to reach—and save—more children. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 17 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Realizing potential with new skills Microsoft Innovation Centers are state-of-the-art technology Students need the opportunity to put skills and training into facilities that give youth advanced practice. To build the foundation for future growth, we partner skills and real-world connections with industry and government leaders to match skilled youth to help find jobs and become technology entrepreneurs. with employment and entrepreneurship opportunities. • Accelerated career opportunities for students through free access to state-of-the-art technology facilities at more than 90 Microsoft Innovation Centers in 44 countries. • Brought career opportunities to more than 110,000 students in 69 countries by developing and reinforcing skills through the Microsoft Students to Business program. We’re launching new business • Helped young entrepreneurs launch new businesses by providing and entrepreneurial skills training access to software development tools, industry connections, and in a collaborative effort with industry leaders and nonprofit investors through Microsoft BizSpark. organizations, including Accenture, International Youth Foundation, and Telecentre Europe. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 18 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Inspiring young Arab innovators “People are full of potential,” says Mostafa Nageeb, the young CEO of a growing startup. “They are just looking for the opportunity and support to unleash their potential.” That’s exactly what Innovate for Good gatherings are all about— helping youth take charge of the future by bringing them together to collaborate, inspire, and support one another. At a 2012 event, Nageeb and more than 220 other young people from 11 Arab countries came together to identify needs in their local communities. Student innovators showcased how they used Microsoft technology and programs to help change their communities for the better. Others delivered speeches tackling challenging issues related to the Arab Spring, the image of Arab youth, the potential of e-governance, and the pressing need for community service. Nageeb talked about Ekshef, his online social directory that helps people in Arab countries find the doctors with the expertise they need, and book appointments online in minutes. “Access to health care information is a basic right,” he says. “However, it doesn’t exist in many parts of the Arab region, including Egypt.” Another participant, Manal Elattir from Morocco, founded Anarouz Social Enterprise, an organization that promotes empowerment and entrepreneurship for women through market access and technology. On the final day of the conference, participant groups each designed a work plan for a project serving some aspect of their community. “Innovate for Good is a great empowerment to people,” Nageeb says. “I saw great examples of Arab youth who are changing the world through their ideas, efforts, and innovation.” Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 19 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Supporting youth-focused nonprofits Beyond education, inspiration, and connections, young people need social services and better assistance to contribute at a higher level. We’re empowering youth-focused programs and services, and connecting students, nonprofits, and donors that share similar goals. • Decided to dedicate the majority of our cash contributions to nonprofits that serve the youth population (ages 6–24). • Improved social services through an enhanced software donation program. In FY13, the Microsoft software donation program will reach more youth-focused nonprofit organizations than ever before. • Built a one-of-a-kind micro-giving portal—Give for Youth— to amplify fundraising for youth causes around the world. Read more about our donations to nonprofit organizations in the Empowering nonprofits section. Microsoft provides resources and support to help nonprofits connect more young people with opportunities to succeed. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 20 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Creating the next generation of tech leaders If computer science is one of the fastest growing and most lucrative career paths, why are so few US high school students— less than 0.6 percent of all students who took Advanced Placement tests in 2011—choosing to take a computer science class? Kevin Wang, a former teacher and current Microsoft employee, believes limited availability, not lack of interest, is at the root of the problem. “There’s just a huge black hole in computer science,” Wang says. “I started teaching first-period computer science at a local school on the way to work. Word got around, and schools wanted clones of me to start computer science programs at their schools.” That’s why Wang founded Technology Education and Literacy in Schools (TEALS), a program that trains, mentors, and places hightech professionals from companies like Microsoft as volunteer computer science teachers. The program’s team-teaching model also trains existing faculty, so they can continue teaching the courses on their own. What started as a one-school, one-volunteer program with 12 students is now expected to impact more than 2,000 high school students in 37 schools across eight states in the 2012–13 school year. “It is so incredibly important for high school students to be exposed to computer science—just like biology, chemistry, and physics— before college,” Wang explains. “Not everyone will become a computer scientist, but everyone should have the chance to learn Photo courtesy of Todd Bishop, GeekWire about computer science in high school no matter where they choose to go in life.” Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 21 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Creating opportunities for youth FY12 performance highlights Our commitments for FY13 include Goal: Reach 250 million students and teachers across 115 countries • Empowering 100 million youth to imagine and realize their full potential and regions through Partners in Learning, a 10-year, nearly $500 million by connecting them with greater opportunities for education, employment, commitment we’ve made to help education systems. and entrepreneurship through Microsoft YouthSpark, which partners with To date, we’ve trained nearly 11 million teachers and school leaders, and reached governments, nonprofit organizations, and businesses around the world approximately 207 million students in 119 countries. We’re on track to reach our goal of 250 million by 2013. • Launching the Microsoft YouthSpark Hub—an online space where young people can explore and access all the services, programs, and resources provided by Microsoft and our partners for education, skills, employment, Goal: Increase access to quality 21st-century education through partnerships and entrepreneurship with governments worldwide. We collaborated with governments through our Shape the Future program • Launching Give for Youth, a micro-giving portal that helps individuals fund to create solutions that connected more than 7 million people globally with and follow the aspirations of youth around the world relevant and affordable education technologies. • Ongoing development of Innovate for Good, a global online community of Goal: Improve teaching practices and educational outcomes in developing youth dedicated to using technology to make a difference in their communities countries through partnerships with NGOs. As an example, through our work with the British Council, we helped ministries of education and stakeholders equip schools in six African countries (Ghana, Nigeria, Uganda, Ethiopia, Kenya, and Tanzania) with nearly 100 digital Windows MultiPoint server hubs that serve as ICT training centers for local teachers and students. See GRI Index for more Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 22 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Empowering nonprofits Technology can help nonprofits reach people In this section Donating software to nonprofits and places faster. Providing software, hardware, worldwide Providing hardware to more people and training services to organizations that serve Sharing knowledge to build capacity Solutions in action communities is an effective way to create impact FY12 performance and FY13 commitments around the world. $6.5 billion $804 $99.6 million million Cash, services, and software given to tens of thousands of nonprofits around the world since 1983 Software donated to 62,200+ Cash donated to nonprofits nonprofit organizations Helping nonprofits serve their communities Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 23 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Effecting change requires practical tools. Powerful software can “Nonprofits need powerful connect nonprofits with people and places both near and far, while also boosting fundraising, improving organization, and tools to transform passion helping demonstrate results to stakeholders. By providing access to software, hardware, and training services to nonprofits—and into progress. Modern those they serve—we’re helping transform lives around the world. productivity, communicaDonating software to nonprofits worldwide tion, and collaboration Software can help nonprofits overcome obstacles and improve solutions help people drive their service to communities. That’s why we donate hundreds of millions of dollars in software each year to nonprofits through social change where it’s our Technology for Good program. needed most.” • Donated software to 33 percent more nonprofits in FY12, reaching more than 62,200. Kurt DelBene, President, Microsoft Office Division • Increased awareness of our software donation program through “What’s your cause?”—a campaign to spread the word to eligible nonprofits. • Improved access to donated software for nonprofits, cutting restrictions on application timing and number of maximum requests, and expanding eligibility criteria. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 24 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Future engineers build their first robots Gina Triolo was in elementary school when she first saw the Miss Daisy team robot battling on the playing field. Designed and built by students from Wissahickon High School in Ambler, Pennsylvania, the robot was locked in a high-stakes, goal-scoring clash with other robots from around the country in a FIRST® Robotics Competition. Inspired, Gina told her parents she would one day join the Miss Daisy team. Nine years later, she had not only competed with the team, but graduated as team captain. “She went from a third grader that didn’t really understand the competition at all to studying computer science at Princeton,” said Alan Ostrow, Miss Daisy’s head coach. “And she interned at Microsoft the last two summers.” Gina is one of thousands of students inspired by FIRST, a nonprofit that organizes robot competitions around the world. The contest— which gives high school teams six weeks to design and assemble a sport-playing robot—builds students’ confidence, knowledge, and life skills while motivating them to pursue career opportunities in science and technology. Microsoft donated more than 2,400 Xbox 360 Kinect Sensors to the nonprofit in 2012. “Kids learn all kinds of useful skills, but they also become personally invested in the project,” said former team member Jared Russell, who’s now a robotics researcher at Lockheed Martin and a mentor for current students. “We’re not trying to build engineers straight out of high school. We’re developing kids’ interests and skills so they want to become engineers in the future.” Photo courtesy of Team 341 Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 25 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Providing hardware to more people “Microsoft has been a true partner Access to a PC can change a person’s life—creating direct in this field. They were there at connections to education and employment. We’ve made the beginning, helping foster the PCs available to people who otherwise couldn’t afford them. community, programs, and services • Gave families access to refurbished laptops for only $150 through that we deliver. Today, they are still the US Federal Communications Commission’s GoodPC program. here, helping NTEN and the field • Provided refurbished PCs to UK citizens receiving certain redefine the next stage of our work.” government benefits and nonprofits for only £99 through Get Online @ Home, created in partnership with the UK Holly Ross, Executive Director, NTEN Government Digital Inclusion program. 978 • Sponsored the International Computer Refurbisher Summit, an annual meeting that brings refurbishers together to share knowledge. • Enabled members of the Computers for Youth Affiliate Network to tell their stories by providing consumer video cameras. Nonprofits worldwide enrolled in the refurbished PC program in FY12 Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 26 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report $949M FY11 62,231 $904M FY12 FY12 4.05% FY12 3.48% 46,886 FY11 43,650 FY11 3.20% $603M FY10 FY10 FY10 Nonprofit recipients Giving as percentage of software donation of pre-tax profits Software supplied to nonprofits2 Region Windows Office Asia Pacific 28,040 17,490 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 78,930 26,220 $504M $844M $804M Software1 Latin America 23,040 700 North America 414,290 97,610 $99M $105M $99.6M Cash Total 544,300 142,020 Global giving 1 As of FY11, data includes employee in-kind giving of software. 2 Various versions of Windows and Office were supplied, depending on the type of refurbished hardware. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 27 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Sharing knowledge to build capacity Solutions in action To complement our technology donations, we meet with nonprofits all Our technology can provide a measurable gain in the type and around the world and share knowledge that can advance their work. scope of change nonprofits bring to the communities they serve. • Collaborated with nonprofits by hosting more than 100 NGO • Helped organizations increase employee and donor motivation Connection Days, attended by more than 6,000 NGOs and through Local Impact Maps, compelling visual displays of com12,800 individuals. munity investments and results shown on a new platform based on Bing Maps and Windows Azure. • Educated 1,300 NGO staff on how to get the most value from donated software via webinars conducted with TechSoup, with • Improved the delivery of humanitarian aid to the world’s poor 94 percent stating they learned new skills and ideas. in some of the most remote areas by implementing Office 365 for Concern Worldwide. • Presented nine Social Media for Nonprofits (SM4NP) conferences in the United States, with attendance reaching more than 2,400 • Provided web and technology expertise to champion antithrough partnership with SM4NP and the Nonprofit Technology corruption, rule-of-law, and transparency websites in Romania Network (NTEN). through RestartRomania—an initiative that develops web-based solutions to address offline issues. This partnership between the US Embassy and TechSoup generated more than 2,000 user profiles, 65,000 unique visits, and 220,000 hits. • Advanced operational efficiency at KEXP Seattle, a nonprofit arts organization and radio station, including powering donor management and capital campaign processes through Microsoft customer relationship management software, and promoting collaboration through the cloud via Office 365. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 28 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Joining forces for kids and families Social innovation increasingly requires social enterprises to collaborate with multiple partners. Developing and sustaining multifaceted relationships with government, corporate partners, and philanthropic funders often requires an initial leap of faith from both not-for-profits and businesses. But the benefits can extend way beyond traditional ROI measures. Plunket is one of New Zealand’s most trusted brands. We’ve been careful to refine our model in terms of building enduring corporate alliances, limiting the number of business partners we align ourselves with. We also have a history of adapting technology to improve health Jenny Prince, CEO outcomes for children and families. Microsoft’s initial multimillionRoyal New Zealand Plunket Society dollar software and services grant in 2008–09 acted as a catalyst for Plunket provides well-child services Plunket to better use technology as a key enabler. to New Zealand children from birth through age five, serving more than 91 Two years ago, we embarked on our biggest-ever project. PlunketPlus percent of the babies born in the country. is a clinically led, technology-based systems development that’s also a world first—a single, interoperable electronic health record for children and families, allowing Plunket Nurses to share key health data in real time with other health professionals and social services. The fit between Plunket and Microsoft is a strong one. With the assistance of key Microsoft people, from Redmond to Singapore and here in New Zealand, we’ve been able to maximize the benefits of this support. It’s a partnership that’s capable of delivering beyond everyone’s expectations, with real potential to scale beyond New Zealand to improve the health and well-being of children and families in other countries. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 29 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Empowering nonprofits FY12 performance highlights Our commitments for FY13 include Goal: Make it easier for nonprofits to participate in our software donation • Expanding the reach of our software donation programs program and provide increased support to help them make the most of the technology. • Increasing the availability of our nonprofit cloud programs and services With the help of our software program partner, TechSoup Global, we for nonprofits introduced a simplified donation process, increased eligibility, and added new online service features. • Helping nonprofits understand and adopt new products, including Windows 8, Office, and Windows Server Goal: Expand our software donation programs to serve more nonprofits. • Creating an ecosystem that increases the development and distribution More than 62,200 nonprofits participated in our software donation program, of technology solutions for nonprofits surpassing our goal of 45,000. Our target for FY13 is to reach 70,000 nonprofits. Goal: Make the latest version of Windows more readily available to nonprofits. We gave nonprofits the opportunity to get more out of their PCs by making Windows Professional 7 available to our computer refurbishing partners for the first time. Goal: Help nonprofits take advantage of the benefits of the cloud. We worked with key nonprofit partners to showcase how others are using the cloud to help their communities. We also shared information with NGOs and offered training about the cloud. See GRI Index for more Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 30 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Employee giving Our employees are passionate about In this section Helping employees make a difference supporting their communities and causes FY12 performance and FY13 commitments through charitable giving. To deepen their impact and extend the reach of their giving, we match their contributions. $99.8 10,000+ million employees Combined US employee Signed up to find giving and company service opportunities match in FY12 on Volunteer Manager 64% employee participation in our US giving campaign Note: Giving by employees in other countries is not reflected in the above US-specific data. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 31 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Helping employees make a difference “Charitable giving helps Time and money can help almost any cause. Led by our employees, create opportunity, solve we make charitable giving to worthy causes a top priority. And we take our employees’ leadership seriously, which is why we match problems, and make the employee giving of time and money to their communities. most of people’s potential. • Contributed $100 million through our employee giving and We’re proud to amplify company match program in calendar year 2011. Since 1983, employee donations and Microsoft matches have totaled $946 employee efforts to create million, and we’re poised to reach $1 billion in calendar year 2012. real impact around the world.” • Encouraged employee giving and volunteering by offering company matching contributions for US employees—up to Lori Harnick, General Manager $12,000 for total time and cash donations. Citizenship and Public Affairs • Provided at least three days off for volunteering for employees outside the United States. • Increased employee giving participation to 64 percent in FY12, with more than 38 percent of that group contributing either $1,000 before corporate match or at least 60 hours of volunteer time. • Increased volunteering participation by 12.5 percent year over year. • Registered more than 10,000 employees and 2,000 nonprofit organizations on Volunteer Manager, Microsoft’s opportunity matching system for bringing needs and skills together. • Motivated volunteering through the Give SharePoint site, where employees can share experiences and opportunities with the rest of the Microsoft community. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 32 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report $99.8M FY12 $93.5M FY11 431,608 $84.5M FY12 FY10 383,566 FY11 363,696 FY10 $52.2M $48.9M Microsoft match $43.7M Volunteering hours contributed US employee volunteerism FY10 FY11 FY12 Employee volunteers 4,200 4,412 4,967 $40.8M $44.5M $47.6M Percentage of US workforce 7.5% 7.8% 8.9% Employee donations Employee giving and company match donations Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 33 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Empowering young women in Kenya Disadvantaged girls in Kenya grow up knowing their options for higher education are limited. Those who complete high school and dream of attending college face extraordinary odds. All too often, they end up back in the circle of poverty, with little support or encouragement to achieve their goals. That’s where Erin Zuehlsdorff enters the picture. In 2010, this Microsoft employee discovered the power of mentoring through Global Give Back Circle (GGBC). GGBC helps girls in Kenya complete their education, develop skills to find jobs, and become agents of change in their communities. In 2008, GGBC began setting up IT labs in Kenya, in collaboration with Microsoft Women of West, East, and Central Africa. Now, young women in those communities get help staying on track by taking a nine-month course covering scholarship opportunities and career planning, as well as programming, web design, accounting, and Microsoft Office tools. Mentors like Erin use Skype, send text messages, or write letters a few times a week, providing support and friendship. When Erin learned about Microsoft’s volunteer match program, in which the company makes a cash donation of $17 per employee volunteer hour, she realized she could help make an even bigger difference. Now, she is working to attract additional employees to become mentors. Erin says, “It’s such a small amount [of time] to give for so much reward. Just a small piece of your heart—two letters a month—can have a significant impact.” Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 34 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Employee giving FY12 performance highlights Our commitments for FY13 include Goal: Make it easier for our employees and alumni to contribute their • Making it easier for employees and alumni to contribute their skills and skills and expertise to local communities. expertise to local communities We can now better connect our employees and alumni with organizations thanks to the companywide rollout of Volunteer Manager, an online tool • Championing volunteerism and assisting the industry to advance and better that matches skills and expertise with needs. adopt skills-based volunteering • Supporting our employees’ giving and volunteerism activities worldwide Goal: Continue to support our employees’ giving and volunteerism activities worldwide. Volunteerism was up more than 12 percent, and between our employees’ generosity and Microsoft’s match, we gave $99.8 million to nonprofits last year. Goal: Support the Net Impact chapter at our headquarters in Redmond to spark employee-led citizenship projects, and expand the chapter to other campuses. We fell short on this commitment—the Net Impact program did not go beyond our Redmond campus. See GRI Index for more Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 35 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Humanitarian response Relief efforts move faster when information In this section Providing assistance in times of need technology keeps people connected. In the FY12 performance and FY13 commitments last year, we’ve expanded our tools to address the challenges that arise during a disaster. $15 million+ Connecting aid organizations In software donations to Recognized as Laureate with victims in need support drought relief efforts in the Collaboration category in East Africa by the Computerworld Honors Program Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 36 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report • Aided governments with disaster response using the Disaster “The best response to disaster is Response Incident Portal, based on the Windows Azure cloud to empower people to connect and platform. The portal—developed by Microsoft Disaster Response collaborate. We provide powerful and used by key partners such as the Aidmatrix Foundation— technologies and human support that contributed to the following: make it possible to keep families and ◦◦ Ensured aid was delivered to victims of the March 2012 communities connected, and speed earthquake in Turkey as part of a collaborative effort with the San Francisco Fleet Week Association. the arrival of much needed aid. And, as we’ve shown in Japan, we extend our ◦◦ Assisted the victims of the 2011 Japanese tsunami by improving Second Harvest’s food-donation management system. commitment beyond the immediate need, supporting rebuilding efforts for • Received Laureate honor from the Computerworld Honors Program in the Collaboration category for our 2011 response months and years afterward.” to the Japanese tsunami. Yasuyuki Higuchi, Microsoft Corporate Vice President and President of Microsoft Japan • Supported drought relief efforts in East Africa with more than $15 million in software donations, which were granted to NetHope and its member organizations working in the Horn of Africa region. Providing assistance in times of need • Accelerated critical first-responder decisions by developing When disaster strikes, every minute counts. Rescue, relief, and rebuilding a strategic partnership with Esri, a provider of geographic efforts depend on fast, accurate communication to make a difference. information systems (GIS) services and analytic knowledge. That’s where we can help. We partner with organizations worldwide, • Educated people and organizations—as part of National using technology to keep vital information flowing during emergencies. Hurricane Preparedness Week—about using SkyDrive to We also provide the support and services our customers need to get secure data and prepare for disaster. their businesses up and running again, helping communities get back to normal as quickly as possible. And, we don’t stop there. We stay in affected communities to help them rebuild over the long term. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 37 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Getting help where it’s needed most During major disasters, it’s critical to get the right relief to the right areas—quickly. Notes from the Ground, a partnership between Aidmatrix and Microsoft Disaster Response, will help do just that. “Everything is so hectic during disaster recovery, that by making communication and data sharing easier, more time can be spent in other areas of the recovery effort,” said Keith Thode, COO and CTO of Aidmatrix. Notes from the Ground will connect readers on www.msn.com, Bing, and other Microsoft outlets to opportunities to help the impacted community. As relief organizations post requests for water, gauze, shovels, and other essentials through Aidmatrix, citizens around the world are able to view precisely what is needed on the ground. In addition, Microsoft Disaster Response and Aidmatrix seek to provide an opportunity for on-the-ground responders to share their stories more broadly. Through Notes from the Ground, aid workers, volunteers, and first responders are able to share updates on their relief activities. It includes an interactive map containing stories, photos, and videos from relief organizations, providing firsthand accounts of how aid efforts are going. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 38 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Humanitarian response FY12 performance highlights Our commitments for FY13 include Goal: Make more robust solutions available to support disaster response efforts. • Promoting better coordination through technology by expanding relationships We partnered with Esri, which provides geographic information systems, to help across our industry and the humanitarian response community first responders make better decisions faster. • Continuing to expand the technology solutions and services Microsoft can provide in time of disaster Goal: Implement cloud solutions to support performance and scalability during disasters. • Raising awareness for how technology can support personal, community, We’re helping governments manage emergency situations more effectively and organizational preparedness and response with Disaster Response Incident Portal, which runs on the Windows Azure cloud platform. Goal: Help businesses restart after a disaster with access to services and technology that speed their recovery. After widespread flooding in Thailand, we provided customers with impact assessments as well as support and services to help get their businesses back up and running. See GRI Index for more Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 39 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Accessibility Everyone deserves access to technology In this section Empowering people with disabilities that can help them realize their full potential. Engaging students with special needs Improving seniors’ well-being Our technology can remove barriers, unlock new opportunities, and improve quality of life for people of all ages and abilities. 2011 FCC Chairman’s Award for New templates for digital talking Seniors getting fit with Microsoft Advancement in Accessibility books and Braille documents Kinect for Xbox 360 Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 40 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report For many people with impaired vision or hearing, or with physical “Today, people have to disabilities, accessible technology can have a transformative impact. We build accessibility into many products and services we develop, adapt to technology. The providing essential computer access to individuals with vision, future lies in technology hearing, dexterity, language, or learning needs. that automatically adapts to • Advised businesses, governments, and NGOs on how to make communications tools more accessible through our free Microsoft people, so users with a wide Accessibility Tools and Training resources for developers, which won the 2011 US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) range of abilities can see, Chairman’s Award for Advancement in Accessibility. hear, and use a computer • Shared strategies for incorporating accessible technologies into the workplace, helping businesses expand job opportunities for and other devices.” people with disabilities. We partnered with the Assistive Technology Industry Association (ATIA) and the US Department of Labor’s Rob Sinclair, Chief Accessibility Officer Office of Disability Employment Policy to communicate best practices and expertise to ATIA members, customers, and partners. • Showed Indian government officials how technology can make Empowering people with disabilities public information more accessible to people with visual, hearing, and learning impairments. Timed in support of World Technology enriches everyone’s lives—if they have the capability Disability Day, we unveiled a set of 40 standardized Microsoft to use it. From magnification for people with vision impairments Office templates that can be converted into digital talking books to speech recognition for people with limited use of their hands, or Braille documents. we create innovative home and work solutions that allow everyone to develop their skills and share their talents with the world. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 41 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Engaging students with special needs Educating students of all needs and abilities is one of a teacher’s most important—and challenging—responsibilities. We want all students to have access to the best learning tools available, and we work with teachers to make it happen. • Provided teachers with accessibility guides, curriculum resources, teacher training workshops, and articles explaining how to integrate accessible technology into the classroom. • Supported educators using Kinect classroom activities for special education students. Educators are enhancing classroom activities with attention-grabbing, body-moving experiences that help students stay engaged with curriculum. • Reported recommendations for providing accessible technology through our partnership with the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization. Together, we convened a meeting in November 2011 in Paris that brought together 30 participants from more than 10 countries to discuss accessible technology for students and report on practical solutions for educators. • Made it easier for schools to select, buy, and deploy accessible devices and assistive technology in collaboration with Dell’s Assistive Technology Service. Our work includes showing educators how to create digital talking textbooks and other accessible Daunis Gente Excepcional A.C. is a Mexico City-based organization that teaching materials using the accessibility features in Windows, provides employability skills to young people with Down Syndrome. Office, and other Microsoft products. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 42 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Software helps student who is blind reach the top of her class Ignacia Picas maintains a near-perfect grade-point average at her primary school in Santiago, Chile. While her grades are impressive, her feat appears even more remarkable when you learn she’s blind, yet participates in the same learning environment as her peers. At Colegio San Benito, Ignacia once relied on a Braille typewriter to complete her school assignments. But at age 12, a laptop running the Windows operating system changed her learning experience. She now excels by using accessibility programs in Windows and built-in tools in Microsoft Office applications, along with the Job Access With Speech (JAWS) screen-reading software. “Before, all of her assignments needed to be translated into Braille, which took extra time and made it harder for Ignacia to keep up with the rest of the class,” said Viviana Contreras, Ignacia’s teacher. “When she started using Microsoft programs, together with the JAWS software, we noticed everything became much easier for her.” The JAWS software converts text into spoken words. Ignacia then uses the accessibility tools in Microsoft Word and Excel to create documents, take notes, complete tests, and perform calculations for math and science lessons. “Ignacia’s story illustrates the power of technology,” explained Angel Dubon Marchelli, director of Microsoft Partners in Learning in Latin America. “Accessibility features in Windows and Microsoft Office can empower students who otherwise might have had an extremely difficult time communicating, collaborating, or socializing with their peers.” Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 43 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Improving seniors’ well-being Older adults can live more independent and productive lives with the right technology. We partner with governments and organizations around the world to show how technology can reduce social isolation, increase wellness, and enhance the quality of life of seniors everywhere. • Gave seniors a new way to get fit, socialize, and manage their personal health information online. Members of the Exergamers Wellness Club in Los Angeles use Microsoft Kinect for Xbox 360, Xbox LIVE, and Microsoft HealthVault to compete in virtual bowling tournaments, dance to hip-hop and salsa routines, and participate in other physical activities as part of a comprehensive health and wellness program. See Seniors in Action. • Surveyed home care and geriatric care providers to learn how technology can help older adults remain independent, productive, and healthy in their homes. In collaboration with Philips and LivHome, the Future of Home Care Technology survey was designed to help providers learn how to better serve the needs of older adults by improving quality of care and providing information and reassurance to family members. A member of the Exergamers Wellness Club in Los Angeles, California. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 44 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Working Responsibly We’re committed to responsible practices in our own operations, with policies and programs that ensure we’re acting as a good corporate citizen everywhere we do business. 46 Our people 69 Responsible sourcing 53 Environment 76 Governance 61 Human rights Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Our people Our mission—to help people around the In this section Compensation and benefits world realize their full potential—begins with Diversity and inclusion Training and development our employees. Their passion fuels our success. Health and safety FY12 performance and We compete for outstanding talent around FY13 commitments the world and keep employees engaged with a dynamic, diverse culture that values growth and well-being. 100% 3 million Rating from the Human Rights Hours our employees dedicated Campaign Foundation’s to professional training and Corporate Equality Index development opportunities Recognized by the Great Place to 90% of employees feel proud Work® Institute as the World’s to work at Microsoft Best Multinational Workplace Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 46 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Our employees are innovators from every corner of the globe, “Life at Microsoft is about defining the Microsoft experience. Our talent, commitment, diverse life experiences, and community contributions make us who we are, more than just the work; and help us better understand customer needs. We value each individual, rewarding outstanding talent and creating opportunities it’s about who we are as for employees to grow professionally and support the causes they people. We have a passion care about. We also ask for—and act on—employee feedback in search of new ways to continually advance our status as one of the for life, for creating best places to work in the world. outstanding products, Compensation and benefits and for helping others The world’s top talent demands and deserves a premier work envirealize their full potential.” ronment. We deliver, with competitive compensation, performance awards and attractive benefits packages for our employees. Lisa Brummel, Chief People Officer • Made the most significant investment in overall employee compensation in company history, in part by shifting a portion of stock-award targets into employee base salaries. We also increased funding to deliver at least 100 percent of target bonus and stock awards for approximately 85 percent of eligible employees. • Added the Opposite Sex Domestic Partners (OSDP) benefit eligibility option for US employees and a tax gross-up benefit for both OSDP and Same-Sex Domestic Partner (SSDP) health coverage. • In the United States, maintained an industry-leading 87 percent participation in our employee 401(k) program. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 47 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report EMPLOYEE POLL RESULTS 2010 2011 2012 Diversity and inclusion Employee response rate 85% 90% 88% A diverse and inclusive workforce makes change possible and Employees who feel proud to work at Microsoft 89% 86% 90% pushes innovation forward. Bringing unique, powerful perspectives together allows differences to shine and similarities to emerge, Employees who feel they are treated with dignity 91% 92% 92% helping us better understand and meet the needs of our diverse and respect by their managers customers around the world. With this in mind, we’ve set priorities aligned with a strategic plan based on representation, inclusion, Employees who would recommend Microsoft 86% 83% 86% as a great place to work and market innovation. Employees who feel their work group values 83% 84% 86% • Equipped 2,000 Microsoft managers with skills and training diverse opinions focusing on conscious and unconscious bias to foster an inclusive workplace. Employees who feel their work group speaks 80% 81% 82% • Inspired students from all backgrounds through youth programs openly and honestly, even when news is bad such as Blacks at Microsoft Minority Student Day, DigiGirlz, and Employees who have a positive opinion about the 82% 83% 84% other opportunities to pursue science, technology, engineering, degree of flexibility they are given in their job and math (STEM) disciplines, which are critical to our industry and the global economy. Employees who feel Microsoft is a good corporate 91% 91% 93% citizen in employees' communities and in the world • Promoted the development of assistive technology for people with disabilities by bringing together the Cross Disability Employee Resource Group (ERG) with the Trustworthy Computing Accessibility Business Unit at the April 2012 Microsoft Ability Summit. • Endorsed legislation to legalize gay marriage in the US state Since 2000, thousands of young women in 16 countries have received of Washington. free technology education, interactive • Expanded our ERGs—which include more than 10,000 members— experiences, and a firsthand look at careers in technology through with the addition of the new Generations at Microsoft ERG. Microsoft’s DigiGirlz technology programs. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 48 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report 34% 35% 36% 27% FY11 FY12 FY12 FY10 22% 22% FY10 FY11 approx. approx. approx. 18,700 19,200 20,200 Minorities in the Women and US minorities on the US Microsoft workforce2 Microsoft board of directors2 94,000 FY12 40 24% 24% 24% FY10 35 35 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY11 FY12 approx. approx. approx. 39,000 Other countries 21,600 21,300 20,300 55,000 United States Women and US minorities Women in the global Microsoft employees1 in executive positions at Microsoft2 Microsoft workforce 1 Each icon represents 1,000 employees. 2 US minorities include the following populations: African American/Black, American Indian/Alaska Native, Asian, Hispanic/Latino(a), Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 49 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Training and development Our employees never stop seeking new opportunities to grow. We 3.05M FY12 continually evaluate and evolve our training opportunities to meet their specific needs. By adapting our programs to meet a variety of 4.37 2.02M 4.09 learning styles—in the classroom, online, through video, and in other FY11 FY12 FY11 forms—we ensure our employees continue to learn and move their careers forward. Total employee training Employee rating of training • Increased employee participation in professional training and development hours effectiveness opportunities—more than 3 million hours, up from just over On a scale of 1-5, with 5 being the highest 2 million in FY11. • Boosted employee satisfaction for training courses to a rating of 4.37 out of 5 in FY12, up from 4.09 in FY11. Microsoft was inducted into Training magazine’s Top 10 Hall of Fame, which recognizes successful corporate training programs. 1,500+ $9.1M Number of employees who received Total tuition tuition assistance assistance provided Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 50 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Health and safety We’re committed to facilitating a safe work environment for “Pride and passion characterize what our employees. To us, that means establishing solid goals and targets for safety management and compliance. We seek to we heard in the words of Microsoft integrate sound safety and health practices into every aspect employees around the globe. Pride in of our business, supporting the well-being of our employees, their personal contributions and those contractors, and customers. of the company, passion for the work • Increased employee visibility of our efforts through issuance they each do every day, and a sense of of a more robust Employee Safety and Health Manual. how it contributes to a higher purpose. • Enrolled 1,110 employees in 74 different employee health and This collective experience—voiced by safety training courses focused on chemicals, lead awareness, laser safety, and use of personal protective equipment. the employees—contributed to • Enhanced the ability of employees working in labs or in research Microsoft being named the number and development to get quick and easy access to information one World’s Best Multinational about chemicals used at Microsoft by making nearly 1600 material Workplace by Great Place to Work.” safety data sheets available to them in the cloud. • Set an overall recordable incident rate (RIR) of 0.05, compared Susan Lucas-Conwell, CEO, Great Place to Work with the US average of 0.4. An RIR reflects the number of injury cases that required medical treatment beyond basic first aid. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 51 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Our people FY12 performance highlights Our commitments for FY13 include Goal: Roll out a new pay and performance management approach and • Continuing to optimize our pay-for-performance culture monitor feedback to remain a top employer of choice. Our new approach is in place, and we’re using surveys, listening tours, • Offering learning and development to meet future business needs, support and internal discussions to gather employee input. workforce agility, and enhance change-management capabilities • Advancing efforts to increase diversity in senior-level positions, with a focus Goal: Support our new performance-management approach that rewards on racial minorities in the United States and women globally business impact and how employees get their work done, and emphasizes ongoing career development. • Enhancing managers’ skills for engaging a diverse workforce and creating We streamlined our processes to better collect peer feedback on employee inclusive work environments performance that helps inform more valuable career discussions. • Building US employees’ awareness of and confidence in the value of their Goal: Increase executive leadership support and accountability in diversity employee benefits, including their health coverage and inclusion. We developed a new framework to help leaders assess diversity and inclusion, and foster an inclusive work environment. Goal: Recruit, advance, and retain senior-level women globally. With the number of women pursuing technology careers in decline, this is an industrywide challenge. We’re working with partners and other organizations to reverse this trend. See GRI Index for more Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 52 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Environment We’re using our company as a living laboratory In this section Impact of our operations to explore ways in which IT can help us drive Technology for the environment FY12 performance and responsible environmental practices. This year, FY13 commitments our software and technology enabled us to make more environmentally responsible choices and better manage resources. Carbon 30% less neutral in FY13 1.1B Kilowatt-hours of green 50% less Carbon intensity in FY12 Progress toward an Energy consumed by Microsoft ambitious goal power purchased modular data centers compared with traditional data centers Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 53 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Impact of our operations “Our carbon neutral Our continued focus on reducing the climate impact of our operacommitment, with tions is helping minimize energy consumption across the company. a cascaded carbon Expanding employee action • Encouraged business groups to be financially responsible for fee, will increase our the cost of offsetting their carbon emissions through an internal carbon fee. This fee is administered through our corporate focus on efficiency finance department and applies to data centers, software develand clean energy.” opment labs, offices, and air travel emissions. • Eliminated approximately 9.9 million miles of car travel through Rob Bernard, Chief Environmental Strategist employee commuting options at our Puget Sound, Washington, offices—including operating our own free commuter bus system. • With the help of our employees, diverted 95 percent of the waste from dining facilities—and more than 80 percent of overall waste—at our corporate campus. Pressing environmental challenges require a collaborative, global • Reduced emissions and waste across our European supply chain, response. We can minimize the impact of our operations by better which resulted in receiving the Green Mover Award at the 2012 conserving energy, managing resources, and setting aggressive Irish Logistics and Transport Awards reception. goals. This year, we set a companywide carbon neutrality goal, • Educated employees about environmentally responsible practices which will begin with FY13. The goal will be accompanied by, and through supporting more than 650 employee volunteers in our achieved through, a new internal carbon fee. We are hopeful that Sustainability Champions program. our goal will accelerate breakthroughs that will help our technology and products become more efficient. • Recognized employee environmental leadership initiatives by presenting the Environmental Sustainability Action Award to an employee or team every quarter of FY12. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 54 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Minimizing data center impact • Saved resources by developing modular data centers that use up to 50 percent less energy and consume only 1 percent of the water of traditional data centers. • Reduced energy by using free-air cooling and operating our data centers at higher temperatures. • Eliminated unnecessary components from servers within our data centers, and used higher-efficiency supplies, converters, processors, and platforms. • Cooled our data center in San Antonio, Texas, using recycled wastewater from the city’s wastewater system. Improving efficiency • Helped reduce our reliance on electricity generated from coal and other traditional energy sources by purchasing more than 1.1 billion kilowatt-hours of green power in FY12—the third most of any US company, according to the US Environmental Protection Agency. • Implemented a program that charges energy costs back to specific divisions for all labs in Puget Sound. The chargeback is motivating business divisions to save money by reducing energy consumption. Developed by The Green Grid nonprofit organization, power usage effectiveness (PUE) is the ratio of total amount of power used by a computer data center facility to the power delivered directly to the computing equipment. An ideal The Washington State Recyclers Association named PUE is 1.0. Microsoft averaged 1.40, while the current industry average is 1.8–1.9. Microsoft 2012 Recycler of the Year. The Microsoft Chicago data center averaged a PUE of 1.07 in the container area for the majority of the year. We aim to average 1.125 PUE or better next year. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 55 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report 1,530,352 1,502,736 2011 2010 303,012 311,082 1,299,356 2009 222,322 1,186,492 1,144,271 1,305,385 2.109B 1.954B ML/year ML/year 2011 2010 Total water usage (1 megaliter = 1 million liters)2 Scope 1: Direct emissions (on-site emissions) Scope 2: Indirect emissions (electricity consumption) 1 This data is provided on a calendar year basis rather than a fiscal year basis to facilitate reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project. 41,649 47,383 40,848 Scope 3: Indirect emissions 2 Our data collection system does not yet track global water use. The number reported here (air travel only) represents approximately 65 percent of our global portfolio by square footage. CO2 equivalent emissions (metric tons)1 Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 56 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Reducing environmental impact in our operations FY12 performance highlights Our commitments for FY13 include Goal: Reduce our carbon emissions per unit of revenue by 30 percent • Achieving carbon neutrality and net-zero emissions for our data centers, compared with 2007. software development labs, offices, and employee air travel by increasing We met our goal with a mix of energy-efficiency measures and investments in energy efficiency and purchasing renewable energy renewable energy and carbon reduction projects that were externally verified. • Implementing an internal carbon fee that will place a price on carbon, based on current market pricing for renewable energy and carbon offsets, and Goal: Improve our governance model to increase accountability to making the company’s business divisions financially responsible for the cost corporate environmental goals. of their carbon emissions Among other efforts, we’re driving responsible business decisions by setting an internal price on carbon, measuring emissions, and charging a fee to teams • Sourcing more renewable power and continuing to implement our more responsible for those emissions. sustainable Generation 4 modular data center designs Goal: Enhance our global carbon footprint–tracking system to also track • Rolling out an energy-management program to decrease energy use in the water usage and waste. buildings on our campus in Redmond We adopted a cloud-based application that collects data from smart meters, utilities, suppliers, waste processors, and internal business systems. Analyzing this data will help us enhance our reporting processes and improve our environmental performance. See GRI Index for more Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 57 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Technology for the environment Collaboration and partnerships • Provided online services for hosting and sharing global environWe’re advancing environmental sustainability in our product design mental data by launching the Eye on Earth network—a cloud and distribution—without sacrificing quality, customer safety, or computing-based network developed together with the innovation. And through our work with others, we’re advancing the European Environment Agency (EEA) and Esri. dialogue about environmental sustainability. • Enabled virtually anyone to access climate data from anywhere Environmental benefits of our solutions through our launch of FetchClimate—a free, cloud-based climate • Made it easier for organizations to measure, manage, and track data–retrieval service created in partnership with the EEA. their carbon footprint, total waste, and water usage with the new • Partnered with the United Nations Environment Programme Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 enterprise resource planning (ERP) (UNEP) to provide energy-efficient, modular data center designs solution—one of only five products that fulfill the requirements in order to enhance the performance of their new carbon-neutral of the GRI Certified Software and Tools Program. headquarters in Nairobi, Kenya. • A study found that moving Microsoft business applications to • Drove energy efficiency in technology as a board member and the Microsoft cloud can help organizations reduce related energy participating contributor in several industry initiatives, including use and carbon emissions by at least 30 percent per user. The Green Grid, the Climate Savers Computing Initiative, and the Global e-Sustainability Initiative. Microsoft is a founding member of the ICT for Energy Efficiency (ICT4EE) Forum. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 58 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Setting the stage for carbon neutrality With governments slow to act on the accelerating climate change challenge, it is essential that leadership to drive a low carbon economy come from the private sector. A modest number of large, influential companies are stepping up to the plate, not only because they take good corporate citizenship seriously, but because they understand that operating sustainably also makes them more competitive and more profitable over the long term. Microsoft’s announcement that it will become carbon neutral in FY13 exemplifies the kind of visionary thinking that has been the company’s hallmark for decades. And the fact that Microsoft didn’t make this a long-term aspirational goal, but a companywide Mindy Lubber, President, Ceres commitment to be met this fiscal year, is both bold and inspirational. Ceres is a US-based coalition of investors, environmental groups, and other public How Microsoft plans to achieve carbon neutrality reflects the company’s interest organizations working with innovative spirit. Ceres has long argued that without putting a price on companies to address sustainability the carbon emissions responsible for global warming, as long as the challenges such as climate change and atmosphere is treated as an unlimited free resource, it will be virtually water scarcity. impossible to slow the rate of climate change. Rather than wait for policymakers to take this vital but elusive step, Microsoft is putting an internal price on carbon that will make each of its business divisions responsible for the cost of offsetting its carbon emissions, either through energy efficiency or by payment into a central fund that will be used to source renewable energy or purchase carbon offsets. This kind of “green accountability” could well become a model for other companies looking to remain competitive in the carbon-constrained economy of the future. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 59 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Microsoft technology for the environment FY12 performance highlights Our commitments for FY13 include Goal: Create new energy-efficiency guidelines for Microsoft product groups. • Providing guidance to help our industry develop more efficient software Windows 8 includes advanced energy-efficiency features, and Windows Azure enables developers to build applications that can be intelligently scaled to • Working with partners on customer solutions in five key areas: reduce environmental impact. greener IT, buildings, power and energy infrastructure, transportation, and resource management Goal: Develop new environmental guidelines for the software industry. • Collaborating with industry peers to develop new metrics like Carbon Usage We released our most comprehensive framework on energy efficiency, and Effectiveness and Water Usage Effectiveness that will help make data centers made it widely available to developers to prompt energy-smart applications. as efficient as possible Goal: Work with partners to find solutions that allow cloud computing • Educating customers on how to dispose of old computers and devices to grow while reducing environmental impact. sustainably through industry partnerships, collection programs, and We’re joining others with expertise in cloud computing to develop powerful outreach efforts tools that will give society a new level of insight into the resource requirements and performance of complex systems. See GRI Index for more Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 60 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Human rights People all over the world exercise fundamental In this section Affirming our commitment human rights when they use our technology. Privacy and data security Online safety Respecting these rights is one way we help Freedom of expression FY12 performance and people and businesses throughout the world FY13 commitments realize their full potential. Unifying our policies Internet Explorer 10’s Do Not Funding research to disrupt Championing free expression and and practices Track feature online human trafficking the right to privacy worldwide Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 61 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Affirming our commitment “Technology has the fundamental Our Global Human Rights Statement aligns with the United Nations ability to positively impact (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our statement people’s lives. However, with this establishes a common set of principles we can infuse into our business practices, with a focus on these four key priorities: comes the responsibility—to our customers and the global • Creating opportunity: Our products, services, and devices bring the power of technology to promote respect for human rights and help community—to operate our shape the human rights agendas of governments and business. business in a way that promotes • Acting globally: Our commitment is based on internationally recognized standards and respect for all human rights, including respect for human rights.” civil, political, economic, social, and cultural rights. Jean-Philippe Courtois, President • Engaging strategically: We believe our business can most effectively Microsoft International respect human rights through our presence in, rather than absence from, countries that present significant human rights risks. • Promoting good governance: We will continue to model and promote the rule of law and good governance around the world. Technology is changing the landscape of human rights. The Internet and other communications technologies allow people all We’re also committed to upholding human rights in our global over the world to share information and ideas. But technology supply chain and among our employees. See the Responsible doesn’t take sides. Technology users are also increasingly vulnerable sourcing and Our people sections of the report for more information. to privacy violations and other forms of exploitation. We partner with organizations around the world to protect privacy, create a safer online environment, and give people the means to make their voices heard. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 62 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Making a statement in corporate citizenship With its Global Human Rights Statement, Microsoft has taken an important step toward aligning its policies and practices with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (GPs). In June 2011, the UN Human Rights Council unanimously endorsed the GPs, which I developed over the course of six years of extensive consultations, research, and pilot projects. They now constitute the most authoritative global human rights instrument linked to business. Core features of the GPs have been incorporated into the updated Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the new European Union John Ruggie, Former UN Special corporate social responsibility strategy, the International Finance Representative for Business and Corporation’s revised sustainability policy, and ISO 26000. The Human Rights (2005–2011) GPs also enjoy strong support from stakeholder groups including John Ruggie is the Berthold Beitz business, workers organizations, and civil society. Professor in Human Rights and International Affairs at Harvard’s The GPs lay out the duties of states to protect human rights, the Kennedy School of Government and corporate responsibility to respect human rights, and the need for faculty chair of the school’s Corporate remedy where harm does occur. In addition to calling on businesses Social Responsibility Initiative. to adopt a human rights policy statement, the GPs provide the means for them to know and show that they respect human rights. These include a due diligence process to identify, prevent, mitigate, and account for how they address adverse impacts on human rights, and processes to enable the remediation of any such impacts they cause or to which they contribute. By reducing the risk that companies cause or contribute to human rights harm, the GPs protect human rights, build trust between companies and their internal and external stakeholders, and help ensure that fragile global markets become socially more inclusive and sustainable. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 63 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report “Microsoft’s Internet safety programs Privacy and data security are vital to our children, as they’re As people spend more time online and store more information the generation that will only know life in the cloud, the risk of privacy and data security attacks continues through technology. Our students to rise. Ten years ago, our chairman Bill Gates launched a companywide response with the Trustworthy Computing initiative, which socialize, play games, communicate, made privacy and data security our highest priorities in product and find information through the development. We continue to find innovative ways to protect our Internet, which puts them at risk. customers’ privacy and keep their information secure. Having an industry leader like Microsoft • Gave consumers the power to manage their privacy with the Do teach our children how to stay safe Not Track setting turned on in Internet Explorer 10 in Windows 8. The feature prevents advertisers from creating targeted ads based online sends a powerful message to on a consumer’s web surfing habits. our school community.” • Revealed how people’s behaviors and attitudes can affect their online reputations with a new survey of 5,000 consumers across Cliona O’Keeffe Our Lady’s Boys National School, Dublin, Ireland the United States, Canada, Germany, Ireland, and Spain. Released in support of the international Data Privacy Day, the survey helps people understand how to maintain online profiles and still protect their privacy. • Fueled development of new, creative ways to keep hackers from exploiting software vulnerabilities. The Microsoft BlueHat Prize contest offers innovative researchers in this area more than $250,000 in cash and prizes. It’s already inspired technologies used in our Enhanced Mitigation Experience Toolkit, which helps IT professionals protect their systems against common threats. • Promoted industrywide adoption of Microsoft Security Development Lifecycle practices at the inaugural Security Development Conference in Washington, D.C., which attracted more than 240 attendees from 115 global organizations. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 64 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Online safety A safer online environment is critical—particularly for children. We • Helped lead a collaborative, international effort to make the partner with policymakers, advocacy groups, and other companies Internet a safer place for children as a founding member of in our industry on a range of online safety issues, from leading the the European Union CEO Coalition on Child Online Safety. The charge against online child exploitation to teaching people how to coalition’s priorities include developing age-appropriate privacy help protect themselves on social networking sites. settings for online services, creating a more comprehensive content rating system for video games, and removing content • Advanced the fight against online child pornography by making that exploits children from the Internet. Microsoft PhotoDNA technology available at no charge to Internet • Awarded six grants to North American researchers studying the services companies, NGOs, and law enforcement. Developed in a intersection of technology and commercial child sex trafficking. partnership between Microsoft Research and Dartmouth College, the image-matching technology enables Internet service companies to find, report, and eliminate known child pornography images from their networks and helps law enforcement officers more efficiently identify and rescue victims and bring abusers to justice. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 65 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Using technology to fight child trafficking Technology has enabled jaw-dropping advancements in communication, providing greater access to information and allowing individuals to work more efficiently and stay better connected. But it has also benefited criminals—including child sex traffickers and their customers. We’re working to help create a safe computing environment for children and ensuring that Microsoft technologies are not used to conduct crime. In 2012, Microsoft Research and the Microsoft Digital Crimes Unit collaborated to begin understanding how we can contribute to the fight against human trafficking—a $32 billion a year industry. We awarded six grants totaling $185,000 to research teams at universities across North America interested in better understanding the role technology plays in the problem. “Armed with better data, I believe real breakthroughs are possible for helping disrupt the dynamics that fuel the child sex trade,” said Samantha Doerr, program manager for the Microsoft Digital Crimes Unit. The research will cover a range of topics from investigating how technology facilitates the recruiting, buying, and selling of victims to understanding the benefits and obstacles of technology on law enforcement efforts to combat human trafficking. Collecting data is just the first step. Ultimately, we want to make a difference by developing technologies to help thwart traffickers and those who do business with them. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 66 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Freedom of expression Internet freedom may seem like a given to some, but for many The Global Network Initiative is an international coalition of technology people around the world, it’s not that simple. In FY11, we adopted companies, civil society organizations, investors, and academics dedicated to a Freedom of Expression policy to guide our decision making when safeguarding human rights in the face of restrictive governments. Read more approached by governments that want to filter or censor Internet about its efforts to advance Internet freedom and online privacy. content. This year, we continued to support the free exchange of ideas and information online through our membership in the Global Network Initiative (GNI). • Championed free expression and the right to privacy in the information and communications technologies (ICT) sector Respecting human rights through engagement as a member of the GNI. Many in the human rights community question when it’s • In FY12, a third-party assessor completed an independent review right for a business to leave (or refuse to enter) a country of our policies and procedures for protecting online speech on human rights grounds. from government intervention. The GNI is using our assessment While we respect other companies’ decisions to withdraw from as a learning tool to improve its implementation guidelines. certain markets, we generally believe that engaging in difficult As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, Microsoft is environments holds the greatest promise for promoting committed to respecting all of the human rights described in: human rights. From our perspective, the critical challenge is determining how to operate within these environments, so • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights that citizens derive the same benefits from ICT products as • The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights people in other, freer countries. • The International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Our approach takes many forms. We engage with local Cultural Rights stakeholder groups to help shape our human rights policies • The International Labour Organization Declaration in specific communities. We also use our size and leadership on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work to influence government behaviors. Most importantly, we perform due diligence before making decisions, helping us minimize the human rights risks of our actions. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 67 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Human rights FY12 performance highlights Our commitments for FY13 include Goal: Raise awareness of safer online habits and practices. • Maintaining a comprehensive privacy program to minimize customer risk, We continued our support of global campaigns such as Safer Internet Day, foster compliance, and build privacy into our products and services Data Privacy Day, and National Cybersecurity Awareness Month to raise awareness among consumers, government officials, and organizations. • Strengthening consumer privacy and online safety by partnering with governments, NGOs, industry partners, and law enforcement Goal: Develop strong privacy and safety public policy frameworks in the • Hosting the fifth US-China Internet Industry Forum, bringing together United States, Europe, and emerging markets worldwide. leaders from government, industry, and NGOs to discuss issues such as We worked with governments and partners in countries such as Turkey, free expression China, Singapore, and Colombia to ensure proposed legislation was flexible, principles-based, and facilitated trans-border data flows. We also collaborated • Advancing our work with industry, law enforcement, government, with governments, organizations, and industry peers in the United States and nonprofit partners to fight cybercrime, online child exploitation, and European Union to help craft legislative proposals on data protection. and human trafficking Goal: Engage with multilateral organizations to create strong and consistent • Continuing our sponsorship of the Personal Democracy Forum, which global frameworks for privacy and security policy. shares knowledge on using technology in campaigns and civic organizing We participated in developing the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Cross-Border Privacy Rules, which were released in 2012. Developed through • Upholding our commitment to human rights as outlined in our Global Human public/private collaboration, the rules promote data-privacy practices for Rights Statement, and annually communicating our progress companies doing business in APEC economies. • Identifying, preventing, and mitigating the human rights risks associated with our products and services Goal: Partner to fight online crime. We assisted law enforcement worldwide in their fight against online child • Conducting a GNI Phase III Assessment, which looks beyond reviewing internal pornography by making Microsoft PhotoDNA technology available for free. policies to protect human rights, to assessing outcomes Goal: Continue our active participation in the Global Network Initiative (GNI). We completed Phase II of the GNI assessment, which focused on implementing and observing internal processes, advancing our commitment to freedom of expression and privacy on the Internet. See GRI Index for more Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 68 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Responsible sourcing We expect our tens of thousands of suppliers to uphold In this section Hardware production the same high standards of citizenship to which we hold Conflict minerals ourselves. Those standards play an important part in Expanding our efforts FY12 performance and our supplier selection and retention decisions. By setting FY13 commitments clear expectations, and by sharing experiences and best practices with our suppliers, we create incentives for them to promote the health, safety, and well-being of their workers and the communities where they operate. 100% Suppliers required to abide $1.5 billion+ by our Vendor Code of Conduct Worldwide spending with women-owned, minority-owned, or veteran-owned suppliers Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 69 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report We also share experiences and best practices with our suppliers “Microsoft is committed to the fair treatment to encourage them to improve their business practices. We work and safety of workers at manufacturers collaboratively with our suppliers to verify that they are complying contracted to our company, and we use with the Vendor Code of Conduct and to enhance their ability to a risk-based approach to promote safe find and fix problems that do sometimes occur. If we find a supplier is unwilling to follow the Vendor Code of Conduct or address such and healthy working and living conditions, problems, we will take—and we have taken—disciplinary action up engaging directly with our suppliers to build to and including terminating supplier contracts. There is always their capabilities in these important areas. room for improvement, but we are encouraged by the cooperation We have invested heavily in a robust supply we find among our suppliers and many companies across the chain social and environmental accountability electronics industry to tackle existing challenges and address new issues as they arise. program intended to verify that suppliers meet our Vendor Code of Conduct.” Vendor Code of Conduct Brian Tobey, Corporate Vice President Manufacturing, Supply Chain, Information and Services The Microsoft Vendor Code of Conduct (VCC) sets our expectations for ethical business and employment practices among all companies doing business with Microsoft, As a global company with supplier relationships around the world, including overseas suppliers and service providers. Our Microsoft recognizes the importance of working with suppliers comVCC requires, among other things: mitted to responsible business practices. As the foundation of our commitment, all companies doing business with Microsoft must • Fair, legal wages under humane conditions agree to abide by our Vendor Code of Conduct, which sets out our • A safe and healthy work environment expectations about ethical business practices, employment practices, • A workplace free of harassment, discrimination, or abuse and compliance with environmental and worker safety requirements. • Freedom of association • No forced or child labor • Environmental and regulatory compliance • Business, legal, and anti-corruption protections Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 70 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Hardware production escalated to Microsoft senior management and the suppliers were placed on restricted status with no new Microsoft business To meet our own and others’ expectations to make our products awarded until they had resolved the issues. with integrity, Microsoft operates a Social and Environmental • We identified one instance of under-aged labor at each of two Accountability (SEA) program specifically focused on suppliers supplier sites, and one instance at a site of a prospective supplier that produce our hardware products and packaging materials. with which we declined to do business. The cause of these violations Raising supplier accountability expectations was vulnerabilities in the suppliers’ age verification procedures, which did not detect the misuse of borrowed identification. Both • Microsoft’s hardware and packaging suppliers are required to cases were escalated to senior management, and the supplier provide Microsoft and third-party auditors on-site access to conduct was placed on restricted status with no new Microsoft business audits and assessments of conformance with our Vendor Code of awarded until the problem was resolved. We verified they had taken Conduct. Microsoft’s factory managers and SEA team regularly visit corrective action—including immediately ceasing employment of supplier factories to assess living and working conditions. The factothe minors and providing the minors a safe journey home—and ries that assemble Microsoft products receive third-party compliance verified they had taken appropriate steps to make their identity audits at least once a year. The suppliers we contract to make comvalidation controls more robust. In one case, we helped the supplier ponents for our products also receive SEA team assessments and implement facial recognition software to screen new employees third-party audits based on their risk level. All of the final assemblers and substantially reduce the risk of minors using false identification of our hardware and all highand medium-risk component suppliers papers to get work. have undergone human rights pre-contracting and ongoing screening. In FY12, 98 significant hardware suppliers underwent human We seek worker input to help rights risk assessment and monitoring. target our supplier engagement efforts for improvements where • Overall, monitoring found no instances of human trafficking or they matter most. interfering with workers’ freedom of association. Monitoring detected eight non-conformances of the non-discrimination provisions of our Code of Conduct. It also found seven instances of concern regarding suppliers’ forced labor prevention processes, including protecting workers’ ability to refuse overtime work and to have easy access to their personal identification documents that workers need for travel. All of these issues were Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 71 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Promoting a safe working environment Listening to workers • Shared experiences and best practices with suppliers on a • Enhanced supplier management capabilities to better understand number of workplace safety topics, including management of and resolve workers’ concerns through an updated workers’ hazardous and toxic substances, electrical safety, emergency grievance process, including an anonymous hotline to capture response plans, combustible dust, and use of personal protective worker concerns and worker interviews conducted by the Fair equipment at a supplier forum in Shenzhen, China. Labor Association (FLA). • Directly engaged priority suppliers based on risk and compliance • Based on an initial assessment in 2011, we updated the model in records to promote improved factory conditions and worker FY12 with a bigger focus on promoting improvements in worker/ treatment at those suppliers’ sites. We sent a team of Microsoft management communication. Worker surveys and interviews senior management and health and safety representatives conducted by the FLA provided key data to support our collabto China to meet with those suppliers, support their efforts to orative efforts with suppliers on issues the workers themselves implement corrective actions, and help them build capabilities most want to see addressed. to address future issues. Community Technology Centers Improving health and living conditions teach people in supplier com• Launched a worker community project to support supplier munities how to use computers and the Internet, explore new efforts to improve living conditions, quality of life, and develop careers, further their education, career growth opportunities for workers. Our improvement participate in community activiprojects include providing cleaner dormitories, workshops, and ties, and develop job-related canteen areas; offering more culturally diverse foods; organizing technology skills. field trips for workers to give them a better work/life balance; enhancing management and worker communications; and developing career paths for workers. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 72 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Conflict minerals We proactively support industry and multistakeholder efforts • Supported strong and effective disclosure requirements by publicly to move toward a conflict mineral–free electronics supply chain. signing on to comments on the US government’s proposed Dodd-Frank regulations on conflict minerals. • Continue to examine our supply chain to identify each component • Participated in the Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals used in our products containing tin, gold, tantalum, or tungsten Trade (PPA), a joint initiative among governments, companies, and and the suppliers of these components. We are educating these civil society to explore potential supply chain solutions to conflict suppliers regarding the conflict minerals issue and ask suppliers minerals challenges in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and to identify each smelter or refinery they use and verify that the the Great Lakes region of Central Africa. minerals in these components do not come from implicated conflict mineral zones. See the Environment section to learn how we work with our • We seek to align our efforts with the Organisation for Economic partners to reduce environmental impact. Co-operation and Development (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas and the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act and related US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 73 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report UK France Germany Korea USA Japan Italy China Israel Taiwan Thailand Vietnam Philippines Brazil Malaysia Singapore Microsoft production supplier country locations Expanding our efforts This year, we enhanced our responsible sourcing efforts in many ways: • Supported woman-owned, minority-owned, or veteran-owned suppliers with more than $1.5 billion in worldwide spending in FY12. This puts us among the top 15 companies globally in this category. • Explored ways to promote improvement in our suppliers’ social performance by launching a new reporting program. Under the program, we asked approximately 20 key hardware suppliers and service providers to use several Global Reporting Initiative indicators to document how their programs and policies meet our standards. • Provided people of all ages and abilities low-cost access to technology by partnering with suppliers to build Community Technology Centers (CTCs) in their communities. To date, 15 suppliers in 13 countries host CTCs in their facilities. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 74 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Responsible sourcing FY12 performance highlights Our commitments for FY13 include Goal: Increase transparency of our supply chain management. • Continuing to enhance our programs to verify our suppliers adhere to our We met with institutional and socially responsible investors and briefed Vendor Code of Conduct nongovernmental organizations concerned with issues such as conflict minerals in Africa and the environment in China. • Consider further enhancing the transparency of our supplier auditing processes on labor and human rights issues Goal: Work with hardware suppliers to evaluate the potential use of conflict • Supporting industry efforts to identify, reduce, and ultimately eliminate conflict minerals, thereby supporting the technology industry’s ultimate aim minerals from the technology supply of developing a conflict mineral–free supply chain. We identify the materials used in our products and ask our hardware suppliers to identify the smelters and refineries they use to help identify potential sources of conflict minerals. Goal: Developed new practices to promote supplier adherence to our Vendor Code of Conduct, and to apply the code consistently across our business units. We strengthened our anti-corruption screening program for our entire supplier database and developed new ethics training programs for our suppliers. We also enhanced how we apply our Vendor Code of Conduct to strategic business process suppliers, such as customer support call centers. See GRI Index for more Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 75 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Governance Public trust in corporations depends in large In this section Corporate governance part on the basic aspects of business character: Maintaining strong practices and performance integrity, values, and transparency. A strong Public policy engagement Compliance and steady core is the bedrock of both right FY12 performance and FY13 commitments action and good business. 9.5/10 100% Our rating from Independence of directors Zero Number of contributions made GovernanceMetrics International serving on board committees to Super PACs On the list of the World’s Most Ethical Companies® Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 76 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Sound principles, practices, and leaders are critical to good business. “Maintaining high standards for Accountability at the highest levels and ethical conduct throughout business conduct helps businesses the company are central to earning and maintaining the public’s trust. demonstrate their values. From Corporate governance our actions in the public sphere Strong corporate governance builds trust, creates internal checks to our decisions in the boardroom, and balances, and deepens management accountability. we aim to consistently apply Engaging proactively with stakeholders exacting principles to chart • Updated investors on developments in our corporate governance a clear course, guided by our framework with annual letter from members of the board’s Governance and Nominating Committee. accountability to the public.” • Engaged on a biannual basis with investors, including public Brad Smith, Executive Vice President and General Counsel pension funds and socially responsible investors, which collectively held approximately 35 percent of our outstanding shares, and delivered a summary of investor feedback to the board. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 77 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Managing risk at the board level Created a more effective and efficient oversight structure by reorganizing the board’s committees, reducing the number of committees from five to four. • Incorporated the Antitrust Compliance Committee into the Regulatory and Public Policy Committee, which will continue to oversee our compliance with competition law as well as additional legal, regulatory, and compliance matters such as human rights, environmental sustainability, privacy and security, business operations risks, public policy, and corporate citizenship. • Transferred the responsibilities of the Finance Committee for tax planning and compliance, investment policies, and investment risk management to the Audit Committee. The board has assumed the remainder of the Finance Committee’s responsibilities related to capital structure and capital deployment. • The board appointed two independent directors: John W. Thompson, CEO of Virtual Instruments; and Stephen J. Luczo, chairman, president, and CEO of Seagate Technology PLC. To contribute to the development of best practices, we partnered with a variety of organizations, including the Conference Board Governance Center®, Stanford Institutional Investors’ Forum, the Society of Corporate Secretaries and Governance Professionals, the Millstein Center for Corporate Governance and Performance, and the Council of Institutional Investors. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 78 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Maintaining strong practices and performance Key governance data • Received a 9.5 out of 10 global market rating from Number of directors Percentage of independent GovernanceMetrics International for practices and performance directors (as of July 9, 2012). • Received best possible ratings from the Institutional Shareholder 11 81% Services, Inc. Governance Risk Indicators in all governance risk categories, including board, audit, compensation, and Number of board committees Independence of directors serving shareholder rights. on board committees • Included on the Ethisphere Institute’s list of the World’s Most Ethical Companies. ® 4 100% • Awarded Best overall governance, compliance, and ethics (large cap) honor at the Corporate Secretary magazine 2011 Separate chairman and CEO Lead independent director Corporate Governance Awards. • Ranked third on CR Magazine’s list of 100 Best Corporate Citizens, selected from all companies in the Russell 1000 Index. ® Yes Yes Annual board, committee, and Number of board meetings held individual member self-evaluations in fiscal year 2012 Yes 8 Shares of Microsoft common Registered holders stock outstanding1 of common stock1 8,383,396,575 128,992 1 As of July 18, 2012. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 79 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Public policy engagement US public policy advocacy Corporate participation in the public policy process is an important $7,559,000 $7,486,000 FY12 means of enhancing shareholder value and is fundamental to free $6,912,000 FY12 $6,750,000 $6,870,000 and democratic societies. Our engagement in the public policy FY10 FY11 FY11 process is grounded in and guided by our unwavering commitment to strong corporate governance—centered on transparency, accountability, and compliance. $4,870,000 FY10 • We engage in public policy discussions that relate to our business, and also update our public policy agenda every year to reflect changes in the policy environment and our business. Our FY12 policy agenda focused on Accelerating Economic Growth, Addressing Social Challenges, and Working Responsibly in the Information Economy. • We regularly file reports that detail our advocacy activities in compliance with regulations and our commitment to transparency. Our disclosures include consultant fees, lobbying expenses, and trade-association dues related to advocacy. • We are a member of a number of trade associations and business Federal State coalitions that help us work with industry peers to advance issues that affect our business and society. A full list of the trade associations and business coalitions supported by our Legal and Corporate Affairs group is available on our Citizenship website. For a complete statement on our involvement with trade associations, please see the Principles and Policies for Guiding Microsoft’s Participation in the Public Policy Process in the United States. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 80 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Adhering to strict principles and policies Microsoft Political Action Committee political contributions • Clear principles govern our engagement in the political process $1,472,350 in the United States. 2010 • Political spending will reflect the company’s interests and be used to further its public policy agenda and not the personal $728,000 agenda of individual officers, directors, or employees. $1,085,072 2011 • We do not make corporate contributions to any noncandidate $887,160 or nonparty political committees organized under section 2009 $472,500 527 of the Internal Revenue Code, which are formed solely to influence elections. $451,000 • No campaign contributions are given in anticipation of, in $238,550 recognition of, or in return for an official act. $151,572 Federal candidate contributions • Reaffirmed our 2010 stance on not making independent political $118,210 expenditures or electioneering communications, as permitted State candidate contributions under the US Supreme Court’s Citizens United ruling. $317,950 $505,800 $461,000 • For the last calendar year, the Microsoft Political Action Committee Non-candidate committee contributions (MSPAC) made political contributions totaling $1,085,072. In addition to MSPAC’s contributions, our company as a whole also contributed $151,572 to state and local political campaigns in calendar year 2011. We do not support political candidates or campaigns outside the United States. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 81 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Setting the standard for transparency Corporate participation in politics and funding of elections has become a hotly debated issue. From newspaper editorials to grassroots campaigns to investor inquiries, companies are under scrutiny for their political spending and lobbying, with widespread fears that they are exerting undue influence. As Microsoft has demonstrated, the way to address such fears is transparency. Microsoft engages government agencies and representatives on public policy issues crucial to its business, guided by a set of principles and practices with transparency, responsibility, and accountability at its core. Timothy Smith, Senior Vice President When asked “How much influence is your company exerting in the Walden Asset Management political process, and how do you do it?” or “What is your agenda?” Timothy Smith is senior vice president and Microsoft provides answers, posts them publicly, and updates them director of ESG shareowner engagement annually. Microsoft provides specifics about its lobbying and politiof Walden Asset Management. In 2007, cal spending, with details on how much is spent on each activity. the Ethisphere Institute named him one Company participation is guided by a public policy agenda, which of the 100 most influential people in openly spells out the issues important to its business. business ethics. Any company involved in the political process can face controversy. For example, it is always confusing to stakeholders when trade associations claiming they speak for their members, such as the US Chamber of Commerce, take positions counter to Microsoft’s on issues like the environment or diversity. This makes it all the more important for Microsoft to consistently declare what it stands for and differentiate itself from any backward-looking trade association statements or lobbying positions. Such a transparent, responsible, accountable approach sets the gold standard. Microsoft is a leader in showing how corporate participation in politics can be consistent with corporate responsibility. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 82 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Compliance Businesses have a responsibility to operate in full accordance with • As of June 30, 2012, all but three cases under Canadian jurisdiction the law, and we have zero tolerance for failure to adhere to our have been settled. All overcharge class actions in the United States internal compliance policies and practices. were dismissed or resolved. The only remaining actions are in Canada, where the lead case was dismissed by the appeals court Competing responsibly within our industry and ruling is now pending before the Canadian Supreme Court. • We comply with antitrust rulings and apply principles that • For more information, see the Note 17—Contingencies section support innovation, choice, and opportunities for developers of our 2012 Annual Report. regarding new products and services. Training employees • For information about acquisitions or our response to rulings, see our 2012 Annual Report. • In FY12, we trained more than 99.6 percent of our employees on our Standards of Business Conduct, which addresses topics such Ongoing litigation as anti-corruption, conflicts of interest, and financial integrity. At any given time, there may be a range of legal actions • Every year, we use a survey to measure employee satisfaction pending against a company. Actions currently pending against with ethical conduct training. The FY12 survey showed that Microsoft include: employees scored the program 176 out of 200. • Ongoing litigation with Motorola Mobility in several countries. • We promote employee awareness of business conduct policies through MS Policy, an online tool and central resource for all • Approximately 60 other patent infringement cases. relevant information. • In July 2012, a trial court granted Microsoft’s motion dismissing Novell, Inc.’s case against us. Novell has appealed this decision. Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 83 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Governance FY12 performance highlights Our commitments for FY13 include Goal: Maintain or increase dialogue between shareholders and the company. • Maintaining or increasing dialogue between stakeholders and the company We updated investors on developments in corporate governance with an annual letter from the Governance and Nominating Committee of the board. • Engaging in cross-industry forums to help us identify and contribute to the We engaged biannually with a group of investors who collectively hold development of best practices approximately 35 percent of outstanding shares. We released a new installment of our director interview series featuring members of our board. • Continuing to enhance our corporate governance principles and policies to serve the interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders Goal: Engage in cross-industry forums to help us identify and contribute • Implementing the regulatory and disclosure requirements adopted under to the development of best practices. the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act We engaged with a variety of organizations, including the Conference Board Governance Center, Stanford Institutional Investors’ Forum, the Society of • Upholding our unwavering commitment to strong corporate governance Corporate Secretaries and Governance Professionals, the Millstein Center for when participating in the public policy process Corporate Governance and Performance, and the Council of Institutional Investors. • Maintaining leadership in corporate accountability, transparency, integrity, Goal: Continue to enhance our corporate governance principles and policies and responsibility by revising our principles, policies, and practices, as needed to serve the interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders. We made our board oversight structure more efficient by reorganizing the board’s committees, reducing the number of committees from five to four. Goal: Implement the regulatory and disclosure requirements adopted under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. In 2009, we voluntarily submitted our executive compensation to a shareholder advisory vote, which received overwhelming support. At the 2011 Annual Meeting, nearly 99 percent of the votes cast supported our say-on-pay resolution. See GRI Index for more Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 84 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report About this Report Reporting year Additional reporting Unless otherwise stated, information in this report is related to fiscal year 2012 This report was released at the same time as the Microsoft FY12 Annual Report. (July 1, 2011, to June 30, 2012). These reports complement each other and together provide a full picture of Microsoft’s performance over the past fiscal year. Scope In addition to these reports, we report on our actions in many other ways throughout the year. These include: As part of Microsoft’s global citizenship initiative, this report covers Microsoft nonfinancial performance and impact in FY12 across our global operations. • Ongoing direct dialogue with a broad range of stakeholder groups, as well The report covers our material citizenship issues based on: as with industry and issue-advocacy organizations • Internal assessments • Updates to our Citizenship website, blogs, Facebook, and Twitter to reflect recent initiatives and progress • Ongoing engagement with stakeholders ranging from socially responsible investors to our own employees • Research and white papers on specific issues • Requests for information by corporate responsibility rating agencies • Economic impact data and hundreds of local impact stories through the Microsoft Local Impact Map To improve this year’s report, we conducted a gap analysis comparing the information provided in our FY11 Citizenship Report with the information • An annual submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project requests we received from stakeholders during FY12. • This report demonstrates our commitment to the We relied on the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting UN Millennium Development Goals Guidelines to help determine relevant content and metrics. Please see our standalone GRI Index online for more detailed data and other information. Feedback When relevant, this report provides links to data in the GRI Index for more detailed information. We welcome your feedback on this report and on the Microsoft Citizenship approach. Please email your comments to mcitizen@microsoft.com or write to us at the following address: Microsoft Corporate Citizenship Microsoft Corporation One Microsoft Way Redmond, WA 98052, US Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 85 Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report United Nations Global Human rights Compact Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Our people, Human rights, the protection of internationally proclaimed Responsible sourcing human rights; and Microsoft’s commitment to the United Nations Global Compact Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit Our people, Human rights, advances our mission to help people and businesses around the in human rights abuses. Responsible sourcing world realize their full potential. Labor Since endorsing the Global Compact in 2006, we continue to Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom Responsible sourcing view it as an important guide for Microsoft. The Global Compact’s of association and the effective recognition of the 10 principles related to human rights, labor, the environment, and right to collective bargaining; anti-corruption align with our company’s business strategies, Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced Responsible sourcing practices, policies, and operations. Our involvement supports our and compulsory labor; efforts to demonstrate accountability and ongoing improvement Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Responsible sourcing across the broad range of citizenship topics. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in Our people, This 2012 Citizenship Report serves as Microsoft’s annual Global respect of employment and occupation. Responsible sourcing Compact Communication on Progress. The following table describes the location of information about each principle in this report. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precauEnvironment tionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote Environment, greater environmental responsibility; and Responsible sourcing Principle 9: encourage the development and difEnvironment fusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corrupResponsible sourcing, tion in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Governance Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report 86 This document is provided “as-is.” Information and views expressed © 2012 Microsoft. All rights reserved. in this document, including URL and other Internet website references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Microsoft, Bing, BizSpark, Dynamics, Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, Excel, Office 365, Hotmail, Internet Explorer, This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any Kinect, Lync, Mediaroom, MSN, OneNote, PhotoDNA, PowerPoint, intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and SharePoint, Silverlight, SkyDrive, SQL Azure, SQL Server, Visual use this document for your internal, reference purposes. Studio, Windows, Windows Azure, Windows Intune, Windows Live, Windows Server, Xbox 360, Xbox LIVE, Surface, and Skype are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. 098-117576 Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report
