COP for Eva & Claudi A/S Period for COP: From May 2012 until May 2013 Eva & Claudi A/S mainly produce our products in Europe. Only about 10 % of our production is in other countries, countries that are seen upon as High-Risk-Countries according to United Nations Global Compact. Our approved suppliers must comply with the International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions. Assessments, policy and goals Eva & Claudi A/S believe that social responsibility is a natural part of running a company. When we speak about social responsibility we mean the social and environmental work we do to promote a global sustainable development within the areas where we have influence. We encourage our suppliers to develop and implement social policies and guidelines which include issues such as child labour, forced labour, harassment and equal opportunities. Human Rights Eva & Claudi A/S is committed to ensure international human right standards based on the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We firmly believe that it is inadequate to be compliant with local or national law in the countries in which we operate. As a result, Eva & Claudi A/S maintains strict international standards for human rights set up in our Code of Conduct. We acknowledge that: • Superior ethical and social behaviour is a cornerstone of our company. Environment As a producer of fashionable clothes in a globalized world we share the responsibility for integrating environmental considerations into our production with our partners. Eva & Claudi A/S recognizes the important role that environmental protective standards play in the health and sustainable development of our planet. We strive to produce clothes without harmful dyes and chemicals which may affect the skin. We make a continuous effort to ensure that our products are produced in conditions which have the least possible impact on the environment. We comply with both local and national law assuring the protection and minimization of the effects on the environment. We have prepared a list of prohibited chemicals and we have set the Oeko-Tex 100 limit values as our target for chemical content. We strive to: • Handle chemicals in a safe manner, minimizing employee exposure. • Recycle and reuse materials and products whenever possible. • Reach our goal to comply with the Oeko-Tex 100 limit values. Labour Rights Eva & Claudi A/S is committed to international labour standards drawn from the International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention and integrated in our Code of Conduct. These standards fall 1 into 5 main sections: child labour, forced labour, discrimination, freedom of association/right to collective bargaining and freedom of expression. We firmly assure that: • Child labour is not tolerated. • All labour is voluntary and duly compensated. • Health and safety precautions are taken in the workplace to prevent any possible illness and injuries. • We recruit, employ and promote employees on the sole basis of their skills and qualifications. • Discrimination on the basis of race, sex, religion or political belief is expressly forbidden. • Freedom of association including participation in collective bargaining groups is permitted. Anti-Corruption Eva & Claudi A/S is a company of high ethical standing. We strongly support the international work for anti-corruption. We will remain steadfast in our dedication to business ethics no matter where we are doing business. As a result we endeavour to: • Eliminate all forms of corruption, including bribery and extortion. Animal Welfare Eva & Claudi A/S regards the respect and protection of animals as very important. In business where animals are used in the production (wool, leather) animals must be fed and treated with dignity and respect. Eva & Claudi A/S never use real fur in our designs. This also applies to animal species which are not threatened. We solely use fake fur because it is not possible to establish reliable documentation that animals have been bred in acceptable conditions. Implementation In order to advance United Nations ten principles within our sphere of influence Eva & Claudi A/S has chosen to follow the Code of Conduct from the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI). All suppliers have been asked to sign the Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct (Appendix 1) in order to continue further business relation. The suppliers also received a self-assessment form (Appendix 2) as a working tool in order to find the areas that they need to work on to prepare their factory for a future BSCI audit. Further more Eva & Claudi A/S asked all suppliers to fill in and sign a CSRTemplate (Appendix 3) made by Eva & Claudi A/S. Measurements of outcomes The reported work of implementation of United Nations ten principles was made in 2010. Due to illness among the staff, Eva & Claudi A/S have not had the recourses to follow up upon ex. new suppliers or to encourage exciting suppliers to improve their social responsibilities. Eva and Claudi now have the resources to continue implementation of our Code of Conduct. In order to educate a new employee for the job we have hired a consultant in CSR. A meeting with the consultant is scheduled for June 18th, 2012. 2 Appendix 1 Code of Conduct Eva & Claudi A/S Table of Contents Introduction Code of Conduct Declaration Term of Implementation Appendix 1, Restricted Chemical List Introduction Introduction to the Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct. In accordance with the International Labour Organisation Conventions, the United Nations' (UN) Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN's Conventions on children's rights and the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, the UN Global Compact, the Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct aims to attain compliance with certain social and environmental standards. By signing the Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct suppliers are within their scope of influence committed to acknowledge the social and environmental standards laid down in this Code of Conduct and to take appropriate measures for their implementation and compliance. Supplier companies must ensure that the Code of Conduct is also observed by subcontractors involved in production processes of final manufacturing stages carried out on behalf of Eva & Claudi A/S. Supplier companies who deliver products to Eva & Claudi A/S shall operate in compliance with national laws and this Code of Conduct and have to take a developmental approach at the implementation of the following terms which are similar to the well known Business Social Compliance Initiative, BSCI Code of Conduct. Please notice the following four amendments to the BSCI Code of Conduct 1. Corruption and Bribery The supplier must work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. The supplier must inform Eva & Claudi A/S of any corruption and bribery activities they are involved in, in order to handle the orders to Eva & Claudi A/S. 2. Animal welfare Eva & Claudi A/S regards the respect and protection of animals as very important. In business where animals are used in the production (wool, leather) animals must be fed and treated with dignity and respect. 3. Restricted chemicals The supplier must strive to work towards a cleaner and more environmental friendly production. The Eva & Claudi A/S Restricted Chemicals List must be observed at all times. The list is similar to the Oeko-Tex 100 limit values. Suppliers who can not comply with the values must contact Eva & Claudi A/S to discuss a solution. See appendix 1. 4. Young workers No matter what national rules about child labour stipulate Eva & Claudi A/S requests suppliers to regard all young workers between 15 and 18 as a very vulnerable group who must never be occupied with hazardous work. It is the responsibility of the suppliers always to be able to verify the age of all workers. Declaration Declaration of liability regarding compliance with the Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct. We, the undersigned hereby confirm: • That we have received and taken due note of the Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct of June 2010 and the Restricted Chemical List. • That we are aware of all relevant laws and regulations of the country or countries in which our company operates. • That we will inform Eva & Claudi A/S in case of conflict between provisions of the Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct and any applicable laws or regulations in our countries of operation. • That we will observe and conform to the Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct in its entirety based on a developmental oriented approach. • That we will inform all of our subcontractors of the contents and requirements of the Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct and that we will ensure that they also comply with the provisions incorporated therein. • That Eva & Claudi A/S and any organisations acting on its behalf may carry out audits with or without notice at our business premises and the business premises of our subcontractors at any time. Furthermore: • We agree to carry out a self-assessment of our social performance and that of our subcontractors upon the request of Eva & Claudi A/S and to submit the details of these assessments to Eva & Claudi A/S for evaluation. This will take the form of a completed Eva & Claudi A/S self-assessment questionnaire. • We shall notify Eva & Claudi A/S of the location of all business premises used for the production of products for Eva & Claudi A/S. We guarantee that the production of goods for Eva & Claudi A/S is carried out exclusively at the locations we have indicated. • We understand that failure to inform Eva & Claudi A/S of the location where work is carried out is adequate justification for the immediate and unconditional termination of all business and contractual relationships. • We will use the Eva & Claudi A/S management documents exclusively for purposes relating to business and monitoring activities of Eva & Claudi A/S. We will not allow any third parties not involved in the Eva & Claudi A/S monitoring process to have access to this documents. Date ......................................................... Name of company ............................................... Signature ................................................. Company Stamp/Seal Name ....................................................... Address ............................................................... (This document must be signed by an authorised representative of the company and returned to Eva & Claudi A/S Terms of implementation All suppliers are obliged to take the measures necessary to implement and monitor the Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct. Management Responsibilities  by informing management and suppliers about the content of the Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct and the Restricted Chemical List.  by establishing where responsibility lies within the company's organisation regarding all Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct issues.  by appointing one or more management employees to be responsible for implementation of the Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct.  by monitoring company compliance with the Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct and implementing necessary changes at its facilities. Employee Awareness  by giving a statement of their support for the principles of the Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct to their employees and by informing and instructing their employees and those of their subcontractors regarding the contents of the Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct.  by regularly training employees in workplace safety and on the impact of their activity on society and the environment. Record-Keeping  by keeping records of the names, ages, working hours and the wages paid to all employees and making these documents available to Eva & Claudi A/S on request.  by documenting the location of dangerous materials and other potential hazards  by monitoring and maintaining safety equipment and materials  by keeping up to date documentation regarding relevant statutory requirements and regulations. Complaints and Corrective Action  by appointing an employee responsible for handling complaints related to Eva & Claudi A/S issues. (non conformities to the Eva & Claudi Code of Conduct.)  by documenting and investigating complaints from employees or third parties related to Eva & Claudi A/S issues and reporting on their substance and any necessary corrective measures arising from them.  by making the resources available to implement necessary corrective measures.  by refraining from dismissals or other disciplinary measures against employees who pass on information regarding compliance with the Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct. Suppliers and Sub-Contractors  by making the introduction of social standards and compliance with the Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct a condition of all contracts into which it enters with suppliers.  by asking suppliers to report regularly about their progress in implementing the Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct. Monitoring  by providing Eva & Claudi A/S with relevant information about their activities and all production sites.  by allowing audits of their business premises and those of their subcontractors to be carried out at any time with or without prior notice by employees from Eva & Claudi A/S or organisations acting on behalf of Eva & Claudi A/S.  by allowing Eva & Claudi A/S free access to suppliers facilities and employees and to have access to all relevant data. Consequences of Non-Compliance If a supplier fails to meet the requirements of the Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct and if no solutions can be agreed upon and implemented within a reasonable amount of time Eva & Claudi A/S may choose to halt current production, cancel corresponding contracts, suspend future contracts and/or terminate the business relationship with the non-conforming supplier. If an audit reveals major non conformities with the Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct the supplier must take the prescribed corrective actions without delay. The period of time the supplier has to implement these corrective measures will be agreed upon but may not exceed twelve months. If a supplier excluded in the past on grounds of non-compliance shows later that it can comply fully with the Eva & Claudi A/S Code of Conduct there is no reason why a business relationship cannot be resumed. Appendix 1 Restricted Chemical List Appendix 2 LITE Supplier Questionnaire Eva & Claudi A/S HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOUR AND ETHICAL STANDARDS Supplier name: Number of locations: Location (one questionnaire for each location): Product(s): Yes No Comments Human rights: 1. Are all workers entitled to the same basic human rights regardless of race, colour, gender, language, religion etc. ? 2. Is workers’ health and safety regarded as a priority? 3. Are all personnel who handle dangerous or harmful substances provided with the necessary instructions as to their use and are instructions visible in the workplace and are they effectively enforced? 4. Are production areas clean, well ventilated and lit? 5. Do all employees have easy access to drinking water and toilet facilities? 6. Is personal protection equipment provided where necessary? 7. Are first aid equipment/personnel available in all production areas? 8. Does all production equipment have operational safety devices such as emergency stop buttons? 9. Are there fire alarms and extinguishers which are regularly tested? Yes No Comments Human rights (continued) 10. If housing is provided for employees, is it of the correct standard (i.e. 1 bed per person, separated by gender, being clean, well ventilated and lit, with necessary access to water and toilet facilities)? Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining: 11. Are all of your workers able to form and join a trade union without fear of intimidation or discrimination? Forced and Compulsory Labour: 10. Are appropriate employment contracts made available to all employees? 13. Do you ensure that workers in forced labour are not engaged? Child Labour: 14. Is the use of child labour by yourself and your subcontractors strictly prohibited? 15. Are all workers that you use above the legal age of employment for that type of work in the country of production? 16. Where there is no definition of “child” in the country of production, is the minimum employment age that you adopt at least 15 years? 17. Where minors below the age of 18 are employed, are they only allowed to work during periods when not legally required to attend school? 18. Do you use adequate and verifiable mechanisms for age verification in recruitment procedures? 2 Yes No Comments Child Labour (continued) 19. Have you developed and implemented mechanisms to detect child labour? 20. Are you exercising influence on subcontractors and other business affiliates to combat child labour? Compensation: 21. Are the wages you pay fair and reflective of work performance? 22. Are your minimum wages at least the legal minimum? 23. Does weekly working time exceed the legal limit? 24. Is overtime always voluntary and properly compensated? 25. Are all workers granted leave according to local law (e.g. vacation, sick leave, pregnancy, maternity)? Discrimination: 26. Do you have policies and procedures which make qualifications, skills and experience the basis for recruitment, training and promotion? Working against corruption: 27. Do you confirm that you never use/or are aware of any form of corruption or bribery in the complete supply chain (upstream or downstream)? Date: Name: Position: 3 Appendix 3 CSR Template. Eva & Claudi A/S Supplier name: Please note! To be returned at the latest . Does your company have any social or environmental certificates, any product marks, or are you a member of a concept regulating the rights of the workers? Environmental: YES NO DS/EN ISO 14001:2004 Environmental standard ECO-label = EU-flower European environmental product label ww.ecolabel.com BLUE SIGN www.bluesign.com Social labour standards: UN's Global Compact The 10 principles of resp. production www.unglobalcompact.org Fair Trade World wide concept for better prices www.fairtrade.net. BSCI Business European Compliance Initiative. www.bsci-eu.org SA 8000 European standard www.sa-intl.org WRAP World wide standard for workers rights. www.wrap.com Have you had a social audit done in the factory? Management systems: ISO 9001:2000 Quality management system OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety auditing system. Other: Product marks: OEKOTEX 100 garment Safety product label on fabric or clothes, OEKOTEX 100 fabric www.oekotex.com Organic cotton GOTS www.global-standard.org/ Organic cotton others I the undersigned declare that the information is correct according to my best knowledge, and that we will send you a copy of our certificate as soon as possible. Date: Company name: Sign: Contact person:
