How can a drink build a more sustainable tomorrow? Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 About this report Contents This is Coca-Cola Enterprises’ (CCE’s) seventh annual About this report Inside Front Cover Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability (CRS) Q&A with John Brock and Hubert Patricot 02 Our business 04 Report. It replaces CCE’s 2010 CRS Report as the Our stakeholders 06 company’s most recent CRS disclosure and Innovation and collaboration 08 contains a full year of data from January 1, 2011 A low-carbon, zero-waste London 2012 Olympic to December 31, 2011 for our business operations and Paralympic Games 09 covering seven European territories: Great Britain, Governance10 France and Monaco, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Energy and Climate Change 12 Netherlands, Norway and Sweden, and our offices Sustainable Packaging and Recycling 16 in the United States. It also includes some illustrative Water Stewardship 20 case studies and business activities from 2012. Product Portfolio 24 Community28 Active Healthy Living 30 For news on CCE’s sustainability initiatives and further Workplace32 resources, see our website: www.ccesustainabilityplan.com Our targets 36 GRI Index and CEO Water Mandate Index 38 UN Global Compact Index and 2011 Awards 39 Assurance statement 40 Reporting boundaries Further detail of our emissions distributor of Coca-Cola products, CCE has www.ccesustainabilityplan.com and standards by scope can be found online at developed a sustainability plan aligned Our sustainability plan website provides www.ccesustainabilityplan.com. with these seven focus areas. By delivering further detail on our CRS commitments and Unless otherwise indicated, the progress against the 37 targets in our plan, The water use data in this report refers targets, a full GRI Index, progress updates environmental and workplace data in this we support The Coca-Cola Company in to production facilities, where we have and details of awards and events which report covers all operations owned or attaining its own global goals and targets. the greatest water use. All financial data have occurred since the plan’s launch. controlled (production, sales/distribution, Each of our seven commitments is stated at in this report is in US dollars, unless combination sales/production facilities, the beginning of each chapter of this report Country reports: Each of CCE’s territories administrative offices and fleet) by Coca-Cola Enterprises (CCE). Our otherwise stated. This report has been verified by SGS (see and a review of progress against each of the 37 plan targets is on pages 36 and 37. produces a Coca-Cola system report in conjunction with The Coca-Cola How can a drink build workplace, community and carbon data includes our offices in the United States. page 40) and is aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), self-assessed at level B+. The report also serves as our Our sustainability plan was built during 2011 following significant consultation Company, giving local examples of how CCE’s CRS commitments are being brought to life in our communities. These a more sustainable tomorrow? Our carbon footprint is calculated in with a wide range of stakeholders. This Communication on Progress (COP) for the By creating a sustainability plan reports can be found online at each of accordance with the WRI/WBCSD report has also been shaped by the input United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) the following websites: Greenhouse Gas Protocol and we use an we received – each chapter answers a and the Water Stewardship chapter question posed by a third party at our that will enable us to… operational consolidation approach to Great Britain: serves as our COP-Water, as part of determine organizational boundaries. roundtable events – showing how we www.cokecorporateresponsibility.co.uk our endorsement of the UNGC CEO For example, our carbon and energy data are listening and responding. www.cokecce.co.uk Water Mandate. includes only the distribution impacts of deliver, lead France: beverages that we distribute but do not www.coca-cola-entreprise.fr produce, such as Ocean Spray products. Material information – Data is consolidated from a number of Materiality where to find it Belgium and Luxembourg: sources, including our manufacturing www.cocacolabelgium.be facilities, fuel use information, estimated Coca-Cola products are made by over CCE’s CRS programs are communicated Netherlands: cold drinks equipment energy use, and is 300 bottling companies worldwide on in a variety of publications: and innovate. analyzed centrally. Our baseline year is behalf of The Coca-Cola Company, www.coca-colanederland.nl 2007 and our emissions are independent which creates and markets brands and This report Norway: of any greenhouse gas trades. trademarks, and manufactures syrups Provides an overview of CCE’s progress www.coca-cola.no and concentrates. Coca-Cola Enterprises against our commitments in 2011 and our Under the Protocol, we measure our is one of the licensed, independent bottling ambitions for the future. It includes Sweden: emissions in three ‘scopes’: companies which purchases these items information on our business, our www.coca-cola.se and produces and packages beverages governance and management of CRS, our •S cope 1 The Coca-Cola Company to sell and distribute to retail and wholesale stakeholders and the work we are doing The fuel we use for manufacturing, our Provides many sources of Coca-Cola customers. Our relationship with The in each focus area. It contains a summary own fleet of trucks, vans and cars, and system sustainability information. Coca-Cola Company influences the way GRI Index and indices showing our our process and fugitive emissions In particular, its website, www. we work, our spheres of responsibility and compliance with the UN Global Compact •S cope 2 how we determine our material issues. thecoca-colacompany.com, contains and its CEO Water Mandate. The electricity we use at all our sites corporate codes and policies which The Coca-Cola system has determined Online inform CCE’s own approach to CRS. •S cope 3 seven material sustainability focus www.cokecce.com Its 2010/2011 Sustainability Report, The electricity used by our coolers and areas, which make up its Live Positively www.thecoca-colacompany.com/ vending machines at our customers’ framework. These are a result of work and Our corporate website provides further sustainabilityreport/index.html, contains premises, our business travel by rail and consultation over many years. Each has a detail on some of our initiatives, our a summary of the global Coca-Cola air, and the fuel used by our third-party set of global measurable targets. As the governance structure and corporate system sustainability work. distributors. Western European manufacturer and CRS policies. www.cokecce.com Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 01 Q&A with John Brock and Hubert Patricot What does our new sustainability plan mean for CCE? The plan sets out our new sustainability vision, Q&A with John Brock and Hubert Patricot Q/ What is new in the sustainability plan? we want to lead our industry in the two focus areas where we Q/ How have you ‘delivered for today’ in 2011? Q/ So how will a drink build a sustainable tomorrow? commitments and targets. It demonstrates how John Brock (Chairman A/ John Brock: We’ve defined, believe we can make the biggest difference – Energy and Climate A/ Hubert Patricot: We reduced A/ John Brock: We’re learning we’ll grow our business while we build a more and CEO) and Hubert Patricot, (Executive Vice President for the first time, our vision for CRS at CCE. We want to build Change and Sustainable Packaging and Recycling. the carbon footprint of our business operations by around that the answer is a journey not a destination. We’ll continue to sustainable tomorrow. and President, European a sustainable tomorrow – and 70,000 tonnes CO2e (8.4 percent) embed CRS into our organization, Group) discuss our 2011 to do so we have set seven Q/ How will you innovate from 2010, while growing our in everything we do. We’ll follow CRS achievements, future commitments and 37 challenging for the future? volume by 3.5 percent. This is part our plan to meet the goals we’ve plans and challenges. and measurable targets which of an overall 10 percent decrease set and we’ll work with others to we aim to achieve by 2020. A/ Hubert Patricot: Our plan in emissions from our 2007 innovate when we don’t know all Q/ What was your greatest We have developed three opens new opportunities for us baseline. We are also working the answers. In this, our first CRS Corporate Responsibility and strategic priorities around three to work with a wide range of hard to drive down the amount Report since its launch, we hope Our strategic priorities Sustainability (CRS) achievement themes which are core to making stakeholders, building on strong, of water we use to make our to show you how we are already in 2011? our vision reality – Deliver, Lead existing partnerships with the products. We used an average delivering for today and inspiring and Innovate. UN Global Compact and its CEO of 1.43 liters of water to produce for tomorrow. Deliver for today A/ John Brock: In September Water Mandate, and generating one liter of product, down from On our commitments and targets 2011, we produced a new A/ Hubert Patricot: We’ve also new alliances to create innovative 1.48 liters/liter in 2010. sustainability plan – ‘Deliver set stretching, value chain-based solutions and drive thought for Today, Inspire for Tomorrow’, goals which address some of leadership. We want to harness John Brock: We have also started the next milestone on our CRS the bigger issues that society as the power of our own employees to address impacts related to the Our sustainability vision Lead the industry journey. Over the last two a whole faces. And we’ve said to generate new ideas and we raw materials we purchase. In a In Energy and Climate Change and years, we have examined how are already working with our joint venture with ECO Plastics, we Sustainable Packaging and Recycling leading companies should suppliers to encourage them to have built a new recycling facility, We will deliver for today, growing engage on societal issues reduce carbon and launched a ‘Continuum’. This is one of the a low-carbon, zero-waste business, and the ways in which we can ‘Carbon Challenge’ in 2011. biggest plastics reprocessing and inspire and lead change for a Innovate for the future continue to embed sustainability facilities in Western Europe. It will more sustainable tomorrow. in everything we do. This A/ John Brock: Innovation and recycle the packaging from every Opportunities for innovation, collaboration plan is our new roadmap to partnership will become even Coca-Cola product consumed and partnership becoming an increasingly more important over time, at the London 2012 Games later sustainable company. particularly in the context of the this year. macroeconomic challenges we Q/ How did you build the plan? continue to face in our operating Q/ What is in store for 2012? environment. On issues such as A/ Hubert Patricot: The strength public health and climate change A/ Hubert Patricot: Our stretching of the plan is in the stakeholder we are determined to be part environmental goals mean that input we sought every step of of the solution. we must better understand and the way. While we have a strong measure the impacts of our value CRS foundation, after becoming chain. We’ll be working hard with a wholly European business, our suppliers to identify and we wanted to listen again to the reduce these impacts, focusing expectations of our stakeholders first on carbon. to understand how we can lead in sustainability. They told us to A/ John Brock: We’ll also be embed CRS deeper into the heart looking for ways to innovate of our business, to take further for the future, and are looking responsibility for impacts which forward to showcasing how we extend into our value chain, ‘deliver for today’ on a world stage and to be more visionary and at the London 2012 Olympic and innovative. The plan sets out a Paralympic Games. We’ll be framework in which we can do a key part of the most sustainable all this – and more. Games in history, using environmental technologies such as biogas trucks, encouraging consumers to recycle and offering John Brock Hubert Patricot unique opportunities for (left) (right) representatives from our Chairman and CEO Executive Vice President communities to be part of Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (CCE) and President, European Group this amazing event. Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (CCE) 02 www.cokecce.com Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 03 Our business Where we operate Our manufacturing and distribution process 1.43ltr Average amount of water used to make 1 liter of product. Serving 170 million people Our business has environmental FIGURE 1 — Territories of operation FIGURE 3 — Our manufacturing and distribution process across seven countries in Key and social impacts across the Western Europe, Coca-Cola life cycle of our products, from Percentage Enterprises (CCE) is one of the CCE European the sourcing and use of raw emissions world’s largest independent Headquarters materials and ingredients, Value chain process (estimated)1 Impact bottlers of Coca-Cola beverages. Country head offices to the manufacturing of our 13,250 Bottling plants Our supply chain We operate in Great Britain, products and their disposal. France, Monaco, Belgium, Ingredients: Ninety-five percent of our products are made Luxembourg, the Netherlands, The goals we have set in our from concentrates supplied by our brand owners. The rest Norway and Sweden. Number of employees. sustainability plan focus on are finished products that we distribute. We purchase sugar 17% reducing our impacts at each directly; our low-calorie sweeteners are already contained Our business stage of our value chain and in the concentrates we buy. We also purchase juices, mineral waters and carbon dioxide to make our products, and are Ingredients Our operations have making a positive difference to working with our suppliers to reduce the carbon and water achieved growth in volume and the communities in which we impacts of these raw materials. operating income for the last six operate. Figure 3 shows the consecutive years. In 2011, we sold different impacts of our business Packaging: Our packaging materials – aluminum, steel, PET approximately 12 billion bottles at each stage of the value chain, plastic (virgin, recycled and plant-based), cardboard and shrink 47% and cans (or 620 million physical and identifies where, in the wrap – come from a range of approved suppliers. We are cases) across our territories, remainder of this report, you can working with these suppliers and innovating within our own and generated approximately read about how we are seeking business to reduce the impacts of the packaging materials we Packaging $8.3 billion in revenues and to reduce them. We have directly put onto the marketplace. 7 $1.1 billion of operating income. focused on measuring and reducing our operational impacts We remain a public company, and the impacts we can control, Our business incorporated and headquartered such as emissions from our Manufacturing: We use water and energy (gas and electricity) in the United States and publicly traded on the New York Stock cold drinks equipment. Our sustainability plan will require in our manufacturing sites to produce our beverages. We 8% are focused on increasing our operational efficiencies and Exchange under the symbol CCE. Number of countries innovation, collaboration and minimizing our waste. Additionally, as an employer of Manufacturing In May 2011, we announced CCE’s of operation. partnership with suppliers and approximately 13,250 people, we provide jobs and pay taxes secondary listing on the NYSE customers to identify ways to in the countries and communities in which we operate. Euronext in Paris. reduce impacts across our Distribution: The distribution of our products uses fuel, so we 8% 17 value chain. are looking for new, low-carbon ways to get our products to Our products market. We are investigating new low-carbon fuels and ways CCE manufactures and distributes to optimize our distribution network and are working with Distribution some of the most popular third-party hauliers to reduce our impacts. beverage brands in the world. Cooling and selling our products: Our wide range of The foundation of our business products reflects the changing needs and demands of our is the world’s most recognized brand, Coca-Cola, alongside consumers across our territories. Refrigerating our products uses energy, so we are increasing the efficiency of our coolers 21% Diet Coke, Coca-Cola light, Number of on our customers’ premises. Coke Zero, Fanta and Sprite, as manufacturing sites. well as a growing range of water, Refrigeration juices and juice drinks, sports drinks, energy drinks and FIGURE 2 — Coca-Cola Enterprises: Key Statistics The marketplace ready-to-drink teas. One of our strategic business priorities is to Manufacturing Carbon footprint Water use ratio Key — our areas of impact Product Portfolio: Our wide range of products reflects the be number one or a strong Territory Employees sites (‘000s metric tonnes CO2e) (liters to make 1 liter product) changing needs and demands of our consumers across number two in each of these our territories. Belgium & Luxembourg Energy and Climate Change categories. The Coca-Cola 2,500 3 92 1.65 Company is our primary strategic Sustainable Packaging Recycling: Our empty packaging becomes waste unless it is France 2,970 5 115 1.32 collected for recycling, so we are working to increase recycling Included in partner. While beverages owned and Recycling Great Britain rates across our territories, which in turn will help us to packaging2 4,580 6 4151 1.31 by The Coca-Cola Company and Water Stewardship generate more material which we can turn into new bottles. its affiliates represent more than Netherlands 830 1 107 1.42 Recycling 90 percent of our volume, we Norway Product Portfolio Community: Coca-Cola is a local product, made by local 1,380 1 20 2.232 distribute several brands for people and we have strong links with our communities. We Sweden 830 1 15 1.89 Community other franchise partners, such aim to make a positive difference wherever we manufacture as Capri Sun and Ocean Spray. USA and sell our products. 160 0 6 n/a Active Healthy Living TOTAL 13,250 17 769 3 1.43 Workplace 1. Great Britain is our largest market and has carbon-intense electricity. 1. We have modeled emissions for ingredients and packaging using industry average conversion factors linked to our own 2. Norway’s water use ratio is higher as we use water to wash our refillable plastic bottles. procurement data for each raw material. This value chain footprint has not been audited by third party independent verifiers. 04 3. Column does not add to 769,000 tonnes CO2e as a result of rounding. www.cokecce.com Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 2. As a result of packaging carbon footprint methodologies. 05 Our stakeholders Q/ “Will CCE deliver the sustainability plan alone or We then convened a group of Continuing engagement and Key 2011 Partnerships $3.6bn spent with over 16,000 will you seek partnerships?” 25 key stakeholders from across partnership with thought leaders, suppliers in 20111. our countries of operation to NGOs, suppliers, customers and Stefan Crets advise us how to develop our many others will be fundamental While all our stakeholder Executive Director, CSR Europe goals and programs further to to achieving the stretching goals groups are important, we have ensure leadership. Their counsel, we have set and in helping us focused our CRS engagement A/ “Listening to and working with a wide range of along with benchmarking studies innovate for the future.” on our employees and on stakeholders was key to the development of our sustainability plan in 2011. Once we had stated our ambition – to be the leader in Corporate Responsibility and advice from regular advisors and internal experts, pushed us to develop the vision, plan and framework as well as the Laura Brightwell Senior Vice President, Public Affairs and subject matter experts who have been able to provide valuable insight into how we can improve our efforts. #1 ranking in Advantage and Sustainability within the food and beverage commitments and targets which Communications, CCE Group customer satisfaction survey in industry – we drafted new commitments and targets. now guide CRS at CCE. Great Britain, France, Belgium and the Netherlands in 2011. FIGURE 4 — Working with Stakeholders to shape our Sustainability Plan Awards & Recognition Academics and Investors, shareowners Media and social media Suppliers thought leaders and analysts What they said… Characteristics of leading What we did… In 2011, CCE was ranked #1 in the We have provided input into a number of In addition to announcing a secondary We have enhanced the use of our social We spent more than $3.6 billion with over sustainability companies food and beverage industry for the academic studies. We have shared our listing on the NYSE Euronext in Paris, media pages to tell our CRS story, and 16,000 suppliers in 2011. Of this, 74 percent third consecutive year in experiences on embedding sustainability we completed our sixth submission carried out a virtual sustainability panel was spent in our countries of operation Set new goals focusing on the seven most material issues A holistic approach, taking Newsweek’s Green Rankings, and into our company with Ashridge Business to the Carbon Disclosure Project and discussion to launch our sustainability and 86 percent within the EU. We expect for our business and reaching into our value chain School. We have also explained the ways our third application to the Dow Jones plan. This was a discussion about building all our suppliers to adhere to our Supplier broad responsibility also ranked higher than any other we use communication to collaborate Sustainability Index. We continue to sustainable value chains and was Guiding Principles (SGPs), a set of US consumer goods company. This with supply chain stakeholders on be a member of the FTSE4Good Index. broadcast online so that our stakeholders standards that includes health and safety, Developed a new vision for CRS at our company – “We will deliver Having a compelling vision year we also became the first soft sustainability initiatives with researchers CRS also forms a regular part of each could engage in dialogue with our human rights, labor, environment and for today, growing a low-carbon, zero-waste business, and at Brunel University. presentation we make to financial leaders in real time. At the same time, we business integrity. We also incorporate for sustainability drinks company to receive the inspire and lead change for a more sustainable tomorrow.” analysts. launched a new website – environmental criteria into our Supplier Carbon Trust Standard award www.ccesustainabilityplan.com – which Relationship Management process, which Renewed commitment from our Chairman and CEO to focus (see page 15). provides all the details of our sustainability covered 80 percent of our 2011 spend with Strong leadership on sustainability leadership that ensures we meet external plan, and will aim to seek dialogue with suppliers. We held our second Supplier expectations and drive CRS throughout our business stakeholders using social media. Sustainability Summit for our top 60 suppliers to investigate ways to work Included ‘Innovate for the future’ in our framework as a strategic FTSE4Good Development of innovative solutions together to encourage innovation priority for CRS at CCE throughout our value chain. Set commitments and targets which require us to measure Leading-edge aspirations sUPPLIER CARBON and reduce impacts outside the scope of our own operations CHALLENGE 2011 Encouraged ongoing stakeholder input during the development Transparency of our sustainability plan, which was launched to a wide variety of stakeholders Designated two ‘leadership’ focus areas for our business on Focusing on material issues which we will aim to lead the industry: Energy and Climate Change and Sustainable Packaging and Recycling Challenged ourselves to build an ‘Innovate for the future’ platform Collaborating and networking Leadership networks Employees Customers Non-governmental through collaboration and partnership As part of our commitment to organizations reduce our carbon footprint We have been invited to join the EU In 2011, we continued our partnership We have over one million customers, We are a signatory to the UN Global across the value chain, we Corporate Leaders Group on Climate with the University of Cambridge ranging from small independent retailers Compact and its CEO Water Mandate, Launching our launched a ‘Carbon Challenge’ Change to communicate the support of Sustainability Leadership Programme to large international chains. Our strategic and work closely with the International sustainability plan for 129 of our suppliers at our business for the European Union to and conducted two additional courses for business priority is to be their most valued Business Leaders Forum (IBLF). In 2011, move to a low-carbon society. In 2012, more than 50 members of CCE’s senior supplier, so we are constantly examining our Chairman and CEO, John Brock, Supplier Sustainability Summit in Our sustainability plan was we will join SustainAbility’s Engaging management. In 2012, we will continue and improving our distribution methods, engaged with the IBLF to inform its work 2011. Suppliers were surveyed Stakeholders network of peer our partnership, focusing on embedding our customer service processes and our on embedding sustainability leadership. launched to a wide range about their carbon emissions companies dedicated to advancing CRS into our commercial decision-making. internal operating systems to ensure we We have also entered into a water of stakeholders through a attributable to their supply to transparency and accountability. We also held our fourth ‘CRS in Action are meeting their needs. We set annual replenishment partnership with the virtual panel discussion in Week’, engaging in community and targets for customer satisfaction and World Wildlife Fund (see page 23) CCE and their responses September 20111. environmentally focused activities measure our performance using surveys and we maintain a wide range of have allowed us to evaluate from sporting challenges to clean-up such as those by the Advantage Group, relationships with national NGOs such their carbon impact and events across all our countries (see pages which assess suppliers on factors as those involved in packaging recovery carbon performance. Over 28 and 31). We are planning another week including category development, customer (see page 19). of action in 2012. service, innovation and logistics. In 2011, we the coming months, we’ll be were rated the leading consumer goods using these results to work company in Great Britain, France, Belgium with our suppliers and identify and the Netherlands. This was the first time areas of best practice and in which our French business unit achieved this #1 ranking. methods for reducing the total carbon emissions. 06 1. Watch our launch video at www.ccesustainabilityplan.com www.cokecce.com Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 1. Excluding concentrate spend. 07 Innovation and collaboration A low-carbon, zero-waste London 2012 Olympic & Paralympic Games Q/ “What will be demanded of any company Figure 5 — Our Innovation Framework Q/ “What is Coca-Cola doing to make these in 2020 is significantly greater than what is Games the greenest ever?” demanded now. How is CCE going to innovate to meet these challenges – in its supply chain A/ “CCE is partnering closely with The Coca-Cola and its own business?” Company to help deliver the most sustainable Games yet. Our unique contribution as a bottler John Gummer Former UK Environment Secretary and Chairman, Sancroft society will focus on making the Games low-carbon International and zero-waste, working with our suppliers and using state-of-the-art technologies and A/ “We’ve made ‘Innovate for the future’ one of innovative concepts to encourage our consumers industry our strategic priorities in our sustainability plan. to recycle.“ We know we don’t have all the answers, so we John Brock want to collaborate and partner with others who Chairman and CEO, Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. can help us to find ways of working and thinking to address the global challenges we all face.” Hubert Patricot Executive Vice President and President, A zero-waste Games A low-carbon games European Group, Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. • At all London 2012 venues, • Every Coca-Cola cooler installed packaged Coca-Cola products in an Olympic or Paralympic will be served in 100 percent venue will be HFC-free and recyclable plastic bottles which energy efficient and will use will contain up to 25 percent LED lighting. After the London Innovate for the future Our industry recycled content. 2012 Games, these will be DELIVER/INSPIRE SPOTLIGHT We are commercializing installed in customer premises We are developing our framework new technologies which have • In addition, Coca-Cola, across Europe. around the concept of innovation wider industry-related benefits. Diet Coke and Coke Zero that benefits our company, our Working with partners, we will be served in PlantBottle™ • We will deliver products to industry and society as a whole. have tested and helped to packaging containing up to London venues from our While our business has already bring biogas trucks to market 22.5 percent plant-based environmentally friendly ! #$%&'()*+,-./012,3$4516,,,7,,,789#:9$#7$,,,7;<7; contributed technologies and (see page 14). We’re also material, and up to 25 percent warehouse, known as ‘Voltaic’. ways of working that benefit exploring how a zero-carbon recycled PET (rPET). This includes low-carbon each of these three areas, we manufacturing site might features such as solar PV cells • We aim to reprocess every know there is more we can do. operate. and solar water heating, sky piece of clear PET plastic waste For example: lights and motion-sensor that is recycled at the London Society lighting, a ground source Images (clockwise from top): 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Our company We are working to become heat pump and a rainwater Vincent Strivay Games, and to use that material Biogas trucks harvesting system. We continually innovate within our thought leaders in recycling, Coordinator, Technical Training to make new bottles within six recycling: Recycled PET staff uniforms will be used – © 2012 The Coca-Cola Company. All rights reserved. Coca-Cola and the design of the Coca-Cola Contour Bottle are registered trade marks of The Coca-Cola Company. own systems and processes to particularly through finding weeks. The plastic will be • We will use 14 biogas trucks similar to those used at the 2010 Vancouver Chaudfontaine, Belgium drive efficiency and effectiveness. We are installing equipment such innovative ways to encourage consumers to recycle. With the Delivering: Vincent was the re-processed at ‘Continuum’, our joint venture plastics to deliver to our customers in the London area during the it’s a team Winter Olympics (pictured) Branded signage as monitoring and targeting systems which save energy and Carbon Trust we examined the concept of ‘Personal Carbon winner of an award in the ‘Effectiveness, Efficiency and reprocessing facility (see page 18). London 2012 Games. These are powered by methane from a event Bins made from post-consumer waste Voltaic warehouse is equipped with water on our production lines Allowances’ and how these could landfill site in Surrey and each Innovation’ category at CCE’s • We will encourage visitors to environmentally friendly technologies (see pages 12-15 and pages 20-23). be measured and implemented has a carbon footprint less than aims to turn every 2011-2012 internal ‘ICON’ London 2012 to recycle their soft drink bottle you recycle We encourage our employees to – work which could have half that of a typical diesel truck. Awards for repairing a labeling empty packaging. Recycling in this venue into a new share their ideas for innovations implications for wider society We will incorporate these trucks machine in an innovative way bins will be provided around the one within six weeks with us via our ICON Awards and across our territories over time. into our fleet after the Games. at our Chaudfontaine site. park and we will use fun ways we have introduced new plantbased packaging through However, we know there is Innovative thinking: encouraging to prompt people to recycle. • Together, our Voltaic warehouse consumers to recycle (top) Inspiring: Thanks to Vincent’s and our biogas trucks mean technologies such as PlantBottle™ more to do. Over the coming • All of our staff uniforms and Our innovative recycling concepts work, the number of line that the carbon footprint of our across our territories (see page 17). year we will further develop such as Swap for Swag have won our signage around the park interruptions due to this distribution system for the our ‘Innovate for the future’ awards for their creativity. will contain as much recycled machine dropped from 7.5 London 2012 Games is cut by strategy and find ways in which material as possible. PlantBottle™ (above) to just 2.5 percent between one third. we can innovate to meet our We have introduced new packaging own needs – and needs beyond technologies such as PlantBottle™ April and June 2011 – saving the business $93,600. enjoy nd the design of the Coca-Cola Contour Bottle are registered trade marks of The Coca-Cola Company. across our territories. those of our own business. another opening 08 www.cokecce.com Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 09 ceremony Governance CCE’s vision is to be the best social importance to our business. risk management processes. CRS is one of the performance Figure 7 — CCE operational Figure 8 — Our CRS Governance structure beverage sales and customer Outputs from these meetings Risks that could affect our objectives that determine the structure service company. Our Operating influence our own internal policy business and financial results are variable compensation of ELT Framework is our roadmap to and decision-making. disclosed in the Form 10-K in our members. In addition, the CCE CRS Board CCE Board of Directors Committee long-term, profitable growth company’s Annual Report and development process for any Chairman: John Brock and Corporate Responsibility Our CRS Advisory Council is a in quarterly financial reporting. major project, product or new and Sustainability (CRS) is a key cross-functional body of senior CRS is one of the 49 risks on investment now takes account component of this framework. managers who chair steering our register and includes risks of its impact on our CRS Executive Leadership Team (ELT) Coca-Cola EU/Group/ groups for each CRS focus area. relating to adverse weather and commitments. CRS is built into Chief Executive Officer CRS Board It meets five times a year to review global climate change. Other the business plan of each Executive VP and President, European Group Our governance structure progress, discuss challenges risks include global health and business unit and CCE maintains Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer and identify the future direction wellbeing trends, health and a five-year, long-range plan SVP, General Counsel and Strategic Initiatives We’re committed to doing and priorities for CRS at CCE. safety, the cost and availability for CRS. SVP, Public Affairs and Communications CRS Advisory Council business responsibly. As a Reporting to the CRS Board of raw materials, procurement SVP, Human Resources result, we strive to maintain Committee, the Council is chaired and supplier management, SVP, Chief Information Officer CRS leadership in the food and by Laura Brightwell, Senior Vice ethics and compliance, Environmental Steering Committee beverage industry and to embed President of Public Affairs and governance, reputation, CRS into our everyday decisionCommunications. and business interruption. Operating Leadership Team (OLT) Energy and Sustainable Water Product Active Healthy Workplace making processes. Includes General Managers and support Climate Packaging and Stewardship Portfolio Living and Supporting our CRS Advisory The top 19 risks from the list of DELIVER/INSPIRE SPOTLIGHT functions. Support functions are also represented Change Recycling Community throughout the business units. Our strategy is guided by the Council is a network of CRS 49 are allocated to specific CRS Committee of the Board of managers and an Environmental board committees and the CCE business units Directors, which meets five times Stewardship team that manages members of the Executive Internal CRS Network/Engaging Business Unit Leadership a year to review progress against quality, environment, safety Leadership Team (ELT) responsible Great Britain France our sustainability plan targets and and health across our operations. for those committees. As the ELT CCE CRS Board Committee, (pictured above, from left to right), Curt Welling, President and Chief Executive, Americares Foundation; Phoebe to discuss emerging CRS issues. Members of this team also member responsible for CRS, Benelux Wood, Principal, Companies Wood and former Vice Chairman, Brown-Forman; Cal Darden, former Senior Vice President, US Operations, United Norway and Parcel Service, Inc. (Committee Chair); John Brock; Chairman and CEO, CCE; Véronique Morali, Chairman of Fimalac Développement and Vice The Committee is chaired by participate in the Global Laura Brightwell is accountable Sweden Chairman, Fitch Group, Inc.; Laura Brightwell, Senior Vice President, Public Affairs and Communications, CCE. Supply Chain Cal Darden, former Senior Vice Coca-Cola Environment and for CRS and health and wellbeing President, US Operations, United Safety Council. risks. In 2012, we will introduce Parcel Service, Inc. Our leadership an Enterprise Risk Council, team also participates in The responsible for ensuring that Coca-Cola Company’s European Risk management and all risks are understood, System CRS Board, a panbusiness planning considered in decision-making Ethics and compliance The Code also forms the compliance was developed. This email the Ethics and Compliance European leadership group which and appropriately handled cornerstone of our Ethics and will be rolled out in 2012, focusing office directly. All reported includes other Coca-Cola bottlers. Social and environmental risks and mitigated. This council At CCE, our culture of ethical Compliance program and ensures initially on the Code of Business incidents are investigated and This group meets bi-annually to are treated as strategic business will report to the ELT and the behavior is guided by the RIGHT we comply with the US Foreign Conduct, insider trading and the all activity is reported to the Janice Piacente evaluate policy on matters of risks and are assessed annually Audit Committee of the Board Way model of ethical values – our Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. All employees Audit Committee of the Board Chief Compliance and strategic environmental and as part of our standard enterprise of Directors. actions, decisions and behavior recent UK Bribery Act. In 2011, we with access to e-learning will of Directors. Serious breaches Risk Officer must always demonstrate respect, introduced a Bribery Act toolkit to receive the training via their are discussed by ‘The RIGHT integrity, good judgment, honesty educate managers on compliance computers, while non-computer Call’ committee, a new, Delivering: The core part Figure 6 — Operating Framework and trust. and to provide managers with the users will be reached through site cross-functional group of of my role is supporting CCE’s tools to educate their teams. Also visits and presentations. All CCE senior leaders. employees in upholding the Our revised global Code of in 2011, we established a new, employees will receive this training highest standards of ethics and Vision Business Conduct is based on global anti-corruption policy with refresher courses at least integrity – nurturing a culture these values and outlines the which also applies to all our every three years. Further training Management systems, Be the best beverage sales and customer service company where people do the right thing. behavior we expect of every interactions with third parties – on specific compliance risks will policies and standards ‘Best’ means: As a key part of my team, the employee. It identifies 12 guiding suppliers, contractors and agents also be introduced in 2012; for Being #1 or strong #2 in every category in which we compete Internal Control Group helps us Strategic priority: Grow value of existing brands and expand our Product Portfolio principles, such as promoting – supplementing the standards example, a new handbook and The Coca-Cola system has to strengthen our monitoring An effective relationship with health and safety in the we expect of suppliers which training program for employees to recently moved from its own CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND Being our customers’ most valued supplier systems and further supports Strategic priority: Transform our go-to-market model to improve efficiency and effectiveness workplace, complying with are detailed in our Supplier help them comply with European management systems to ISO alignment with our Code of Establishing a winning and inclusive culture anti-corruption laws and Guiding Principles. Competition Law. standards. Notably, 16 out of 17 Strategic priority: Attract, develop and retain a highly talented and diverse workforce Business Conduct and policies. upholding our environmental production facilities now comply Drive consistent, long-term profitable growth commitments. The Code is one CCE’s Compliance and Risk For our Code of Business Conduct with ISO 14001, ISO 9001, ISO Inspiring: This integration of of the ways we comply with the function monitors compliance with to be effective, employees must 22000 and OHSAS 18001. We’re World-class capabilities ethics, risk management and SUSTAINABILITY IS OUR BUSINESS The Coca-Cola Company ten universal principles of the UN the Code of Business Conduct and feel confident in raising concerns working to certify other non• Revenue growth management • Supply chain • Sales and customer service controls monitoring provides a Global Compact which CCE signed provides training, communication or questions without fear of production facilities. Guiding our real opportunity for the creation in 2007. It is published on our and change management related retaliation. CCE has an Ethics management systems is a series Executional excellence every day of a world-class system of website and intranet and we to the Code and other key risks. and Compliance hotline for of overarching corporate policies effective checks and balances, inform all new employees of In 2011, all training procedures reporting suspected breaches which cover a range of issues Values underpinned by a strong the Code during their induction. were reviewed and a three-year of the Code. Employees are from environment to equality • Accountable • Customer focused • Team driven ethical culture. training curriculum on ethics and also encouraged to speak to and diversity. These are available their manager or to call or at www.cokecce.com. 10 www.cokecce.com Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 11 Our energy and climate achieved by improving our energy district heating depends on Edmonton and Wakefield plants, change strategy management and deploying local conditions, we are Great Britain. We are also energy-efficient technologies. investigating its implementation investigating the possibilities To date, we have focused on at other CCE sites. of further installations at our reducing carbon emissions Energy management Marseille plant, France and our from our own operations – the In 2011, we moved from training Combined Heat & Power (CHP) new head office in Uxbridge, manufacture, distribution and and planning for carbon Our plant at Wakefield in Great Great Britain. cooling of our products. To build reductions to improving our Britain is investing in a CHP a low-carbon future, we must take carbon management, establishing solution that will enable it to Wind District responsibility for emissions within the entire value chain. As a result, accountabilities and reporting lines and rolling out best practice produce electricity from natural gas and then reuse the heat During 2011, we tested a 70 meter-tall wind mast at heating in in 2011, we announced a new across the business. generated in this process on site. Northampton, Great Britain, commitment to reduce carbon and will review its effectiveness emissions throughout the value A key part of this is our Solar photovoltaic in 2012. We are also developing Norway chain and ensure that the average introduction of monitoring and In 2011, we installed solar plans for wind turbines in carbon footprint of our products targeting (M&T) systems which photovoltaic panels on the roof Gent, Belgium, and Dongen is a third less in 2020 than it are now widely installed on of our new green distribution in the Netherlands. was in 2007. production lines and energycenter at Heppignies, Belgium In 2011, our plant in Norway was intensive equipment. They show (below). In early 2012, we installed connected to a district heating facility, Our new strategy will require us how efficiently we’re using further panels at our Sidcup, fueled by wood chippings. Connection examining our business in a energy and help cut energy use to the district heating facility gave more rigorous way and reducing and therefore carbon emissions. a significant reduction in the use of emissions at six key stages – Over time, we will link our M&T its fuel and its carbon emissions. ingredients, packaging, with business systems, such manufacturing, distribution, as SAP, to improve our carbon refrigeration and recycling – management further. The first in collaboration with suppliers M&T-SAP link was implemented and other stakeholders. this year in Dongen in the Leading We’re still at the start of this journey. In this year’s reporting, Netherlands (see page 23). In addition, we are working to Energy and Climate Change we’ll continue to concentrate on emissions from our own core certify our manufacturing sites to the new energy management business with the aim of widening standard, ISO 50001, as a way our scope in coming years. of strengthening our site energy Solar panels on the roof of our new green distribution center in Heppignies, Belgium. Our Commitment Q/ “As CCE has ambitious growth plans, management practices. In November 2011, our Wakefield We will reduce the carbon footprint of the drink how will it decouple its business growth Reducing our core plant in Great Britain became Energy-efficiency improvements in your hand by a third by delivering carbon from emissions growth?” business emissions the first in the global food and We’re developing and rolling out best-practices and energyreductions throughout our entire value chain. beverage industry to achieve this Sandrine Dixson-Declève, efficient technologies and ensuring our sites implement them In 2011, we invested $23 million certification, followed by our plants Director, The Prince of Wales’s EU Corporate Leaders Group on consistently. These include: of capital expenditure in carbon in Chaudfontaine, Belgium, and Introduction Climate Change and EU Office, University of Cambridge Programme reduction projects. While a key Dunkirk, France. This year, we • Bottle blower We are installing ceramic reflectors in the ovens for Sustainable Leadership focus has been on our cold drinks also became the first soft drinks used to heat our pre-formed bottles and reducing the amount We believe that climate change, caused by equipment, we’ve also invested company to receive the Carbon of compressed air needed to blow the bottles. In these ways man-made greenhouse gas emissions, is the greatest threat to our planet. There is an urgent A/ “From 2010 to 2011, we grew our volume in improving efficiencies in Trust Standard award we can reduce the energy used in our bottle blowers by around manufacturing and distribution. (see page 15). 20 percent. need for a step-change to achieve not only the by 3.5 percent and reduced our emissions significant emission reduction targets we have • Boiler upgrade/replacement We are replacing older steam set but also a low-carbon future. from manufacturing, distribution and the Renewable energy boilers with new hot water boilers or efficient steam boilers, Manufacturing We’ve set a target of sourcing cooling of our products by 8.4 percent. Our 35 percent of the energy we as appropriate. new commitment to reduce the carbon Around 80 percent of our use in our manufacturing from • Detection and repair of compressed air leaks We are carbon emissions from our renewable or low-carbon sources continuing our work to repair leakages in our compressed air footprint of the drink in your hand by a third manufacturing and distribution by 2020. We already have several systems across our sites and embedding this work into our raises the bar even higher and we must now 35% sites come from electricity and sites and projects making use of maintenance routines. focus on accurately understanding our value gas. Our new target is to halve renewable energy; in Sweden we • Ambient filling We are investing in new fillers which work the carbon emissions involved in have been using 100 percent of our energy from chain emissions and identifying reduction making a liter of product between energy from renewable sources at ambient temperatures so we don’t have to cool down the beverage to fill the package. manufacturing will come strategies with our suppliers.” 2007 and 2020 by driving since 2008. from renewable sources efficiencies in our facilities and • CO2 vaporization We buy liquid CO2 for carbonation and must by 2020. Nick Collins investing in renewable energy. District heating vaporize it to add it to our drinks, which traditionally requires Vice President, Cooler Services and Chair, Energy and Climate Change Our Norwegian and Swedish heat. We are implementing alternative solutions, alleviating the Steering Group, Coca-Cola Enterprises In 2011, we used six percent less sites use district heating fueled need to apply heat and instead using the cooling effect of the energy in our manufacturing by biomass. District heating is vaporizing gas to help chill the water we use. operations than in 2007, our where businesses and homes use • Adiabatic cooling Our air compressors require cooling and baseline year – 541,803 megawatt a centrally generated source of we are moving from standard, energy-intensive cooling towers hours (MWh), down from 577,018 heat – a technique that provides towards adiabatic coolers which use less energy and water. MWh. This reduction has been significant efficiencies. Although 12 www.cokecce.com Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 13 Energy and Climate Change — continued Distribution • Alternative fuels • Emission ‘caps’ • River transport Working with our FIGURE 10 — cold DELIVER/INSPIRE SPOTLIGHT In Great Britain, we trialed a We’ve reduced emissions from Our 2011 trial in the Netherlands customers in France to drinks equipment Transporting our products biogas-powered vehicle, fueled our corporate car and van fleet by demonstrated good results and reduce carbon in – environmental Wayne Boden Delivering: I was proud to Cold drinks equipment – generates a relatively small part by treated landfill gas in 2011. introducing CO2/km caps for our we are continuing discussions distribution technology environmental roll-out technology roll out Senior Manager, Environment, manage the process of of our carbon footprint, but we’re Results included well-to-wheel list of cars, offering eco-friendly with our river transport provider Great Britain. preparing CCE’s application for keen to identify opportunities to CO2e reductions of up to 60 models to our employees and to review future possibilities. Backhauling requires complex the Carbon Trust Standard, an 100 reduce emissions further. percent, improved air quality and choosing energy-efficient vans. logistics and informationaward scheme that recognizes noise-level benefits. This initiative We’re also testing electric cars to Backhauling and network sharing with our customers. companies that demonstrate Reducing emissions from our was awarded the Low Carbon better understand if they may be optimization So far, we have established effective carbon management. own fleet Fuel Initiative of the Year by the suitable for our needs. This year we have expanded arrangements with three major The 12-week assessment period Low Carbon Vehicle Partnership our backhauling systems in customers for some delivery • Alternative technologies included an audit of our carbon % and we have invested a further Reducing emissions from Great Britain, Sweden and France, routes and we are looking to In 2011, we introduced three footprint data and two site $2.71 million to run 14 of these third-party vehicles requiring significant flexibility within expand these in 2012. We have additional ‘Eco-Combi’ trucks visits to Clamart in France and vehicles for the London 2012 Most of our deliveries are made by our own operations and smooth also been working with French to our existing fleet in the Edmonton in Great Britain to see Games. In the Netherlands, we third-party hauliers with whom we execution. As a result we have cut supermarket Monoprix to Netherlands, bringing the carbon management in practice. 0 have introduced the first larger work closely to save road miles and 1,580 deliveries and removed achieve our joint environmental total to eight. These reduce EMS OFU LED Vendor heavy-duty biogas trucks. In reduce CO2e emissions. Joint 390,000 road miles. objectives. In 2011, we started emissions per pallet by 20 Inspiring: In October 2011, CCE doors lights ProgramParis, France, we are delivering projects in 2011 included: using a green, dual-fuel truck ming percent. In January 2012, we became the first soft drinks our GlacÉau vitaminwater™ in The process of network to deliver our products to the % Eligible fleet fitted introduced a more efficient • Trialing dual-fuel HGVs company to receive the award, electric vehicles. In Sweden, we optimization continues to reduce store’s distribution center in dual-fuel (diesel-biogas) Based on the successful trials obtaining the best-ever score % Eligible fleet remaining have changed from using fossil carbon emissions by making Paris, reducing our carbon version which will reduce of dual-fuel 40-tonne vehicles, out of 675 companies. fuels to using biodiesel in our our distribution more efficient. emissions on this route by emissions by an estimated we have agreed with a supplier trucks, with the goal of running Developing more production 25 percent. 35 percent per pallet. We that it will purchase 20 of these 90 percent of all our Swedish and storage capacity at key sites are looking to develop vehicles in order to deliver our fleet on this biofuel. is minimizing our long distance our dual-fuel fleet further, products to the Olympic Park Our cold drinks equipment • M ore efficient lighting New coolers Reducing emissions freight, especially in France and particularly in France • Driver training during the London 2012 Games. We continue to replace the We have high standards for the across our value chain Great Britain. (see page 15). Following successful trials in 2011, At the end of 2011, we had standard fluorescent lighting new coolers that we buy and • Road to rail we are rolling out ‘eco-driving’ approximately 581,000 pieces of in our coolers and vendors install in our customers’ premises. Increasingly, we’re working with In 2011, we have continued training to our drivers in Great cooling equipment (coolers, vendors with long-life LEDs, which can We no longer buy open-fronted our stakeholders to reduce the to increase our use of rail Britain and Belgium. We’ve also and fountain machines) in the be up to 80 percent more units and all new coolers with carbon footprint of our value transportation in France. In installed computers that record marketplace, operated by CCE efficient. Around 14,500 LEDs a capacity of over 250 liters chain. As we report on pages Sweden, we increased the how a vehicle is being driven customers on their own premises. were fitted in 2011. now come with our EMS device 16 to 19, we’re making solid use of trains from our long so drivers can improve their As the largest source of carbon pre-installed. progress in reducing emissions distance co-packers. • Energy management devices fuel-saving techniques. emissions from our core business, from the manufacture of Our intelligent EMS-55 device we have made significant Removing HFCs packaging materials and in recognizes patterns of use and FIGURE 9 — Our carbon footprint investments in our cold drinks fleet Hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) boosting recycling rates to save responds by shutting off lights over the last few years. refrigerants are greenhouse more energy. As a further step, and adjusting temperatures gases that can be harmful to the we recently challenged each of CCE supply chain CCE operations when the cooler is not being Existing coolers environment if they leak or are our suppliers to measure their (1.3m metric tonnes CO2e – estimated)1 (769,000 metric tonnes CO2e) opened regularly. This can We continue to make existing released when equipment is own carbon footprints and work reduce the cooler’s energy Ingredients Packaging Operations and Distribution and Selling – cooling coolers and vendors more efficient. disposed of incorrectly. To prevent with us to develop carbon consumption by up to 35 commercial sites business travel and vending In total, we retrofitted or refurbished leakage, our equipment is reduction plans (see page 7). percent. In 2011, we fitted 54,000 units of equipment in 2011. maintained to high standards by Through wider and deeper 28,000 EMS devices, so that The addition of Norway and our technical centers and field collaboration with suppliers, 32 percent of our coolers and Sweden to our business added a engineers. We also have systems customers and others, we intend 18 percent of our vendors now fifth service center in Sweden, which in place for safe disposal and we to be a catalyst for change % CCE core business have this device. We aim to – – 23% 21% 56% we will extend in 2012 to refurbish no longer purchase equipment throughout the chain. In 2012, emissions install a further 24,000 in 2012. equipment in both countries. that contains HFC insulation. we aim to establish systems  In 2012, we will introduce the and processes which will allow % CCE value chain 17% 47% 8% 8% 21% We’re making our existing coolers EMS-25 device for smaller We aim to purchase 100 percent us to calculate emissions and emissions more efficient in a number of ways: units. This can also save up HFC-free coolers from January reductions across our whole (estimated) to 35 percent of the cooler’s 2013. In 2011, approximately value chain. • Fitting doors For more information on our carbon footprint and energy use — Our carbon footprint 2007–2011 energy use. 82 percent of all our new cooler www.ccesustainabilityplan.com By fitting doors to our large, (‘000s metric tonnes CO2e) purchases were HFC-free. open-fronted coolers, we can • Programming our Total 853 891 854 840 769 reduce their energy use by up vending machines Other cooling innovations Operations and to 50 percent. We’ve fitted new Certain models of our vending We’re constantly looking at commercial sites doors to 49 percent of our total machines can also be Cold drinks equipment new ideas and opportunities for open-fronted cooler fleet and aim programed to save 30 percent CCE fleet reducing the carbon footprint of to reach 90 percent of the fleet by of energy used. In 2011, we Third-party distribution our cooling equipment. We plan to Other (including 2014; the remaining 10 percent programed 4,600 machines. trial an energy-saving solution for business travel) are models we will phase out the units used to cool fountain over time. We’ll then start to fit drinks in venues such as pubs doors to our 14,000 smaller, and cinemas. open-fronted ‘impulse’ coolers. 1. We have modeled emissions for ingredients and packaging using industry average 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 conversion factors linked to our own procurement data for each raw material. This value chain footprint has not been audited by third party independent verifiers. Our HFC-free, energy-efficient 14 www.cokecce.com Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 cooler with LED lighting. 15 In 2011, we used a total of 384,521 • Developing ultra-light film in that each bottle includes 25 percent steel we can use in each can is tonnes of packaging materials of Great Britain, France, Belgium, recycled PET (rPET). The resulting around 50 percent. We continue different types across our countries the Netherlands and Sweden. material looks, functions and to work with our can suppliers of operation. recycles like traditional PET but has to improve recycling rates and • We are also using Diamex a lower carbon footprint. increase the amount of recycled technology to reduce weight material we use. in our labels and will save Our sustainable PlantBottle™ for selected products 86 tonnes of material annually, packaging strategy was introduced in Norway and Levels are lower for PET as the once implemented. Sweden in 2010 and CCE rolled it market for rPET is less developed. We estimate that our packaging out across all territories in 2011 to We have invested $7.75 million in In 2012, we’ll continue to reduce currently accounts for 47 percent our popular 500ml PET Coca-Cola, an rPET joint venture (see page 18) the amount of plastic in our bottles, of the carbon emissions in our Diet Coke and Coke Zero products. and in 2011, we allocated $440,000 concentrating on our 500ml bottles value chain. Reducing this carbon This PlantBottle™ packaging of our CRS capital expenditure to for still and sparkling drinks and footprint means reassessing contains up to 22.5 percent technology linked to rPET. This our 1 liter bottles. We will also our packaging from design to plant-based material. As a result, enabled us to reach an average lightweight can ends in Great In March 2011, we disposal and making better we’re now using more recycled and of 22.5 percent rPET in our PET Britain, based on the success of partnered with Asda in Great use of natural resources. biomaterial in our PET packaging packaging across all territories our work in the Netherlands. Britain to offer a free recycling box – and using it on a larger scale – in December 2011. We continue made from rPET to consumers buying Our goal is to set the standard than any other beverage bottler in to invest to meet our target of Using less secondary packaging Coca-Cola products to recycle at home. As in low-carbon, sustainable Europe. 25 percent rPET by 2012. A successful trial in 2010 indicated part of the promotion, shoppers talked to packaging. To this end, CCE will it was possible to remove the CCE employees in the store and were use renewable and reusable In December 2011, the Coca-Cola Sustainable secondary cardboard trays from cases of encouraged to make a recycling materials, and make sure all Company announced an packaging small PET bottles. The new commitment in our ‘recycling tunnel’. our bottles and cans are easily agreement with three leading Most of the cardboard we use is trayless format was rolled out in Eighty-eight percent of those surveyed recyclable. We’ll continue to biotechnology companies to made from recycled sources, but Great Britain, Antwerp in Belgium, afterwards said they were using the innovate and to look at every develop and commercialize the needs to be mixed with a small and the Netherlands in 2011 and box for recycling aspect of packaging from design, second generation of PlantBottle™ portion of virgin cardboard. In 2011, the process will continue in France at home. weight and recycled content to packaging made from 100 percent we ensured that all our cardboard Leading and Belgium in 2012. Once renewable materials and the biomaterial. The possibility of suppliers are certified to Forestry completed we will save 4,481 recycling process. Our work to making both the MEG and the PTA Stewardship Council (FSC) tonnes of corrugated cardboard make our packaging more components from plants before standards and the vast majority Sustainable Packaging and Recycling sustainable will help us to achieve our commitment to reduce the a year (14 percent of the total used by our business). 2020 will mean we can lead the industry away from materials of the virgin cardboard content in our packaging is now from carbon footprint of the drink in based on fossil fuels and set FSC-certified sources. We continue your hand by a third. new standards of sustainability to work with our suppliers towards Using sustainable materials Our Commitment Q/ “An important issue in Europe is getting in our packaging. full FSC certification for virgin material across all product lines. We will set the standard for sustainable young people to recycle. How is CCE working Using less material A crucial step in developing We anticipate that the best sustainable packaging is to make packaging, achieve zero-waste in our on this?” sure that our raw materials come solution environmentally will be FIGURE 11 — Our 2011 operations and recycle more packaging Through a process we call a combination of plant-based PET from sustainable, renewable packaging footprint than we use. Elizabeth Reiss lightweighting, we’re constantly and rPET, minimizing the amount Ethicity, France sources. redesigning our packaging to of virgin materials. We’re currently Materials used Tonnes reduce its weight without developing our carbon analysis Introduction PlantBottle™ – plastic from Aluminum 54,582 A/ “We’ve set an ambitious new goal to compromising its quality. This plants systems to be able to identify the enables us to use less material blend that will give us the lowest Steel 49,175 Packaging ensures the quality of our drinks recycle more packaging than we use and while also cutting costs and Although PET (the plastic we use for carbon footprint in the future. By and enables us to deliver them safely to our our bottles) is widely recycled, the PET 125,858 customers and consumers. It can be carbonare working in a variety of ways to increase reducing our carbon emissions. virgin product still comes from 2020, we intend that all PET bottles will contain a combination of Glass 76,269 intensive in its manufacture and too often ends awareness of the need to recycle and to Lightweighting our bottles non-renewable fossil fuels. We’re plant-based material and rPET. up in landfill, despite the fact that nearly all our looking for ways to make PET from Other (primary) 15,646 packaging materials can be recycled. We want make it fun. Our festival recycling program and cans renewable materials instead and As part of our carbon reduction Using recycled materials Secondary and tertiary 62,991 to change this pattern and have established is a great example of this, and we intend to commitments we aim to reduce have made excellent progress in We have committed to using packaging recent years. Sustainable Packaging and Recycling as a do much more in this space.” further the amount of material we more recycled aluminum, steel, Total 384,521 leadership focus area. use. In the past year, we avoided glass and plastic in respective Patrick McGuirk PET is made up of two components, the use of 1,835 tonnes of packaging formats by 2020. Director, Recycling and Chair, Sustainable Packaging and Recycling MEG (30 percent by weight) and packaging materials across our Steering Group, Coca-Cola Enterprises PTA (70 percent). Since the business. Recent initiatives include: Using recycled materials introduction of PlantBottle™ reduces our carbon footprint: for • Reducing the weight of our technology by The Coca-Cola example, it takes 95 percent less 500ml PET bottles from 24.7g Company, we can replace MEG energy to produce recycled to 21.7g in Great Britain, France with chemically identical aluminum than aluminum from and Belgium. plant-based material. Launched bauxite ore, and it takes around in 2009, the first generation of • Lightweighting our can ends 60 percent less energy to produce PlantBottle™ packaging is a 30/70 in the Netherlands. rPET than the virgin product. Given blend of plant-based MEG and current availability, the maximum virgin PTA. We have also ensured level of recycled aluminum or 16 www.cokecce.com Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 17 17 Sustainable Packaging and Recycling — continued recycling pledge and have the • Support for industry-led COLLECTION AND SORTING Packaging recovery recycling at our FIGURE 12 — RECYCLING THE CCE WAY picture loaded onto Facebook. communication campaigns We believe we should lead the own sites Recyclers could also be In Great Britain, CCE is the first To reduce the amount of packaging effort to raise recovery rates in photographed with the Olympic branded manufacturer to join sent to landfill, especially in each of our countries of operation. We’re working to recover Educate and inspire consumers Champion and influence Invest in strategic recycling to recycle more often improvements to existing infrastructure partnerships Flame as a result of Coca-Cola’s the Metal Matters scheme run Great Britain and France, we’re We work closely with national and recycle waste materials collection schemes role as official recycling sponsor by the aluminum industry investing and working with others recovery systems such as FostPlus from our own sites and to of the London 2012 Olympic and campaigning organization to develop recovery infrastructure in Belgium, Nedvang in the encourage recycling by our Paralympic Games. On-site Alupro. This scheme helps and boost recovery rates. In Netherlands, Eco-Emballages employees. We have recently recycling points at each event local authorities run targeted particular, we want to work with in France, Returpak and REPA in invested in improving collected more than 300,000 communications campaigns policymakers and regulators to Sweden, Norsk Resirk and Rentpak recycling solutions at our used plastic bottles and over to encourage households to improve household recycling in Norway, and WRAP, DEFRA offices. We also recovered the course of 2011 we connected recycle metals. The scheme has programs and make them simple and Valpak in Great Britain. On 99.6 percent of all the waste with a total of 4.7 million delivered exceptional results to understand and use. a smaller scale, we’re involved in generated at our facilities Consumer behavior Collection Reprocessing consumers. with increases in recycling rates local programs such as our Recycle in 2011 and we’re looking of around 14 percent in the areas As a board member of the Zones and are working with others to minimize the waste At all events, our booths and Disposal Sorting Re-use where it is run. French national recycling system, to help build the packaging recycling areas were powered Eco-Emballages, we continued to recovery infrastructure. we produce in the first place. by portable solar panels to • Local partnerships minimize their carbon footprint. CCE has a number of support the scheme during 2011 in partnerships with retailers, cafes its ambitious aim of achieving a Our recycling strategy Making our packaging Old-to-new plastic bottles in six weeks: Our Continuum • Programs with major 75 percent recycling rate in France. RE-USE AND REPROCESSING and fast-food outlets in areas For any package to be recycled, it recyclable Recycling joint venture customers such as tourist locations and city must be recyclable. Our recycling Partnerships with retailers We also continued our dialogue Our research on consumers’ centers. In 2011, we added strategy is focused on ensuring In 2011, we modified our are an excellent way to reach with policymakers in Great Britain, attitudes to recycling showed recycling solutions to a number our own packaging is recyclable Sprite Zero and Powerade shoppers and influence their encouraging ministers to increase householders are more likely to of these partnerships in Belgium, and on working with trade bottles in Great Britain and recycling behavior at home. recycling targets. We remain recycle if they understand what providing our own ‘Boost Zone associations to encourage wider our GLACÉAU vitaminwater™ This year we ran programs committed to ensuring a higher happens to the materials they recycling solution’. recyclability in the industry. At the bottles in Great Britain, with ASDA and Carrefour. recycling target for the industry collect. It is essential to have a same time, we aim to play a wide France and Sweden to make • TV advertising in France and to playing our part in achieving credible domestic infrastructure • Recycle Zones role in supporting the recycling of an extra 2,275 tonnes of Using our marketing and it. We are members of Recoup, in place which can take collected Our Recycle Zone program packaging when the consumer material recyclable. We aim advertising to promote the plastics industry’s association materials and reprocess them for installs branded bins in public has finished with it, working in to do the same for other sustainability, we ran a TV promoting the collection and reuse in our packaging so we can areas such as shopping three key areas: packages in the future. advertising campaign in recycling of plastics. We are tell consumers about it. malls and transport hubs for France to encourage also leading contributors to consumers to recycle their 1. Consumer behavior consumers to recycle. the UK Government’s Advisory At present, recycling rates vary consumer behavior bottles and cans. During 2011, and disposal: Committee on Packaging Plastics by material and we find it hard to and disposal we introduced a high-profile We’ll use our brand marketing In 2012, the London Olympic and Taskforce. The role of this obtain high-quality, food-grade Zone at Disneyland Paris and to continue influencing consumer In 2011, construction began on Continuum Recycling, our joint Paralympic Games will provide organization is to support rPET to increase the recycled In partnership with our customers others are being developed at behavior, educating and venture with ECO Plastics in Great Britain. Our $7.75 million major opportunities to spread the government, local authorities content of our PET packaging. We and other stakeholders, we’re the O2 Arena in London and the inspiring people to recycle investment, when operational, will extend ECO Plastics’ existing recycling message. We plan to and waste management have a long-term strategy to boost using our brand marketing to Scottish Exhibition & Conference more often. We’ll collaborate operations to become the biggest plastic bottle reprocessing mount promotions during the companies to meet ambitious supplies, especially in Great Britain encourage recycling, especially Center in Glasgow. By the with customers, consumers, facility in Western Europe. Continuum Recycling will produce Games at the Olympic Park and targets for the collection of plastics. and France. By helping to build the in Great Britain and France, year-end, we had more than suppliers and local authorities 25,000 tonnes of recycled PET (rPET) annually, more than to promote recycling beforehand infrastructure in these countries, where less than 55 percent of PET 140 Zones in France and to do so. doubling the amount of high-quality rPET currently produced at every city celebration as the we aim to generate enough rPET bottles are recycled. Initiatives in Great Britain. in Great Britain. Olympic Flame travels across to meet our target of 25 percent 2011 included: 2. Collecting and sorting: Great Britain. recycled material in all our bottles In markets with high packaging • Festivals and events As a result, CCE in Great Britain will be able to meet its target by 2012. recovery rates, we’ll continue In France, we ran a campaign to use 25 percent recycled PET, in all its plastic packaging by to support existing collection to encourage event-goers to the end of 2012. The rPET produced will help save over 33,000 schemes. Where recovery rates enter a competition and make tonnes of CO2e per year, the same as removing over 15,000 deliver/inspire SPOTLIGHT are lower, we’ll champion a recycling pledge on Facebook cars from the road. The site will also feature a fifth CCE improvements to national to win an Emeco 111 Navy education center to teach students about the importance of Claire Deuchar Inspiring: We removed 3g collection schemes. Chair made from 111 recycled recycling. The new facility will open in Lincolnshire in May 2012, Associate Director, of packaging from nearly plastic bottles. creating 30 additional jobs. It will process collected bottles into Commercialization, Uxbridge, every 500ml bottle produced 3. Re-use and reprocessing: In Great Britain, we brought new Coca-Cola bottles in as little as six weeks and will be able Great Britain by CCE, so they now weigh By 2020, we aim to ensure our ‘Swap for Swag’ recycling to recycle all soft drinks bottles from the London 2012 Olympic 21.7g compared to 24.7g in that the amount of packaging initiative to six major events, and Paralympic Games. Delivering: I lead a team of 2010. Our work to improve collected and reprocessed including the V Festival and the commercialization project the recyclability of Limonada through national recycling Notting Hill Carnival. At each managers who innovate packaging in France, and infrastructure and our own venue, our ‘Swap for Swag’ packaging across the Coca-Cola GlacÉau vitaminwater™ initiatives is greater than the activation encouraged system. In 2011, we continued and Powerade in Great Britain, amount of packaging that we festival-goers to exchange the journey to reduce the carbon means that we will achieve ourselves use. We will achieve used bottles for T-shirts, rain footprint of our packs by our commitment to provide this target by investing in ponchos, picnic blankets and lightweighting initiatives, only packaging that is recycling and reprocessing other rPET ‘swag’. We also set increasing rPET in all PET packs completely recyclable at the infrastructure. up booths made of recycled and introducing the ‘trayless’ London 2012 Games. bottles where visitors could be program, removing cardboard photographed making a on small PET bottles in Great Britain and the Netherlands. Festival recycling 18 www.cokecce.com Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 19 Our water stewardship government agencies and protective clay above the In 2011, we demonstrated strong strategy community organizations, these aquifer and reduce the risk progress at our Morpeth plant in SVAs have led to the development of contamination by surface Great Britain. Acquired in 2008, Becoming a water-sustainable of Source Water Protection Plans pollution. This zone will Morpeth produces Abbey Well, operation involves four elements: (SWPPs) for each production site. also contribute to the the official natural mineral water competitiveness of the of the London 2012 Olympic and • Protecting our water sources We’ve now begun a process of North Brabant province, Paralympic Games, and the plant for our operations and reviewing and updating each where high-quality has placed special priority on communities. plan on a two-year cycle. In these groundwater is of major reducing its water use ratio. The • Reducing the amount of water second iterations we aim to economic importance. site mapped and analyzed its we use by becoming more encourage greater community water consumption, installed water-efficient. and stakeholder involvement sub-metering to monitor water in the plant and its water Reducing our water use use accurately on daily and • Recycling the water we use protection plan. weekly time frames, reviewed by ensuring it is treated and As a drinks manufacturer, water its cleaning processes, optimized returned to the environment • Our first SWPP at Clamart, is a core ingredient of our its rinse water consumption, and at standards supporting France in 2009 focused on products. Our total consumption raised employee awareness aquatic life. internal issues, reducing in 2011 was 9.4 million m3, down of saving water. As a result, technical water supply risks • Replenishing the water that from 9.5 million m3 in 2010. Morpeth’s water use ratio and addressing issues of water goes into our beverages in reached 1.24 liters/liter in 2011 quality and quantity. The actions River areas of water stress or where water quality may be an issue – detailed in this first plan have now been completed and the While we cannot reduce the volume of water in the product (down from 1.74 in 2010) and is on course for 1.2 in 2012. cleanup in our case in Flanders, Belgium, South East England SWPP has been revised to focus on the plant’s engagement with itself, we can try to use less in our cleaning and manufacturing Across CCE, we’ve set a 2012 water CCE Volunteers clean up the and around Marseille, South processes. We’re making use ratio target of 1.4 liters/liter. the local community. The plan River Cray near our facility East France. progress. Over the past six years, Looking further ahead, our target now includes a program to in Sidcup, Great Britain, we’ve increased our production for 2020 is an average water use ensure the site receives visits during CRS in Action week by around 15 percent but ratio of 1.2 liters/liter across our Delivering from schools and local officials, in 2011. Protecting our managed to reduce our water entire business. and is helping to ensure that the water sources use by around six percent1. Our plant’s environmental and operations in France and Great These are challenging targets, Water Stewardship We work hard to preserve the long-term quality of our water community work is externally understood by stakeholders. Britain remain the most waterefficient in the global Coca-Cola especially as it becomes more difficult over time to keep reducing sources and to minimize our • In parallel to revising its SWPP, system. In Great Britain, we have our consumption. The task is impact on local communities our plant in Dongen, the signed the Federation House made harder by the increasing Our Commitment Q/ “Water scarcity and quality are key issues and ecosystems. We draw less Netherlands, has signed an Commitment, which aims to use of all-natural ingredients in than 22.5 percent (2.1 million m3) agreement with the province reduce overall water use across some of our products such as We will set the standard for water efficiency, not just for your company but for other water of our water from on-site wells, of North Brabant to set up a the food and drink sector by Fanta in Sweden, which means establish a water sustainable operation and users and for the environment. How will you all of which are licensed by 25-year groundwater protection 20 percent by 2020. Our we must use a different process. minimize water impacts throughout our entire government. The remaining zone. The aim is to protect continuous progress in driving Similarly, our growing range of value chain. use innovation and improved performance 77.5 percent (7.3 million m3) of groundwater quality and efficiency puts us firmly on track flavors calls for more cleaning of standards to reduce water-related risks that the water we use comes from quantity and ensure its to meet this target. our lines between batches, while Introduction you share with others and to ensure that municipal sources. sustainable use. Under the processes such as the aseptic European Water Framework We measure our water efficiency filling of Powerade bottles also rivers and wetlands benefit? How will you Since 2009, we have undertaken Directive, different protection by calculating the amount of increase our water consumption. Water is a precious resource and fundamental to our business. It’s the main ingredient in our measure all of this?” Source Water Vulnerability options were analyzed, water needed to create one liter We continue to seek new Assessments (SVAs) at each plant including their impact on of product – a term we call our technologies and believe that products and is also used for cooling, washing David Tickner to assess the potential water local stakeholders. It was ‘water use ratio’, expressed further innovation can help us and rinsing at our manufacturing plants. Head of Freshwater Programmes, WWF-UK risks to our business, the local determined that the regulation as liters/liter. In 2011, we used meet our targets. Although Europe is generally regarded as community and the ecosystem. In of new boreholes would help 1.43 liters per liter, down from water-abundant, we have experienced some conjunction with water providers, to minimize impacts on the 1.48 in 2010. scarcity in recent years and water can be A/ “We continue to drive new levels of unreliable in some of the more densely efficiency in our plants by piloting and rolling FIGURE 13 — water use ratio progress 2007 – 2011 populated areas where CCE operates. We aim to be responsible stewards of water and to use out new technologies for cleaning, rinsing and target2 No.1 as little as possible for each liter of beverage and monitoring water use, and we are now we produce. looking for new and innovative ways to work Liters water used to make one liter of product with our sugar suppliers to reduce water use CCE’s operations in France 1.64 1.57 1.51 1.48 across the value chain.” are ranked the most water 1.43 efficient in the Coca-Cola 100% 1.2 Bruno Van Gompel Chair, Water Steering Group system. Our operations in Great Britain are ranked of our wastewater number two. was treated to standards supporting aquatic life in 2011. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2020 target 20 www.cokecce.com Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 1. Legacy CCE countries only (i.e. excluding Norway and Sweden) 21 2. Including Norway and Sweden for 2010 and 2011 Water Stewardship — continued Recycling the water we use Replenishing and protecting CCE’s replenishment projects • Reforestation DELIVER/INSPIRE SPOTLIGHT Inspiring: We’ve been able to FIGURE 14 — Map of baseline water quality in europe our watersheds In early 2012, in partnership with Our plant at Marseille continued halve the amount of fresh water Our 2020 water use ratio target The Coca-Cola Company and the its project with the PennesSource: The Coca-Cola Company Europe Group Water Resources Stéphane Heckly needed for the technology, of 1.2 liters/liter consists of 1 liter The Coca-Cola system globally World Wildlife Fund UK (WWF-UK), Mirabeaux city authorities Risk and Sustainability Report, March 2009 Process Technology Manager, and we’re saving around of water that goes into our product has committed to replenish CCE launched a three-year and the French National Forest Supply Chain, Issy-les15,000m3 of water in the plant and 0.2 liters that become 100 percent of the water it uses replenishment project focusing Authority to reforest areas Moulineaux, France per year. We’re looking to wastewater. Although we aim to in its finished beverages by on rivers in Great Britain. The ravaged by fire in 2009. introduce this to other CCE reduce the amount of wastewater 2020, through projects such as project is aligned with WWF-UK’s Investing $52,000 since 2009, Delivering: I helped to reduce facilities in the future. Baseline water quality in our processes, it’s our reforestation, protecting aquifers Freshwater Strategy, and working we have planted around 2,000 High the water consumption of our responsibility to ensure this water and revitalizing rivers. In 2011, together, we have identified two trees that will help to retain Dunkirk plant in France, together is treated to a level that supports it replenished 54.8 million m3 river catchment projects in South rainwater and reduce run-off. Moderate with a team of colleagues from aquatic life before returning it to of water – equal to 35 percent East England, the part of the Medium-low the site. We use special resin the municipality or ecosystem. of global production volume. country where water quality and Replenishment in our Low granules at the plant to purify quantity issues are most acute. We supply chain Extremely low the water used to make our In 2011, 100 percent of our CCE’s replenishment strategy is to will work with local communities Our studies have shown that drinks. To work continuously, wastewater was treated to this invest in water-based community in Norfolk – the source of some of the majority (around 80 percent) these granules need to be high standard. While most of our programs in areas of water stress the sugar beet used in Coca-Cola of the total water footprint of regenerated regularly and then plants pre-treat their wastewater within our countries of operation drinks made in Great Britain – and our products comes from our rinsed with water. Last year, we on site and then send it to – Flanders, South East England in South London, near to one of agricultural supply chain1 – in trialed re-using some of the municipal water treatment plants, and the area around Marseille in our manufacturing plants. We will particular the production and water from the rinsing process four of our facilities carry out full South East France, which together develop local catchment plans processing of sugar beet. As and found that the results wastewater treatment on site. In accounted for about 36 percent of and implement on-the-ground a result, further work has been were excellent. 2011, we discharged a total of our production in 2011, or around projects, involving our employees undertaken to understand 3.2 million m3 to the environment 2.2 million m3 (see Figure 14). Our where possible, to restore water more about the water footprint at standards supporting aquatic aim is to replenish all the water we and improve water quality. of this crop. life. Of this amount, 2.4 million m3 use in our products in these areas. were treated by municipal We are currently identifying We also want to use the lessons In terms of sustainability, the wastewater treatment stations quantifiable projects to do so. we learn from these projects to amount of water used is less and 800,000 m3 by our own influence the national water policy important than the impact of that treatment plants. Our water agenda and encourage measures use: a large water footprint might recycling effort uses a number to reduce water abstraction and be sustainable in a water-rich of new technologies (see below). demand. We will measure the area, while a smaller one in a results of the project using The water-scarce region can have a new technologies Coca-Cola Company’s global far greater environmental impact. MONITORING AND TARGETING methodology for calculating The Coca-Cola Company has water replenishment. worked to determine the true In 2011, we installed a sophisticated Monitoring & Targeting In 2010, we developed CRS • Air rinsers • Electro chemically 70,000 m3 of water per year, impact of the use of water in (M&T) system at our Dongen plant in the Netherlands. M&T masterplans which prioritize Whenever machinery is activated water as well as requiring less Other projects during 2011 European sugar beet farming. allows us to track our consumption of utilities such as water, potential water-saving projects replaced or new lines are Electro chemically activated maintenance. We also use this included: The resulting report, ‘Towards electricity, gas, steam and compressed air in real time, so we in each plant over the short, installed, ionized air is used water electrolyses salt added technology in Toulouse and are sustainable sugar sourcing in can act immediately when we exceed agreed targets. Most medium and long term. This instead of water to rinse to water to create a chlorinated looking for other opportunities • Protecting aquifers Europe’, was published in August of our manufacturing facilities in Great Britain already have year, we spent more than pre-blown bottles and cans. cleaning solution. This can save to roll it out further. Our site at Chaudfontaine in 2011 and showed that the impact M&T systems, but the one at Dongen is an advanced version $1 million in implementing proven This year, we made the change up to 2,000 m3 of water per Belgium is working with the varies significantly by region. In based on learnings from other sites. Through M&T, we’ve technologies and piloting new on our PET lines in Marseille year. The technique was authorities and the University of CCE’s territories – France, Belgium, already identified opportunities to save around 3,000 m3 of ones to achieve even greater and Grigny in France. Thirty implemented this year in Liege to protect the local natural the Netherlands and Great Britain water per year and $93,000 per year in energy costs in our efficiencies in water reduction percent of our plastic bottle and Marseille and will be rolled out hot spring from pollution. in particular – sugar beet farming Dongen plant. Over the coming months, we expect to identify and recycling. Developments can lines now use air rinsers. in three further sites in 2012. Between 2008 and 2013, the tends to have a low environmental many further opportunities for utilities savings before launching included: partnership will implement 300 • Bottle washers impact. CCE will continue to work the system at other CCE sites. local protection measures to • Dry and semi-dry lubricants In 2011, we aimed to reduce closely with The Coca-Cola prevent contamination from All conveyors used to move the water consumption of our Company to develop our filling stations, fuel tanks, cattle cans and PET bottles along bottle washer in Chaudfontaine understanding of water impacts farms and sewerage systems. production lines now use a by a third, saving 25,000 m3 of in our supply chain and focus 80% dry lubricant in place of soapy water across our operations. our replenishment efforts on water. We have also trialed We did so by injecting a small minimizing them. a semi-dry lubricant for the proportion of CO2e to rinsing • Rainwater harvesting stainless steel conveyors that water to neutralize caustic We have implemented move glass bottles. Although traces, which means we need rainwater harvesting in several this process uses some water, less water for rinsing. sites, and we use the water of the total water footprint the trial showed an annual collected for washing vehicles of our products comes from • Recycle and reclaim loops • Adiabatic coolers the natural ingredients saving of more than 4,000 m3 and for flushing staff toilets. We are optimizing our ‘Clean We have replaced the existing we use1. and in 2012, we will look to This technology is in place at in Place’ (CIP) sanitation cooling towers used for the expand the use of this Northampton in Great Britain, systems to recover and reuse high-pressure compressor technology further on our in Chaudfontaine in Belgium, final-rinsing water for further at Antwerp with ‘adiabatic’ glass lines. and is being introduced in cleaning processes, to use cooling towers which mainly Antwerp, Belgium. cold rather than hot water, use air for cooling. This and to clean by blowing with technology saves considerable air rather than using water. amounts of energy and around 1. Data taken from ‘Towards Sustainable Sugar Sourcing in Europe, Water 22 www.cokecce.com Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 23 Footprint Sustainability Assessment’, August 2011, The Coca-Cola Company. Our product portfolio Choice the feedback we receive. Of the way of expanding our noand strategy We aim to offer a wide choice 108,403 consumer contacts we low-calorie products. New, of products so that people can received in 2011, 16 percent related lower-calorie, stevia-based Our Product Portfolio strategy decide which of our beverages to the quality of our products. This products in 2012 will include has three priorities: best meet their needs and represents 1.32 product quality Sprite and Nestea. lifestyles. Through innovation, complaints per million units sold. • Developing our portfolio reformulation, acquisition and Ingredients – introducing new products to new distribution agreements, Noand low-calorie beverages Since 2008, we’ve increased offer greater choice, ensuring we have launched more than Noand low-calorie products the number of drinks with products of the highest quality, 372 new brands or new packages make up 30 percent of the drinks added vitamins, minerals or accelerating the growth of no(small packs, multipacks and we sell by volume and 32 percent other nutrients along with drinks and low-calorie products, using others) since 2008. New additions by numbers of brands in our such as Ocean Spray which more natural ingredients where in 2011 include: portfolio. We continue to raise consumers value as part of their possible and providing package these percentages by introducing healthy lifestyle. In some cases, sizes to suit every occasion. • Fanta Natural, a product free reformulated versions of our by removing ingredients such of preservatives and artificial • Providing clear, informative popular drinks, including the as caffeine, we’ve created new colors and containing only nutritional labeling to educate addition of new, low-calorie products with further benefits to natural flavors – launched in consumers about the sweeteners from natural sources, some of our consumers. After its Sweden and Norway. ingredients and calories in by expanding sales of our existing launch in France in 2010, Caffeine +372 our products. • Libertus, a sugar-free low-calorie products, and by Free Coke Zero was rolled out in stimulation drink which is part ensuring that noand low-calorie Belgium in 2011. • Ensuring that our products of our Relentless range of products are consistently are sold and marketed in a energy drinks in Great Britain. distributed alongside our regular We’re also increasing our use responsible way – engaging, soft drinks. of natural ingredients. GLACÉAU in particular, with parents, • Powerade Energy, a new soft vitaminwater™ – naturally nutritionists and educators drink introduced in Great Britain This year we introduced the flavored and free of artificial colors new brands and packages to ensure the right portfolio to energize fast and sustain no-calorie fitness drink, Powerade – has now been introduced in all since 2008. of school beverages. performance. Zero, in France after its successful our markets except Norway and Delivering Developing our portfolio • Two new flavors of Capri-Sun – apple in the Netherlands and apple, tea and peach launch in Great Britain in 2010. We’ll also be introducing the first zero-calorie Monster energy drink we’re working with our brand owners to reformulate other beverages to meet consumer Product Portfolio At CCE, we manufacture and distribute beverages owned in Belgium. • Capri Sun H2O+, a flavored in 2012. Also in 2011, the European Union approved the use of the needs. One example is the newly-launched Fanta Natural naturally sourced, zero-calorie (see page 27). We’re also by other companies. To ensure still spring water drink in two sweetener, stevia. This new expanding our range of juices and a successful portfolio, we flavors, blackcurrant and Our Commitment Q/ “Health and nutrition are key issues for select a wide range of products apple, in re-sealable pouches sweetener offers exciting juice drinks such as Ocean Spray possibilities and we’ll be and Minute Maid in Great Britain We will provide a wide variety of quality, your company. How are you developing your and work with The Coca-Cola in Great Britain. introducing more drinks and France. Company and our other brand refreshing beverages with nutritional and product portfolio?” owners to develop and introduce In 2012, we’ll continue to develop reformulated with stevia as a ingredient information so consumers can Graham Baxter new products to meet consumer the portfolio with particular make informed beverage choices. Senior Adviser, International Business Leaders Forum trends and expand the choice emphasis on juices and still Introduction A/ “Our sustainability plan renews our available. We also aim to distribute all our brands consistently to ensure maximum drinks. Plans for the coming year include: • Introducing 100 percent juice 30% of our portfolio, by We continue to expand our product range to ambition to offer a wide range of products choice in every outlet. under the Ocean Spray brand volume, are noand offer more choice and convenience, meet new consumer needs, serve different lifestyles and to our consumers. We want to accelerate Our core sparkling brands such in Great Britain. low-calorie products. occasions and ensure that our products meet the growth of noand low-calorie products as Coca-Cola, Fanta and Sprite • Increasing our production the high quality and food safety standards that represent 56 percent of the of Appletiser, a 100 percent consumers expect. We aim to inform consumers within our portfolio, to offer new, smaller products in our portfolio. The rest sparkling fruit juice, and making about the health and hydration benefits of our portion sizes, and to remove artificial colors, consists of categories such as it available in PET bottles. waters, sports drinks, and products and the ingredients and calories they flavors and preservatives wherever possible.” functional and energy drinks. • Expanding the distribution of contain through clear nutritional labeling and Capri H2O+; introducing red fruit responsible sales and marketing. Nearly half (43 percent) of our SPRITE WITH STEVIA in france Kieran Hemsworth Capri-Sun in Belgium and the Vice President, Strategy, Portfolio and Innovation and Chair, volume growth over the last two Netherlands, and a Capri Sun In 2012, as a result of the approval of Product Portfolio Steering Group, Coca-Cola Enterprises years has come from noand tea and red fruits in France. stevia by the European Union, we will low-calorie beverages such as Diet Coke, Coca-Cola light, Coke launch a reformulated Sprite with stevia Quality in France. This will lower the calories of Zero and juices, stills and waters. We’re proud of the standards the product from 33 to 27.7 calories per to which we manufacture our 100ml, meaning that the drink will have Our portfolio continues to develop products and want to ensure 30 percent less sugar than most other soft in line with the objectives set out that consumers trust our products drinks containing sugar in France. This in our sustainability plan: greater and are satisfied with the quality reformulated product will be available choice and quality, more noand we offer. Notably, 16 out of 17 instead of, rather than in addition to, low-calorie products, new natural production facilities have quality regular Sprite in France. ingredients and smaller portion standard ISO 9001 and our sizes for more of our sparkling consumer response centers in soft drinks. every country constantly monitor 24 www.cokecce.com Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 25 Product portfolio — continued ASPARTAME FIGURE 16 — some of our most common coca-cola packaging sizes Aspartame is a low-calorie aspartame is one of the most gelatins to yogurts. The We continue to develop our packaging sizes to make sure we offer a wide range of options to suit any occasion. sweetener that is 180 to 200 thoroughly researched food European Food Safety times sweeter than sugar. It ingredients, with more than Authority (EFSA) reconfirmed is used, together with many 200 studies supporting its the safety of aspartame other sweetener options, to safety. It is used in more than in 2011, reassuring its sweeten many of the beverages 100 countries and in over consumption as an authorized offered by the Coca-Cola 6,000 food and beverage sweetener throughout the system around the world. products around the world, European Union. In use for more than 25 years, from chewing gum and Smaller portion sizes Coca-Cola, Diet Coke and Coke Nutritional labeling Another way we provide choice Zero bottles to be sold alongside To make the right personal and help consumers to manage our 500ml bottles. choices, consumers need to know their calorie intake is to offer what their food and drinks contain more of our sparkling drinks in We’ve also limited our cup sizes and how this information relates smaller packages. Around 19 for fountain beverages in France to a balanced diet. Our ‘Guideline percent of our products are now and Belgium, where we no longer Daily Amount’ (GDA) labeling now 2 liter 1.25 liter 500ml 375ml 330ml 250ml 250ml 330ml 150ml available in units of less than sell branded cups larger than covers 97 percent by volume of 250ml – our 150ml cans, for 500ml in restaurant chains, leisure all the drinks we sell (excluding Our pack labels also include Responsible sales FANTA NATURAL example – and we’re looking parks and most cinemas. Similar waters which do not require extra information on ingredients and marketing to increase this figure. In 2012, we proposals are under discussion GDA labeling). This compares and nutrition. Our energy drinks, In 2011, we launched Fanta same, but without the need will introduce ‘pocket-sized’ 375ml in Great Britain. with 85 percent in 2007. for example, are labeled for In line with The Coca-Cola Natural in Sweden. The drink for preservatives. This caffeine content. Where our Company’s Global Responsible is free of preservatives and is the first time we have products contribute to the Marketing Policy, we do not market artificial colors, and contains used this technique on such recommended targets for fruit any of our products directly to only natural flavors. To achieve a large scale at CCE. FIGURE 15 — Our product portfolio as sold by volume and vegetable consumption (the children under the age of 12. We this our Stockholm plant uses Capri-Sun 100 percent juice range, also respect the need for school pasteurization techniques, for example), this information is classrooms to be free from heating the product to highlighted on the pack and on commercial influences. Working 85 degrees celsius for 30 Energy drinks, sports and functional Regular sparkling soft drinks e.g. the brand website. with the Union of European Soft seconds, then rapidly cooling waters, water, ready-to-drink teas e.g. Drinks Associations (UNESDA), it. This process means the CCE fully supports efforts to CCE has helped to develop a set product’s shelf-life remains the provide consumers with more of industry commitments that information about our products. define beverage sales in schools The new European Union throughout our territories. We DELIVER/INSPIRE SPOTLIGHT nutritional labeling directive was have also signed the UNESDA introduced at the end of 2011 and initiative to ensure that energy Veronique Surget – showing how they can recycle requires nutritional labeling drinks are not marketed to underDirector, Portfolio Development, their bottles, for example. I’ll per 100ml along with voluntary 16s. Depending on local concerns Issy-les-Moulineaux, France also be looking at developing information per serving and and legislation, each country in new, smaller-size packages to Key GDA. We intend to be fully which we operate has different Delivering: At the start of provide choice and working Regular sparkling 59% compliant by the 2014 deadline. policies on the distribution of our 2012, I took on a newly created with The Coca-Cola Company soft drinks products in schools. We adhere role at CCE as the Director for to communicate these Noand low-calorie 27% strictly to national requirements Portfolio Development, focusing improvements to consumers. Juice drinks e.g. sparkling soft drinks and independent monitoring has on our sparkling products. 100 percent juice 2% shown high levels of compliance I’ll be working closely with teams Juice drinks 7% across the industry. During 2011, around CCE and The Coca-Cola sales of our products in schools Company to accelerate our Energy drinks 1% represented less than one percent Product Portfolio strategy. S ports and 1% of our total sales volume. functional waters Inspiring: I’ll look at how we Water 3% can use new ingredients like R  eady-to-drink teas and other 1% Did you know…? stevia to expand our low-calorie products and how we can At the London 1948 Olympic Games, ensure our packages stand out 100 percent juice e.g. Noand low-calorie we offered only one drink in one size – on the shelf by making them sparkling soft drinks e.g. Coca-Cola. During the London 2012 Games, more informative for consumers we will offer the widest range of drinks we have ever offered at an Olympic and Paralympic Games. We expect that 75 percent of the drinks we sell during the Games (by volume) will be noand low-calorie products, water, juice or smoothies. 26 www.cokecce.com Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 27 Our economic impact school students work together Red Cross in Oslo. CCE Norway Employee volunteering to develop strategies to respond also supports the 14th August Our business makes a significant to business-related challenges Committee that seeks to build Employee volunteering is central economic contribution to the such as recycling. Groups are bridges between Norwegian to our plan to contribute one countries where we operate. mentored by CCE volunteers society and the Norwegianpercent of our pre-tax profit to At the end of 2011, we employed and over 45,000 students Pakistani community. charitable and community causes. around 13,250 people, paid participated in 2011. It also helps employees to salaries and benefits of Sweden enhance their own skills and • Future Flames $1.1 billion, and contributed In Sweden, we focus on experience. We’re developing a Promoted throughout the UK, $1.3 billion in taxes. environmental responsibility and formal CCE-wide volunteering Coca-Cola Great Britain’s Future the health and education of young policy and encourage informal Flames initiative offers young people. In 2010, we initiated our volunteering as part of existing people making a real difference Our community strategy ‘Clean the Beaches’ project with community initiatives. In 2011, we in their communities a chance Städa Sverige (Clean Sweden), recorded approximately 14,000 to run with the Olympic Flame in By 2014, we aim to invest one an organization working with employee volunteering hours and the London 2012 Olympic Torch percent of our pre-tax profit in the Swedish sports clubs to promote piloted a formal policy in Sweden, Relay. At CCE we will offer 60 communities where we operate. environmental awareness among under which employees could employees who have made a CRS in Our calculation is based on the following types of activities1: difference in their community young people. During 2011, 115 sport clubs removed over 55 support two specified local causes during work hours. Action week • Direct investment in community the opportunity to run with the Olympic Flame. tonnes of litter from 265 beaches, enabling them to contribute to the projects and partnerships As part of CCE’s global week of environment while also raising aligned with our CRS objectives. France Corporate Responsibility and money to spend on equipment, In France, our focus is on Sustainability activities, CCE • Time volunteered by our training camps, tournaments and underprivileged young people. employees in Atlanta volunteered employees. other running costs. The Passport to Employment FIGURE 17 — CCE 2011 at a local elementary school to • Giving in kind. program brings high school Community Investment beautify an outdoor courtyard Every year, in collaboration students and recent graduates Contributions for students to enjoy. • Relevant management costs. with the local unemployment Delivering to CCE’s offices and prepares them agency, we offer 30 long-term for the workplace. It has benefited In 2011, CCE invested unemployed people a two-month 12,000 people since 2003. Under $5.7 million in the communities Investing in charitable internship in our production and Community and community causes CCE’s public ‘Hope for the Suburbs’ commitment, CCE volunteers have offered advice and professional distribution department to help them find their way into the in which we operate. In 2011, we invested $5.7 million, workplace. networking to help 125 young around 0.6 percent of pre-tax graduates find a job, and has Our Commitment Q/ “How will CCE go beyond reducing profit, to support a range of ensured that 14 percent of CCE’s United States community initiatives across our We run a program that matches We will make a positive difference in our negative impacts to make a positive impact?” territories, focusing on business new recruits come from employees’ contributions to disadvantaged areas. communities, work with local partners and education, disadvantaged charity up to a total of $10,000 Veronique Graham support the active involvement of our communities, diversity, active per employee per year, mainly Business and Society, Brussels Benelux employees. healthy living and recycling. focused on education, arts We donate the €5 fee paid per and culture. A/ “CCE has a strong heritage as a local We have a mix of national person by non-student groups Total management costs 8% Introduction visiting our European Visitors bottler in the communities where we operate. signature programs (detailed Center in Antwerp to community Total time Total in kind 19% 3% below) and smaller scale Coca-Cola is a local product, made by local Each of our sites supports a range of local community partnerships at each causes. In 2011, we helped two Total cash 70% people, and over the years our individual holiday homes for sick children manufacturing sites have built strong activities, and we also have a range of manufacturing site. For example, (Villa Indigo in the Walloon France’s five plants support 20 relationships with surrounding communities. national community partnerships. We aim local projects each year. and Brussels region and DELIVER/INSPIRE SPOTLIGHT We value these links and aim to make a Villa Pardoes in the Netherlands) positive difference in the community wherever to see further partnerships aligned with and a child’s helpline, Kinderen Caroline Mounter great to get CCE’s employees Great Britain we manufacture and sell our products. This our CRS focus areas and to increase our In Great Britain, our focus has Jongerentelefoon (KJT), in Professional, Education Center, involved too, through Q&A the Flanders region. In the Sidcup, Great Britain sessions with students and means being a good corporate citizen, employee volunteering in order to meet our been on education. Initiatives Netherlands, CCE employees have family visits to the center. engaging with local partners, developing programs that address the community’s one percent pre-tax profit investment target.” include: personally volunteered and have Delivering: Each week I welcome needs and encouraging our employees to • Education centers organized events to raise money around six groups of students to Arnaud Rolland Our four education centers at for Villa Pardoes. In addition, CCE our education center at Sidcup. be actively involved. CRS Manager, France, Coca-Cola Enterprises our East Kilbride, Wakefield, makes numerous contributions to I give presentations on topics Edmonton and Sidcup plants other causes, including the Queen linked to the national curriculum, are visited by over 15,000 Paola Foundation in Belgium. talk about career opportunities secondary school students a within CCE and explain how we year. A fifth center will open Norway are reducing our water and at our new recycling facility In Norway, we seek to improve energy consumption. in Lincolnshire in 2012. the local environment and to encourage culture and diversity. Inspiring: I like to highlight • The Real Business Challenge We donate money and arrange the importance of recycling – This is an enterprise education 1. We use the London Benchmarking Group reporting events and courses for the youth visitors are always impressed competition in which secondary model to calculate our contributions to the community. resource centers belonging to the to learn that a PET bottle can be The LBG model provides a standardized way of managing recycled to make a t-shirt! It’s and measuring a company’s community involvement. 28 www.cokecce.com Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 29 Our active healthy living thousands of young people to Norway municipality where our bottling strategy be more active. In addition, 46 In Norway, we encourage plant is situated – we sponsor StreetGames participants have active, healthy lifestyles through eight young people from the local Our Active Healthy Living strategy been given the chance to join campaigns and sponsorships area. They spend a week at is linked to our Community strategy the Coca-Cola teams working backed by CCE sports drinks such Stadium Sports Camp every and focuses on three areas: in Venue Operations and as Powerade. The Poweradesummer, where they can try Showcasing for the London sponsored ‘Gi Jernet’ (‘Never different sports. • Local collaboration 2012 Olympic Games. Give Up’) program, for example, Encouraging people to adopt challenges people to take part USA active healthy lifestyles by • Abbey Well ‘Schwim’ cap in three specific sports events Our US office sponsors a number supporting local partnerships In advance of the London 2012 which demand training and of sports-related activities and by using our brands to Olympic and Paralympic hard work. Help on training and in Atlanta, including the Winship sponsor relevant events Games, Schweppes Abbey Well nutrition is provided online, in the 5k run in support of Winship and activities. water, the official water of the press and through the television Cancer Institute at the city’s London 2012 Games, • Physical activity show, ‘Gi Jernet’. Emory University. manufactured at our Morpeth Helping people to participate plant, has been offering in programs that encourage CCE Norway is also a sponsor NUtritional education consumers a free swim on active healthy living. of the Norway Cup, one of the Along with encouraging physical presentation of a ‘Schwim’ world’s biggest youth football activity, we aim to form • Nutrition education bottle cap from 500ml or 750ml Mission tournaments with an emphasis partnerships with relevant Working with community bottles. Since the program on cultural co-existence. The 2011 community bodies to promote the partners to highlight the began in 2009, 475 swimming tournament brought together importance of good nutrition and Olympic importance of good nutrition, pools across the country have 1,389 teams from 52 nations. active healthy living. We’ll continue balanced diets and active provided over 277,500 free to develop these partnerships in healthy living. swims. The program’s popularity Sweden the coming year. In the Netherlands, CCE supports the increased in 2011 as nearly three In collaboration with Sweden’s secondary schools sports competition, times as many ‘Schwim caps’ Stadium Sports Camp and “Mission Olympic”. In 2011 we started Encouraging were exchanged than in 2010. Ungdomens Hus – an physical activity Delivering to sponsor the same program The program has also organization that helps young in Belgium. supported the training of 120 people in the Haninge Some of our brands are aligned swimming teachers. Active Healthy Living with healthy living and sports initiatives. In Great Britain, Powerade will be hydrating all • Other initiatives in Great Britain in 2011 include a family triathlon DELIVER/INSPIRE SPOTLIGHT at our facility in East Kilbride and the athletes at the London 2012 Kevin Parke Inspiring: I was joined by a long-term partnership with Olympic and Paralympic Games. It Director, Indirect Procurement over 100 employees who Our Commitment Q/ “What is CCE doing to promote healthy also supports the Powerade Fives Special Olympics Great Britain, Uxbridge, Great Britain ran part or all of the routes which provides opportunities for We will encourage active healthy living by and active living, what targets is it setting five-a-side football tournament learning disabled athletes to with me. Several of these at GOALS Soccer Centers. Delivering: During CRS in Action participants achieved their supporting physical activity and nutrition and how is it measuring against these?” take part in year-round sports Week, I wanted both to raise personal best time. education programs. training and competition. Eric Bouwmeester Across our territories, we are money for charity and to Founder, HECHT!, Hilversum involved in further active healthy encourage other CCE employees France Introduction living initiatives: to get involved, so I ran seven The program ‘Le Sport Ca Me Dit’ marathons (a total distance of We promote active healthy living by offering A/ “We want to work with our brands and Great Britain (‘I Like Sport’) is led by Coca-Cola 293 km) at seven locations in France. Operating in 533 products that help people to manage their support local partnerships to make sport and • StreetGames municipalities, the scheme each of CCE’s territories, from calorie intake and energy balance and by Gent to Atlanta. encouraging physical activity. We seek to make fitness accessible everywhere we operate Launched in 2007, StreetGames encourages young people to take helps to make sport part in sports and games in the sport and fitness activities more accessible and to demonstrate their importance in a accessible to young people in streets, in parks, on the beach and to more people and to demonstrate their importance as part of a healthy lifestyle. healthy lifestyle. We have developed an disadvantaged communities. It in other urban spaces. Since its MISSION OLYMPIC establishes and supports local creation in 2008, it has involved Active Healthy Living steering committee to projects that bring street-based more than 400,000 young people. Mission Olympic was started also started organizing Mission further develop our strategy and bring our activities to the heart of the by The Coca-Cola Company Olympic in Belgium. During commitment to life.” community and encourages Benelux and the Dutch Olympic a four-day event in Brussels, young people to get involved. In Belgium we support the Committee in 2003. It is now more than 11,000 students from Joe Franses French and Flemish national the biggest annual school 116 secondary schools came With a three-year partnership Director, CRS and Chair, Community and Active Healthy Living Steering sports associations, Bloso and sports competition in the together to try out 30 different reaching over 110,000 young Group, Coca-Cola Enterprises Adeps, which train coaches Netherlands. Over 300 schools sports under professional people, Coca-Cola Great Britain and organize sporting events for (almost half the national supervision. In May 2012, we is helping StreetGames to their own linguistic communities. total) take part and students aim to engage over 13,000 expand its network of projects, We also help to fund the compete in 20 different students in their own schools create 300 neighborhood Jeugdsportfonds Camille Paulus sports. Alongside the national through workshops focused on festivals and train coaches. program which encourages program, CCE has also two Olympic sports – tae kwon Drawing on the excitement teenagers to take part in developed ‘Mission Olympic do and fencing. We will of the London 2012 Olympic organized sport. The Tour’ which brings sports expand the program and get and Paralympic Games, the partnership will encourage workshops to secondary more young people involved schools and raises the profile in both countries over the of the program. In 2011, we coming years. 30 www.cokecce.com Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 31 Our workplace strategy The workplace environment Our compensation and benefits In 2011, we reviewed our corporate strategy seeks to offer competitive Within our workplace, we focus our CRS efforts on three priorities: Diversity and Equality Policy and will publish a revised version rewards and to cater for our employees’ diverse needs at Did you • Fostering a diverse and in 2012. Our European Diversity work, at home and in retirement. know…? Council and our Business Unit We regularly benchmark our inclusive culture. In 2011, CCE sent a delegation to Diversity Councils in Great Britain, compensation arrangements. • Working towards world-class France, Belgium, the Netherlands Health and welfare benefits and the Women’s Forum for the safety status in our and our Supply Chain help retirement plans vary according Economy and Society for the first manufacturing and sales to ensure that diversity and to the rules, practices and social time, a body that gives women a operations. inclusion are integrated security arrangements of the voice on the major issues throughout the business. countries in which we operate. facing today’s society. • Developing a wellbeing Our plans are funded by our program to encourage our As a signatory to the UN general assets, asset-holding employees to live positively. Global Compact, we support trusts and insurance contracts. 78% internationally recognized human rights within our own In 2011, we reviewed salary Fostering a diverse workplace and in those of our structures and job titles across and inclusive culture suppliers. A large percentage the business to set out clearer of our employees in Europe are career paths, better enable CCE welcomes and celebrates covered by collectively bargained employees to move into roles in diversity. We aim to create a labor agreements and we support different territories and improve diversity recognition workplace in which people of their right to membership of transparency in salary levels. every background, race, CCE’s 2011 engagement survey score. In September relevant trade unions. For more In 2011, we’ve also been In 2011 we became the nationality, sexual orientation, 2011, 81.5 percent of our employees shared their than a decade we have worked investigating the benefits of first company in the French disability, religion and gender views on working at CCE. Questions covered closely with members of the CCE flexible working for our employees food and beverage industry can feel they belong and can diversity and inclusion, leadership, learning and European Works Council (EWC). In and the organization. In 2012, we to gain the national ‘Label make a contribution. Our efforts development – and more. Our score held steady January 2012, we entered into a plan to launch a series of policies Diversité’. Granted by a Delivering to encourage diversity and from 2009 and the top three drivers for new agreement with the EWC to on attendance and flexible home committee chaired by inclusion focus on four aspects engagement identified by our comply with the EU Directive on working arrangements. the French government, of the business: employees were leadership, European Works Councils. This Workplace the award recognizes learning and development, • The workplace environment ensures that Sweden and Norway our work in tackling and CRS. Ensuring that we treat people are fully represented. discrimination, promoting well and fairly, that we support equal opportunities and diversity and that CCE is an More informally, we encourage fostering diversity. Our Commitment Q/ “Has CCE set targets for employee attractive place for all our the formation of employee employees to work. associations in the workplace We will attract, develop and retain a highly engagement and how will it meet them?” and want to create a women’s talented and diverse workforce within a safe • Workplace representation Estelle Lauvergne resource group in each country. and healthy workplace, to foster a winning Making sure we recruit and Corporate Philanthropy Professional In France, together with The and inclusive culture. retain a diverse workforce and Coca-Cola Company, our offer equal opportunities to all. female employees have formed • Education ‘Elles@Coca-Cola’ to share ideas Introduction A/ “In CCE’s first global engagement survey Developing our employees, and experiences. People make a company successful and in 2009, the company scored above the helping them advance their careers and training our sustainable. Attracting, developing and norm for Fast Moving Consumer Goods managers to take full account FIGURE 18 — Our workplace profile retaining a talented and diverse workforce is a fundamental part of our Corporate companies, and scored at a similar level of diversity and inclusion. 2010 2011 2010 2011 Responsibility and Sustainability (CRS) this year. CRS remains one of the top three • Connection agenda and one of our three strategic Improving the way we Workforce Total employees 13,500 13,250 Age Age profile of <20 1% 1% business priorities. drivers of engagement. We aim to reach the engage and connect with workforce Full-time employees 96% 94% 20–29 19% 19% norm for Global High Performing companies our employees and others Voluntary turnover 6.5% 5.7% 30–39 34% 33% outside the business. by working to encourage employee Learning and Average training days 3 3 40–49 31% 32% wellbeing and improving learning and Each CCE business unit is development per employee development opportunities.” required to submit a quarterly Gender Females in workforce 23% 23% 50–59 13% 14% update on its activities in each of these four areas. Females on Board 30% 33% 60+ 2% 2% Pam Kimmet of Directors Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Coca-Cola Enterprises Females in 25% 29% Board of Directors 100% 100% executive roles1 members over 40 Females in 32% 33% Ethnic Ethnically diverse 17% 17% management roles 2 diversity members of the Board of Directors4 Females in non21% 22% management roles3 1. Percentage of women on the Executive Leadership Team at CCE. 3. Percentage of females below Grade 101. 2. Percentage of females Grade 101 and above. 4. Based on official US definition of diversity. 32 www.cokecce.com Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 33 Workplace — continued Workplace representation identify talented employees and This year, we are launching our WORKING TOWARDS WORLDWe recognise that the safety of our In 2012, we will also implement DELIVER/INSPIRE SPOTLIGHT One of our top priorities is to prepare appropriate development Leadership Development Program CLASS SAFETY STANDARDS contractors is also important. We an Employee Assistance Program, 47% achieve greater representation plans to create a strong, diverse which builds skills for leading and are piloting a portal in Belgium to a confidential information service for women, particularly in CCE’s pipeline of candidates. Where managing individuals and teams We aspire to world-class safety help monitor the experience and designed to support employees leadership and in commercial such a pipeline is lacking, we at every level of the organization standards and are working qualifications of contractors along who have work or personal and operational roles. For every work to recruit a wider variety to achieve business success. towards a consistent approach with hours worked and numbers problems such as bereavement, open leadership position at CCE, of candidates to reflect the Our ‘Leading to Win’ program, for and level of performance across on site at any one time. stress or financial concerns. we aim to have at least one communities in which we operate. employees at the leadership level, all our countries. We will also provide a Health of our employees had female on the candidate list as includes a section on diversity and Away from our sites, we continue Risk Assessment program that completed Individual well as on the interview panel. Education inclusion. Almost all our managers At the end of 2011, 16 of our 17 to focus on safe driving. Our will enable employees to receive Development Plans by Our efforts are showing results: In our 2009 engagement survey, have taken the first module and a production facilities and three different countries have various an analysis of the state of their November 20111. in 2011, 36 percent of our newly our employees asked for more second module was launched in regional distribution centers were programs in place such as an own health and risks they might hired or promoted employees learning and development 2011. We’re also training mid-level certified to Occupational Health online assessment of a driver’s be facing. were women and 23 percent of opportunities. In response, we management about prejudices and Safety management system risk rating and a safety program our total workforce was female. continue to enhance our training that may be held unconsciously. OHSAS 18001. Our lost-time for drivers of our branded vehicles Iain McKay programs and to make sure they accident (LTA) rate was 1.24 and company cars. Our strong Maintenance Coordinator, We continue to develop our include diversity and inclusion. In Connection accidents per 100 full-timesafety performance has been East Kilbride, Great Britain recruitment procedures to 2011, we invested $14.8 million An inclusive workplace depends equivalent employees, down recognized this year with a Alan Agnew encourage applications from a in training and resources, on free and open communications from 1.56 in 2010. There were number of awards across the Delivery Driver, East Kilbride, wide range of candidates. We delivering an average of three within the company and with the no fatalities. business (see page 39). Great Britain advertise specifically to minority days per employee. rest of society. groups and, in 2011, we launched We have strong safety governance Delivering: In 2011, we a new recruitment campaign, We introduced Individual We’re working towards greater with Business Unit Safety Councils Employee Wellbeing identified road safety as a ‘Thirst’, which illustrates the wide Development Plans (IDPs) in 2011. flexibility in the way our people at a national level and health critical issue for both our variety of employees currently CCE leaders work with their work and how we communicate and safety committees at each We offer a comprehensive range manufacturing site and our working and succeeding at employees to create plans for with them. Launched in 2009, our of our production, sales and of benefits to both full and community, so we organized CCE. We’ve also established each member of their team, 24-hour HR portal, ‘HeRe Online’, distribution sites. part-time employees across our a road safety awareness management guidelines on identifying personal development has become the place for company. These range from campaign during CRS in bringing in a wider cross-section opportunities and further training employees to manage their To help towards our goal of zero providing gym facilities at head Action Week. of people for interviews. that supports the direction they working lives. Employees can view accidents, we’re developing a offices to ensuring that each of our ForkLift Truck Safety Program, Norway wish to take. Every employee is their payslips, enroll for benefits Europe-wide health and safety employees has access to health Inspiring: We felt the In 2009, we launched our encouraged to create an IDP and and set their performance training curriculum under which provisions through both private At our Oslo, Norway site, we have now installed IMSs on 17 importance of the campaign University Talent Program (UTP) 47 percent of employees had a objectives online. we’ll align and consolidate our and government schemes, have launched a project to of the site’s forklift trucks and required an ongoing safety to recruit and train top graduates personal plan by November 2011. training activities over time. depending on geography. make our forklift trucks safer. two shuttle trucks. Employees drive within the company. By and develop a pipeline of future We will re-launch the CCE intranet By installing an Information have demonstrated safer the end of 2011, we had run five leaders across all our territories. In August 2011, we launched the in 2012 with social media tools to While continuing to record our As an employer, we want to help Management System (IMS) on driving behaviors and there campaigns on different topics This year, we’ve expanded the CCE Academy, an online learning allow employees to connect, safety performance in terms of lost our employees to live healthy, each truck, we can track its have been fewer accidents. such as observation and program from the commercial and curriculum to provide the business share ideas and post successes. time accidents (LTAs), we’re looking active lives and have developed movements. If it experiences distraction and shared them supply chain fields into Human skills needed by our employees. Employees are encouraged to more carefully at other indicators a company-wide strategy and a a major impact, the truck goes with other CCE sites in Great Resources and IT. Seventeen Our initial focus has been on the raise any workplace concerns such as incidents requiring a three-year action plan to promote into ‘slow mode’ and the driver Britain. We plan to create a graduates were recruited in 2011, Academy’s commercial arm and or issues through a variety of first-aider. We’re also focusing a holistic culture of wellbeing at must report the incident to sixth campaign on fuel bringing our total to 50 since on building skills such as channels – online, by speaking to on planned safety inspections and CCE. 2011 was the first year of regain normal driving speed. efficiency later this year. launching the program in 2009. negotiating, shopper marketing, our team of HR professionals, or safety tours by site management implementing this strategy and a This allows us to provide Fifty-two percent of all graduates selling and team development. through our 24-hour confidential which can potentially reduce the number of initiatives designed to targeted driver training are female. In 2011, over 1,000 employees Ethics and Compliance hotline. number of accidents. Also ensure a healthy, safe and positive where necessary. Following undertook nearly 12,000 hours important is the systematic working environment were a successful trial period, we Our semi-annual Talent of Academy-related training. In investigation of the root causes of launched: Management Review (TMR) 2012, we’ll continue to roll out accidents. For example, in our • A new wellbeing section on Kelly Fladger process ensures that diverse talent the commercial curriculum and manufacturing business these our HR portal, ‘HeRe! Online’, Georgia Multicultural Leadership Award is developed and prepared for develop training for other parts tend to be manual handling, slips, to provide information on leadership positions. Managers of the business. trips and falls and contact with healthcare arrangements, In November 2011, CCE’s Chief stationary or moving objects. local wellbeing initiatives and Diversity Officer, Kelly Fladger, other health-related topics FIGURE 19 — Lost time accident rate 2007–2011 Our health and safety programs received a 2011 Georgia relevant to employees. Multicultural Leadership Number of lost time accidents per 100 full time equivalent employees. are targeted at these key areas of accidents and we’re extending • An expanded flu vaccination Award – a recognition Operations Commercial and sales CCE TOTAL1 our behavioral-based safety program with increased given to individuals who have 2.97 2.71 program across territories to communication. demonstrated leadership 2.54 address these issues. excellence while committing 2.23 • A network of wellbeing to the highest ethical standards 1.99 1.95 champions to engage our of professional excellence. This 1.65 1.72 1.71 people in local wellbeing award was presented by the 1.56 1.39 1.38 1.40 initiatives. Nominations for National Diversity Council, a 1.24 1.07 champions are being invited non-profit organization that and the system will be champions diversity as a implemented in 2012. business imperative. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 See more at — www.nationaldiversitycouncil.org 1. Nordics are included from the year 2010 onwards 1. Not including Norway and Sweden. 34 www.cokecce.com Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 35 Our targets Keeping us on track We have set 37 stretch targets across our seven commitments. These act as a roadmap to delivering progress against our sustainability plan. We’re still working on measuring our progress in a number of these areas and hope to have a full set of indicators by our next report. Unless footnoted these numbers include Norway and Sweden. The baseline year is 2007 unless otherwise stated. progress progress By By Target KPIs When 2009 2010 2011 Target KPIs When 2009 2010 2011 Choice Develop and market a wide choice of products Full sugar brands with a noor Ongoing Measurement in progress Carbon Footprint Reduce the carbon footprint of the drink Value chain CO2 emissions/total 2020 Measurement in progress so people can decide which of our beverages low-calorie alternative (%) in your hand by a third. number of products best meets their needs and lifestyles. Carbon Footprint Grow our business, but reduce the absolute Carbon footprint – core business 2020 854 840 769 Product Energy and Quality Ensure that our products meet the highest Facilities accredited to ISO9001 Ongoing 75%3 94% 94% – Core Business carbon footprint of business operations by operations (‘000 tonnes CO2e) Portfolio Climate quality and food safety standards, in line with and ISO22000 (%) 15 percent. consumer expectations. Change CO2e reduction from 2007 2020 0% -2% -10% Number of product quality Ongoing 1.333 1.39 1.32 baseline (%) complaints per million units sold Manufacturing Manufacture every liter of product with CO2e per liter of product 2020 30.783 27.76 25.37 Low-Calorie Products Accelerate the growth of noand Products which are noor lowOngoing 34.6%3 33.4%3 32% 50 percent less carbon emissions. manufactured low-calorie products. calorie (<40 calories per 250ml) (%) 2020 88.20 3 88.37 81.67 Energy Use Ratio (KWH/liter) Portion Size Increase the availability of small portion size Products in packs that are 250 ml Ongoing 19.8%3 20.8%3 19% choices for sparkling soft drinks. or less (%) Transportation Deliver a case of product with 20 percent less CO2e per case of product delivered 2020 Measurement in progress carbon emissions. Ingredients Remove all artificial colors, flavors and Products without artificial colors, Ongoing Measurement in progress preservatives in our products, where possible. flavors and preservatives (%) Cold Drinks Reduce the carbon emissions from our cold Average CO2e per unit of equipment 2014 0.91 0.88 0.74 Equipment drinks equipment by an average of 35 percent. Nutritional Provide easy-to-understand nutritional and Volume with on pack GDA labeling Ongoing 973 973 97 CO2e reduction from 2007 2014 -4% -5% -19% Information ingredient information so that consumers are (%) baseline (%) able to make informed beverage choices. Cold Drinks Purchase only HFC-free coolers from HFC free coolers purchased (%) 2013 4% 50% 82% Responsible Ensure that our products are sold Compliance with responsible Ongoing Measurement in progress Equipment 1 January 2013. Marketing and marketed in a responsible way. marketing, marketing to children, education channel and digital Alternative Energy Source 35 percent of manufacturing energy Energy sourced from renewable/ 2020 Measurement in progress marketing guidelines (%) from renewable/low-carbon sources. low-carbon sources (%)1 Social Investment Invest 1 percent of our annual pre-tax Pre-tax profit invested (%) 2014 N/A 0.5% 0.6% Supplier Work in partnership with our suppliers to Number of suppliers completing Ongoing n/a n/a 129 profit to support charitable and community Collaboration reduce carbon emissions across each stage CCE’s carbon challenge partners and make a positive difference in of our value chain. Community the communities in which we operate. Lightweighting Reduce by 25 percent the amount of material Packaging use ratio (g/liter product) 2020 n/a 131 127.5 Community Invest in community projects and partnerships Total value of community Ongoing N/A 4.3 5.7 we use across all packaging formats. where we can make the biggest impact, contributions (million $) Total weight of packaging 2020 355,626 3 363,062 384,521 aligned to our core business and CRS focus used (tonnes) areas. Sustainable Packaging Employee Support the active involvement of our Number of hours volunteered Ongoing N/A 12,000 14,000 and Recycling Recycled Material Include recycled aluminum, steel and glass Recycled aluminum, steel Ongoing n/a 41% 42% in respective packaging formats. and glass (%) Volunteering employees by encouraging them to volunteer. by CCE employees (hours) Total recycled materials Ongoing n/a 123,624 130,035 Local Collaboration Encourage people to lead an active healthy Investment in Active Healthy Living Ongoing N/A N/A 867,000 used (tonnes) lifestyle by working with our brands and activities ($) supporting local partnerships. PET Bottles Ensure that our PET bottles set the standard PET that is rPET2 (%) 2020 10%3 17.9% 22.5% Active for sustainable packaging, using the optimal Physical Activity Support people to participate in programs Numbers of people engaged Ongoing Measurement in progress Healthy combination of recycled PET and PET from which encourage active healthy living. in Active Healthy Living programs Living plant-based materials. PET bottles that are PlantBottle (%) 2 2020 n/a 0.5 25% Nutrition Education Support community partnerships to highlight Investment in nutrition education ($) Ongoing Current focus on providing nutrition and the importance of good nutrition, balanced ingredient information on pack. We are looking Recyclability Ensure 100 percent of our cans and bottles Cans and bottles recyclable (%) 2014 99%3 99% 99% diets and active healthy living. to take this further in coming years. are fully recyclable. Workplace Diversity Attract, develop and retain a highly talented, Voluntary turnover rate (%) Ongoing N/A 6.5 5.7 Manufacturing Send zero waste to landfill from our own Total waste produced (metric tonnes) 2014 27,9113 29,810 34,480 engaged and diverse workforce. manufacturing sites and reduce the amount Average training days per employee Ongoing N/A 3 3 of waste we generate. Workplace 2014 99.3%3 99.5% 99.6% Females in workforce (%) Ongoing 23% 23% 23% Waste recycled (%) Females in management roles (%) Ongoing N/A 32% 33% Packaging Recycling Recycle more packaging than we use, Packaging recycled as percentage 2020 Measurement in progress by championing improvements to collection of total used Employees with individual Ongoing N/A N/A 47%3 schemes and investing in strategic recycling development plans infrastructure projects. Workplace Safety Provide a safe and healthy work environment Lost time accident rate (number of 2020 1.723 1.56 1.24 Inspiring Consumers Increase packaging recovery rates by using Number of consumer opportunities Ongoing N/A N/A 4.7 million with a vision of achieving zero accidents, and lost time accidents per 100 full time our brands to educate and inspire consumers provided to view brand-led recycle/ attaining world class health and safety status. equivalent employees) to recycle more often. recover messaging Number of fatalities 2020 N/A 0 0 Protect Protect the future sustainability of the water Sites with Source Water Protection Ongoing 12%3 88% 100% sources we use. Plans implemented (%) Employee Provide access to health and wellbeing Employees with access to health 2014 Measurement in progress Reduce Reduce the amount of water we use, aiming Water use ratio (liters water/liter 2020 1.513 1.48 1.43 Wellbeing programs for 100 percent of our employees. and wellbeing programs Water to manufacture every liter of product using product) Stewardship an average of 1.2 liters of water. Total water used (million cubic 2020 8.73 9.52 9.42 meters) 1. Including grid renewable energy 2. Year end figures Recycle Safely return to nature 100 percent of the waste Water returned at standard Ongoing 100% 3 100% 100% 3. Does not include Norway water from our manufacturing operations. supporting aquatic life (%) and Sweden 4. Including grid renewable energy Replenish Return to nature the water used in our Water replenished (% vs liters in our 2020 Measurement in progress beverages, where it is sourced from areas of beverages where sourced from water stress, by investing in community-based areas of water stress) water programs. Value Chain Work with partners to find innovative ways Number of projects/partnerships Ongoing Work in progress to minimize water impacts throughout our established value chain. Ingredients Work with our sugar suppliers to ensure Sugar sourced from sustainable Ongoing Work in progress that the sugar we use is sustainable. sources (%) 36 www.cokecce.com Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 37 GRI United Nations Global Compact The summary table below shows disclosed on the Front Cover, also included information from A full GRI index is CCE is a signatory of the UN Global available online at — Principle Page where CCE’s information and Inside Front Cover and the Back the Corporate Responsibility Compact and has committed to data corresponding to the Global Cover is labeled respectively ‘FC’, section on our corporate website www.ccesustainability.com supporting its ten principles in Principle 1: Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 7, 11, 33–35 Reporting Initiative’s G3.0 ‘IFC’ and ‘BC’. Where information (www.cokecce.com) and from the areas of human rights, labor, Principle 2: Make sure business is not complicit in human rights abuses 7, 11, 33 Guidelines can be found. Page is disclosed in the Annual Report our sustainability plan website environment and anti-corruption. numbers refer to pages in this (AR), 10-K and the Proxy Statement, (www.ccesustainabilityplan.com). Opposite is an index detailing Principle 3: Uphold freedom of association and right to collective bargaining 11, 33 Corporate Responsibility and it is also labeled accordingly. For where you can find our progress Principle 4: Support elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 7, 11, 33 Sustainability report. Information some of the indicators we have against these principles within Principle 5: Support effective abolition of child labor 7, 11, 33 this report. GRI summary table Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation 32–35 Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 11, 12–15, 16–19, 20–23 Indicator Location Indicator Location Indicator Location Indicator Location Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 12–15, 16–19, 20–23 1.1 2-3 3.11 IFC, 2-3, cokecce.com Economic 2-3, 4, 9, 10-11,15-17, 28-29, Labor 11, 14, 32-34, 37, 39, Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 8–9, 13–15, 17, 22 management 32-33, 36-37, AR, 10-K, management PROXY 1.2 2-3, 4-5, 10, 10-K 3.12 38, cokecce.com approach PROXY approach Principle 10: Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery 7, 11, 33, 34 2.1 FC, AR, PROXY 3.13 IFC, 40-41 EC 1 4-5, 28-29, AR, 10-K LA 1 4, 33 2.2 4, 26, AR 4.1 10-11, PROXY, 10-K EC 2 10-K LA 2* 33-34 2.3 10-11, 10-K 4.2 PROXY EC 3 33, 10-K LA 4* 33 Awards 2011 2.4 BC, AR 4.3. PROXY EC 6 7 LA 7* 34-35 2.5 4, AR 4.4 cokecce.com EC 7* 28-29 LA 8 35 2.6 4, 10-K 4.5 10, PROXY EC 8 18, 23, 29, 31 LA 10 33-34 2.7 4, AR 4.6 PROXY Environment 7, 10-11, 12-15, 16-19, LA 13 33, PROXY 4.7 PROXY management 20-23, AR, PROXY 2.8 4, AR Human Rights 7, 9-11, 32-35, AR, PROXY, Edie.net Awards for approach management cokecce.com 2.9 IFC, AR, 10-K 4.8 2-3, 10-11, PROXY, EN 1 17, 36 approach Environmental Excellence 2011 Newsweek Green Rankings Carbon Trust Standard Corporate Register Reporting cokecce.com 2.10 6, 39, cokecce.com Awards (CRRA 2012) 4.9 10-11, PROXY, EN 2 17, 36 HR 2* 7 Waste and Resources Award – CCE was ranked first in the food Carbon Trust Standard Award – 3.1 IFC cokecce.com for outstanding commitment to and beverage category of the 2011 for our carbon management and Best Overall Report: Winner EN 3 ccesustainabilityplan.com HR 5 33 3.2 IFC 4.10 PROXY, EN 4 ccesustainabilityplan.com Society 7, 10-11, 28-29, 30-31, reducing waste in packaging and Newsweek Green Rankings, for carbon reduction achievements, Best Carbon Disclosure: Winner 3.3 IFC cokecce.com management PROXY changing consumer behavior the third year in a row. obtaining the best-ever score out Relevance and Materiality: EN 8 20-21, 36 approach when recycling. of 675 companies. 2nd Runner Up. 4.11 10, 10-K 3.4 BC, cokecce.com EN 12* 22-23 SO 1* 28-31 4.12 IFC, 2-3, 38-39 3.5 IFC, 6-7 EN 16 14, SO 5 7, 19, 23, 27 4.13 6-8, 19, 27, 30-31 ccesustainabilityplan.com 3.6 IFC 4.14 2-3, 6-7, 12-13, 18, 20-21, Product 7, 10, 24-27, 36-37, 10-K 3.7 IFC EN 17 ccesustainabilityplan.com responsibility Low Carbon Vehicle PR News CSR Awards 2011 28-29, 31, 38-39 EN 19 ccesustainabilityplan.com management Partnership’s Low Carbon 3.8 IFC, cokecce.com 4.15 6 approach Food and Drink Federation ROSPA Champion Awards CSR Professional of the Year – 3.9 IFC, cokecce.com EN 21 22 Community Partnership 4.16 6-7, 32 PR 1* 11, 24-25 Joint Winner – John Brock, Awards 2011 Food, Drink & Tobacco 3.10 IFC EN 26 12-23 Low Carbon Fuel Initiative Chairman and CEO, CCE. 4.17 IFC, 6, 36-37 PR 3 26-27 Manufacturing Industry Sector EN 27 18-19 of the Year – investment in Corporations with more than PR 6 27 Awards received for: Award – CCE East Kilbride facility. bio-methane trucks. 10,000 employees – Joint Winner. * partial compliance – Education – CCE Education Centers President’s Award – Coca-Cola – Environmental Consumer and Enterprises Ltd – Edmonton, President’s Award – Festival Wakefield and Sidcup facilities. Maplecroft Climate Innovation Recycling. CEO Water Mandate Index, Cycle 3 2011 European Supply Chain Maplecroft CII Leaders – CCE Excellence Awards Communication are required to report progress Logistics Strategy – Winner – Principle Page “Coca-Cola Enterprises’ Festival ranked #17 and the only company on Progress-Water annually against its six core for work to centralize the Recycle Zone was the stand out project in the Food and Beverage Industry (COP-Water) principles. Our progress detailed 1. Direct operations 21–22 multi-drop planning operation for me from this year’s entries. It is an in the top 20. in the report is indexed opposite. in Great Britain. 2. Supply chain and watershed 21, 23 exceptional example of an innovative CCE signed the UN Global Customer Service – Highly Compact’s CEO Water Mandate 3. Collective action 21, 23, 29 and extremely well targeted scheme that Golden Peacock Commended – for work in (CEOWM) in early 2009. This captures the imagination of young 4. Community engagement 21, 23, 29 delivering top class service public-private partnership helps people and gets them to engage with 2011 Global Award for 5. Public policy 21, 23 metrics for key customers us develop and implement the issue of packaging waste.” Sustainability – Winner. and industry leading supply water sustainability policies and 6. Transparency 20–23, 29 chain projects. practices. Endorsing companies Jim Moseley, FDF President and Managing Director of General Mills UK 38 www.cokecce.com Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 39 Assurance statement SGS United Kingdom Ltd’s This report has been assured as VERIFICATION/ • Key stakeholder groups The Principle of Materiality The Principle of Responsiveness STATEMENT OF report on sustainability an AA1000AS Type 2 assurance at ASSURANCE OPINION have been involved in setting To make good decisions and Responsiveness is how an INDEPENDENCE AND activities in the Coca-Cola a moderate level of scrutiny using the future strategy of the actions an organization and its organization demonstrates that COMPETENCE Enterprises, Inc. Corporate our protocols for: On the basis of the methodology organization and these stakeholders need to know the it responds to its stakeholders Responsibility and Sustainability described and the verification have included groups whose issues that are material to the and is accountable to them. • Evaluation of the report The SGS Group of companies Report for 2011/2012 work performed, we are satisfied opinions are considered to be sustainability performance of content and supporting • At a top-level the organization is the world leader in that the information and data in conflict with the organization. the organization. A material issue management systems against seeks input from key inspection, testing and contained within the Corporate The formalizing of the is an issue that will influence the the AA1000 Accountability stakeholders and includes verification, operating in NATURE AND SCOPE OF THE Responsibility and Sustainability stakeholder mapping and decisions, actions and Principles (2008); and their feedback in the decision more than 140 countries and ASSURANCE/VERIFICATION Report 2011/2012 and within the engagement processes is in performance of an organization making process. providing services including • Evaluation of content veracity scope verified is accurate, development and the resulting or its stakeholders. management systems and SGS United Kingdom Ltd was and systems for reporting and reliable and provides a fair and tool should allow for smaller • The report would benefit • C oca-Cola Enterprises has service certification; quality, commissioned by Coca-Cola collation of data at site level balanced representation of stakeholder groups having from linking the content to worked with independent environmental, social and Enterprises, Inc. (CCE) to conduct through to corporate level. CCE’s sustainability activities in greater input to the organisation feedback received from the agencies to identify and ethical auditing and training; an independent assurance of the 2011/2012. The assurance team and its strategy and reporting. organization’s stakeholders prioritise material issues and environmental, social and Corporate Responsibility and Alignment with the Global is of the opinion that the Report on the previous year’s report • S takeholder engagement establish in which areas it can sustainability report Sustainability Report 2011/2012. Reporting Initiative Sustainability can be used by the Reporting and the performance has to be a two-way process lead how these issues are assurance. SGS United The scope of assurance, based Reporting Guidelines (2006) was Organization’s stakeholders. information contained within. with the organization receiving addressed. The development Kingdom Ltd affirm our on the SGS Sustainability Report not included in the assurance. We believe that the organization feedback from all stakeholder and review of material issues • To establish the organization’s independence from Assurance methodology, included has chosen an appropriate level groups and using this is ongoing which is reflected in stated aim of being a leader Coca-Cola Enterprises, text and selected 2011 data in The assurance comprised a of assurance for this stage in information to make decisions the report and future reports on sustainability issues and being free from bias and accompanying tables of this combination of pre-assurance their reporting. at all levels of the organization. should follow through feedback allow stakeholders to form conflicts of interest with the report as described below. research, interviews with relevant To maintain a position as a from stakeholder engagement. a balanced view of the organisation, its subsidiaries employees at the European leader in sustainability issues organization’s performance and stakeholders. The The information in the Corporate Headquarters (Uxbridge, UK) and AA1000 ACCOUNTABILITY • T he work done on the it is important that Coca-Cola the report it is important assurance team was Responsibility and Sustainability visits to a sample of operational PRINCIPLES (2008) sustainability plan involved a Enterprises seek to do this at that information is included assembled based on their Report 2011/2012 of CCE and its sites (Clamart, France; Lørenskog, CONCLUSIONS, FINDINGS detailed analysis of material every possible opportunity. even when it is considered knowledge, experience and presentation are the responsibility Norway). Documentation and AND RECOMMENDATIONS issues for the organization and to be negative. qualifications for this of the directors and the records were reviewed and based on the work performed assignment, and comprised management of CCE. SGS United validation was conducted where The Foundation with a range of stakeholders A detailed internal management auditors registered with IRCA Kingdom Ltd has not been relevant. Additional interviews and Principle of Inclusivity the organization has identified report with results and (Certified Sustainability involved in the preparation of any site visits were conducted for The inclusion of all stakeholders areas where it wants to be Assurance Practitioner) and of the material included in the verification of greenhouse gas is fundamental to the AA1000 regarded as a corporate leader. recommendations against this standard has been provided IEMA (Environmental Auditor). Corporate Responsibility and reporting as detailed in our standards and an organization • A total of thirty-seven (37) to CCE. Sustainability Report 2011/2012. separate verification statement needs to demonstrate that it material issues have been Our responsibility is to express (available on www. identifies and understands identified in the sustainability Signed: an opinion on the text, data, ccesustainabilityplan.com). stakeholders, their capacity plan, however materiality For and on behalf of SGS graphs and statements within Financial data drawn directly from to engage, and their views analyses should be ongoing United Kingdom Ltd the scope of verification set out independently audited financial and expectations. and the organization should below with the intention to inform accounts has not been checked • The sustainability plan, which therefore ensure it performs all CCE’s stakeholders. back to source as part of this has been implemented this regular re-evaluations to assurance process. Financial data year involved stakeholder ensure issues that may not be The SGS Group has developed a drawn directly from independently engagement from all considered currently material set of protocols for Assurance of audited financial accounts has not Jan Saunders geographical areas where the are included and addressed Sustainability Reports based on been checked back to source as UK Systems and Services company operates in order to if they are considered to be current best practice guidance part of this assurance process. Certification Business Manager set and establish goals and material in the future. provided in the Global Reporting Camberley, May 2012 targets for the coming years for Initiative Sustainability Reporting www.sgs.com a variety of sustainability issues. Guidelines (2006) and AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008). These protocols follow differing options for Assurance depending on the reporting history and capabilities of the Reporting Organization. 40 www.cokecce.com Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2011/2012 41 Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. 2500 Windy Ridge Parkway Atlanta, GA 30339 +1 678 260-3000 European Headquarters Coca-Cola Enterprises, Ltd. Vine Street Uxbridge Middlesex UB8 1EZ +44 1895 231313 Contact: crs@cokecce.com www.cokecce.com www.ccesustainabilityplan.com Coca-Cola Enterprises is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Copyright 2011, Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. “Coca-Cola” is a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company. Designed and produced by Salterbaxter. Printed by Innovative Output Solutions. This report has been printed on 9 Lives paper which is certified as FSC 100% recycled, and certified ISO 9001 and ISO 1400.
