. /2/1!  1: .+#.1 #.1!! :. Wb?IIdpK?bIM{WtVtVM UuWKM_WbMqWqquMKH}. ½_dH?_.MmdptWbUbWtW?tWzMÃ CONTENTSM 1. Sustainability strategy Page 4 1.1 Statement by the most senior decision-maker in the organisation Page 4 1.2 Statement of key impacts, risks and opportunities Page 6 2. Organisational profile Page 18 3. Report parameters Page 23 4. Governance, commitments and engagement Page 26 4.1–4.9 Corporate governance Page 26 4.11–4.13 Commitments to external initiatives Page 33 4.14–4.17 Stakeholder engagement Page 34 Economic performance indicators Page 37 Aspect: Economic performance (EC1) Page 38 Aspect: Market presence (EC6) Page 40 Aspect: Indirect economic impacts (EC9) Page 40 Ecological performance indicators Page 42 Aspect: Materials (EN1–EN2) Page 43 Aspect: Energy (EN3–EN5) Page 44 Aspect: Water Page 46 Aspect: Biodiversity Page 46 Aspect: Emissions, wastewater and waste (EN16–EN18, EN22, EN24) Page 47 Aspect: Products and services (EN26) Page 52 Aspect: Compliance with legal regulations (EN28) Page 52 Aspect: Transport (EN29) Page 53 Social performance indicators: Labour practices and decent work Page 54 Aspect: Employment (LA1–LA3) Page 55 Aspect: Employer-employee relationship (LA4) Page 58 Aspect: Occupational safety (LA7–LA9) Page 58 Aspect: Training and education (LA10–LA12) Page 60 Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity (LA13–LA14) Page 63 Social performance indicators: Human rights Page 66 Aspect: Investment and procurement practices (HR2–HR3) Page 66 Social performance indicators: Society Page 68 Aspect: Local community (SO1) Page 69 Aspect: Corruption (SO2–SO4) Page 71 Aspect: Public policy (SO5) Page 72 Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour (SO7) Page 72 GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 2 Aspect: Compliance with laws (SO8) Page 72 Social performance indicators: product responsibility Page 73 Aspect: Labelling of products and services (PR3–PR5) Page 73 Aspect: Marketing communications (PR6–PR7) Page 74 Aspect: Protection of customer data (PR8) Page 74 Aspect: Compliance with laws (PR9) Page 75 Thematic and goal matrix Page 76 GRI content index Page 78 Independent certification Page 86 Contact and imprint Page 88 This Sustainability Report refers exclusively to Österreichische Post AG (referred to in the report as Austrian Post). Subsidiaries of Austrian Post were not included in this report. However, if a statement in the report refers to the entire Group (including all subsidiaries), then this will be clearly expressed in the text by using the term Austrian Post Group. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 3 1 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGYM 1.1 Statement by the most senior decision-maker in the organisation We do not shape the future tomorrow but today. And whoever already reflects today about how the world will look tomorrow or the day after, and how one has to structure a company accordingly in order to be able to fulfil its responsibilities on a long-term basis, is also a responsible businessman.” The standpoint taken by Austrian Post CEO Georg Pölzl with respect to sustainability is unambiguous. “It would be completely absurd to think only about the next financial year and to focus on short-term profits.” The important thing is to lay the groundwork for sustainable development in the coming years. “We are very intensively dealing with issues relating to our responsibility towards our stakeholders and our social environment”, Georg Pölzl continues. “In this regard, we think in four different dimensions: society, employees, environment and economy”, he adds. The issues to which Austrian Post is devoting its attention range from the reliability of supply, social engagement and the appreciation and support provided to its employees as well as the optimal use of natural resources and the sustainable increase of shareholder value. Only a profitable company can make a meaningful contribution on a long-term basis. Austrian Post is committed to its responsibility towards its stakeholders and its social environment. With this in mind, Austrian Post developed new corporate principles in 2010, which comprise the foundation for the sustainability strategy of the company. In addition to the two guiding principles “Everything we do revolves around our customers” and “We are future-oriented”, the appreciation of employees and open communications with them are of overriding importance. “A company can only be successful if the employees are proud of what they are doing and can contribute to the reputation of the company. In contrast, only a successful company can seriously assume its corporate social responsibility on a long-term basis, and thus meet social and ecological needs”, Austrian Post CEO Pölzl states. As a publicly listed company Austrian Post is naturally committed to economic success on behalf of its owners – the Republic of Austria as well as institutional and private shareholders. Moreover, the company is aware of its responsibility towards society, its employees and the environment. Accordingly, in the year 2007 Austrian Post joined the UN Global Compact, a sustainability-oriented initiative of the United Nations. Thus, the company is obliged to comply with global principles of ethical and ecological business practices. Sustainability process and structure In organisational terms, responsibility for the issue of sustainability at Austrian Post is directly assigned to Chief Executive Officer Georg Pölzl in the Department of Investor Relations & Corporate Governance. CSR (corporate social responsibility) working groups meet several times a year in order to analyse issues in the company which are of relevance to sustainability and to define objectives and measures which are then proposed to the entire Management Board for their decision. The four dimensions – society, employees, environment and economy – comprise the sustainability structure of Austrian Post. Specific goals have been defined for each of these main subject areas, which are evaluated each year and supported by corresponding measures. In order to optimise the measurability of its achievement of objectives, GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 4 quantitative sub-targets have been defined in the individual categories in addition to the primary objectives, which mainly consist of qualitative measurement criteria. These subtargets are subordinate to the main goals. For the dimensions of the environment and economy, the extent to which the objectives have been reached is already concretely measurable for the 2011 financial year. This is because the main objectives already contained quantifiable elements in the past. Thus in the 2011 financial year the medium-term revenue target of 1-2% per year as well as the earnings target of an EBITDA margin of 10-12% were actually exceeded. The dividend payment was also higher than the targeted value of 75% of the Group net profit. In the environmental area, the defined goal of CO2 neutral delivery in Austria could be implemented as scheduled. The planned 10% reduction in CO2 emissions in the periods 2007 to 2012 was already achieved in 2011 (reduction by 15.8%). Austrian Post is somewhat behind in its efforts to save energy. However, measures have already been taken in this regard to minimise the environmental impact of higher energy consumption, for example by changing over to electricity derived from renewable energy sources. The detailed objectives and corresponding measures are presented in compromised form in the target and topic matrix found on pages 76 and 77. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 5 An overview of the four main focal points and the corresponding objectives: Economy: The top priority for Austrian Post’s management is achieving the fundamental goal of ensuring profitability on a long-term basis. Only a successful company can seriously assume its corporate social responsibility on a long-term basis and make an appropriate contribution to fulfilling social and ecological needs. The aims are a customer-oriented further development of services (revenue increase of 1-2% per year as well as solid profitability), value creation on behalf of all stakeholders, sustainable total shareholder return). Employees: As one of the biggest employers in the country, Austrian Post is clearly aware of its responsibility to its employees. Motivated and productive employees are the basis for corporate success, and high value must be placed on the factor “employees”, especially in a service company. The objectives are to create individual future perspectives, promote a corporate and leadership culture, and promote occupational health and safety. Society: As a provider of universal postal services, Austrian Post bears a considerable responsibility to society. It makes an important contribution towards maintaining and safeguarding the communications infrastructure on the basis of providing reliable, top quality nationwide postal services in Austria. Because of its importance to the country, Austrian Post is also committed to taking an active part in society. The objectives are to expand reliable nationwide postal services, the ongoing further development of solutions to enhance customer convenience, and the promotion of business-related projects and activities which are also of relevance to society. Environment: Austrian Post is aware of its responsibility to the environment and thus continually strives to identify optimisation potential in order to minimise its ecological footprint. With the initiative CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY Austrian Post is also playing a pioneering role internationally. The objectives are to reduce CO2 emissions by 20% from 2010 to 2015 and annually compensate for the remaining emissions, to develop and improve a central environmental management system and to raise the awareness to the need for environmental and climate protection on the part of relevant stakeholders. 1.2 Statement of key impacts, risks and opportunities Austrian Post operates a comprehensive risk management system integrating all business units and subsidiaries. Risks are identified and evaluated in their overall context according to unified criteria and documented by a Group-wide risk management system. In this regard, risk management is subject to a body of rules developed by the Management Board, which define the relevant objectives, principles, functions and responsibilities. In principle, all significant events and developments (legal and regulatory, technical, financial, climactic) within and outside of the company and which have a positive or negative impact on the company’s ability to achieve its strategic targets are identified and evaluated within the context of the risk management system. Thresholds of reporting were established. They take the form of limit values (on the Group level, these amount to EUR 300,000), and are deliberately attuned to the magnitude and responsibilities of Austrian Post and of its business areas and subsidiaries. Opportunities GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 6 and risks fall not meeting those levels of significance are in any case the responsibilities of experts comprising the organisational units. They handle the supervision and management of risks. Risks arising from the area of sustainability and being below this value of limitation are, accordingly, monitored by the Investor Relations & Corporate Governance department, of which the CSR also forms part. Should such be required, these risks are reported to the Risk Management. The evaluation of the opportunities and risks occurs quantitatively according to the probability of occurrence and to the possible impact upon EBIT (earnings before interest and tax). The criterion employed in the setting of the level of significance is the financial effect. Individual limits of significance have been set for the Group, key corporate units and subsidiaries. This enables the independent assessment of the ramifications upon the entire Group. Individual evaluations thus constitute the basis for an assessment of the cumulative risks on the Group level. The analysis of risk is to be followed by an establishment of further ways of handling them. This includes the determination of measures capable of preventing or reducing risks. The risk management system of the Group reports to the Management Board on a quarterly basis – or on ad-hoc basis if risks unexpectedly arise – on the opportunities and risks and their development. The Supervisory Board and Audit Committee are also provided with regular information about the status of the risk management. Further details on risk management as well as on the internal control system can be found in the Annual Report 2011 Part 2 – Financial Values, pages 36 to 42. The identified and evaluated risks and opportunities are integrated into the process of defining sustainability targets and developing corresponding measures. A list of the detailed objectives and corresponding measures are presented in compromised form in the target and topic matrix found on pages 76 and 77. 1.2.1. Description of risks Risks to the company As a provider of universal postal services, Austrian Post bears a considerable responsibility to society. It makes an important contribution towards maintaining and safeguarding the communications infrastructure on the basis of providing reliable, top quality nationwide postal services in Austria. This responsibility means that Austrian Post is confronted with a variety of risks as well as opportunities. Moreover, due to the high relevance of Austrian Post to society, it is affected to an above-average degree by societal trends which influence consumer behaviour. Regulatory and legal risks The Universal Postal Service Obligation requires Austrian Post to provide standardised postal services of comparable quality across the country, and ensure a nationwide distribution network of at least 1,650 postal service points. Austrian Post is only allowed to convert company-operated post offices manned by its own staff to postal partner offices GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 7 following a regulatory approval process. The possibility that Austrian Post will be required to continue operating unprofitable postal branches, at least in the short term, cannot be excluded. The Postal Market Act stipulates that Austrian Post is the only postal services provider in Austria required to provide Universal Postal Services. Compensation for the net costs of providing Universal Postal Services will take place on the basis of a public equalisation fund, which will be financed on a pro-rata basis corresponding to the market share held by Austrian Post and other licensed postal operators. Only postal providers whose annual revenue derived from their licensed business operations exceeds EUR 1m will be required to contribute to the equalization fund. Moreover, the net costs of providing Universal Postal Services will only be refunded in case these costs exceed 2% of the entire annual costs incurred by Austrian Post. Assuming that Austrian Post continues to have a significant market share even after the full liberalisation of the postal sector, it will be obliged to assume the lion’s share of the net costs for providing Universal Postal Services and administering the equalization fund. The possibility of significant downward pressure on future earnings cannot be excluded, if the process of postal sector liberalisation is not accompanied by uniform regulations relating to employment contracts and performance standards applying to both Austrian Post and its competitors, and if no adequate compensation for universal postal services is forthcoming. The public relations activities of Austrian Post have made it a priority to engage in an ongoing dialogue with all its stakeholders with respect to the issue of liberalisation. The company considers itself responsible for making people aware of the insufficient compensation for providing universal postal services and the problems arising as a result of an asymmetric market liberalisation. In order to optimally avoid as far as possible any potential adverse effects on earnings resulting from regulatory and legal risks, Austrian Post strives to expand its value added chain and product portfolio in its core processes, as a means of offering its customers even better services and achieving an optimisation of service quality. Risks relating to cooperations Austrian Post cooperates with a large number of partners. These ties lead to a dependency on the general public’s perception of these partners’ reputation and credibility. A risk arises if these cooperation partners are exposed to events leading to negative publicity for them. This would result in a bad light being cast on Austrian Post as well. The only way to minimise this risk is by intensively scrutinizing potential candidates for such partnerships with Austrian Post. Thanks to this, the partnerships – to give examples with Caritas, Ö3 and Mondi (all in conjunction with the Ö3 Wundertüte bags) have been extremely successful. The partnerships with these well-situated and reliable partners will thus be set forth. Risks arising from working relationships with Austrian Post’s major partners including BAWAG P.S.K. and Telekom – are depicted in the risk management system of the company. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 8 Reputation risks The transport sector is generally considered to be one which negatively impacts the environment, in which case damage to the reputation of the company could arise. As a result, private individuals and companies are increasingly doing without the physical shipment of letters and direct mail items, and are changing over to alternative forms of shipment or advertising. This could lead to a decline in revenue, in which case the fixed cost structure of the company could not be adjusted in the short-term to reflect this situation. Austrian Post counteracts this risk on the basis of its initiative CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY and has been offering “green” products throughout Austria since 2011. This means that all shipments (letter mail and direct mail items, magazines, parcels) are being delivered in a climate-neutral manner in Austria since 2011. Risks resulting from e-substitution Postal companies are confronted with the general trend that annual letter mail volumes are continually but slightly declining (3-5% annually) due to electronic substitution.This decrease has been correspondingly taken into account by Austrian Post in developing its business model. However, there is the risk that this development will be intensified by an environmentally-driven change in communication behavior, for example sending e-mails instead of letters. In this connection Austrian Post is also striving to counteract this development on the basis of its CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY, and has now been delivering all mail items (letters, direct mail items, magazines, parcels) in a climate-neutral manner since 2011. Furthermore, Austrian Post is continually developing innovative, new solutions in order to fulfill customer requirements and wishes. Austrian Post continually assesses its private customer focus and the feasibility of the measures being implemented. Accordingly, innovative online solutions are constantly being developed in order to link the physical and digital worlds of communication. Risk of change of the communciations behaviour of the younger generation The mail business – and primarily the writing and sending of letters – is a key part of societal life. Despite this, the knowledge possessed by children and adolescents of this topic is progressively disappearing. For this reason, the risk exists that the younger generations especially will cease to make use of the societal institution of mail. Such persons are increasingly replacing the writing and sending of letters with different forms of electronic communication. It is for this reason that Austrian Post regards its scope of responsibilities to include informing such people about its spectrum of activities and to ensure the high status of Austrian Post in the future. In order to achieve this, Austrian Post establishes partnerships in order to foster a modern image for the company among Austria’s young people and to promote a culture of writing and reading letters. Under the title “Die Post macht Schule“, Austrian Post has developed educational materials for primary schools which present the responsibilities, tasks and services of Austrian Post, and which is designed to stimulate pupils to read and write. Within the context of another GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 9 project with the association “Zeitung in der Schule” (newspapers in schools), a workbook on the issue of “Post and Postage – The Way News is Sent” was designed. Risks relating to employees As one of the biggest employers in the country, Austrian Post is aware of its considerable responsibility to its approximately 20,000 employees. In the service sector so-called human capital is the most important success factor. A service company can only succeed on the market with qualified and motivated employees. Due to the high relevance of employees for corporate success, this area also entails a series of risks. On the other hand, an effective human resources policy which supports and encourages employees opens up numerous opportunities. Risks relating to structural changes Much of Austrian Post’s business (above all the sending of letters) is characterised by declining volumes. For this reason, a key aspect of the company’s business strategy is to continually become more efficient. Austrian Post continuously tries to develop solutions based on the increased application of technologies in order to accelerate or optimise procedures and processes. This is precisely the reason why Austrian Post attaches considerable importance to ensuring future career perspectives for its employees within and outside of the company in the light of a constantly changing working world. However, a large proportion of the employees have employment contracts which make it more difficult to adapt to these changes. Austrian Post counteracts employment-related structural problems by promoting increasingly flexible working processes and working time models. Employees impacted by restructuring can take advantage of a social plan designed to cushion them against the impact of these measures. Risks caused by a high rate of attrition and the age structure of employees The service sector is subject to extensive natural attrition, which nevertheless poses the challenge to maintain the high quality of services offered. For this reason Austrian Post offers target group-oriented and competence-oriented further education and professional development measures for all employees, such as specialised trainings, continuing education courses and coachings as well as trainings in all areas relating to the company’s business operations. The topic of “appreciation” is viewed as being of central importance, as it increases the recognition accorded to employees. This topic is of great relevance to the schooling of managers. They receive special training in courses held at the Management Academy. This enables them to carry out their duties in a performance-oriented manner, showing appreciation of services rendered. The distribution of ages is changing, and that gives rise to risks. The share accounted for by employees who are more than 50 years old is increasing annually. Many of the activities in the postal business are work-intensive. The result is the risk of not being able to fully retain the capability of older employees to satisfy the requirements ensuing from their GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 10 occupations. To counter this risk, Austrian Post has established personnel development and health promotion programs. The opening up of new areas of activity is being accompanied by the configuring of work to take the age structure of employees and the needs of the aged into account. This also applies to target group-oriented further education programs and professional development programmes designed to create and strengthen overall health awareness as well as to maintain and strengthen the ability of employees to work. Targeted recruiting of new employees and the promotion of young “high potentials“ round off the necessary age management measures taken by Austrian Post as a consequence of demographic developments. Risks related to insufficient occupational safety The very large number of staff members engaged in performing physical tasks necessitated by the delivery and sorting of shipments makes the topics of occupational safety and protection of health of the utmost importance. The relevance of the measures preventing accidents and protecting health systems from their ability to maintain and strengthen the capability of employees to work, with this extending well into old age. The identification and assessment of risks to health and safety ensuing from places of work and the determination of any requisite protection measures guarantee secure and ergonometric work environments. The provision of information and the holding of training programs on a regular basis on the topic of occupational safety ensure that employees are aware of the risks associated with their activities. Their proper conduct contributes to their minimisation. Further details on employee-related risks can be found in the Annual Report 2011, Part 2 – Financial figures, pages 37 to 40. Environmental risks Austrian Post operates in a very energy-intensive business. With over 9,000 vehicles, the company boasts the largest vehicle fleet in the country. Moreover, the buildings used by Austrian Post consume some 160m kWh of energy each year. Austrian Post is subject to risks due to its high degree of dependence on fossil fuels. Moreover, the delivery staff of Austrian Post and thus a large proportion of its employees work outside, and can thus be influenced by changing weather conditions. Risks relating to changes in environmental standards Alterations in Austria’s exhaust emissions law could lead to a withdrawal of the permission to operate held by a portion of the delivery vehicles now being employed. These vehicles would then have to be replaced ahead of schedule. As a general rule, Austrian Post’s vehicles have to be replaced after eight years of use. This means that the programme or normally replacing vehicles would have to be complemented by further investments. This risk is being minimised by the replacement of vehicles is part of the current program of fleet modernisation. This limits excess costs. Over the past few years, the share of vehicles meeting the Euro 4 and Euro 5 emissions standards in Austrian Post’s fleet has been consistently increased. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 11 Risks related to rising prices for climate protection certificates Austrian Post has set a goal of compensating for all CO2 emissions caused by its business operations and which cannot be reduced. Within the context of its initiative CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY, all mail items (letters, direct mail items, magazines, parcels) are delivered in Austria in a climate-neutral manner. Within the context of the initiative CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY all mail items (letters, direct mail items, magazines and parcels) are being delivered in Austria in a climate-neutral manner. This initiative is being implemented in a three-phased program: the top priority is always to avoid emissions in the company’s core processes i.e. primarily in its buildings and vehicle fleet. The second step is for Austrian Post to increasingly rely on alternative energy sources. All emissions which cannot be avoided at the present time will be compensated by support provided to recognised and certified climate protection projects. The risk is that the growing number of companies taking part in emission trading and the lower volume of certificates distributed on the free market will increase the price of a ton of CO2. Thus a rise in the price levels means Austrian Post will have to bear the added costs for climate protection certificates. In 2011, Austrian Post decided to purchase CO2 certificates for the next three years to at least counteract this risk in the medium-term. Risk in not achieving stipulated environmental objectives Austrian Post is aware of its responsibility to the environment and thus continually strives to identify optimisation potential in order to minimise its ecological footprint. In addition to comprehensive climate protection measures it implements on its own, it also actively participates in projects such as the “Greenhouse Gas Reduction Programme“ of the European association of public postal operators PostEurop or the ”Environmental Measurement and Monitoring System (EMMS)“ of the International Postal Corporation (IPC), which both aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Within the framework of the “Greenhouse Gas Reduction Programme“, Austrian Post has agreed to reduce its CO₂ emissions by 10% in the period 2007 to 2012. The risk here is that the stipulated reduction targets cannot be reached, which would subsequently damage the company‘s reputation. Austrian Post is on the right track when it comes to fulfilling its objectives thanks to a consistent monitoring of CO2 emissions as well as the measures which have already been introduced, such as the complete conversion to “green electricity“ and the promotion of e-mobility. Risks related to weather and natural disasters Ongoing climate change could give rise to an increase in the incidence of natural disasters. Such weather-caused phenomena such as heavy rain, hail, landslides, floods and the like can occur more often. The consequences and after-effects of these are damage to property and persons. This causes a need for further maintenance and repair work. A further factor is Austrian Post’s legal obligation to ensure a nationwide supply of postal services. In cases in which natural disasters result in the company being unable to fulfill this obligation over a long period of time, further financial obligations can ensue. Austrian Post precludes this risk to safe workplaces by inspecting its buildings and making investments in their maintenance on an ongoing basis. Employee safety is also enhanced by the fleet of modern vehicles and by driver training. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 12 Risks relating to weather conditions in winter Global warming is melting the Arctic ice. Recent studies suggest that a consequence of this could be cold and snowy winters in the Northern Hemisphere. Accidents during work (primarily mishaps occurring on paths during delivery) and days lost to sickness are closely related to the weather conditions prevailing during winter months. By way of an example, there was a significant increase in accidents at work in the winter of 2009-2010. It was caused by the season’s heavy snows. A fleet of modern vehicles and training employees in driving techniques enhance staff safety. The provision of service and protective clothing and the conducting of nation-wide campaigns of flu vaccinations help minimise the risks arising from unfavorable weather. Risks relating to rising energy costs Austrian Post largely depends upon its vehicle fleet to transport and deliver shipments. That means that increases in fuel prices and in other costs of energy lead directly to reductions in margins. The risk exists that increases in taxes levied on energy or a scarcity of resources could cause fuel prices and other costs of energy to rise beyond the level taken into account in corporate plans. This risk is countered by very conservative planning assuming a rise in the costs of energy. Economic risks (market and competitive risks) Austrian Post generates most of its revenue in Austria. If current economic growth forecasts have to be revised downwards, this would force a change in the planning assumptions upon which the company operates and thus limit expected revenues. In addition, the company generates a considerable share of its revenue from a small number of large customers. The sustained and successful existence of these large customers is an important prerequisite in ensuring the stable development of Austrian Post. Large customers are not contractually required to have their mail handled by Austrian Post, and could decide on a medium-term basis to contract the delivery of at least part of their mail items to competitors within the postal services market. Traditional letter mail is being increasingly replaced by e-mail or other electronic media. The increasing electronic substitution of letter mail and the trend towards electronic mail delivery were intensified by the economic crisis in recent years, and will likely continue in the future. This development could lead to a significant decline in mail volumes and earnings. The letter mail and parcels business of Austrian Post is subject to increasing competition. In particular, the B2C parcel business, in which Austrian Post has a leading position in the Austrian market, is dependent on the economic development of its customers as well as increased competition, which arises on the basis of market penetration of alternative providers. The possibility of a further decline in revenue cannot be excluded. The company is working hard to maintain customer loyalty by offering an attractive range of services. Austrian Post has taken steps to counteract the decline in mail volumes resulting from the greater use of e-mails by developing new products and services, for example in the Infomail GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 13 Business Area or in the B2B (business-to-business) segment, but above all, along the value chain. The possibility cannot be excluded that a change in legal regulations with regard to the delivery of government mail will put responsibility for delivering some of these mail items in the hands of competitors and not only Austrian Post. Diversifying business operations into different markets enables Austrian Post to more effectively spread or minimise risks in individual segments. A key feature of Austrian Post’s business strategy is to achieve growth through selective acquisitions and cooperation agreements. In this regard, it is important to identify suitable acquisition targets and to successfully integrate acquired companies. The future profitability of these projects depends, to a large extent, on investment requirements, acquisition costs as well as political, economic and legal factors. For this reason, all investments must be made in accordance with strict financial criteria. Earnings from financial services depend strongly on the market success of Austrian Post’s cooperation partner BAWAG P.S.K., whereas its earnings from telecommunications products depend on the product structure of its cooperation partner Telekom Austria. All the above-mentioned market and competitive risks could lead to significant volume decreases and thus to a corresponding drop in earnings. Further details on the economic risks can be found in the Annual Report 2011 – Part 2 – Financial Values, pages 37 to 40. 1.2.2. Description of opportunities Opportunities in society Austrian Post systematically focuses on identifying trends in society, and subsequently develops new products and solutions on an ongoing basis in order to exploit the opportunities that arise. For example, opportunities arise from the sustainability trend as well as in the field of online business. Customers attach considerable importance to flexibility, and an increasingly important role is being played by the Internet as well as by mobile applications. For this reason, Austrian Post is continually expanding its online service offering. The online services are being well received by customers and are thus being continually further developed and improved. These services underline the fact that Austrian Post is already actively shaping its own future. One of the focal points of its operations is to offer dual solutions which link the digital and physical communications world with each other. Based on the initiative CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY as well as its pioneering role in the field of e-mobility, Austrian Post stands out as a climate protection partner and clearly distinguishes itself from its competitors. In this manner it can achieve a significant competitive advantage. Austrian Post transports and delivers letters and parcels everyday to every address and every doorstep throughout Austria. Naturally this is of major importance to the Austrian population and simultaneously offers Austrian Post the opportunity to be closer to its customers and thus to more directly react to customer requirements and wishes. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 14 On the basis of its sponsoring and cooperation activities, Austrian Post is contributing to a change in societal values, for example on the basis of its project “Read-Write-Post”. This project opens up an opportunity for Austrian Post to once again build awareness of Austrian Post as an institution in society to the younger generation and to stimulate them to write letters. Opportunities with employees Austrian Post invests extensively in the further education and professional development of its employees, which gives it a competitive edge vis-à-vis its competitors. The targeted and individual promotion of employee skills should be ensured on the basis of various initiatives. For example, within the context of a practice-oriented training, employees should also receive a comprehensive overview of the company’s operations. In addition to a broad range of target-group oriented and competence-oriented further education and professional development programmes, a specially-designed mentoring programme for women targets female “high potentials”. Moreover, in the year 2010, the new mission statement of Austrian Post was developed featuring the three following value categories:  Customer orientation: Everything we do revolves around our customers  Profitability and sustainability: We are future-oriented  Communication and appreciation: We are all part of Austrian Post. A variety of measures now serves the purpose of implementing and embedding these new corporate principles in the daily work of all employees. The objectives of the corporate principles can only be achieved if they are consciously put into practice: a cultural change in the way employees deal with each other, customers and partners of Austrian Post, the strengthening of employee identification with the company and increasing the attractiveness of Austrian Post as an employer. Opportunities relating to the environment The increasingly strong consumer trend towards environmentally-friendly or ecological products opens up a variety of opportunities for Austrian Post, in the light of the fact that the company is playing a pioneering role on the basis of its initiative CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY. It can be expected that in the future consumers will attach greater importance to determining whether or not products and services entail ecological aspects as well. The services already offered by Austrian Post since 2011 are carried out in a CO2 neutral manner, thus giving the company a clear-cut competitive edge compared to other providers. This could lead to additional revenue, particularly in the highly competitive parcels business. Moreover, on the job market highly qualified employees are increasingly focusing on ecological aspects in the selection of their employer. In addition, existing employees perform more effectively if they do something which fills them with pride. A credible sustainability strategy spearheaded by the initiative CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY enables the company to more easily find employees, and also reduces the rate of employee attrition. The greater attractiveness of the company as an employer also means lower costs for job GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 15 advertisements, and the lower level of attrition leads to lower costs for training measures and a reduced loss of know-how related to employees leaving the company. This prevailing ecological trend opens up opportunities which have a positive effect on the stakeholder relationships to customers and employees. The world’s climate is changing. This gives rise to the possibility of the legislators imposing additional taxes. This would be done to reduce the consumption of energy by households and by companies. These measures would also ramify upon Austrian Post, which would face a rise in prices. However, the measures would also create opportunities for Austrian Post, which has a number of advantages over its competitors. Compared to its competitors, Austrian Post features the largest delivery network in the country. This network covers all of Austria. Volumes of letters and parcels are usually delivered via a single, unified system of transport and distribution. Austrian Post’s costs comprise a very low share of energy and/or resource-dependent costs per shipment/unit compared to those of other service providers. Any changes in laws causing energy to become more expensive or resources to become more scarce (and thus also generating rises in energy costs) would result in Austrian Post’s experiencing rises in costs per shipment that are less than those of their competitors. This could enable Austrian Post to increase its market shares, since its competitors would be forced to respond to rises in energy costs by increasing their prices. The latter would be greater than those enacted by Austrian Post. Economic opportunities Austrian Post is the undisputed market leader in Austria’s letter mail segment as well as in the transport and delivery of parcels, particularly to private recipients. In the future Austrian Post will continue to attach particular importance to defending its leading position. Based on its excellent market position, the company has the opportunity to achieving an even higher customer penetration by expanding its range of services along the value chain and thus generating additional revenue. In the branch network the structural transformation was launched in January 2011 in cooperation with BAWAG P.S.K. by opening the first jointly operated branch offices, and continued in the course of the year 2011. By the end of 2011 there were 329 jointly operated branch offices. The structural transformation and the merger of the networks of Austrian Post and BAWAG P.S.K. will also be continued in the year 2012 in order to enable Austrian Post to offer its service portfolio throughout the country in a customer-oriented and cost-efficient manner. The joint branch office network not only serves as the basis for exploiting synergies and thus enhancing efficiency, but also addressing new customer groups. Austrian Post will only be successful in the long-term if it can adapt its service offering to the changing needs of its customers. For this reason, the company will focus on targeted innovation in its service offering as well as an attractive and diverse range of services. This objective was pursued in 2011 by a service and quality offensive focusing on private customers and oriented to optimising the service profile and customer satisfaction across Austrian Post’s entire spectrum of products and services. Pilot testing carried out on the Post Drop-Off and Pick-Up Boxes were also well accepted by customers within the context of pilot projects. At the same time, Austrian Post further GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 16 developed its online services with electronic post, online parcel stamps and the online eshop. In particular, these efforts included the “Post Manager” as a secure communications platform for customers who want to receive and administer their official mail online. In 2011 Austrian Post also launched a highly-regarded initiative focusing on sustainable environmental and climate protection. All these initiatives open up additional revenue potential and distinguish Austrian Post from its competitors. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 17 2 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILEM Österreichische Post, whose headquarters are located in Vienna, address Haidingergasse 1, is Austria’s leading logistics and services provider, with annual revenues of EUR 1.6 billion in the year 2011 (individual financial statements according to the Austrian Commercial Code), and a total of 20,000 employees. Austrian Post reliably takes care of things, regardless of whether letters, direct mail, print media or parcels are transported. For this purpose, it operates a branch network consisting of 1,880 own or third-party operated postal service points, making it one of the largest private customer networks in the country. The company makes an important contribution to safeguarding the nation’s communications and logistics infrastructure based on its nationwide and reliable supply of high-quality postal services on behalf of the Austrian population and economy. However, the radius of its business operations goes far beyond Austria’s borders. In 2011, Austrian Post had 24 operating subsidiaries in twelve European countries. The Sustainability Report presented here refers exclusively to the parent company Österreichische Post AG (“Austrian Post” in this report). The subsidiaries of Austrian Post are not included in this report. However, if any statements in the report also relate to the entire Group (including all subsidiaries), the text will clearly use the term “Austrian Post Group”. Since September 1, 2011, Austrian Post has been divided into two operating divisions: the Mail & Branch Network Division and the Parcel & Logistics Division. The merger of the former Mail and Branch Network divisions laid the groundwork for further service improvements and the exploitation of synergies, which are embedded in the new division and reflected in the entire path a letter must take – from drop off in the branch office to delivery by the delivery staff. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 18 Mail & Branch Network Division Austrian Post laid the groundwork for further service improvements and synergies in 2011 on the basis of an organisational realignment of its business operations. The previously separate Mail and Branch Network divisions were merged to create the new Mail & Branch Network Division. Thus, the responsibility for the entire life cycle of a letter – from the time it is posted at a branch office or letterbox until it is delivered by the company’s staff – is now in the hands of a single division. Its broad-based core business ranges from the acceptance, sorting and delivery of letters, postcards, addressed and unaddressed direct mail items and newspapers to the sale of banking services as well as postal and telecommunications products. The service portfolio is complemented by new services for business and advertising mail, such as address and data management, mailroom management, intelligent scanning and response management. A total of 1,880 postal service points throughout Austria are now at the disposal of customers, comprising the largest private customer network in the country. Close to 3,800 employees in the branch network ensure customer proximity and competent consulting. A further 13,000 employees deliver the mail every day to 4.2m households and companies throughout Austria. Each year more than 6.1bn mail items are delivered in Austria. Parcel & Logistics Division Parcel & Logistics Division of Austrian Post offers its services in eleven European countries. In international markets, this consistently takes place via the company’s own subsidiaries. The main business of the division is transporting parcels and EMS items for private and business customers. EMS stands for “Express Mail Service” – the premium express product offered by Austrian Post. But the product and service portfolio also includes a broad spectrum of speciality logistics solutions, for example so-called combined freight (the joint transport of individual parcels and pallets), temperature-controlled logistics (transport of temperature-sensitive goods in the range of 2 to 8 and 15 to 25 degrees Celsius) and contract logistics (customer-specific logistics services, from Webshop logistics to warehousing, commissioning and value-added services such as the setting up of electronic devices). The recipe for Austrian Post’s success is comprehensive, nationwide service and the strongest possible market position so that it can offer efficient logistics and supplementary services tailored to the respective market on behalf of its customers. Last but not least, it is important to mention the EURODIS distribution network, which encompasses transport companies in 34 countries. Together they ensure reliable combined freight distribution services for parcels and pallets throughout Europe. Austrian Post achieved good growth rates in its parcel and logistics business. In 2011, it succeeded in expanding its B2B business, increasing its regional market share and taking advantage of the growing potential in the private customer segment. The catchword here is “online shopping”. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 19 Locations of the Austrian Post Group Austrian Post has also proactively taken advantage of the dynamic changes in the European postal market. Starting in 2001, it not only expanded to neighbouring countries in South East and Eastern Europe, but also to Western Europe, and built up a focused business portfolio with a particular emphasis on parcel and logistics services as well as unaddressed direct mail items. Accordingly, it has successfully positioned itself as a provider of specialised postal services in attractive market niches, for example speciality logistics focusing on combined freight (combined transport of parcels and pallets), active temperature-controlled products, mainly in the pharmaceutical industry, as well as contract logistics. At the same time, Austrian Post has established a foothold in selected growth regions. In the meantime, Austrian Post derives about 30% of its annual revenue from its international business operations generated by some 3,000 employees. As a result of its successful expansion beyond the country’s borders, Austrian Post is present in a total of twelve markets with a varying service portfolio. Accordingly, it operates subsidiaries specializing in the distribution of advertising materials in Hungary, Croatia, Romania and Slovakia, and also delivers addressed mail items in the metropolitan areas of these countries. Austrian Post is number one in the unaddressed direct mail segment in Hungary, Croatia and Romania. With the acquisition of a 26% stake in the Romanian company PostMaster s.r.l., it took a further step in 2011 towards implementing its international growth strategy. Interesting growth opportunities will open up especially in South East and Eastern Europe due to the full-scale market liberalisation in 2013, which Austrian Post is already preparing for today. Austrian Post also operates its own sales subsidiary in Germany, Austrian Post International Deutschland, which offers international mail shipment solutions to German customers. A promising cooperation has also been established with Swiss Post. Since the beginning of 2011, the direct mail activities of Swiss Post Solutions and the Austrian Post subsidiary meiller direct GmbH have been bundled within a joint venture. The new company MEILLERGHP is the leading direct mail producer in the German market and a high-performing player in the European market for addressed advertising mail. Today, Austrian Post is active in the Belgian, Bosnian, Croatian, Dutch, German, Hungarian, Luxembourg, Montenegrin, Serbian and Slovakian markets, offering integrated logistics services. Thus, Austrian Post has successfully positioned itself as a specialist in interesting market niches and regions with high growth potential. For example, it is the top provider in Germany for the fine distribution of shipments in the pharmaceutical sector as well as in the field of combined freight. Austrian Post serves as the leading provider of parcel delivery services for business customers in Slovakia, Croatia, Serbia and Bosnia. It also serves the Slovak and Croatian markets in cooperation with the international logistics specialist UPS. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 20 Sites of the Austrian Post Group as at the end of 2011 Ownership structure of Austrian Post As a consequence of the Initial Public Offering in 2006, 49.0% of the shares were placed with investors. The shareholding held by the Austrian state holding company ÖIAG (Österreichische Industrieholding AG) in the share capital of Austrian Post thus decreased from a 100% stake to 51.0%, or a total of 35.7m of the outstanding shares. In relation to the 67,552,638 shares currently in circulation, ÖIAG holds a 52.8% stake in the company, and thus remains the majority shareholder of Austrian Post. Austrian Post is not aware of any other investors who own more than 5% of the total share capital in the company. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 21 A shareholder ID carried out in January 2012 concluded that, in addition to the main shareholder ÖIAG, 39 % of the shares are held by European investors (plus 1 percentage point compared to the previous analysis of January 2011). All in all, 13% of these shares are held by private and institutional investors in Austria (plus 3 percentage points), 15% in Continental Europe (minus 3 percentage points) and 12% in Great Britain (plus 1 percentage point). A total of 7% of the shares (minus 1 percentage point) are currently held by North American investors (USA, Canada), whereas investors in the rest of the world account for much less than 1% (unchanged). Private investors in Austria also include Austrian Post employees, who have a combined share of more than 2%. Awards won during the period under review The high quality of Austrian Post’s reporting was underlined by two awards granted for its Annual Report 2010: once again the company won the second place award among all firms listed on the ATX at the Austrian Annual Report Award of the business magazine “Trend”. On an international level, the Annual Report 2010 entitled “The Values of Austrian Post” was awarded the silver prize at the Econ Awards for Corporate Communications in the category Annual Report/Print. The quality of Austrian Post’s letter mail distribution services was also given an award one again during the period under review. Of the total of 21 letter mail distribution centres around the world, the Vienna Mail Distribution Centre and the Hall Mail Distribution Centre in Tyrol both boast the certificate ”Excellence in Management and in the Processing of International Mail Items”, granted by the International Post Corporation (IPC). Both logistics centres were given this certificate in 2009 for a period of three years. Amongst other factors, criteria such as resource and human resources management, work sequence organization as well as the quality control system and interface coordination with national and international partners. The extension of the certificate for a further three years took place following a renewed evaluation for the Hall Mail Distribution Centre at the end of 2011 and for the Vienna Mail Distribution Centre in the middle of 2012. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 22 3 REPORT PARAMETERSM The current report refers to the 2011 financial year, and presents the performance and achievements of Austrian Post in the field of sustainability. It thus picks up where the Sustainability Report 2010 left off, and shows how Austrian Post integrates the issues of environmental protection, responsibility to its employees and society together with economic criteria in its core business operations. The Sustainability Report of Austrian Post will be published on an annual basis. The Sustainability Report 2011 once again encompasses two different but complementary publications this year. The GRI Sustainability Report (Global Reporting Initiative) ensures a high level of transparency to stakeholders and comparability with other companies due to its standardised structure. The complementary Sustainability Report, which will be published as a supplement to the Austrian daily newspaper, “Der Standard”, informs a broad target group about the activities and projects of Austrian Post in the field of sustainability. Scope of the report The report refers exclusively to the parent company Österreichische Post AG and does not include its subsidiaries, due to the fact that as things stand today, some sustainabilityrelated data still does not exist in a consolidated form. The objective of Austrian Post is to integrate the subsidiary trans-o-flex, which contributes about 25% of total Group revenue, in the sustainability reporting within the next four years. The remaining subsidiaries only generate about 5% of Group revenue at the present time, and thus it is not planned for the time being to include them in the sustainability reporting. Contents and materiality The decision on the contents of the report was based on the principle of materiality. The GRI Sustainability Report covers all the sustainability aspects reflecting the significant economic, ecological and social influences on the part of the organisation, or which have a considerable influence on the evaluation and decisions of stakeholders. The assessment of the significance of sustainability aspects and of individual performance indicators is undertaken by the Investor Relations & Corporate Governance department, of which the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) area forms part, along with external consultants. Other topics that are not fully depicted by the indicators but which do affect the development of the sustainability of Austrian Post are established by the CSR working groups. A working group has been constituted for each topic area – employees, society, environment and the economy. The groups are convened on a regular basis (at least twice a year). In a further move, the strategy for sustainability and the corresponding measures are presented once a year to the CSR board, whose members are from various corporate sectors. Members in the working groups and of the CSR board are in close and regular touch with a broad spectrum of stakeholders. This enables them to integrate the input – taking the form of the wide-ranging demands held by these groups – into the discussion GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 23 forming the basis for the reporting of sustainability. Such stakeholders were also given an opportunity to be directly involved in the sustainability process and in the reporting. This took the form of June 2012’s “stakeholders’ roundtable”. Thirty representatives of a variety of stakeholder groups were invited to attend the roundtable, at which topical sustainabilityrelated topics of central importance to Austrian Post were discussed. These discussions, in turn, led to the corresponding adjustments and additions being made to the report. The compiling and calculation of data in this report was the responsibility of Group accounting and controlling, as well as the departments responsible for the vehicle fleet and building management. The scope of the reporting and the measuring methods which were applied are similar to the last Sustainability Report. It will be noted if there are any deviations from previous reporting. Due to the current limited availability of data, Austrian Post is only able to partially report on some important GRI performance indicators (see GRI Content Index). Austrian Post is working on optimising data collection for these indicators, in order to be able to comprehensively report on all performance indicators of material significance. Reporting methodology The GRI Sustainability Report 2011 of Austrian Post was prepared in accordance to the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3.1), and corresponds to the B+ Application Level. Compliance with the related formal criteria as well as the information contained in the report was reviewed and certified by an independent third party and subject to a limited assurance engagement. The Assurance Statement of Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft m.b.H. providing independent certification can be found at the end of this report. Statement on GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) develops globally applicable quality criteria or sustainability reporting in consultation with a wide range of stakeholders drawn from business, employer and employee representatives, civil society, academic institutions and other areas. The GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines are designed to serve as a universally valid framework which an organization can use to report on its economic, environmental, and social performance. The voluntary adoption of the criteria set out in the Guidelines increases transparency, credibility, and comparability in sustainability reporting. The performance indicators supply comparable information on the economic, ecological and social performance of the organisation, and are characterised using the following abbreviations: EC (Economy), EN (Environment), LA (Labor), HR (Human Rights), SO (Society) und PR (Product). Organizations that use GRI guidelines for their reporting are obliged to declare the extent to which the GRI Guidelines have been utilized. The requirements for reporting on each of the three Application Levels, A, B, and C, are shown in the table below. A “+” following the letter of the alphabet indicates that the report was reviewed by an independent third party. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 24 The present Sustainability Report 2011 of Austrian Post meets the requirements of the B+ Application Level of the GRI G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 25 4 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENTM 4.1–4.9 Corporate Governance 4.1 Corporate governance and management structure Good corporate governance is of great concern to sustainable business management. It not only involves simply fulfilling legal regulations. The Management and Supervisory Board are responsible for orienting management and supervisory activities to national and international principles, in order to ensure the continuing existence of the company on the basis of sustainable value creation. In accordance with the Austrian Stock Corporation Act, the Management Board has sole responsibility for managing the company for the benefit of the enterprise itself, taking account of the interests of the shareholders and employees as well as the public interest. As of the balance sheet date of December 31, 2011, the Management Board was reduced from five to four members. Georg Pölzl has served as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Management Board since October 2009. In the year 2011 the Supervisory Board consisted of twelve members – eight shareholder representatives elected by the Annual General Meeting and four employee representatives elected by the Central Works Council of Austrian Post. The Supervisory Board appoints the members of the Management Board. It supervises and consults the Management Board on managing the company’s business activities. The Supervisory Board has resolved to establish committees consisting of its own members to carry out specific functions. The executive committee is responsible for regulating the relationships between the company and the members of the Management Board. The presidential committee deals with issues relating to appointing members of the Management Board. The audit committee carries out the responsibilities defined in § 92 Para. 4a Austrian Stock Corporation Act. As the highest governing body of the company, the Supervisory Board performs the tasks assigned to it with respect to the economic as well as social and ecological responsibility of the company. The Management Board bears the responsibility and carries out the task of presenting sustainability-relevant facts to the highest decision-making bodies and processes in order to ensure sustainability-oriented business development. Major corporate decisions relating to social aspects are made in accordance with the mission statement of Austrian Post on the basis of relevant legal regulations. Details on the composition and mode of operation of the Management Board and Supervisory Board can be found in the Annual Report 2011, Part 2 – Facts & Figures starting on page 10. In accordance with the stipulations contained in the Austrian Corporate Governance Code, the Supervisory Board has defined criteria modeled after Appendix 1 of the code. If these criteria are fulfilled the Supervisory Board member is considered to be independent. All the members of the Supervisory Board elected by the Annual General Meeting declared their independence in accordance with these criteria. Moreover, the Supervisory Board consists of six representatives who can be considered as independent from the core shareholder of GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 26 Austrian Post. Accordingly, the majority of the Supervisory Board members do not have any direct relationship to the majority shareholder of the company. Details on the criteria determining the independence of Supervisory Board members can be found in the Annual Report 2011, Part 2 – Facts & Figures on page 13. 4.2 Independence of the highest governance body The Chairman of the Supervisory Board, the highest governance body of Austrian Post, does not simultaneously serve as the Chairman of the Management Board. Since the 2011 Annual General Meeting Mr. Markus Beyrer has served as the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, succeeding Mr. Peter Michaelis. The incompatibility of a supervisory board member serving on the management board at the same time is regulated in detail in § 90 Para. 1 Austrian Stock Corporation Act. 4.3 Structure of the management bodies In the 2011 financial year the Supervisory Board of Austrian Post consisted of twelve members – eight shareholder representatives elected by the Annual General Meeting and four employee representatives elected by the Central Works Council of Austrian Post. The members of the Supervisory Board in the 2011 financial year are listed in the Annual Report 2011 of Austrian Post, Part 2, Figures & Values, pages 12 and 13. As of the balance sheet date of December 31, 2011, the Management Board was reduced from five to four members. Georg Pölzl has served as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Management Board since October 2009. The composition of the Management Board is listed in the Annual Report 2011 of Austrian Post, Part 2, Figures & Values, pages 10 and 11. 4.4 Employee and shareholder participation in the decision-making process The Austrian Stock Corporation Act contains detailed regulation about the exercising of shareholder rights at the Annual General Meeting of a public limited company. This includes the right to pose questions and to vote on resolutions as well as the right to challenge resolutions. At the Annual General Meeting 2012, shareholders were once again given the opportunity to cast their votes by absentee ballot. Moreover, within the context of the Annual General Meeting 2012, a series of sustainability-oriented issues were discussed in response to requested on the part of shareholders. The key issues dealt with included the effects of structural changes on the employees of the company, ensuring the reliable supply of postal services as well as ecological issues such as CO₂ neutral delivery and the expansion of the e-vehicle fleet. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 27 The staff representative bodies have the task of representing and promoting the economic, social, health-related and cultural interests of the employees in the company. The staff representative bodies of Austrian Post are structured into a Central Works Council based in Vienna, a total of six staff committees and more than 90 employee ombudsman committees. 4.5 Remuneration system for the Management Board and top executives The remuneration system is based on the fundamental idea of taking a three-tiered approach (fixed and variable salary components as well as a Long-Term Incentive Progamme). The fixed salary is linked to the salary structure of publicly listed Austrian companies, and takes into account the range of responsibilities assumed by each of the members of the Management Board. The variable remuneration system is linked to a large extent to measureable, quantitative performance indicators and also encompasses the achievement of qualitative performance targets, in which case both the quantitative as well as the qualitative performance indicators include components of relevance to sustainability. For example, objectives on the issues of ensuring the reliable provision of postal services and enhancing customer convenience on the basis of new self-service solutions are included in the list of objectives. Moreover, a Long-Term Incentive Programme has been established for the Management Board and top executives, which aims to achieve a remuneration of management in line with sustainable corporate development. More information on the amount and structure of the remuneration paid to the Management Board and Supervisory Board is contained in the Remuneration Report (Annual Report 2011 of Austrian Post, Part 2, Figures & Values, page 15). 4.6 Processes in place to avoid conflicts of interest Pursuant to § 13 of the internal rules of procedure for the Supervisory Board of Austrian Post, Supervisory Board members are required to immediately report any conflicts of interest to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. If the Chairman is also involved in a conflict of interest, he must immediately notify the Deputy Chairman. On the one hand, conflicts of interest are avoided by the regulations contained in the Austrian Stock Corporation Act (for example § 79 non-competition clause, § 80 on the granting of loans). On the other hand, the internal rules of procedure for the Supervisory Board generally require the formal approval of the Executive Committee to any other positions held by members of the Management Board. In addition, the internal rules of procedure applying to the Management Board of Austrian Post stipulates that a member of the Management Board is not permitted to vote on a proposed resolution if the Management Board meeting deals with matters relating to the personal or business interests of this member. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 28 4.7 Expertise of the Supervisory Board on economic, environment or social issues Relevant expertise and experience in management positions are of primary importance in the selection process for members of the Supervisory Board. In addition, the composition of the Supervisory Board also pays attention to ensuring sufficient diversity. With this in mind, it should be noted that six of the twelve members of the Supervisory Board are under the age of 50, and two members are not Austrian nationals. Since the election to the Supervisory Board held at the Annual General Meeting on April 28, 2011, two women are members of the Supervisory Board, namely Edith Hlawati and Elisabeth Stadler. Members of the Management Board are appointed in line with the stipulations contained in the Public Appointments Act. The focus is on ensuring that the Management Board members have the particular knowledge and professional skills which should be expected to enable them to fulfill the tasks assigned to them. In addition, special importance is also attached to the individual’s leadership competence as well as his or her organisational and social abilities. 4.8 Corporate principles, code of conduct and sustainability principles The basis for sustainable corporate management and control at Austrian Post is the Austrian Corporate Governance Code. Since its Initial Public Offering in May 2006, Austrian Post has been committed to complying with the stipulations of the Austrian Corporate Governance Code in the spirit of ensuring a responsible and transparent management of the company. This is complemented by compliance guidelines as well as a Code of Conduct which took effect in 2011. Both the compliance guidelines and the Code of Conduct apply to the entire Group. Furthermore, Austrian Post is developing its compliance organisation above and beyond its legal obligations with the goal of establishing an integrated, Group-wide compliance management system. In addition to ensuring adherence to the binding capital market regulations, this system is designed to establish a value-oriented Group culture focusing on a risk-oriented prevention strategy, and to support employees on the basis of a practiceoriented training and consulting offering. Specific, Group-wide guidelines have been adopted on the specific thematic issues of capital market compliance and anti-corruption encompassed in the compliance management system of Austrian Post. The compliance guidelines correspond to currently valid Austrian capital market regulations as well as the Compliance for Issuance Ordinance of the Financial Market Authority, and have been adopted to prevent insider dealings. The Group directive relating to the “Acceptance and Granting of Gifts, Invitations and Other Advantages” describes in a detailed manner the extent to which the acceptance or granting of gifts is permissible, in order to prevent bribery and corruption as well as potential conflicts of interest. The Code of Conduct developed in the 2010 financial year and published in 2011 contains the principles underlying ethical and legally impeccable behaviour on the part of all employees of the Group. The Code of Conduct is oriented to international agreements as well as ethical standards, and reflects the commitment of Austrian Post to complying with the principles of the UN Global Compact. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 29 As an additional measure, Austrian Post developed a Code of Conduct for suppliers in 2011, which obliges contractors of Austrian Post as well as their subcontractors and suppliers to comply with minimum legal and social standards. This code was sent to the biggest suppliers of Austrian Post at the beginning of 2012. Compliance-Management-System of Austrian Post New mission statement – new values Austrian Post is not only intensively working on its products and services but also on itself. First and foremost is its corporate and leadership culture, which was put on a fundamentally new basis over the last two years. It is a fact that only clearly-defined and mutually held visions and values enable a company to act in a target-oriented and sustainable manner. At the beginning of 2010, Austrian Post began to focus on developing its new corporate principles. In formulating these corporate principles, Austrian Post linked several objectives reflecting changes in the marketplace and its own activities as well as the economy and the overall working environment. For the Management Board, it was important to involve as many employees from all different business areas as possible, in order to create a solid foundation for the new set of values. For this reason, some 500 employees actively participated in drafting the new corporate principles within the context of a broad-based, multi-phased top-down/bottom-up process. The result of this comprehensive evaluation and discussion process were three value categories with the corresponding principles: GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 30  Customer orientation: Everything we do revolves around our customers.  Profitability and sustainability: We are future-oriented.  Communication and appreciation: We are all part of Austrian Post. A variety of measures now serves the purpose of implementing and embedding these new corporate principles in the daily work of all employees. The objectives of the corporate principles can only be achieved if they are consciously put into practice: a cultural change in the way employees deal with each other, customers and partners of Austrian Post, the strengthening of employee identification with the company and increasing the attractiveness of Austrian Post as an employer. Leadership guidelines derived from the corporate principles In particular, executives should serve as promotional ambassadors on behalf of the company. New leadership guidelines were developed in 2011 in order to give them an orientation guide. They serve as the common bond linking the more than 2,000 managers and executives working for the Austrian Post Group. For this purpose, four core values were initially developed and formulated at a conference attended by 300 executives. A series of workshops involving 162 executives and employees from all business areas and regions was held as the basis for subsequently developing specific leadership guidelines. Some 1,350 senior managers spent three Management Days in Vienna, Salzburg and Graz in September and October 2011, focusing on how to specifically implement these guidelines in everyday working life. In lively discussions, they developed numerous approaches to demonstrate how executives could assume responsibility and be motivated to lead in accordance with the defined values. These guidelines have already been largely implemented and embedded in people’s daily work at the company. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 31 Austrian Post relies on clearly-defined and mutually held values as the basis for its economic success. The successful development of the company requires a common understanding of objectives on the basis of values, guidelines and behavioural principles. On this basis a Code of Conduct was developed, serving as a binding code of behaviour for all employees. 4.9 Procedures to oversee the sustainability performance At present, no special control and verification mechanism to monitor the sustainability performance of the company has been set up by the Supervisory Board, the highest governance body. Information pertaining to the ecological and social performance of the company is presented to the entire Management Board at its meetings. The Management Board and Supervisory Board jointly coordinate the way in which sustainability-related issues are dealt with. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance with respect to sustainability There is no formal process for this purpose with regards to the Supervisory Board. The selfevaluation of the Supervisory Board for the 2011 financial year concluded that the issue of sustainability/CSR must be increasingly dealt with by the Supervisory Board. The variable salary components for Management Board members depend on achieving pre-defined economic and societal/social objectives. Determining whether these targets have been reached is the joint responsibility of the Supervisory Board’s Executive Committee and the Management Board. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 32 4.11–4.13 Commitments to external initiatives 4.11 Addressing the precautionary principle Among the objectives of the sustainability approach of Austrian Post is to prevent or minimise any potential burden on the environment or dangers for human health on the basis of early and forward-looking behaviour. This not only includes preventing potential risks, but also the efforts to minimise the environmental impact of the company. The risk management system of Austrian Post is designed to identify, evaluate and control significant business risks, In the interest of sustainability, the risk evaluation, management and planning of appropriate measures takes account of ecological, social and ethical aspects. 4.12 External agreements, principles and initiatives Austrian Post orients its efforts to implement its goals and activities to the UN Global Compact, which it joined in 2007. Against this backdrop, Austrian Post is committed to complying with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact focusing on human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and corruption prevention, and reports on its progress in living up to these principles in 2011. In order to increase its activities in the field of anticorruption, Austrian Post joined Transparency International in 2011 as a corporate member. Furthermore, Austrian Post is a member of “respACT – austrian business council for sustainable development“, the leading corporate platform in Austrian for corporate social responsibility and sustainability development. In 2011, Austrian Post also took part in international programmes such as the “Greenhouse Gas Reduction Programme” of the European association of public postal operators PostEurop as well as the “Environmental Measurement and Monitoring System (EMMS)” of the International Postal Corporation (IPC). 4.13 Membership in associations and interest groups Austrian Post is a member of several national associations and interest groups, including the Vienna Chamber of Commerce, the Austrian Association of Share Issuers and Investors and the Cercle Investor Relations Austria (C.I.R.A.). On an international level, Austrian Post belongs to the European association of public postal operators PostEurop as well as the International Postal Corporation (IPC). Moreover, since 2012 Austrian Post has also been a member of the initiative Green Freight Europe, which aims to reduce the level of CO2 emissions in road transport. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 33 In order to strengthen its activities in the field of anti-corruption, Austrian Post also joined Transparency International in 2011 as a corporate member. 4.14–4.17 Stakeholder engagement 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation The objectives and measures underlying Austrian Post’s sustainability efforts are always oriented to the demands and expectations of the company’s stakeholders. Different interest groups perceive the corporate responsibility of Austrian Post in different ways, and also have different expectations of the company. 4.15 Basis for the selection of stakeholders with whom to engage The term “stakeholder“ is broadly defined at Austrian Post, due to the fact that Austrian Post has a very high significance to society as one of the biggest employers in the country and a provider of universal postal services. The stakeholder groups of relevance to Austrian Post were discussed in 2011 at the CSR working group meetings and in part were newly “clustered” in order to even more specifically address the requirements of the respective stakeholder group. In order to enable the company to appropriately deal with sustainability issues which are currently relevant to the company and meet the demands of the general public, Austrian Post intensifies its contacts to the respective federal ministries and NGOs if necessary. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement The objectives and measures underlying Austrian Post’s sustainability efforts are always oriented to the demands and expectations of the company’s stakeholders, in which case the different interest groups also have different expectations of the company. For this reason, Austrian Post uses different channels to maintain a dialogue with its stakeholder groups, and invites them to interact and provide feedback. The aim of stakeholder management is to identify risks and opportunities at an early stage, as well as to gain specific information about the expectations of shareholders and to strengthen existing good relationships or establish new ones. For this reason, key factors include transparent communications as well as an open dialogue, in order to identify potential conflicts among the individual stakeholder groups at GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 34 an early stage. Different stakeholders have different opinions concerning the corporate social responsibility of Austrian Post, and thus place different expectations on the company. For this reason, Austrian Post uses different channels to maintain a dialogue with its stakeholder groups, and invites them to interact and provide feedback. The employees of Austrian Post are in regular contact with their stakeholder groups. As a result, the CSR working groups of Austrian Post include employees from different departments, due to the fact that these employees can contribute to the discussion by integrating the wishes and requirements of the respective stakeholder groups. Moreover, the company also takes advantage of special types of events to address individual stakeholder groups, in order to take a structured approach to respond to their specific requirements. For example, in 2011 Austrian Post also participated in various working groups established by the federal ministries or in sustainability platforms. Against this backdrop, the Second Stakeholder Roundtable of Austrian Post was held on June 26, 2012. Some 30 stakeholders held discussions with CEO Georg Pölzl and management representatives on key issues of relevance to the company, with the objective of providing impetus to future sustainability activities. The stakeholders placed specific demands on the management of Austrian Post, which will be appropriately integrated into the designing of the company’s sustainability strategy and corresponding measures, as well as in this report. 4.17 Key stakeholder topics and concerns Within the context of the ongoing dialogue with stakeholders in the year 2011, five key issues stood out which are of considerable importance to the interest groups and which were also discussed at the Stakeholder Roundtable in June 2012. One group focused on one of the five key issues, and summarized the results to all the participants at the meeting:  Impacting the overall business environment  Service pledge and market environment  Qualifications and change  Responsibility to society  Influence on the environment The stakeholders placed specific demands on the management of Austrian Post with respect to the individual issues. The main demands were summarized in a protocol of the event and made available to all participating stakeholders. The concerns expressed by stakeholders are taking very seriously, and are integrated into sustainability management wherever possible. The thrusts of the area “designing of operating conditions” were the imparting of flexibility to laws of civil servant employment and the adjustment of the operating conditions to account for new structures and requirements, with these including e-substitution. Austrian Post is to focus upon the securing and further development of its core business. The group addressing the subject of “services commitments and market conditions” emphasised the importance of the development of special solutions customised to meet the needs of business customers. The group welcomed the new self-service solutions provided GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 35 to private customers. The group called upon Austrian Post to take a more proactive approach to publicizing the solutions which have been developed. The requirements in the area of personnel qualifications were discussed in the group dealing with “qualifications and transformation”. One of the most important objectives of Austrian Post is the retention of employees’ ability to perform work up until the commencement of the legally-stipulated period of retirement. The group discussed this topic. The group called for the launching of further targeted measures of corporate support. Employees were also asked to live up to their responsibilities in this area. The group set the further goals of positioning Austrian Post to be an attractive employer and of setting forth the reduction of staff in a socially-compatible manner. The topic of ensuring a reliability of postal services is accorded great importance in the area of “responsibilities toward society” (primarily involving the structural transformation of the branch network, and the expansion of Austrian Post’s network of partners). Austrian Post has to assume responsibility for this. This entails taking into account the political discussion on the thinning out of coverage in rural areas. Austrian Post’s role of being a role model was also discussed. Austrian Post should exercise this role more strongly by serving as a partner to charitable organizations and by launching communication measures in the environmental area. The group focusing on the company’s impact on the environment discussed potential ways to further reduce CO2 emissions. In addition further avoiding emissions and increasing efficiency, the group demanded the production of renewable energies on the basis of using the logistics centres. The group praised the pioneer role of the company within the context of its initiative CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY including the expansion of electric powered vehicles in the vehicle fleet. The Group proposed to more strongly communicate this initiative in order to contribute to expanding awareness in society. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 36 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORSM Austrian Post pursues the objectives of safeguarding and expanding its market leadership and further growing on a long-term basis. Targeted strategic measures are designed to contribute to achieving these goals. The top priority for Austrian Post’s management is to ensure profitability on a sustainable basis. Only a successful company can seriously assume its corporate social responsibility on a long-term basis and make an appropriate contribution to fulfilling social and ecological needs. Current developments on the international postal and logistics market pose major challenges to Austrian Post’s efforts to achieve its business targets, but also open up new opportunities. In order to exploit these opportunities, Austrian Post clearly formulated its objectives and strategic measures within the framework of a broad-based strategic development process, and defined the following strategic approaches: safeguarding and expanding its market leadership in Austria as well as achieving growth in selected markets. The basis for this is ongoing efficiency enhancement as well as the increasing flexibility of the cost structure along with consistent customer orientation and innovation in all business activities. Economic targets  Austrian Post will further develop its services in a customer-oriented manner in order to be successful in the long-term as well (revenue growth of 1-2% per year as well as solid profitability featuring an EBITDA margin of 10-12%).  Austrian Post is aware of its responsibility along the entire value chain and aims to create value for all stakeholders (shared value).  Austrian Post wants to provide its shareholders with a sustainable Total Shareholder Return (value enhancement and an appropriate return on the capital employed) in order to fulfill shareholder expectations. These economic targets apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 37 ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCEM EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed The income statement of Austrian Post (individual financial statements pursuant to the Austrian Commercial Code) shows the following results for 2011: Income statement (EUR m) 2009 2010 2011 Revenue 1,620.0 1,595.0 1,635.7 Other operating income 83.0 73.1 77.6 Raw materials, consumables and services used –258.3 –266.5 –280.1 Staff costs –994.8 –974.8 –935.2 Other operating costs –211.2 –212.5 –242.6 Results from investments consolidated at equity –14.7 30.1 –57.5 Depreciation, amortization and impairment losses –64.7 –67.0 –72.7 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBIT) 159.3 177.4 125.2 Other financial result 0.3 3.9 5.9 Profit before tax 159.6 181.3 131.1 Income tax –39.7 –32.8 –38.2 Profit for the period 119.9 148.6 92.9 Revenue of Austrian Post on an individual company level could be increased by 2.6% in the 2011 financial year to EUR 1,635.7m. Growth was achieved in both the Parcel & Logistics Division (+7.1%) and the Mail Division (+3.7%). In the same period, revenue of the Branch Network Division declined by 13.5%. In 2011 there were 250 working days, two less than in the comparable period of the previous year (252 working days). Revenue distribution among the individual divisions shows the importance of the Mail Division, which accounted for 78% of revenue. The Parcel & Logistics Division generated 14% of revenue, and the Branch Network Division contributed a share of 8%. Other operating income rose by 6.1% from the prior-year level to EUR 77.6m, accounting for 4.7% of total revenue. Operating expenses for raw materials, consumables and services used rose by 5.1%, to EUR 280.1m. Other operating expenses were up 14.2%, to EUR 242.6m. Staff costs, which comprise the largest operating expense item at Austrian Post and account for 57.2% of revenue, fell by 4.1% during the reporting period to EUR 935.2m. The results of investments consolidated at equity decreased by EUR 87.6m from the prioryear level, which can be attributed to impairment losses carried out in connection with the GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 38 trans-o-flex Group in Germany as well as lower proceeds from these investments in the 2011 financial year compared to the previous year. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment of Austrian Post climbed 8.5% in 2010, to EUR 72.7m, comprising 4.4% of revenue. The increase is due to higher unscheduled depreciation on buildings. Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) of Austrian Post declined to EUR 125.2m in 2011. Earnings before tax (EBT) amounted to EUR 131.1m in 2011. After deducting the income tax of EUR 38.2m, the profit for the period totalled EUR 92.9m. Taking account of the allocation and reversal of untaxed reserves as well as the profit carried forward, the balance sheet profit amounted to EUR 134.6m in 2011. The consolidated income statement can be found in the Annual Report 2011 (Part 2 – Facts & Figures). Value added Austrian Post pursues the goal of generating sustainable value added on behalf of its stakeholders and thus for the Republic of Austria. The value generated by the company in 2011 consists of the following and was distributed to the following stakeholder groups (individual financial statements pursuant to the Austrian Commercial Code): Value creation 2009 2010 2011 (EUR m) Value creation: Revenue and other operating income 1,703.0 1,668.2 1,713.4 less advance outlays –534.2 –546.0 –595.5 thereof raw material, consumables and services used –258.3 –266.5 –280.1 thereof other operating expenses –211.2 –212.5 –242.6 Vale added 1,168.8 1,122.1 1,117.9 Distribution: to employees (wages, salaries, social contributions) 994.8 974.8 935.2 to shareholders (dividends) 101.3 108.1 114.8 to the Republic of Austria (taxes) 39.7 32.8 38.2 to creditors (interest) 2.0 1.9 2.2 to minority interests 0.0 0.0 0.0 Remaining amount 31.0 4.6 27.5 Value added 1,168.8 1,122.1 1,117.9 The revenue generated of EUR 1,713.4m by Austrian Post in 2011 (incl. other operating income) was in contrast to advance outlays of EUR 595.5m. The resulting value added of Austrian Post to the amount of EUR 1,117.9m was mainly distributed to employees directly GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 39 in the form of wages and salaries and indirectly via social contributions. The total amount assigned to employees was thus EUR 935.2m. Shareholders were paid dividends to the amount of EUR 114.8m. The Republic of Austria owns a 52.8% share, and thus received EUR 60.6m in dividends. In addition, EUR 38.2m was paid to the Republic of Austria as taxes. ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE M EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers One of the purposes of the Federal Procurement Acts (BVergG) is to ensure the equal treatment of bidders, with a particular focus on the European Union. Accordingly, a regional limitation of the procurement market is a violation of this law and thus forbidden. Of the 7,000 suppliers with which Austrian Post currently works, about 4-6% are large companies (mostly based in Austria, although the value creation may take place abroad), whereas the remaining 94-96% are SMEs, in which case it can be assumed that these suppliers are for the most part in Austria. The medium-term objective of Austrian Post is to take social and ecological aspects into account both in the tender process and in the selection of suppliers. ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS M EC9 Indirect economic impacts Austrian Post ensures the provision of nationwide postal services on behalf of the Austrian population, and thus contributes to maintaining the infrastructure in rural areas. Only Austrian Post brings mail every day to every household and every doorstep in Austria. Austrian Post is a reliable partner and ensures the provision of basic postal services in outstanding quality to the Austrian population. 96% of letters are delivered to the recipients on the next working day. Austrian Post is always close to its customers. With 1,880 postal service points at the end of 2011, its branch network ranks among the largest private customer networks in the country. Most of these postal service points are operated by postal partners. These are local businesses in different sectors, which offer products and services of Austrian Post in addition to their own product line. The concept is a complete success. It ensures the efficient supply of postal services to the population, promotes economic structures in rural areas and offers longer opening hours. Customers are also very satisfied with the performance of their postal partner offices, as demonstrated by a study carried out in the year 2011 (online survey, responses by 6,801 customers). 86% of those surveyed are very satisfied with their postal partner offices. For this reason, Austrian Post determinedly continued with the expansion of its postal partner network in 2011 as well. Whereas the company had 418 cooperation partners at the GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 40 beginning of 2010, this figure had risen to 1,258 at the end of 2011, and is still rising. The concept will be increasingly expanded to metropolitan areas in the future and will also be further optimized in 2012 (1,283 postal partner offices already at the end of June 2012). Further information is also available by turning to the indicator SO1 on page 69. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 41 ECOLOGICAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS M Austrian Post is aware of its responsibility to the environment and thus continually strives to identify optimisation potential in order to minimise its ecological footprint. In addition to comprehensive climate protection measures it implements on its own, it also actively participates in projects such as the “Greenhouse Gas Reduction Programme“ of the European association of public postal operators PostEurop or the ”Environmental Measurement and Monitoring System (EMMS)“ of the International Postal Corporation (IPC), which both aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In the past years major successes were achieved by Austrian Post with respect to reducing the greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption relating to its business operations. It is likely that the objectives defined by the company to reduce CO2 emissions and cut energy consumption by 10% by the year 2012 will be realized as planned. This is because 15.8% of the CO2 emissions were already saved in the period 2007 to 2011. Austrian Post is somewhat behind schedule n its efforts to reduce energy consumption by 10%. However, by converting its electricity to renewable energy sources, measures have already been taken to minimise the environmental impact of the higher energy consumption. The savings in energy consumption amounted to 4.0% in the period 2007 to 2011. This is the reason why Austrian Post has set even more ambitious targets. CO2 emissions including freight carriers should even be reduced by 20% in the period 2010 to 2015. However, this is not enough for Austrian Post. The remaining emissions are compensated each year by Austrian Post’s support of climate protection projects. Accordingly, all mail items – whether letters, magazines or parcels – are delivered in a climate neutral manner. This initiative is communicated under the title CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY. This initiative is proof that it is possible to combine business thinking and environmentally-friendly operations in the logistics business as well. Due to the fact that this initiative was launched at the beginning of the year 2011, Austrian Post has defined 2010 to be the starting date of the new target period to reduce CO2 emissions. Accordingly, the effects of the new initiative and the accompanying measures can be evaluated at the end of the target period in the year 2015. However, the reduction of CO2 emissions is not sufficient. Therefore, Austrian Post has defined a further goal to professionalise its internal environment management. Moreover, the company also believes it should take advantage of its position in society as one of the most important service companies in the country in order to build awareness of the importance of environmental and climate protection among its stakeholders, such as employees, customers and business partners. Recent climate reports show that climate change is progressing uninterruptedly. That is why every individual as well as every company and decision makers are called upon to take measures in order to stop this development and thus preserve the planet for coming generations. Ecological targets  Reduction of CO2 emissions and annual compensation for remaining emissions  Development and improvement of a central environmental management system  Raising the awareness of relevant stakeholders of the need for environmental and climate protection GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 42 ASPECT: MATERIALSM EN1 Materials used by weight or volume EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. This indicator primarily refers to production companies i.e. firms which manufacture goods and products. Austrian Post is a logistics company. Therefore its paper consumption is of primary importance, which is why it is presented in the following table: Environmental indicators 2009 2010 2011 Paper consumption (t) 426.4 337.1 397.4 thereof copying paper 426.4 337.1 294.3 1 thereof printed materials (excl. direct mail items) n.A. n.A. 103.1 thereof recycled paper 2.6 25.3 62.0 1 Data on printed materials (excl. direct mail items) was compiled in 2011 for the first time. In the year 2011 data compilation was further optimised and paper consumption from printed materials (excl. direct mail items) was recorded for the first time. In the area of copying paper the company succeeded in further reducing its paper consumption and at the same time considerably increasing its use of recycled paper. The decline of overall paper consumption is mainly attributable to the fact that the paper actually required is directly derived from a supplier instead of having paper stored by Austrian Post. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 43 ASPECT: ENERGYM EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 1 2 Environmental indicators 2009 2010 2011 Consumption of significant resources (KWh m) Total 170.7 164.7 158.0 Natural gas 33.6 35.1 33.0 Heating oil 11.3 9.3 9.7 District heat 37.2 46.6 40.3 Electricity 88.6 73.7 75.0 thereof electricity from renewable 32.4 energies 2 Building space (m ) 1,220,988 1,186,753 1,130,165 thereof owned by Austrian Post 766,045 748,936 695,840 thereof rented or leased space 233,838 233,073 228,885 Fuel quantities: petrol, super, diesel, natural 3 gas (litres m) 15.29 15.21 14.60 3 thereof diesel 14.90 14.75 14.15 1 These figures were revised for the year 2010 due to optimised data collection relating to buildings. 2 The building indicators for 2011 include all energy use invoices which were received by Austrian Post as at August 3, 2012 (about 90%). The remaining share (to 100%) involves estimates. 3 The subsidiary Post.Wertlogistik GmbH is included in the figures for the vehicle fleet. Starting with the 2010 financial year, the environmental indicators of Austrian Post were adjusted to take account of rented or leased out space, in order to fulfill the objective stated in the 2010 Sustainability Report of further optimising data collection with respect to the buildings owned or operated by Austrian Post. In the past rented or leased out space for which the energy supply was not ensured by a separate delivery contract and/or sub-meter readings were not included in the environmental scorecard of Austrian Post. Now the floor space of the affected rented and leased out commercial properties is assigned to the respective resource quantities based on the current energy mix of Austrian Post, and thus included in the environmental scorecard of the company (rented space) or excluded (leased out by Austrian Post). The adjustment was made retroactively for the 2010 financial year, in order to ensure a consistent data basis for the new target period between 2010 and 2015. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 44 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Higher eco-efficiency in the vehicle fleet Within the context of its climate protection strategy Austrian Post is striving to make its transport operations (9,650 vehicles incl. bicycles) as environmentally friendly as possible. Some of the items are delivered on foot or by delivering staff using bicycles (20% of the delivery areas are covered on foot or with bicycles). Nevertheless, it is vital to sustainably exploit the inherent potential in this area. On the one hand, Austrian Post is continually expanding the share of vehicles operating on the basis of alternative drive systems. On the one hand, the company is striving to increase the eco-efficiency of its transport operations. Amongst other measures, this includes the ongoing optimisation of route planning. Empty runs are being avoided, the capacity of deployed vehicles is being consistently improved and the number of kilometers needed to transport mail items is being reduced. At the same time, a modern vehicle fleet and regular maintenance enhance the eco-efficiency of the vehicle fleet. E-Mobility Supported by the funding programme “klima:aktiv mobil“ launched by the Austrian Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management, Austrian Post already operated more than 265 electric powered vehicles in its fleet as at the beginning of 2012, of which 247 were single-track e-vehicles along with 18 electric cars as well as 77 vehicles powered by natural gas. Whereas the single-track e-vehicles have long been part of Austrian Post’s vehicle fleet, the company ventured into unchartered territory by purchasing 18 electric cars. In addition to ten Renault Kangoo, Austrian Post currently has eight electric powered Citroen Berlingo in use. For the delivery staff the changeover was a relatively major feat at the beginning. In particular, the lack of background noise took some getting used to. There were also some problems at lower temperatures, which correspondingly limited the range of the vehicles. One of the lessons learned in the initial testing phase was the necessity to further intensify driver trainings. This is because greater importance must be attached to defensive driving in the case of e-mobility. On balance, the initial experience in the testing phase was positive. Thus Austrian Post will expand its reliance on this future-oriented technology As a result, Austrian Post plans to significantly expand its fleet of e-vehicles, and aims to reach a total of more than 1,300 electric-powered vehicles by the year 2015. At the present time e-mobility is not yet economically feasible, so that Austrian Post depends on public grants. In the coming years Austrian Post has found a partner, namely the Austrian Climate and Energy Fund of the Austrian Government, which strongly supports its efforts to further expand its fleet of e-vehicles by providing funding and know-how. With its model region “E-Mobility Post“, Austrian Post is one of eight model regions in Austria. Within the context of this program, the company plans to purchase about 300 electric cars, 300 e-mopeds and more than 500 electric bicycles in the period 2012 – 2015. This is designed to test and research the practical use of these vehicles in the mail delivery process. The specific expansion of Austrian Post’s fleet of electric powered vehicles by 2015 depends on the suitability of these vehicles for postal operations as well as new innovations on the part of the vehicle makers which will likely be launched on the GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 45 marketplace in the near future. Within the framework of these model regions, the Climate and Energy Fund focuses on total solutions in which the electricity for the clean propulsion of the passenger cars is derived from additional, renewable energy sources. Thus in the coming years Austrian Post will also build its own photovoltaic plant in order to supply its entire e-vehicle fleet with clean electricity from solar energy. Energy efficiency and generation of renewable energies In the year 2011, Austrian Post derived about half of its electricity consumption from renewable energy sources. Since the beginning of 2012 Austrian Post is deriving all of its electricity from renewable energy sources. This is because “green electricity” is derived from the Earth’s natural energies – sun, water, wind, biomass and geothermal energy. The generation of electricity is environmentally compatible and virtually no greenhouse gas emissions arise in the process. Now Austrian Post is going a step further and not only uses exclusively “green electricity” but will also produce it itself. The company plans a tender for a photovoltaic plant which will be constructed within the context of the “E-Mobility Post” programme. This solar energy plant will be constructed on the Letter Mail Centre Vienna. The distribution centre has a roof area of about 30,000 m2. The planned photovoltaic facility will use about 2/3 of the entire roof area, and boast an output of about 900 kWp. The energy derived from the plant will be able to supply electricity from clean solar energy for the entire e-vehicle fleet of Austrian Post, which will grow to more than 1,300 vehicles by 2015. With respect to the consumption of other resources for heating the buildings, climate protection and the conservation of natural resources are also top priorities. Austrian Post uses about 80m kWh of natural gas, heating oil and district heat each year. The bundle of measures ranges from reducing the use of oil and gas-fired heating systems and the increased use of district heat to the optimisation of the building infrastructure and a consistent monitoring of energy consumption. In terms of electricity consumption (about 75m kWh), Austrian Post is also striving to exploit potential savings by implementing new efficient lighting concepts. Initially a modern LED facility is to be installed at the Vienna Letter Mail Centre. ASPECT: WATERM Water consumption in the company is of secondary importance due to the fact that Austrian Post is not a production but a service company. ASPECT: BIODIVERSITYM Compared to manufacturing and processing companies, Austrian Post in its role as a transport and logistics company has a very limited and insignificant impact on biodiversity. Nevertheless, it is also naturally a matter of concern to Austrian Post to preserve various GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 46 forms of life. This is why the company attaches great importance to reducing the impact of its operations on the environment. With respect to biodiversity, the Vienna Letter Mail Centre is the largest logistics hub operated by Austrian Post, and an ecological forerunner. At the Vienna Letter Mail Centre, roof greening designed as natural protection against solar radiation supports the air conditioning system of the sorting centre hall encompassing an area of 30,000 m2. In this way, energy savings can be realized and a contribution made to preserving biodiversity.. ASPECT: EMISSIONS, WASTEWATER AND WASTEM As the largest logistics company in the country, Austrian Post is involved in a very energyintensive business. In turn, this leads to CO2 emissions which have a negative effect on the global climate. Austrian Post is aware of its responsibility to the environment. For this reason, it is continually striving to identify optimisation potential in order to minimise its ecological footprint. For the purpose of implementing sustainable waste management, Austrian Post is actively working to reduce the environmental burden from waste to a minimum. If it is not possible to completely avoid waste, the waste must be disposed of in an environmentally compatible manner. Austrian Post makes a significant contribution to reducing residual waste on the basis of the separation of recyclable materials according to material types. At the same time, these measures enable the economically and ecologically meaningful utilisation of these valuable residual materials. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 1 2 Environmental indicators 2009 2010 2011 CO2 emissions (Scope 1-3) according to the 96,706 87,068 78,532 Greenhouse Gas Protocol (in t) thereof Scope 1 – Road transport (own 3 operations) 40,868 37,299 35,821 thereof Scope 1 – Buildings 9,939 9,572 9,265 thereof Scope 2 – Buildings 27,802 22,489 14,783 thereof Scope 3 – Partner companies 18,097 17,708 18,664 1 Due to optimised data collection in the buildings area, these indicators were revised for the year 2010. Moreover, as of 2010 updated CO2 conversion factors are used for the entire data in order to ensure a consistent calculation over the entire 20102015 target period.. 2 The building indicators for 2011 include all energy use invoices which were received by Austrian Post as at August 3, 2012 (about 90%). The remaining share (to100%) involves estimates. 3 The subsidiary Post.Wertlogistik GmbH is included in the figures for the vehicle fleet. Data compilation is carried out on the basis of the “GHG Inventory Standard for the Postal Sector“, the basis of which is the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol” (GHG). This is the most widely used international standard for calculating greenhouse gas emissions. More information is available at www.ghgprotocol.org. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 47 Scope 1 and 2 encompasses reporting on greenhouse gas emissions caused by internal company activities (Scope 1) and from the energy supply (Scope 2). All greenhouse gas emissions related to Austrian Post’s operations in Austria are included, but rail and air transport is not yet taken into account. Scope 3 emissions arise as a result of outsourced transport services. Many subcontractors do not publish any details about their CO2 emissions. For this reason, reporting on Scope 3 emissions is primarily based on computational models, assumptions and, insofar it is available, on data provided by the companies themselves. Waste gas emissions resulting from business trips and commuting is not included, with the exception of the distances travelled by company vehicles, which are presented in Scope 1. The reduction of its CO2 emissions by 10% in the period 2007 to 2012 is one of the environmental objectives Austrian Post is committed to achieving within the context of the “Greenhouse Gas Reduction Programme” of the European association of public postal operators PostEurop. Austrian Post is continuously coming closer to meeting this target thanks to the implementation of sustainable initiatives in its vehicle fleet as well as the buildings it uses. This is why Austrian Post has defined an even more ambitious goal. It aims to reduce its CO2 emissions including freight companies by 20% in the period 20102015. EN17 Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions by weight No other relevant greenhouse gas emissions arise within the context of Austrian Post‘s business operations. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions As the largest logistics company in the country, Austrian Post is involved in a very energyintensive business. Its employees walk or travel more than 200,000 km each day using bikes, mopeds, cars and transporters in order to provide postal services to the Austrian population. The company requires about 15m litres of fuel for its approx. 9,500 vehicles, and about 160m kilowatt hours of energy annually for its buildings. In turn, this results in CO2 emissions which burden the global climate. On balance, the business operations of Austrian Post cause approximately 80,000 tonnes of CO2 per year. 24,000 tons arise from operating buildings and distribution centres, with another 36,000 tons arising from the company’s own vehicle fleet. The remaining 18,500 tons are caused by partner companies. Since the year 2011 all these emissions are being compensated. This means that all letters, parcels and direct mail items delivered in Austria by Austrian Post are delivered in a CO2 neutral manner. Accordingly, Austrian Post ranks among the absolute trailblazers in the field of “green logistics” – both in Austria and internationally. Whereas most companies offer individual climate-neutral products and pass on the higher costs to its customers, Austrian Post delivers all mail items in a CO2 neutral manner without exception. Not only the climate and thus all of us benefit from this, but also every individual customer of Austrian Post who can include these savings in his own personal climate scorecard. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 48 The Initiative CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY is being implemented in a three-phase programme. The top priority is to avoid emissions in the company’s core processes. Measures include the consistent monitoring of energy consumption in buildings, the introduction of efficient lighting concepts and the optimisation of the infrastructure of the buildings in which it operates. In addition, transport of mail items, a key part of the company’s business operations, will be carried out as environmentally compatible as possible. For one thing, this will be achieved on the basis of optimised route planning (i.e. avoidance of empty runs, consistent optimisation of the deployed vehicles and the reduction in the number of kilometres needed to transport mail items). A modern vehicle fleet, regular repair and maintenance work and ongoing driver trainings will also ensure eco-efficiency. Furthermore, Austrian Post is also relying on alternative drive systems in its delivery process as a means of minimising its ecological footprint. Austrian Post’s efforts to regularly purchase vehicles featuring alternative drive systems are being supported by the funding program “klima:aktiv mobil” of the Austrian Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management. At the beginning of February 2012, Austrian Post already had a total of 265 e-vehicles in its fleet. 1 Vehicles 2009 2010 2011 Vehicle fleet (total) 9,165 9,248 9,650 Bicycles 973 1,032 1,049 thereof electric bicycles 14 64 94 Mopeds 1,082 1,252 1,235 thereof electric mopeds 6 6 6 Vehicles up to 3.5t 6,925 6,788 7,214 thereof gas-driven vehicles of up to 3.5t 77 77 77 thereof electric-powered vehicles up to 0 0 18 3.5tt Vehicles over 3.5t 185 176 152 Total number of kilometres (km million) 123 120 119 Motorised vehicles according to emission classes Euro 0 (no Euromotor) 5 3 3 Euro 2 225 63 16 Euro 3 3,741 3,026 1,845 Euro 4 3,068 3,714 3,811 Euro 5 71 158 1,673 Other vehicles (only mopeds with combustion 1,076 1,246 1,229 engines) 1 The subsidiary Post.Wertlogistik GmbH is included in the figures for the vehicle fleet. Austrian Post plans to significantly expand its fleet of e-vehicles in the upcoming years, and wants to push the total over 1,300 e-vehicles by the year 2015. At the present time emobility is not yet economically feasible, so that Austrian Post depends on public grants. In the coming years Austrian Post has found a partner, namely the Austrian Climate and Energy Fund of the Austrian Government, which strongly supports its efforts to further expand its fleet of e-vehicles by providing funding and know-how. With its model region “EGRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 49 Mobility Post“, Austrian Post is one of eight model regions in Austria. Within the context of this program, the company plans to purchase about 300 electric cars, 300 e-mopeds and more than 500 electric bicycles in the period 2012 – 2015. This is designed to test and research the practical use of these vehicles in the mail delivery process. Planned expansion of the e-vehicle fleet: Single-track Multi-track Austrian Post is also relying on alternative forms of energy in its buildings. At the beginning of 2012 the company converted its entire electricity purchases to energy from renewable energy sources. In the future, Austrian Post will not only exclusively rely on “green electricity” but will also produce it itself. Accordingly, the construction of Austria’s largest photovoltaic plant on the Letter Mail Centre Vienna is in preparation. In the third phase, all emissions which cannot be avoided at the present time will be compensated by support provided to recognised and certified climate protection projects. In addition to reducing emissions, particular attention will be attached to the ecological and socio-economic aspects of the project in the selection process, in order to fully take into account the objective of pursuing a comprehensive sustainability strategy. The top priority will always be to avoid emissions in the company’s own core processes. The remaining emissions will be compensated only after the existing potential has been exploited. In order to ensure that the targeted positive ecological effects are actually achieved, the entire initiative CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY is being monitored and assessed by independent experts at TÜV AUSTRIA. TÜV not only examines the overall calculations of emissions, but is strongly integrated in the process of selecting climate protection projects. Every single aspect of the initiative is examined down to the very last detail, in order to be able to confirm with reasonable assurance that Austrian Post delivers all mail items in Austria in a CO2 neutral manner. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 50 The three steps to CO2 neutrality: EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method At Austrian Post, waste mainly arises as a result of used packaging related to customer deliveries, and primarily consists of cardboard, plastic and wood pallets. Another major type of waste is paper from our offices and other facilities. Waste management concepts exist for individual sites with a specified size. Several sorting centres have gone a step further and developed their own waste disposal and recycling concepts for the entire region. For example, in the Brieflogistik Ost (letter mail for the eastern region of Austria), the concept includes the following: recycled plastic, paper and cardboard can be remunerated at the Vienna Letter Mail Centre. However, the disposal of reusable scrap materials must be paid for at the delivery bases, where smaller quantities of waste are generated. Thus the reusable materials in the delivery bases are separated, but the waste is delivered to the Vienna Letter Mail Centre for recycling. Unused capacities in the delivery vehicles transporting goods are used for this purpose. This concept not only benefits the environment, but also results in considerable cost savings. The recording of data with respect to waste management is not yet carried out centrally at the present time. Austrian Post’s objective over the next few years is to centrally collect and evaluate this data. EN24 Total weight of waste deemed hazardous Hazardous wastes, for example grease separators, fluorescent lamps, refrigerators, waste oil and solvents as well as spent batteries are disposed of in the regions using consignment notes. A centralised data acquisition system for this waste does not yet exist. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 51 ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICESM EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services Austrian Post has set a goal of compensating for all CO2 emissions caused by its business operations and which cannot be reduced. The initiative CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY launched by Austrian Post in 2011 is designed to minimise the environmental impact of its products and services. Within the context of its initiative CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY, all mail items (letters, direct mail items, magazines, parcels) are delivered in Austria in a climateneutral manner. This initiative is being implemented in a three-phased program: the top priority is always to avoid emissions in the company’s core processes i.e. primarily in its buildings and vehicle fleet. The second step is for Austrian Post to increasingly rely on alternative energy sources. All emissions which cannot be avoided at the present time will be compensated by support provided to recognised and certified climate protection projects. Details on CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY as well as all measures designed to reduce the CO2 emissions of Austrian Post can be found under point EN 18. With this initiative Austrian Post ranks among the absolute trailblazers in the field of “green logistics” – both in Austria and internationally. Whereas most companies offer individual climate-neutral products and pass on the higher costs to its customers, Austrian Post delivers all mail items in a CO2 neutral manner without exception. Not only the climate and thus all of us benefit from this, but also every individual customer of Austrian Post who can include these savings in his own personal climate scorecard. At the beginning of 2012 large customers of Austrian Post were given certificates certifying the CO2 neutral delivery of all their mail items in the year 2011. Climate neutral delivery enables Austrian Post to help its customers to operate in an even more sustainable manner due to the fact that the climate scorecard of every individual customer is improved. This reduction wll be annually confirmed by the issuing of customer certificates. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE WITH LEGAL REGULATIONSM EN28 Sanctions and fines due to non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations In the reporting year no fines and sanctions were imposed on Austrian Post for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 52 ASPECT: TRANSPORTM EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transport operations Transport comprises the core service of Austrian Post. For this reason, the environmental impacts connected to its transport operations have already been described within the context of the performance indicators EN5, EN16, EN18 and EN26. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 53 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS: LABOURM PRACTICES AND DECENT WORKM As one of the biggest employers in the country, Austrian Post is aware of its responsibility to all its employees. Motivated and productive employees are the basis for corporate success. High value must be placed on the factor “employees“, especially in a service company. An important pre-requisite is a healthy and safe working environment. Occupational safety, health protection and healthcare comprise key elements of Austrian Post’s corporate policy. The company also wants to ensure future perspectives for its employees in a market environment in which the demands on staff are continually subject to change, and individually promote their professional development. Employee targets  Creating individual future perspectives  Promoting a corporate and leadership culture  Promoting occupational health and safety at the workplace GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 54 ASPECT: EMPLOYMENTM LA1 Total workforce by employment type and employment contract Austrian Post – Employee indicators 2009 2010 2011 1 Employees Group (FTE) 21,598 20,695 19,907 thereof women (FTE in %) 29.6% 29.5% 29.3% thereof men (FTE in %) 70.4% 70.5% 70.7% Civil servants (FTE) 11,803 11,005 10,266 Salaried employees (FTE) 9.306 9.456 9.429 2 Temporary employees (FTE) 265 13 0 3 Employees pursuant to the Austrian Civil Code 224 221 212 (FTE) Full-time employees (total) 19,498 18,559 17,785 thereof women (%) 23.5% 23.3% 23.1% Full-time employees (total) 4,075 3,977 3,812 thereof women (%) 87.4% 85.0% 83.3% Average tenure of civil servants at Austrian Post (years) 26 26 27 Average tenure of salaried employees at Austrian Post (years) 11 11 11 Employees with special needs (total as at December 31) 1,144 1,189 1,187 1 FTE = Full-time equivalents 2 TE = Temporary employees = Temporary staff replacing staff on vacation or sick leave 3 Employees working pursuant to the ABGB (Austrian Civil Code) are not subject to the collective wage agreement due to stipulations contained in the Postal Services Structure Act (Section 19 Para. 5). Both employee groups (temporary staff replacing employees on vacation or sick leave and employees working pursuant to the Austrian Civil Code) are used during the entire year as replacements for permanent employees are on holiday or who are on sick leave. As of August 2009, a new collective wage agreement took effect at Austrian Post regulating these areas as well. All employees employed by Austrian Post are to be paid salaries in line with this collective wage agreement. However, for the period June 1st to October 31st of each year, an exception can be made for a period lasting up to twelve weeks. In this period of time employees can continue to be hired pursuant to the stipulations contained in the Austrian Civil Code. Thus starting in 2010 hardly any such temporary staff worked for Austrian Post any longer, and none at all as of 2011. This is because the new collective wage agreement also served as the legal basis for these temporary employees as well. If needed Austrian Post also employs externally leased personnel. These people are not included in the employee indicators of Austrian Post. A total of 202 leased full-time equivalents were employed by Austrian Post in the 2009 financial year. The comparable figures for 2010 and 2011 respectively were 142 and 160 full-time equivalents. If leased employees were actually included in the employee indicators, the share of leased employees as a proportion of the total staff would always be under the one percent threshold in the period 2009 to 2011. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 55 LA2 New employee hires and employee turnover by age group and gender Austrian Post – Employee indicators 2009 2010 2011 1 Employee attrition (nominal) 1.583 2.038 1.844 thereof women 786 933 811 thereof men 797 1,105 1,033 By age group Under 30 462 709 395 30-50 years 714 905 801 Over 50 407 424 648 2 Employee attrition (in %) 6.7% 9.0% 8.5% thereof women 49.7% 45.8% 44.0% thereof men 50.3% 54.2% 56.0% By age group Under 30 29.2% 34.8% 21.4% 30-50 years 45.1% 44.4% 43.4% Over 50 25.7% 20.8% 35.1% 1 New employee hires (nominal) 1,303 1,077 1,354 thereof women 712 488 672 thereof men 591 589 682 By age group Under 30 231 222 271 30-50 years 612 549 695 Over 50 460 306 388 2 New employee hires (in %) 5.5% 4.8% 6.3% thereof women 54.6% 45.3% 49.6% thereof men 45.4% 54.7% 50.4% By age group Under 30 17.7% 20.6% 20.0% 30-50 years 47.0% 51.0% 51.3% Over 50 35.3% 28.4% 28.7% 1 Permanent staff leaving/joining the company with an employment contract of at least six months 2 Permanent staff leaving/joining the company in relation to the average number of employees Compared to prior-year periods, the rate of attribution declined slightly, but is still at a higher level than in the periods beforehand. The reason is the increased willingness of new employees to change following implementation of the new collective wage agreement (effective August 1, 2009), as well as the social plan offered as an accompanying measure to the necessary structural changes carried out at the company. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 56 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees All employees of Austrian Post are entitled to take advantage of all additional employee benefits, regardless of their age, gender and the extent of their employment. Thus these benefits are also available to part-time employees. All employees of Austrian Post receive an EBIT bonus (participating in the company’s success). The gross total of EUR 725 was paid to each employee for the 2011 financial year. Employees receive a pro rata share if they worked less than 40 hours a week or if the employment contract did not extend for the entire year provided they were employed by the company for more than six months. Other benefits enjoyed by Austrian Post employees are offered via the joint welfare association “post.sozial“. For the most part, the annual funding for the organisation’s activities is provided by the company. The joint welfare association “post.sozial“ reflects the social responsibility of Austrian Post to its employees based on additional social services above and beyond legally stipulated obligations. These services range from financial support to employees faced with unusually high costs arising as a result of illness or natural disasters along with discounted tickets for cultural events and more favourably priced holiday deals to child care and day care services during vacations. Furthermore, support is provided for health care measures and recreational activities contributing to maintaining the health of employees. The non-profit association was established to provide social support to active employees of Austrian Post and its subsidiaries as well as to retired employees, family members and surviving relatives of employees. 1% of the total wage bill paid by Austrian Post and its subsidiaries are devoted to funding the association. Total funding amounted to EUR 6.7m in 2011. The joint welfare association is also supported by third-party donations. Post.sozial – Key figures 2011 post.sozial Total funding of EUR 6.7m fair.reisen 55,973 overnight stays helfens.wert Food coupons to the amount of EUR 4.7m Paid financial assistance of EUR 605,060 sehens.wert 17,890 discounted admission tickets postler.kids EUR 10,954 in support for children’s holiday camps GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 57 ASPECT: EMPLOYER-EMPLOYEE RELATIONSHIPM LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Austrian Post – Employee indicators 2009 2010 2011 1 Salaried employees (FTE) 9,306 9,456 9,429 thereof salaried employees 8,979 7,801 7,177 thereof salaried employees subject to the 325 1,646 2,234 2 collective wage agreement of 2009 thereof trainees 2 10 17 Civil servants (FTE) 11.803 11.005 10.266 1 Salaried employees (FTE in %) 43.1% 45.7% 47.4% thereof salaried employees 41.6% 37.7% 36.1% thereof salaried employees subject to the 1.5% 8.0% 11.2% 2 collective wage agreement of 2009 thereof trainees 0.0% 0.0% 0.1% Civil servants (FTE in %) 54.6% 53.2% 51.6% 1 FTE = Full-time equivalents 2 CBA = Collective bargaining agreement Temporary employees replacing staff on vacation or sick leave, as well as employees working under the ABGB (Austrian Civil Code), are not included in this chart. A comprehensive overview is included in section LA1. A large percentage of employees at Austrian Post are employed under public law, and are thus subject to civil service regulations. No new employment contracts have been concluded on the basis of public law since the year 1996. ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETYM As a service company, motivated and healthy employees comprise the decisive success factor for Austrian Post. In order to maintain the ability of its employees to work, also until they reach an advanced age, the employees must ensure a safe and motivating working environment. Of course the employees themselves are also called upon to preserve their own health. In this regard Austrian Post supports these efforts by means of a targeted offering of trainings and information materials for its employees to enable them to take responsibility themselves. The focal points of the company’s health care programme include training on safe and healthy workplace behaviour, doing exercise and tobacco and alcohol abuse prevention. The company also attaches great importance to creating healthpromoting and ergonomic working conditions as well as creating workplaces tailored to the needs of disabled or older employees. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 58 LA7 Rates of injury, lost days, absenteeism and work-related fatailities Austrian Post – Employee indicators 2009 2010 2011 1 Rate of employees on sick leave (FTE in %) 7.3% 7.5% 7.4% Days lost per sick leave (working days) 9.9 10.0 10.0 2 Number of occupational accidents 794 947 810 2 Average number of (calendar) days lost per accident 21.6 23.0 21.5 3 Accident ratee 36.8 45.8 40.7 Fatalities resulting from occupational accidents 0 0 0 1 FTE = Full-time equivalents 2 Accidents beginning with one working day lost (including accidents commuting to/from/during work) The calculation basis for the figures published in the GRI Sustainability Report 2010 involved overall results (employees as of 0 days lost). The figures now published for the years 2009, 2010 and 2011 have been adjusted and are based on occupational accidents beginning with one working day lost. 3 Number of occupational accidents beginning with one working day lost including accidents commuting to/from/during work per 1,000 FTE. After two years of increases, the number of occupational accidents could be reduced once again in the year 2011. This was due, amongst other factors, to more mild weather conditions in the winter season. All occupational accidents (including those incurred by leased personnel) must be immediately reported to the company as a key pre-requisite for efficient accident prevention and for preparing accident reports, in those cases in which there is a legal obligation to report the occurrence to the responsible regulatory bodies. Responsibilities and reporting processes are regulated in detail by the organisational guideline 2/2007 “Reporting System for Occupational Accidents”. LA8 Measures designed to prevent serious diseases In addition to the nationwide offer to provide free flu vaccinations to employees, Austrian Post also once again offered employees the possibility to take advantage of low-cost TBE, tetanus, diphtheria, polio and hepatitis vaccinations in the year 2011. About 2,870 vaccinations were given to Austrian Post employees throughout the country in 2011. Austrian Post also organised occupational health examinations for night shift employees and those working with computer monitors and screens, which about 260 employees took advantage of in 2011. As a result computer glasses for 95 employees were approved. Furthermore, numerous employee counselling sessions led by occupational physicians took place in 2011, focusing on issues such as mobbing, burn-out and stress prevention. Extensive health check-up opportunities were offered to employees in 2011 within the context of four Austrian Post Health Days, which measured the blood sugar, cholesterol level and blood pressure of employees and offered detailed medical advice. A total of 260 employees participated. A health-promoting and ergonomic working environment is essential to enable employees to effectively implement the tasks assigned to them. For this reason, more than 2,800 inspections of workplaces were carried out by security experts and occupational physicians. Many employees and executives were informed about emergency assistance in case of fire or acute illness as well as in the case of accidents, and also provided with general GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 59 information about safe and healthy behaviour. This was done within the context of 480 trainings focusing on safe and healthy behaviour at the workplace The health care programme entitled “Die Post bewegt” (Austrian Post Moves), launched in 2007 and involving more than 13,200 employees up until now, was continued in the year 2011. The focal point of this programme is the offering of information lectures about correct posture and exercise at the workplace. In 2011 130 such events took place for more than 2,000 participants. Starting in January 2012 the learning involved at these information events will be reinforced by question and feedback opportunities directly at the employee’s workplace. Austrian Post is also continuing to participate in “Fit for the Future – the Austrian Programme to Maintain Work Ability”. This project being carried out with the cooperation of pilot companies from different sectors is designed to demonstrate that it is possible to maintain work ability and even promote it at an advanced age. Accordingly, ergonomic trainings, the redesigning of workplaces and noise measurements are among the measures being implemented. In the year 2011 special trainings were held for executives focusing on the topic “Communicating with employees”. This measure was complemented by a regular exchange of view and special information corners for health-related issues located in the distribution centres. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Austrian Post considers occupational safety and accident prevention on behalf of its employees to be top priorities. In addition to legal regulations, there are internal organisational guidelines designed to contribute to the protection of our employees. The trade union and the Works Council are included in all issues relating to occupational safety and accident prevention. ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATIONM Competition on the postal market is steadily increasing. At the same time the entire sector has been subject to a fundamental transformation. The increasingly demanding environment in which Austrian Post operates thus continuously places new demands on the personnel structure of the company and thus on each individual employee. Austrian Post Austrian Post meets these requirements on the basis of target group-oriented and competence-oriented training and further education programmes, which are designed to individually promote the skills of employees and help them to fully exploit their individual potential. LA10 Training and education The target group and competence-oriented training and professional development of employees comprise a further focal point of Austrian Post’s human resources activities, and GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 60 were intensively continued in 2011. The measures implemented consisted of specialized instruction, continuing education courses, coaching and training in all business areas of the company. Moreover, Austrian Post increasingly carried out compliance trainings on the issue of “Compliance, Awareness and Anti-corruption”. In addition, Austrian Post attached great importance to the training of management staff within the framework of special executive training programmes. For this purpose, an Executive Academy was established in May 2012. The objective of this initiative is to support executives in their efforts to implement management guidelines on the basis of a customized programme and suitable training measures. In addition, upon request Austrian Post offers individual coachings. At one-on-one meetings, employees develop personal objectives working together with their coaches. The meetings are kept strictly confidential. Potential coaching issues include personal development projects, change processes, an employee’s personal and professional situation as well as conflict situations. Six trained coaches have been deployed by Austrian Post for this purpose throughout Austria since 2011. Since September 2010 individual departments(business areas have been asked to ensure that statistics for professional training and further education programmes are not recorded decentrally but centrally registered. For this reason, no meaningful comparative data exists for the prior-year periods. In the year 2011, a total of 2,253 training days were held for Austrian Post employees. A total of 3,240 employees took part in these events. 68.3% of the participants were men, and 31.7% were women. Thus the total number of days in which Austrian Post employees took part in trainings (days/person) was 7.601. On balance, each male employee spent 0.85 hours per year being trained, and each female employee 0.82 hours. (These figures do not include internal on–the-job training, as well as trainings on occupational safety and health.) During the reporting year, one focal point was on training executives. All in all, 54 events were held for this group of employees, with 532 executives participating. Most of the executives taking part in these events were in the fields of distribution and the branch network. On balance, executives at Austrian Post participated in 10,384 seminar lessons specially designed for this group of employees. In addition, 5,006 training days were held for postal partners, of which 4,600 were held locally and 406 in training rooms. LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning In addition to specific training and educational offering for employees in all business areas and age groups, Austrian Post also offers support to employees to employees who are impacted by restructuring measures and who wish to reposition themselves on the job market in the form of the Austrian Post Internal Labour Market. Competition in the postal market is continually intensifying, a situation aggravated by the full liberalisation of the letter mail market in the year 2011. Accordingly, the increasingly demanding business environment in the postal sector requires the company to implement ongoing efficiency improvement measures as well as adjustments to the personnel GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 61 structure. In this case, responsible corporate behaviour means reacting to the resulting changes confronting employees, thus actively planning and supporting them on their career path in a socially acceptable manner – which is also of primary importance to the future of Austrian Post. Austrian Post set up the “Internal Labour Market”, an effective platform to ensure that the affected employees gain the qualifications required for new jobs inside or outside the company. The objectives of the Internal Labour Market at Austrian Post:  Promoting and supporting internal mobility  Promoting employee readiness for change and facilitating training and further education measures  Promoting the respectful interaction of employer and employees Responsibilities of the Internal Labour Market at Austrian Post:  Qualifications and motivation: identifying potential as well as professional development and training  Optimisation of internal staff deployment: develop employment possibilities or identify them in a timely manner  New career perspectives: for example, Austrian Post employees transferred to the public sector or enabling job transfer to other areas outside of Austrian Post (e.g. charities)  Social cushioning: new social plan as well as promotion of outplacement foundation models In 2011 civil servants working at Austrian Post once again changed jobs to transfer to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Ministry of Justice and Ministry of Finance. They offer Austrian post employees interesting new career perspectives. Numerous applications and visits to information events show that Austrian Post is on the right track. In the meantime, more than 300 civil servants have transferred to the federal public service, demonstrating that the competencies acquired at Austrian Post are very much in demand at the ministries. LA12 Performance reviews and career development planning Regular performance appraisals (employee reviews) are held regularly but at least once annually between employees and their supervisors. The human resources department recommends that this performance review is held at least once annually. These employee reviews comprises a platform for partners to interact on a personal level and an opportunity to change the working relationship. They also represent an investment in the job satisfaction of employees and in creating a trusting working environment. The discussions with employees have two main objectives. On the one hand, to look back at the employee’s past performance and come to a conclusion regarding the success of the employee in carrying out the assigned tasks and the effectiveness of the cooperation. On GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 62 the other hand, there is a looking ahead to the future defining a working focus, formulating goals and support measures. ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITYM Within the context of its diversity management, Austrian Post explicitly strives to promote social diversity and constructively seeks to benefit from the diversity of its staff. On the one hand, this applies to visible, perceptible differences such as gender, ethnic background, age and disability. On the other hand, it also applies to subjective differences such as religion and lifestyle. Austrian Post not only aims to tolerate the individual differences among employees, but particularly highlight them in the spirit of promoting mutual esteem and respect. The objectives are to create a productive overall atmosphere in the company, prevent the social discrimination of minorities and improve equality of opportunity. The company attaches considerable importance to ensuring equal opportunity at work in all business areas, and thus decisively opposes any kind of discrimination, bullying and sexual harassment. LA13 Diversity of employees and governing bodies Austrian Post – Employee indicators 2009 2010 2011 1 Total number of employees (FTE) 21,598 20,695 19,907 thereof women (FTE, %) 29.6% 29.5% 29.3 thereof men (FTE, %) 70.4% 70.5% 70.7 Full-time employees (total) 19,498 18,559 17,785 thereof women (%) 23.5% 23.3% 23.1% Part.time employees (total) 4,075 3,977 3,812 thereof women (%) 87.4% 85.0% 83.3% Employees with special needs (total on the st reporting date of December 31 ) 1,144 1,189 1,187 Employees (FTE) by age group Under 30 1,571 1,567 1,600 30-50 years 15,395 14,344 13,210 Over 50 years of age 4,631 4,785 5,098 2 Employees in management positions Number of employees in management positions 157 153 147 (total) thereof women 34 37 34 thereof men 123 116 113 By age group Under 30 1 1 2 30-50 years 123 116 109 Over 50 years of age 33 35 36 GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 63 Austrian Post – Employee indicators 2009 2010 2011 Employees in management positions (%) 0.7% 0.7% 0.7% thereof women 21.8% 24.4% 23.3% thereof men 78.2% 75.7% 76.7% By age group Under 30 0.7% 0.9% 1.3% 30-50 years 78.0% 76.0% 74.5% Over 50 years of age 21.3% 23.1% 24.2% 1 FTE … Full-time equivalents 2 CEO and Chairman of the Management Board, Management Board members, member of a division or business area at corporate headquarters, head of a department or business area in a region In 2011 Austrian Post employed an average of 19,907 people, of which approximately onethird were women. In order to promote the compatibility of family and career, Austrian Post offers customised part-time work models tailored to the specific needs of individual employees which are used by some 3,200 women as well as about 600 men. Moreover, Austrian Post’s workforce consists of employees from 52 different nations. Some 410 employees are not Austrian citizens, and the share of employees with a migration background is considerably higher. The senior management level at Austrian Post also includes five individuals with a migration background. In past years Austrian Post more than fulfilled its employment obligations towards people with disabilities. In the year 2011 1,187 people with special needs were employed by the company. People with disabilities work in a diverse range of positions, for example as executives, Central Works Council representatives, on the delivery staff or post office employees. Austrian Post already boasts a large share of women in management positions, which reached a level of 23.3% in 2011. This share should be further increased in the upcoming years. A new programme is designed to particularly promote the advancement of female “high potentials” in the company in order to support them in their next career move. Accordingly, the initiative entitled “Business Cross Mentoring” serves to provide professional support to success-oriented women within the context of a training programme featuring flat hierarchies. In 2011/2012 twelve women, from middle management, participated in the programme. The programme consists of the following contents:  Networking and exchange of views with external mentors  Workshops: networks, self-presentation, business style, communications and teamwork, professional targets and visions  Company presentations with the individual mentors  Meeting with the executives of the mentees  14-day meeting of the mentees GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 64 LA14 Salary differences by gender Both the civil servants employed by Austrian Post, salaried employees subject to the stipulations of the “old” collective wage agreement and those subject to the “new“ collective wage agreement (effective August 1, 2009) are paid in accordance with the respective remuneration scheme or pay scale. Each position in the company is assigned to a specified classification within the context of this remuneration schemes or pay scale, which applies to all employees regardless of gender. As a consequence of the remuneration system described above, there are no salary differences between men and women with the same education and training who perform the same work. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 65 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS: HUMAN RIGHTSM Austrian Post stands up for human rights and respects the dignity of each individual. We firmly reject any form of child labour or forced labour. We do not tolerate any unfair business practices, and resolutely oppose any form of corruption and bribery (for example bribes). We also expect our business partners to adhere to these principles. As a company which signed the UN Global Compact, Austrian Post is committed to the fundamental principles contained in this document (www.unglobalcompact.com). In order to intensify its anti-corruption efforts, Austrian Post joined Transparency International in the year 2011 as a corporate member. Austrian Post also expects its business partners to comply with these values. Moreover, the Code of Conduct, which was developed in 2010 and then published and communicated throughout the company in 2011, contains principles designed to promote the ethical and legally impeccable behaviour of all employees. The code is oriented to international agreements as well as ethical standards, and reflects the commitment of Austrian Post to comply with the principles contained in the UN Global Compact. ASPECT: INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENTM PRACTICESM Since 2007 Austrian Post has belonged to the UN Global Compact, an initiative launched by the United Nations. As a consequence, it is committed to complying with global principles of ethical, ecological and business behaviour. Moreover, the Code of Conduct, which was developed in 2010 and then published and communicated throughout the company in 2011, contains principles designed to promote the ethical and legally impeccable behaviour of all employees. The code is oriented to international agreements as well as ethical standards, and reflects the commitment of Austrian Post to comply with the principles contained in the UN Global Compact. HR2 Suppliers undergoing human rights screening The procurement policies of Austrian Post are in line with the Austrian Federal Procurement Act. Generally speaking, bidders are screened with respect to their compliance with the stipulations of the Aliens Employment Act, as well as concerning child labour and illegal employment practices. In the case of several contracts, social aspects were also included in the tender documents. For example, the tender requesting bids for external freight transport services includes the stipulation that the transport is carried out by qualified and trained professionals, which are employed in line with valid Austrian labour and social law provisions. In addition, even after contracts have been awarded, Austrian Post regularly demands documents such as GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 66 registration for national medical insurance, trade licenses of freight delivery subcontractors or copies of driving licenses, in order to monitor compliance with these regulations. Fundamentally speaking, Austrian almost exclusively resorts to suppliers from Austria and the EU, and thus there is little reason to suspect any violation of basic human rights. As an additional measure, Austrian Post developed a Code of Conduct for suppliers in 2011, which obliges contractors of Austrian Post as well as their subcontractors and suppliers to comply with minimum legal and social standards. This code was sent to the biggest suppliers of Austrian Post at the beginning of 2012. HR3 Employee training on human rights At the present time no employee training courses are held which specifically focus on the issue of human rights. In accordance with the company’s commitment to adhering to the stipulations of the UN Global Compact, Austrian Post developed a Code of Conduct for suppliers of Austrian Post which stipulates compliance with human rights by Austrian Post by contractors of Austrian Post and their own subcontractors and suppliers. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 67 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS: SOCIETYM As a provider of universal postal services, Austrian Post bears a considerable responsibility to society. It makes an important contribution towards maintaining and safeguarding the communications infrastructure on the basis of providing reliable, top-quality nationwide postal services in Austria. Austrian Post wants to offer services to meet the modern needs of society. Its attractive and innovative services and a comprehensive service offensive demonstrate that the customer is the focal point of all its business decisions. Because of its importance to the country, Austrian Post is also committed to taking an active part in society. One priority is to be involved in projects which have a direct connection to the core business of the company – its high logistics competence and nationwide network of branch offices. Societal and social objectives  Expansion of reliable, nationwide postal services  Ongoing further development of solutions to enhance customer convenience  Promoting business-related and socially relevant projects and activities GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 68 ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITYM SO1 Impact of business activities on the local community Only Austrian Post delivers letters and parcels each day to every address and doorstep throughout Austria. Austrian Post is a reliable partner, and thus makes a valuable contribution to providing basic services for Austrian cities and municipalities in the form of postal services that are of outstanding quality. As a result, more than 96.1% of all letters are already delivered to recipients on the next working day. 95% are required by law. Austrian Post also achieves a top-notch performance with respect to the delivery of direct mail items and parcels. 98% of these mail items are delivered on time. In addition to the obligation to provide top-quality postal services to every household in all corners of the country at a uniform price, the obligations laid down by the Universal Service Obligation also stipulates a nationwide brand network of at least 1,650 postal service points. For the purpose of optimally serving its customers, Austrian Post also surpasses the minimally stipulated figure. At the end of 2011 Austrian Post boasted a branch network of 1,880 postal service points, thus making it one of the largest customer service networks in the country. Literally speaking, Austrian Post is very close to its customers. Due to the fact that the postal sector is subject to major changes, these new conditions require continuing customer-oriented adjustments on the part of Austrian Post in order to ensure the long-term supply of postal services to the Austrian population. In this regard, one key measure is the restructuring of the branch network of Austrian Post, which was determinedly continued in the past financial year. The main element involved the implementation of the very successful postal partner concept. On balance, there were a total of 1,258 postal partners at the end of 2011 e.g. food stores, petrol stations, tobacconists and municipal authorities and many more. They ensure the optimal regional availability and accessibility of postal services. In the future the concept will be increasingly expanded to metropolitan areas, and further optimized in 2012 (1,283 postal partner offices already at the end of June 2012). Development of postal service points in a year-on-year comparison Company-operated post offices Postal partners Total GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 69 In the meantime, Austrian Post has concluded 37 partnerships with business and companies from the social sector as of 2012, making Austrian Post a strong ally for several charitable organisations. These partnerships thus fulfill a two-fold purpose in the communities: on the one hand, they secure postal services in the local communities, and on the other hand, they help people to re-enter the labour market and train people looking for work – in close to forty municipalities throughout Austria. . The changes in the branch network of Austrian Post have been very well received by customers. A representative customer satisfaction study carried out in July and October 2011 concluded that 83% of the customers are very satisfied with services provided in the post offices of Austrian Post (online survey, responses by 25,035 customers). Similar results were achieved with the postal partner offices, with which 86% of the respondents were very satisfied or satisfied (online survey, responses by 6,801 customers). And 79% would recommend their branch office or postal partner offices. These figures demonstrate that the structural transformation in the branch network of Austrian Post is proceeding positively and also offers numerous advantages which customers recognise and appreciate. By complementing the company’s own branch network, postal partner offices ensure more service, shorter distances and improved opening hours, and also safeguard the sustainable supply of postal services to the population. At the same time, economic structures in rural areas are strengthened. This is due to the fact that a majority of postal partner locations are local businesses which offer Austrian Post’s products and services in addition to their own product line and can thus generate additional income. This comprises a “win-win” situation for postal partners, customers and for Austrian Post. The advantages are obvious:  The postal partner concept supports economic structures in rural areas based on local investments and higher customer frequency.  Generally postal partners offer longer opening hours, often on Saturday as well.  Customers benefit from the proximity of the postal partners.  Efficient full service of postal services above and beyond the legally stipulated mandate. In the future, the concept will also be increasingly implemented in metropolitan areas, and will be further optimised in the year 2012. Thus Austrian Post plans to once again expand its product portfolio as offered by the postal partner offices, and for example additional retail goods modules. In addition, the company is consistently focusing on local quality optimisation and offers special training opportunities, including e-learning. This helps the postal partners and results in even greater customer satisfaction. Within the context of the restructuring of the branch network, the company’s own post offices are continually being reviewed. Instead of operating parallel bank and post branch offices, the postal and banking services offered by Austrian Post and BAWAG P.S.K. are now being offered together in numerous jointly operated outlets since the beginning of 2011. The concept has proven to be successful and will be further expanded. By the end of 2012 some 500 jointly operated branch offices will exist throughout the country, including about 100 in Vienna. Within the context of this partnership Austrian Post and BAWAG P.S.K. can meaningfully combine their respective strengths and thus create synergies. At the same time, each of the partners can focus on its core business. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 70 ASPECT: CORRUPTIONM As a member of the UN Global Compact, Austrian Post is committed to abiding by these principles (www.unglobalcompact.com). In order to increase its activities in the field of anticorruption, Austrian Post joined Transparency International in 2011 as a corporate member. In addition, Austrian Post regularly takes part in conferences focusing on the issue of anti-corruption. SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption Potential risks of corruption are also taken into account by Austrian Post’s risk management system. No risks related to corruption in Austria were reported to the risk management system in the year 2011. In 2010 Austrian Post launched a drive to further develop its internal compliance organisation to include a Group-wide integrated compliance management system. One of the focal points of these efforts was in preventing corruption. The first measure taken was publication in 2011 of a code of conduct and behaviour, a “Code of Conduct” applying to all employees, which contains principles and guidelines for valueand legally-compliant behaviour in everyday business. This code of conduct and ethics clearly stipulates that Austrian Post does not tolerate any form whatsoever of bribery and corruption. Moreover, in order to provide practice-oriented support for employees in their daily work, a detailed Group guideline was issued on the “Acceptance and granting of gifts, invitations and other advantages.” SO3 Employee training in preventing corruption The issue of anti-corruption is one of the priorities of Austrian Post’s compliance work. The Group directive which was revised in 2011 and renamed the “Acceptance and granting of gifts, invitations and other advantages” is based on Austrian Post’s Code of Conduct and is being rolled out throughout the Group within the framework of a comprehensive training plan. Implementation began in the year 2011 with pilot trainings, in which selected executives and the regional compliance officers participated. This programme will also be expanded to include the subsidiaries in the course of 2012 with the support of the regional compliance officers. In this regard, Austrian Post is relying on the target group-specific training of its employees. An additional measure to provide information and advisory services to employees was the setting up of a central compliance helpdesk in 2011, as a contact point for concerns, questions or indications of potential violations on compliance-related issues such as bribery or corruption. The compliance helpdesk is accessible for all employees via a separate email mailbox and cost-free hotlines. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 71 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption In the reporting year no instances of corruption were reported in Austria to the Compliance Office of Austrian Post. In such a situation disciplinary measures and labour law sactions would apply. In 2011 the measures initiated by Austrian Post within the context of its compliance management system were successfully continued. Group-wide implementation is scheduled for 2012 (see S03). ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICYM SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development In 2011 Austrian Post once again stated its concerns relating to the business operations of the company within the framework of its membership in various trade and professional associations and the relevant decision-making bodies and working groups, and will continue to do so in the future. In particular, the focus was on the issues of infrastructure and security of supply. The objective of Austrian Post is to provide postal services throughout the country for the benefit of the Austrian population. This must take place in a modern and service-oriented manner. The medium-term goal is to agree on an up-to-date definition of universal postal services, to develop a public services law in line with market requirements and to ensure the free selection of the optimal operating model for the operation of postal service points. ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR M SO7 Legal actions due to anti-competitive behaviour There were no legal actions against Austrian Post on grounds of alleged anti-competitive behavior, the establishment of monopolies or creation of cartels during the reporting year. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE WITH LAWSM SO8 Sanctions and fines for noncompliance with laws During the reporting year no fines or monetary sanctions were imposed against Austrian Post for violations of legal regulations, with the exception of minor administrative penalties, for example traffic offences. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 72 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS: PRODUCT M RESPONSIBILITY M The principle of product responsibility is embedded in the mission statement of Austrian Post. We give our customers a clearly-defined performance commitment and continually fulfill our promise. We design our products and services in a customer-oriented, simple and easily comprehensible manner. Austrian Post pursues the target of setting standards for quality and customer orientation. The company takes criticism voiced by customers seriously, and sees it as an incentive for improvement. ASPECT: LABELLING OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES M PR3 Products and services subject to statutory information requirements All services provided within the context of the universal service obligation are subject to statutory information requirements. PR4 Incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning production and service information and labelling During the reporting year there were no incidents of noncompliance with valid legal regulations and voluntary codes concerning production and service information and labelling. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction In the reporting year customer satisfaction was surveyed on a quarterly basis. The market research partner for this project is the renowned institute IFES. The representative studies with a sample size of n = 1,000 in each case. In the year 2011 the results of these studies were presented by developing a “Customer Satisfaction Index” (CSI) as follows: Customer satisfaction with Austrian Post is at a good level. The post offices and delivery services were given high marks. However, all areas examined in the survey displayed a downward trend in the course of the year. This particularly applies to service areas. In the first quarter of 2011 the CSI displayed a customer satisfaction of 67 index points (maximum of 100). The reform of postal rates led to a declining satisfaction with the price-performance ratio. Thus in the second quarter of the year the CSI showed 63 index points. This figure stabilised during the rest of the year at a CSI of 64 and 62 index points in the third and fourth quarters respectively. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 73 According to the CSI system being used, the customer satisfaction measurement scale sees values of up to 50 points as being critical, whereas a figure between 51 and 60 points is seen as moderate. More than 61 points is considered to be a good level, 71 points and higher is very good, and 81 points up to the maximum of 100 points is viewed as being outstanding. ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONSM PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications Austrian Post puts its core service the secure and trustworthy delivery of mail items – at the focal point of its advertising and also integrates sustainability issues into these communication activities. Austrian Post does not evaluate its advertising only according to economic criteria, but also includes ethical aspects. Austrian Post strictly rejects any form of advertising but which is immoral and which does not correspond to generally-accepted ethical and cultural standards. PR7 Incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications During the reporting year there were no incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning advertising, promotion and sponsorship. ASPECT: PROTECTION OF CUSTOMER DATAM PR8 Total number of complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data With the exception of a few isolated complaints in connection with consent granted to passing on data on forwarding mail forms (redirections) for advertising purposes, there were no complaints with respect to breaches of customer privacy. Austrian Post has been granted authorisation to exercise the trades of address publishing and direct marketing. Within this framework, it is standard policy to request permission to pass on data for advertising purposes on the forms used for requesting mail to be forwarded. This consent was originally recorded manually and thus transcription errors were made in exceptional cases. In the meantime, the implementation of technical measures has helped to solve this problem. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 74 ASPECT: COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS M PR9 Fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations related to products and services During the reporting year no fines were levied for noncompliance with laws and regulations related to products and services. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 75 THEMATIC AND GOAL MATRIXM Everything we do revolves around our Corporate principles We are future-oriented. We are all part of Austrian Post. customers. CSR priorities SOCIAL/SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY SOCIAL / EMPLOYEES 1. Expansion of reliable and nationwide 1. CO2 reduction and annual 1. Medium-term revenue growth, 1. Promoting a corporate and postal service compensation for remaining solid profitability leadership culture 2. Further development of solutions to emissions 2. Generation of value added for 2. Creating individual future Main objectives enhance customer convenience 2. Creation/improvement of central all stakeholders perspectives 3. Promoting of business-related, environmental management 3. Sustainable value creation in 3. Promoting occupational health and socially relevant projects and 3. Raising stakeholder awareness of line with shareholder safety activities need for environmental/climate expectations protection Target attainment level 2011 Target attainment level 2011 Target attainment level 2011 Target attainment level 2011 Expansion of network to 2,000 1,880 CO2 neutral delivery as of Medium-term revenue Participation of over 300 new 1 postal service points by 2013 2011 growth of 1–2% per year executives in the Leadership Academy by 2013 Expansion of jointly operated 329 CO2 reduction by 10% in -15.8% EBITDA margin in the Participation of 200+ executives new 1 network with BAWAG P.S.K. to the period 2007–2012 targeted 10–12% range in the programme “A Day at 500 branches by 2013 the Customer“ by 2012 Reduction of energy -4.0% Attractive dividend policy Expansion of the programme new Promotion of self-service new consumption by 10% in with distribution of at least “Post employees transfer to the solutions and installation of 2007–2012 75% of the Group net federal public service“ to other Sub-targets more than 50 vending profit 1 ministries/federal provinces by machines by 2012 2013 CO2 reduction by 20% new Expanding the offering of the new from 2010–2015 programme “Austrian Post Moves“ and participation of Installation of more than 2,000 new Expansion of e-vehicle new Stable or slightly positive new 800+ employees up until 2012 Mail Receiving Boxes by 2013 fleet to 1,300 vehicles by revenue development in 2015 2012 Conception and implementation Nomination of companynew Expansion of B2B parcel new Roll-out of a compliance enew of new cooperation to promote wide waste manager by market share to over 20% learning tool by 2013 a culture of reading and writing 2013, central assessment by 2013 by 2013 of data by 2014 GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 76 Everything we do revolves around our We are all part of Austrian Post. Corporate We are future-oriented. customers. CSR priorities SOCIAL/SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY SOCIAL/EMPLOYEES Moving ahead with the postal partner CO2 neutral delivery of all mail Maintaining of market leadership Embedding corporate principles, offensive items in Austria in a liberalised postal market development of leadership Intensification of cooperation with Participation in international New letter mail product portfolio guidelines BAWAG P.S.K. climate protection programmes as of May 2011 Promotion of female “high Implementation of new end customer Enhanced eco-efficiency in Strong revenue growth in the potentials“ solutions featuring self-service transport operations parcel segment Employee participation in corporate New online solutions (e.g. Post Expansion of e-vehicle fleet to 265 Structural transformation in the success Manager) vehicles branch network and integration Health Days with health check-ups Measures in 2011 Social projects (e.g. Ö3-Wundertüte) Optimisation of building in the Mail Division and vaccinations Promotion of a writing and reading infrastructure (e.g. relocation to Investments in improving Continuation of programmes culture (e.g. Post School Box) new corporate headquarters) performance and service quality “Austrian Post Moves“ and “Fit for Membership in Transparency Consistent monitoring/optimisation Customer offensive and the Future““ International of energy consumption successful pilot operations of the Professional training, courses and Support of national and KUVERT coachings and special executive international climate protection trainings projects Further development of compliance organisation Intensified cooperation with postal Conversion to electricity from Further development in line with Further development of Group-wide partners in the social sector renewable energy sources the core strategy: further education programmes End customer offensive in the branch Tender and construction of a new Defending market leadership in Launch of the Executive Academy network photovoltaic facility the core business Evaluation of new cooperations with New cooperations in the field of Nomination of a company-wide Growth in selected markets other ministries and federal Measures as of 2012 Reading-Writing-Post waste manager Enhancing efficiency and provinces Nationwide shipment of the Post Communication initiatives to raise increasing flexibility of the cost Expansion of occupational health School Box stakeholder awareness of the structure offering need for climate protection Customer orientation and Promotion of Post Music innovation 1 Ongoing objectives also applying to subsequent years. Target period concluded, objective was not achieved Target period concluded, objective achieved as planned Target period not yet concluded, target attainment level listed Objective defined in or after the target period GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 77 GRI CONTENT INDEXM The GRI Content Index shows where the individual indicators are presented and explained in the report, and also describe which publications provide additional information. GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason Declaration on the profile 1. Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker in Declaration of 1.1 Page 4 support the organisation 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Page 6 2. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation Page 18 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services Page 18 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation Page 18 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Page 18 Number of countries where the organisation 2.5 Page 20 operates 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Page 21 2.7 Markets served Page 18 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation Page 18 There were no major changes in size, Significant changes regarding size, structure or 2.9 structure or ownership in the reporting ownership period. Austrian Post received no awards in the 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Page 22 reporting period. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 78 GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Page 23 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Page 23 3.3 Reporting cycle Page 23 Contact point for questions regarding the report or 3.4 Page 88 its contents 3.5 Process for defining report contents Page 23 3.6 Boundaries of the report Page 23 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Page 23 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries 3.8 Page 23 etc. Data measurement techniques and the bases of 3.9 Page 24 calculations 3.10 Re-statements of information Page 24 Significant changes from previous reporting 3.11 periods Page 24 3.12 GRI Content Index Page 78 3.13 External assurance for the report Page 86 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Corporate governance and governance structure Page 26 Measures to 4.2 Independence of the highest governance body Page 27 implement principles 1-10 Structure of the highest governance body in Austrian Post has a Supervisory Board 4.3 organisations without a Supervisory Board n.a. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to 4.4 provide recommendations or direction to the Page 27 highest governance body Linkage between compensation for members of 4.5 the highest governance bodies and the Page 28 organisation’s performance 4.6 Processes in place to prevent conflicts of interest Page 28 Expertise of the highest governance body on 4.7 economic, environmental and social issues Page 29 GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 79 GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason Internally developed statements of mission or 4.8 values, codes of conduct and principles relevant Page 29 to sustainability Procedures for overseeing sustainability 4.9 performance Page 32 Processes for evaluating the highest governance 4.10 body’s own performance with respect to Page 32 sustainability Extent to which the precautionary approach is Measures to 4.11 addressed by the organisation Page 33 implement principle 7 External developed charters, principles or other Measures to 4.12 initiatives Page 33 implement Memberships in associations and industry principles 1-10 4.13 associations Page 33 List of the stakeholder groups engaged by the Progress report 4.14 organisation Page 34 conveyed to Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders of 4.15 stakeholders with whom to engage Page 34 the company 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Page 34 Key topics and concerns raised through 4.17 stakeholder engagement Page 35 Disclosures on Management Approach Measures to Disclosure on Management Approach EC implement DMA EC Page 37 (economic performance) principles 1, 4, 6 &7 Measures to Disclosure on Management Approach EN implement DMA EN Page 42 (environmental performance) principles 7, 8 & 9 Measures to Disclosure on Management Approach LA (labour implement DMA LA Page 54 practices and humane working conditions) principles 1, 3 & 6 GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 80 GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason Measures to Disclosure on Management Approach HR (human implement DMA HR Page 66 rights) principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6 Disclosure on Management Approach SO Measures to DMA SO Page 68 implement (society) principle 10 Disclosure on Management Approach PR Measures to DMA PR Page 73 implement (product responsibility) principles 1 & 8 Performance indicators Economic performance indicators Investments for the company are not clearly definable – most investments EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Page 38 are made to maintain a reliable supply of postal services and thus benefits the company. EC6 Policy and practices towards local suppliers Page 40 Understanding and describing significant indirect EC9 Page 40 economic impacts Ecological performance indicators Results from EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Page 43 implementing principle 8 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Results from EN2 Page 43 implementing input materials principles 8 & 9 Direct energy consumption by primary energy Results from EN3 Page 44 source implementing EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Page 44 principle 8 GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 81 GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason Results from The most important initiatives and implementing measures to reduce energy Energy saved due to conversation and efficiency principles 8 & 9 consumption were reported on. The EN5 Page 45 improvements specific amount of energy saved could not be assigned to the individual activities. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Results of EN16 Page 47 emissions by weight implementing Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions principle 8 EN17 Page 48 by weight Measures for Similar to EN5, the most important and results of initiatives and measures to reduce Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions implementing greenhouse gas emissions were EN18 Page 48 and reductions achieved principles 7, 8 & reported on. The specific reduction of 9 CO2 could not be assigned to the individual activities. Total weight of waste by type and disposal Results from The primary types of waste arising in EN22 Page 51 implementing Austrian Post’s operations were method principle 8 reported on. The respective volumes EN24 Total weight of waste deemed hazardous Page 51 and waste disposal methods could not be determined and reported. Measures to Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of implement EN26 Page 52 products and services principles 7, 8 & 9 Sanctions and fines for noncompliance with Results from EN28 Page 52 environmental laws and regulations implementing principle 8 Transport comprises the core service provided by Austrian Post. For this Significant environmental impacts of transporting reason the main transported-related EN29 Page 53 products and other goods and materials environmental impacts are presented under the performance indicators EN3, EN4, EN5, EN7, EN16, EN18 & EN26. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 82 GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason Social peformance indicators: Labour practices and decent work Specific regional data is not of Total workforce by employment type, employment material importance, due to the fact LA1 Page 55 contract and region that the staff of the company is only employed in Austria. Total number and rate of new employee hires and Results from LA2 employee turnover by age group, gender and Page 56 implementing region principle 6 Benefits provided depending on employment LA3 Page 57 relationship Percentage of employees covered by collective Results from LA4 Page 58 implementing bargaining agreements principles 1 & 3 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days Results from These figures are not compiled by LA7 and absenteeism, and number of work-related Page 59 implementing external freight companies. fatalities principle 1 LA8 Measures designed to prevent serious diseases Page 59 Results from Health and safety topics covered in formal implementing LA9 Page 60 agreements with trade unions principle 1 Since September 2010 data on trainings has been centrally compiled. Average hours of training per year per employee Thus no meaningful comparative data LA10 Page 60 and employee category is available for previous periods. The average number of training hours per employee category was not compiled. Programmes that support the continued LA11 employability of employees and assist them in Page 61 managing career endings Performance of employees receiving regular Records pertaining to the LA12 Page 62 implementation of employee appraisal performance and career development reviews interviews are not centrally recorded. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 83 GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason LA13 Diversity of employees and governance bodies Page 63 Results from Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women implementing LA14 Page 65 to men principles 1 & 6 Social performance indicators: Human rights Measures for Suppliers and contractors that have undergone HR2 Page 66 and results human rights screening from implementing HR3 Employee training on human rights Page 67 principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6 Social performance indicators: Society Programmes to assess the impacts of operations SO1 Page 69 on communities and society SO2 Analyses of risks related to corruption Page 71 Results from Employees training in anti-corruption policies and implementing SO3 Page 71 procedures principle 10 Actions taken in response to incidents of Measures to SO4 Page 72 implement corruption principle 10 Public policy positions and participation in public Measures to SO5 Page 72 implement policy development and lobbying principles 1-10 Legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour, antiSO7 Page 72 trust and monopoly practices Sanctions and fines for noncompliance with laws SO8 Page 72 and regulations Social performance indicators: Product responsibility GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 84 GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason Measures for Products and services subject to statutory and results PR3 Page 72 from information requirements implementing principle 8 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with Results from PR4 regulations and voluntary codes concerning Page 72 implementing product and service information and labelling principle 8 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction Page 72 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards PR6 and voluntary codes related to marketing Page 74 communications Total number of incidents of noncompliance with PR7 regulations and voluntary codes concerning Page 74 marketing communications Total number of substantiated complaints Results from PR8 regarding breaches of customer privacy and Page 74 implementing losses of customer data principle 1 Fines for noncompliance with laws and PR9 Page 75 regulations related to products and services Fully reported Partially reported n.a. Not applicable EC1 Core indicators (normal print) EC9 Additional indicators (italics) The Sustainability Report 2011 of Austrian Post was prepared in line with the guidelines for sustainability reporting of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3.1), and corresponds to the Application Level B+. Adherence to the formal criteria contained in these guidelines and the information provided in the report are subject to an auditor’s review and confirmed by an independent third party. The independent certification on the part of Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft m.b.H. is provided at the end of this report. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 85 INDEPENDENT CERTIFICATIONM GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 86 GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 87 CONTACT AND IMPRINTM Media owner and publisher Österreichische Post AG Haidingergasse 1, 1030 Vienna, Austria T: +43 (0) 57767-0, E: info@post.at, I: www.post.at FN: 180219d, Commercial Court of Vienna Organisation/Coordination & contact in case of inquiries Julia Kollouch, Österreichische Post AG Sustainability (CSR) Tel.: 057767-21860 (Fax: 30409) E-mail: julia.kollouch@post.at Anna Niederhofer, Österreichische Post AG Investor Relations & CSR Tel.: 057767-30402 (Fax 30409) E-mail: anna.niederhofer@post.at We have prepared this report and checked the figures with the greatest possible care. Nevertheless, rounding, typographical and printing errors cannot be excluded. The aggregation of rounded amounts and percentages may result in rounding differences due to the use of automated computational aids. This annual report also contains forward-looking statements based on the information currently available to us. These are usually indicated by expressions such “expect“, “anticipate“, “estimate“, “plan“ or “calculate“. We wish to note that a wide variety of factors could cause actual circumstances – and hence actual results – to deviate from the forecasts contained in this report. Statements referring to people are valid for both men and women. This Sustainability Report is also available in German. In case of doubt, the German version takes precedence. Editorial deadline: September 14, 2012 GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 88
