United Nations Global Compact Indus Motor Company Ltd Communication on Progress 2010-11 Message from the Chief Executive Officer We strongly believe that giving back to our employees and community is critical part of our efforts to build a better Pakistan. As we push ourselves to achieve a company vision, we expect to plough back more in UNGC Principles and will do so by fulfilling our role responsibly as a good corporate citizen. We believe in a shared responsibility towards maintaining and furthering the principals of the Global Compact, and made our selves accountable, through our Communication on Progress by reporting what we had accomplished throughout the year. The United Nations Global Compact is the largest corporate citizenship in the world comprising of over 8,700 companies from 130 countries. It is engaged in initiatives to promote responsible corporate citizenship, ensuring that business is part of the solution to the challenges of globalization. We have voluntarily signed this initiative to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, its ten principles covering Human Rights, Labor Standards, the Environment, and Anti-Corruption: During last few years, we have achieved number of benefits to our company in becoming a member of the UN Global Compact which include being seen as demonstrating leadership by advancing responsible corporate citizenship, producing practical solutions to contemporary problems in the automobile industry and related sectors concerning sustainable development and corporate responsibility in a multi-stakeholder context. As CEO, I am pleased to inform you that our UNGC-COP 2010-11 is updated as per the guidelines provided. The level of awareness in our staff of the universal social principles has improved and so has the commitment they have shown in advancing them to the next level. We assure our commitment to support the Global Compact and its 10 principles for a better corporate environment toward sustainability in business. Parvez Ghias Chief Executive Officer, Indus Motor Company. Global Compact Communication on Progress Principle 1 To support and respect the protection of Internationally proclaimed human rights Commitment: Indus Motor Company respects and honors the human rights of people involved in its operations. Through our social Management Systems responsibility program, “Concern Beyond Cars,” we also support the right to education, health care, and basic facilities for the community. Safety Health Industrial Relations and Employees Actions Safe Working Conditions Employee Transport Customer Vehicle Road Safety campaigns Healthy Environment for Basic Health and Education Fair Investigation Quality of life and Employees Survey Safety Safety Employees Facilities procedures entertainment actions for the internal public Performance • We ensure that our employees are • We provide pick and drop • Standard operating • Our Company has a CSR • Our Company has 'Green • Our Company follows the Basic • The Company follows the • Family Day is held • Staff Canteen and Company provided with a safe working transport to all employees. procedures to ensure slogan, Concern Beyond Areas' where we Health Factory Act, which includes Industrial and Commercial annually in which over Transport Surveys are environment. Personal protective All our contractor drivers that shipping quality Cars , and as a good continuously plant factory hygiene, employee personal Employment (Standing 4,000 employees and regularly done. Results equipment is provided to employees have attended safe driving audits, proper corporate citizen, we trees. Starting from a hygiene, environment, vaccination, Orders) Ordinance 1968, their families participate. of the survey are used to as per their job requirements. courses and are given transportation, have undertaken several desert, over 6,000 trees emergency medical assistance, which contains the make positive improvements regular safety briefings. insurance and vehicle initiatives for Road Safety have been planted in the employee hygiene cards and procedures for disciplinary • The company has in the standard and quality of • We implement the Japanese 5S There is a coordinator in delivery inspections at as mentioned in our website. factory premises. periodic medical checkups. actions against instituted a policy in which service and food. concept which stands for Sifting every van to monitor and dealerships is done. These initiatives involve misconduct. Investigations 4 team members are Sorting, Sweeping, Spick/Span and report any unsafe driving different stakeholders • In line with ISO •. Annual vaccination of Hepatitis B for and disciplinary actions selected by ballot to • IMC participates in the Supreme Attitude. These five elements practices, travel route • All vehicles are insured in various sectors 14001, we provide Team members and Apprentices. at Indus protect employees' perform Company TMC Global Employee mainly focus on improving cleanliness issues, vehicle or during transit. including, government, excellent working rights, ensure fair sponsored Hajj every year. Morale survey (conducted and working condition. Top employee complaints and private organizations, conditions. Exercise is • We have common cafeteria for all treatment and the annually ) which Management conducts 5S walks of regarding transport. • Vehicle safety manuals are NGOs, schools, Corporate, encouraged before start employees where nutritious food at subsidized opportunity to be heard. • IMC encourages Sports covered all regional TMC the plant and work places and audits distributed along with Health, Education, of work at the shop floor. rates is served. and health activities, like affiliates. against standard at regular intervals. • Wearing seat belt is documents Traffic, Engineering We support sports and • Suggestion boxes are Inter Department Cricket Each year, a champion is announced mandatory for company and Law Enforcement. other healthy activities. • To ensure employees hygiene and placed at prominent Tournament, every • Interactive sessions with and awarded a 5S Trophy. transport drivers and healthier lifestyle ,periodic checkups are locations department participated in it. fresh employee groups employees using vehicles. • IMC has initiated a project •.Use of natural lighting at are arranged. IMC also has an official are held to get employees • We have implemented KI-J with Jinnah Post Medical the plant. Cricket Team, which takes feedback. (Kaizen Initiatives through Jiritsuka • Use of mobile phones is College to collect road part in various tournaments Self Reliance). KIJ is a Safety prohibited while driving. accident data and provide • Installation of spot • Committee formed to monitor and Philosophy of Toyota Motor further information on poor coolers to improve air improve IMC canteen environment. • All departments are Corporation that strives to stop fatal or • Road Safety awareness road condition caused for circulation and lower allocated with an annual near fatal accidents. and compliance session accident. temperature on a production • Distribution of milk, bread, juices, entertainment budget for Company's drivers line for better working and high energy foods are provided to for staff welfare and • Periodic checkups of fire extinguishers, • Data collected from various conditions. production workers as per entertainment. fire alarms, sprinkles, etc. • Internal Company Road hospital on monthly hospitals is operational best practices. Safety branding for • Committee formed to • Every department at IMC • As a Toyota affiliate, we endeavor to awareness creation consolidated and communicated monitor and improve IMC • Drinking water is filtered, cleaned regularly holds follow Toyota Motor Corporation (TMC) to concern authories authories. canteen environment environment. and regularly tested to ensure departmental picnics to Global Safety Standards and are • First Aid Training Sessions to fitness for human consumption. increase motivation and subject to their audit. Drivers and Vehicle • Renovation of IMC canteen for team building. Coordinators. to provide healthy food • Hospitalization insurance and life • A Joint platform has been established insurance coverage is provided to • LFA for non-management within the Toyota network in which every • Availability of Fire Extinguishers • Rest areas are developed employees. employees is also provided plant shares safety examples and and First Aid Box in each for technical workers inside in addition to the monthly accidents to take proactive measures for vehicle. plant to rest n break time • Employees Financial Assistance compensation. prevention. Committee meets at least once a • Frequent vehicle maintenance month to provide financial • All departments are • All IMC employees are insured while assistance to employees for illnesses allocated with an annual traveling either locally or internationally. and fitness checks. or accidents not covered by entertainment budget insurance or hospitalizations cover, for staff welfare and • IMC SHE (Safety Health Environment) educational expenses, etc. entertainment. activities are part of new employee orientation and ATM's (Assistant Team • Under the Social Security Ordinance • Every department at IMC Member) classroom training module. and Education CESS we make regularly holds contributions to institutions for departmental picnics to • Firedrills practices to test fire alarm systems educational assistance to the children of increase motivation and and fire reporting procedures under simulated permanent workers. for team building. emergency conditions • We contribute to EOBI (Employees Old • LFA for non-management • Including workplaces emergency plan Age Benefit) institutions. employees is also provided consisting of staff actions, evacuation plans in addition to the monthly and arrangements for contacting the fire • IMC Scholarship Scheme for staff compensation. compensation brigade children up to higher education. • Including workplaces emergency plan consisting of staff actions, evacuation plans and arrangements for contacting the fire brigade • Including workplaces emergency plan consisting of staff actions, evacuation plans and arrangements for contacting the fire brigade • All IMC workers are encouraged to walk on defined path with safety call points on each turning points Global Compact Communication on Progress Management Systems Industrial Relations and Employees Community and External Publics Safety Actions Preventing forcible displacement Employee Achievement Employment policy for disabled people Protect economic Supplier/Contractor pre qualification Use of Security Services to protect operations. of individuals Recognition livelihood of communities requirements regarding human rights Standards for use of force are respected Performance • Displacement according to prescribed • CEO's Best Attendance • Our Company follows the Workmen Compensation • We ensure that our supplier or contractor • For safe working environment, the Company Labor Law i.e. Standing (Orders) Award for employees Act in matters related to disability. Alternate job pass the pre-qualification criteria to employs security services. Ordinance 1968. There is no reported assignments are given to employees who are • Being a good corporate citizen, be a business partner with IMC. case of forcible displacement. • Attendance incentives handicapped or who suffer service disabilities. IMC community services to (monetary benefits) are provide quality food, free medical • Every contractor is advised to meet IMC's • A standard operating procedure, with offered which have led to facility and educational and SHE (Safety, Health and Environment) communication and command levels has been significent g increase in scholarshipsp and material for requirements q established to meet security, y accidents, attendance. under privileged communities natural calamities and other high risk situations. around the plant. • Principles of transparency, fairness • Long Service Award. and equal opportunity for qualified • Safety handouts for Safe Traveling are provided to • Donation of Books and and capable suppliers and contractors foreign travelers and visitors to IMC. • Special Farewell parties School Bags to the under are followed. for retiring employees. privileged. • Liaison with Overseas Investvestors Chamber of Commerce and Industries (OICCI) for an update • Recognition and mention • Efforts are made to recruit regarding Security Situation of the City. of outstanding employees local people that meet our who have contributed at specific skill sets. • Regular visits of Local Police personnel on Motor cycles various milestones. during day / night around IMC to watch for any • Every year IMC provides 50 abnormal activity . • Scholarship for employee scholarships to deserving • children students of neighboring Complete manning of IMC premises 24 hours , communities also those families through Security Towers/ Security Guards for with lower income to pay for their early warning children's education • Technology based security apparatus ensuring detection and prevention of Hazards through CCTV coverage. • Conscious security awareness by evolving standing operating procedures for scaling up from routine functioning to ALERT & HIGH ALERT status. Principle 2: To avoid complicity with human rights abuse. Commitment: Indus Motor Company is committed to avoiding complicity with human rights abuse in all areas of operations. Management Systems Ethics Employees External Public Actions Our Vision and Values aspire the Company to be the Most The Company Statement of Ethics asks employees Equal opportunity programs Vendor / Supplier Education, research, health and community Respected, and as a good corporate citizen, Indus expects its to maintain an environment that is free from pre-qualification development programs with NGOs employees to uphold and enhance the reputation of the harassment and in which all employees are equally business by: respected. This means any action that creates a hostile or offensive work environment e.g. sexual harassment and any disparaging comments based on gender, religion and race or ethnicity, are prohibited. Performance • Maintaining a high level of integrity in all business relationships, • Statement of Ethics is signed by each employee. • Female employees are given equal opportunity in all aspects of • We encourage all vendors both inside and outside the Company. employment including international assignments and trainings. and suppliers to be ISO • IMC sponsored around 6.0 million for research on Road Traffic Injuries to identify and eliminate causes of road accidents • Complaint tracking is done to ensure intervention We have female employees in various functions, including 9001 Certified or have • Fostering the highest standards of conduct and competence amongst those for and countermeasures. engineers in our manufacturing departments. an acceptable Industry • Road safety campaign introduced in various schools to educate whom they are responsible. or Trade certification. students • Compliance with Standing (Order) Ordinance 1968. • There are Equitable Career paths and growth opportunities for • Ensuring transparency in business transactions, and rejecting female employees. • Various training sessions were held for Traffic Wardens in any business practice which might be deemed to be improper. • We believe in open environment and respect for Karachi p p people. • Ladies dayy out training p g specially g y designed for women at IMC • Promoting fair business practices and ensuring compliance • Every year the Code of Ethics is reviewed for any • Our CSR projects help foster the right of children with regulatory and legal requirements. updation. to basic education and health. • Violations of Code of Ethics are viewed seriously • Give scholarships to children pursuing Primary and and have resulted in disciplinary action and in some Secondary education. cases led to termination of service. • IMC provide funds to TCF (a non-profit organization) for free education in under privileged areas Global Compact Communication on Progress Principle 3: To uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Commitment: Indus Motor Company believes in freedom of association and the right of collective bargaining of all its collective negotiation. workers. We believe in taking a proactive approach to employee issues. Management Systems Industrial Relation and Employees Actions .-Freedom of Association: Number of Employees represented Using collective bargaining for addressing working Union Charter Signing Freedom of union to protect employee interests without Cases related to Unions and how they were by Labor Unions conditions and terms of employment and relations management recrimination decided .-IMC employees are represented by Labor Union .-Workers are able to form a trade Union of their choice without fear of intimidation or reprisal Performance • The Company complies with Industrial Relations Act • CBA along with their stewards and Union • On the expiry of the last • Union activities are governed by the Standing Ordinance 1968 • No cases related to Labor Unions reported during 2008 wherein employees are free to join any trade union of members coordinate with the management for agreement on March 31, and Industrial Relation Act 2008. the year. their choice. improving their working conditions and other job 2011 a new agreement related issues. was signed in June, 2011 • The Company complies fully with the law for all cases • Industrial relations and organizational climate is • The Company has two registered Trade Unions. One is CBA for the period up to March pertaining to disciplinary action and termination of employees, very cordial. comprising of 95% of total strength. • The Union has the right to negotiate for its 31, 2013 by the union and including any members of the union. demands related to working conditions as per management in a win-win the Industrial Relations Act. situation and in record time. • Collective bargaining has provided employees with better benefits and working condition while also enhancing their morale and productivity. Principle 4: Commitment: Indus Motor Company forbids any form of compulsory labor in any of its areas of To eliminate all forms of forced or compulsory labor. operations, or by any of its business partners Management Systems Employees Business Partners Actions Employment p y contracts state terms and conditions of service, Record of checking g Third ppartyy audit of supplier/contractor/vendor pp labor Supplier pp Registration g Vendor, Supplier pp and Business Partnership p contract: Contracts are voluntary nature of employment, freedom to leave and any lowest wage rate against conditions executed with suppliers after they confirm that they are not using any form of penalties associated with departure or cessation of work regulated amount forced labor in the supply chain Performance • Employment contracts do not violate any human rights or labor • All workers in the • Basic Employer is responsible for encouraging and • Supplier are selected after they • Encouraged after performing evaluation laws. Company are above ensuring all vendors and contractors to fulfill their confirm the legitimacy of their labor minimum wage as legal requirements regarding the health and safety practices and no forced labor. • Either party can terminate employment contracts within the specified by the of their employees and workers according to the notice period. government and are paid Law of Land. competively according to • Exit Notice period varies from 30-90 days. market conditions. • No supplier has been excluded because of forced labor issues. • Exit Interviews are taken to solicit feedback. Global Compact Communication on Progress Principle 5: Commitment: Indus Motor Company forbids engagement of any form of child labor in any of its areas of operations, To effectively abolish child labor. or by any of its business partners. Management Systems Employees External Public Actions Failsafe documents and procedures for preventing Third party audit of labor conditions Suppliers/contractors, vendors and other business partners' Program for community children to keep them out of workforce under-age employees pre-qualification requirements regarding human rights and child labor Performance • All our permanent workers and apprentices are in the category • Regular third party audits are conducted by the • All contractors are liable to fulfill their social security and • Food distribution in neighboring communities and scholarships for under of an adult person in accordance with The factories Act 1934 Labor Directorate which covers health and safety, human rights requirements as prescribed by different laws, privileged children pursuing education. and no under-age employee is hired. working hours and environment and other including prohibition of under-age workers. requirements of the Labor Laws. under age hiring • To prevent under-age induction, the ages hiring, at the time of their induction • Company's employees visiting suppliers and vendors are • Distribution of School bags and books free of cost in neighboring communities communities. of all employees and apprentices are confirmed through their encouraged to visually observe and report non-compliance Matriculation Certificate, Form 'B' of NADRA (National with any laws to the Company's management. Database) or Birth Certificate or National Identity Card. • No underage employee is working in the Company. Principle 6: To eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation. Commitment: Indus Motor Company supports equal employment opportunities, diversity and inclusion for its employees and does not discriminate against them. The Company strives to ensure a safe and healthy working Management Systems environment for all employees. Employees External Public Actions Ensure equal access to employment Workforce Diversity Career Plan: Maintenance of the Code Ethics Committee aims to Avoid systematic applications of job T-TEP (Toyota Technical Education Program) Programs and by women and minorities Discrimination in staff of Ethics analyze possible violations requirements that disadvantage Apprenticeship Programs partnerships to aid promotions of the Code and directs certain groups minority suppliers, the most serious cases to contractors, vendors and senior management for business partners action Performance • IMC endeavors to be an Equal • 2010 Workforce • Hiring and promotions • Code of Ethics document • In the weekly and monthly • Our System ensures no disadvantage • The T-TEP program, in collaboration with Toyota Motor • Minorities business partners and Opportunity Employer. Women and Total Work Force =1948, are done on merit, is signed by all hired management meetings, to any group. Corporation, Japan and three leading institutes in Pakistan suppliers are provided equal minorities are offered jobs in the including professional performance employees. serious violations are provides training in the latest automotive technology to young oppurtunites and right as per our Company without any discrimination. Apprentices = 396 and qualification. highlighted. technicians. Graduates of this program find ready employment. company policy. Minorities are given special holidays Till date 158 graduating students have been hired by the in accordance with their religious • Average age: • Constant disclosure • HR Committee also Toyota Network customs. Team Members = 27 yrs in Company's internal assists in compliance of • The Company operates a Management = 335 yrs communication. the Code of Ethics and • Our company provide technical proffessional education Vendors Development considers cases of related to automobile production to high school graduate in the Program where vendors violation. Apprenticeship Program at Plant. More than 900 fresh can obtain financial, graduates have been trained and absorbed in our Company as technical, managerial • The nature of our regular employees and other assistance operations and plant without any location discourages • We have in-house Technical Training Center and discrimination. Study women in applying for develop multi-skilled workers. tours are conducted for jobs at IMC. vendors to foreign • All deserving students from universities are eligible manufacturers so that to apply for meritous internships at IMC they can see and learn by observing onsite (Genchi Genbutsu). • Desirous students from recognized universities are encouraged and provided support in their research • SPTT (Supplier Part projects with IMC. Tracking Team) consisting of IMC and TMC representatives • Plant Tours especially aimed at university students visit vendors as a project to are also carried out. monitor vendor performance. • Suppliers product quality regularly audits are conducted to ensure quality as per SQAM (Suppliers Quality Assurance Manual) Global Compact Communication on Progress Principle 7: Companies should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Commitment: Indus Motor Company is committed to actions in all areas of operations that avoid or mitigate the negative impact on the environment, complying with the National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS) Management Systems Environment Management External Public Actions Safety, Health and Environment Initiatives to advance Performing environmental Regular Environmental Green house gas reduction strategy Pre-qualification of Two way communication Participate in industry (SHE) Steering Committee, environmental awareness impact Assessment Auditing, Certification and untested materials with stakeholders about wide collaborative efforts comprising of senior management, within the Company. Awards uncertainties and to share knowledge and reviews compliance requirements, potential risks deal with issues approves plans and monitors their progress Performance • SHE Steering Committee, which is • Safety Healthcare and • We have established a • Surveillance of ISO • IMC is committed to promote clean environment and encourage efforts made • We have established • Corporate • Encourage our chaired by the CEO, meets regularly Environment is the top procedure for identifying, 14001 done. by our employees and management to enhance Ozone protection and minimize a Green Purching Communications (e.g. dealerships and vendors as per agreed calendar. most agenda item in daily, recording and mitigating Green House Effect by continuously reducing consumption of ozone threatening Guideline in Annual Report, Kaizen, to get ISO 14001 weekly and monthly the environmental • Certificate renewal for 14001 Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) constituents as well as reduction in consultation with Toyota Company magazine, certification. • SHE Sub-committee comprising of meetings. impacts of our operations was successfully done by electricity consumption. Motor Corporation, Japan. website, press releases, representatives from all departments each year. external bodies notice boards, intranet, • Assist government and has led to improvement of SHE practices • Regular training and • Introduced paper recycling system by providing recycling trays in • As a policy all newly e-notices etc.). auto industry in framing education programs for • Gas emissions from each departments to store and reuse papers inducted vendors and and implementing EPA, our employees generator, ovans, drying • Annual Global EMS dealers have to be ISO • Visits by external Auto Policy and other ovans and vehicles are Audit is conducted by • We monitor electricity and natural gas consumption on a monthly certified. stakeholders, regulatory regulations. • Communication through regularly monitored. Toyota Motor Corporation, basis in various sections of the plant and every year, set electricity and bodies, government Safety, Health and Japan. natural gas consumption reduction targets to contribute indirectly to officials, financial analysts, • IMC has introduced Toyota Environment (SHE) • Sound Levels are CO2 emission reduction As a responsible corporate citizen, we shareholders, etc in which (Dealers Environmental Risk Visualization Boards and monitored on regular • Biannual Internal EMS minimize electrical power consumption due to the prevailing national they are given presentations Audit Program) for Dealership . SHE Bulletins. intervals at the plant. Audit System. power shortage. and plant tours. certification. Currently 9 dealers are certified • Daily Production Circle • TMC audit was • IMC has its own Co-Generation Power Plant for electricity supply to plant and DERAP and 04 are in process Meetings to communicate conducted by corporate office. By using Co-Generation IMC has significently reduced Co2 of being certified. safety tips in the plant Japanese team fromTMC emissions and also saved energy as compare to last year for our Waste Water • To address variety of Treatment Plant and • Burners are tuned and calibrated on monthly basis to reduce Co2 emission and environmental problems observations noted are save energy and increase awareness of being worked upon. employees,month of June is • We have installed Energy Management System to monitor the celebrated as Environment consumption of gas and electricity in each department which will help month. us to monitor overall efficiency • Company wide branding and notices were displayed for all employees. Senior Management and employees planted more than 300 trees during environment month Principle 8: Commitment: Indus Motors Company is committed to promoting environmentally responsible thinking within the Companies should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. company through encouragement of better environmental friendly practices. We also believe in spreading this thinking to our extended family of suppliers and dealers. Management Systems Environmental Responsibility Actions .-Under the environmental section of the Company's Code of Ethics, employees are required to: Environmental Inspection and improvement plan Introducing, certifying and Training programs continually improving .-Preserve and protect the environment. environmental management systems .-Design and operate the Company's facilities and processes so as to ensure the trust of adjoining communities. .-Promote conservation of resources, waste minimization and the minimization of the release of chemicals and gas into the environment Performance • Code of Ethics is signed by all employees for compliance during their tenure with the Company. • Emission aspects are identified, and EMP ISO 14001 Certified. •We perform monthly checks and trainings throughout (Environment Management Plan) is developed accordingly. the entire business for complying with NEQS. • Online monitoring through gas meter and electricity • Trainings are often conducted to educate our employees and • Team from PE & M (Plant Eng. And Maintenance) inspects the plant meters to monitor energy encourage for environmental friendly work pratices at regular intervals. consumption • Seminars held to increase Environmental awareness • Environmental inspection by Toyota Motor Corporation Audit Team • Monthly monitoring EPI (Environment performance indicators) including Co2,water and waste material Global Compact Communication on Progress Management Systems Environmental Responsibility Actions Energy Conservation reduction in per unit usage of utilities Implementation of VOC Reduction in usage of Minimize the Production of solid waste Reduction in waste per Reduction Program consumables vehicle manufactured Performance • VOC emissions have • Reduction in volatile • Promote double side use of paper for reducing paper • Paper recycle system has been implemented in IMC for reducing paper consumption. • IMC has significently reduced natural gas consumption per vehicle as compared reduced by 17.6% as solvents e.g. consumption. to last year. compared to last year Thinner recycling actvities • Renewable plastic bins have been replaced by paper cartoons for transportation of are done twice per day • Reduced packing materials and introduced returnable boxes vehicle parts within and outside the plant • We have standardized the air conditioning temperature to 27 • IMC has again invested for some vendor supplies. degree Celsius for our offices. Rupees 4.5 million for Color guns have been installation of new thinner seperated for each color • Except for basic lighting, building lights are turned off during recovery facility. lunch hour. Bell flushing consumption • Installation of regulator reduced • Cogeneration Power Plant has made IMC a self power generator and also in reciprocator which will helped in reducing Co2 emission also reduce thinner usage. Management Systems Environmental Responsibility Actions Pollution prevention or Reuse/Recycling Programs Use of recycled materials Monitoring Underground Practicing hazardous Elimination of Substances of Disposal of Paint Sludge Working with Suppliers, Vendors and Business and consumables (UG) fuel tanks solid waste management Environmental Concern (SOC) partners to improve environmental performance and exclude environmental hazardous raw material in manufacturing of vehicles Performance • Move towards paperless office environment. Concerted efforts • 145 liters per day of • Monthly checks of UG • Incineration of hazardous • IMC has received statements from • Paint Sludge is sent for • Most suppliers are ISO 9001:2000 Certified . to reduce stationary costs. Thinner recycling is being fuel tanks to avoid sand solid waste is carried its vendors declaring the elimination incineration through done. and water contamination. out through an external of lead, mercury, cadmium, and external contractor. • Some of our dealerships are ISO 14001 Certified • Use of recycled paper for photocopies and rough work. contractor. hexavalent chromium while and we are encouraging others to follow suit. • Industrial water is manufacturing parts. • Internal Memos are circulated through emails emails. treated in our Waste • Scrap contractors • IMC initiated programs with TMC to reduce SOC Water Treatment Plant segregate scrap before from our vendor and suppliers to ensure a clean working and reused for disposal or resale. environment for employees. plantation. Global Compact Communication on Progress Principle 9: Commitment: Indus Motor Company is committed to the adoption of environment friendly technologies which minimize Companies should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally the environmental impact from its day-to-day operations and from its products. friendly technologies. Management Systems Environmentally Friendly Technology External Public Actions .-Implementation of energy efficient projects Environment friendly product certifications Building cars that burn Building car that emit less emissions Support vendors for environment friendly technology cleaner fuels transfers .-Research and development towards design for sustainability Implementing Ozone protection measures Support dealers for environment friendly technology .-Programs involving technologies to improve internal energy transfer efficiency or reduce water use. Support university students to focus on environment friendlyy technologies g Performance • Co-Generation Power Plant for environment friendly energy • All products are environment friendly certified under • With the research and our • Continues technical improvements are made in vehicles to minimize exhaust • We assist our vendors in obtaining TAAs (Technical production with natural gas operated engines and turbine. the environmental laws of the Country. continuous efforts, we have Assistance Agreements) with foreign manufacturers, launched Corolla Ecotec (factory • Corolla Altis and New Generation Corolla are in compliance with Euro II organize study tours and plant visits abroad, • Maximize use of environmental friendly parts in car manufacturing. fitted CNG) as a cleaner fuel car. Standards. arrange technical drawings, assist in improving their manufacturing processes, etc. • Use of natural sunlight during day time to reduce electricity • We fulfill all government regulations regarding • IMC sponsors teams from various enigeering universities to design and consumption for lighting. We use transparent porcelain sheets in environmental policies build fuel efficient vehicles • We are also supporting our dealers to implement DERAP our plant roofs. • Recycled water is used for plants which is treated through our wasted water • We are continuously supporting engineering universities treatment plant to innovate Environment friendly technologies Principle 10: Commitment: Indus Motor Company acts to eliminate corruption in all its forms, through the implementation of ethical Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. codes and policies that govern business operations and relationships with external stakeholders. Management Systems Employees External Public Actions Code of Ethics for employees Corporate Governance IMC adopts a policy that is grounded on transparency, creditability and trust regarding the disclosure of material information to investors and external publics. Performance • Every employee at the time of joining signs the Statement of Ethics • Statement of Ethics and Business Practices followed. • Plant Operations data displayed transparently in production and other areas for visual information and management of Business Practices and this commitment is renewed every . control. year. • Adopt Internationally acceptable accounting standards. • Quarterly briefings for Financial and Security Analysts. • All employee are forbidden to accept gifts or borrow money from another employee of the Company or from a Distributor, Dealer, • All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements are properly recorded in the Books • Quarterly Board of Directors Meetings. Vendor or a Customer. Full compliance is required to give full of the Company. In particular, no funds or accounts are established or maintained disclosure every year on their business interests, if any, and trading for purpose that are not fully and accurately reflected in the books and records of •Plant Tours for shareholders and other stakeholders. During the year we conducted around 40 plant tours for over 1000 people. of Company shares. the Company. • Media/Press briefings and interviews. • Confidentiality, honesty and accuracy of information in the course • Comply with regulations of Security and Exchange Commission of Pakistan. of business is required by all employees of the Company. •Consultative meetings with CSR partners, NGOs, industry and trade bodies, etc. • Signed Statement of Compliance included in the Company's Annual report.
